Document of
The World Bank
p
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repot No. 9613
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
SEVENTEENTH IRRIGATION (EAST JAVA PROVINCE) PROJECT
(LOAN 2119-IND)
MAY 28, 1991
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department V
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
At appraisal (March 1982) - US$1.00 = Rupiahs (Rp)625
(For exchange rates throughout implementation see Attachment, Table 1)
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
AOU           Advanced Operations Units
BULOG         National Food Procurement and Distribution Agency
DGWRD         Directorate General o4 Water Resources Development (in MPW)
DOA           Department of Agriculture
DOI           Directorate of Irrigation (in DGWRD)
DTW           Deep Tube Wells
DPP           Directorate of Planning and Programming (in DGWRD)
EJIS          East Java Provincial Irrigation Service
EOM           Effective Operation and Maintenance
GOI           Government of Indonesia
IPEDA         Land Tax
ISSP          Irrigation Sector Support Project (Loan 2880-IND)
MPW           Ministry of Public Works
O&M           Operation and Maintenance
P2AT          Groundwater Development Agency (in DPP)
PIBD/PROSIDA  Special Agencies within DGWRD responsible for implementing  Bank
group - Assisted Water Resource Projects
PME           Project Monitoring and Evaluation
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report of Indonesia Seventeenth Irrigation (East
Java Province) Project, dated March 3, 1982 (Rep. No.3648-IND)
SSIS          South Sulawesi Provincial Irrigation Service
WUA           Water Users Association



FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Olice de Ovcte.cowai
*    Op* etat Evakation
May 28, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Indonesia
Seventeenth Irritation (East Jaya Province) Proiet (Loan 2119-lND)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Indonesia - Seventeenth Irrigation (East Java Province)
Project (Loan 2119-IND)" prepared by the Asia Regional Office with Part II of
the report contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has been
made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPOT
INDONESIA
SEVENTEENTH IRRIGATION (EAST JAVA PROVINCE) PROJECT
(LOAN 2119-IND)
Table of Contents
Preface   . . . . . . ..            . . . . . . . . . . ....   .............................. 1
Evaluation Summary                                               iii
PART I:
1. Project Identity  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     1
2.   Background    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  1.  .  a .  .    .  . .  .  .    .
3.  Project Objectives and Description  . . . . . . . . . . .   2
4.  Project Design and Organization   . . . . . . . . . . . .   3
5. Project Implementation  . . .                                 3
6. Project Results   . . . . .                                   6
7.  Project Sustainability  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   9
S. Bank Performance  .9.0.O..10
9.  Borrower Performance  . ................    12
10.  Project Relationship  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
11.  Consulting Service  . . . . .   . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
12.  Project Documentation and Data  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
PART II:   BORROWER'S COMENTS  . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . . .  15
FART III: STATISTICAL DATA
1.  Related Bank Loans  ...................    19
2.  Project Timetable   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  20
3.  Loan Disbursements   .................                  .  .   22
4.  Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  23
5.  Project Costs and Financing   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  24
6.  Project Results   .       .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  . .  .    .   .    26
7.  Status of Covenants   999.... .       9........ 9..    29
8.  Use of Bank Resources    .  ..  .. . . .     . . .   . ....  30
Attachment 1:  Implementation Schedule, Planned and Actual  . .  32
Attachment 2:  Economic Analysis  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  33
Attachment 3:  Tables   ............... .....   37
MAPS
IBRD 16037R1
IBRD 16315R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT CCMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
SEVENTEENTH IRRIGATION LEAST JAVA PROVINCE) PROJECT (LOAN 2119-IND)
MIPACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Seventeenth
Irrigation (East Java Province) Project for vhich a loan of US$70 million
(Loan 2119-ind) was made to the Government of Indonesia (GOI) in April 1982.
The project wao co-financed by IFAD (Loan 94-ID of SDR 21 million). The loan
closing date was extended from March 31, 1988 to March 31, 1989. The last
disbursement was made on January 25, 1990. The undisbursed loan balance of
US$3,020,568.03 (4.3S of the loan amount) was cancelled under the same date.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the FAO/CP (Preface, Evaluation
Swmnary, Parts I and III) and the Borrower (Part II).
Parts I and III were prepared by an FAO/CP mission based on a visit
to Indonesia in April/May 1990, on a PCR that had been issued by Government in
February 1989 (Directorate of Planning and Programming of the Dirnctorate
General of Water Resources and Development/Kinistry of Public Works), and is
based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Reports the Loan, Guarantee, and
Project Agreements; supervision reports; correspondence between the Bank and
the Borrower; and internal Bank memoranda.
i



INDONESIA
V                     SEVENTEENTH IRRIGA?ION (EAST JAVA PROVINCE) PROJECT
(Loan 2119-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
The Seventeenth Irrigation (East Java Province) Project was the first
Bank-financed project to be concentrated in a single province and largely
implemented by a provincial irrigation service; the previous 15 water resources
projects assisted by the Bank Group, as well as the swamp reclamation project,
were implemented chiefly by the Directorate General of Water Resources
Development (DGWRD) units, due to the magnitude and dispersion of the work and
limited capacity at the provincial level.
Objectives
The project's principal objectives were to: (a) improve the
productivity and incomes of about 150,000 farm families in East Java through the
rehabilitation of surface irrigation schemes serving over 50,000 ha, the
construction of tertiary irrigation networks in those schemes and the development
of about 240 production tubewells; (b) lay the basis for continuation of
rehabilitation and groundwater development programs by providing survey and
design of 15,000 ha of rehabilitation, through large scale groundwater
exploration; (c) improve operation and maintenance (O&M) through upgrading of
already rehabilitated systems in two pilot irrigation districts; (d) prepare for
future construction on Java and Sulawesi through studies and designs for three
projects; and (e) recommend how best to strengthen the South Sulawesi Provincial
Irrigation Service (SSPIS).
Implementation Experience
The project had a late start and implementation progress during the
initial three years was slow, mainly due to severe budgetary constraints,
prolonged  land  aquisition  processes  and  shortage  of  staff.    Under  the
Rehabilitation Sub-Proiect construction of main systems lagged behind schedule
and by 1986/87 only about 60Z of the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) targets had
been achieved. The improved financial situation in the following two years led
to an overachievement of targets by 26Z. Tertiary development was also delayed
initially by design and mapping problems. After implementation of about 8,000
ha, tertiary works had to be halted in 1986 due to the withdrawal of GOI funds
for this category.  Upon Bank intervention, agreement was reached in 1988 to
resume financing for tertiary works and overall 75Z of the SAR target was
achieved. Targets for Upgrading for Efficient Operation and Maintenance of
140,000 ha had to be reduced to 127,000 ha which was identified as the maximum
available for upgrading within the areas that had been earmarked for this sub-
project. Upgrading works were completed in 1987-68 in all the revised target
iii



area and improved O&H procedures introduced. Under the Groundwater Development
Sub-project only 209 deep tube wells (DTW) have been completed against an SAR
tar&et of 240 largely due to delays in appointments of consultants, procurement
problems  and budgetarr constraints.    Conceptional  and  technical  problems
regarding water discribution systems could largely have been avoided if
performance of existing DTW development in East Java had been more critically
evaluated. The Studies and Design component has been completed according to
schedule.
Results
As designed, the success of the project depended on its ability to
deliver sufficient water to grow a second rice crop. The project was intended
to result in substantial incremental production attributable to larger irrigation
flows, extended irrigation season and more reliable and timely water deliveries.
Implementation experience and limited production data indicate mixed success and
over-optimistic assumptions at appraisal. As could be expected, the 48 schemes
to be rehabilitated under the Rehabilitation Sub-project show great diversity.
Data on cropping pattern for the Tanggul sch0me. which at appraisal was chosen
as representative for all schemes, suggest, for example, a decline in the area
under paddy by 12? and an increase by 36? in the area under soybeans. This is
in contrast to the SAR, which assumed an increase of 92 i the area under paddy
and an increase of 10 in the area under soybeans.
The Groundwater Sub-Project was to develop groundwater in water-short
areas where there was no other water supply for irrigation during the dry season.
This objective was strictly applied to only about 60 DTWs which were sunk in
rainfed areas, while about 150 DTWs were installed for conjunctive use with
existing irrigation schemes. The intended main benefit of the inclusion of a
second rice crop in the tubewell areas was only partially achieved.   in
conjunctive areas paddy plantings increased by only 13? and from tubewell areas
under  rainfed conditions no additional  paddy planting  is  reported.    The
incremental benefits of the sub-project are generated mainly during the dry
season, i.e. through increased production of palowijo crops, such as soybeans,
maize and groundnuts.
Sustainability
Although success after scheme rehabilitation has been varied the
available data suggest that a recovery and improvement of output in terms of
yield increases and increased returns from higher value crops has taken place.
Sustainability of these project benefits will depend on the success initiated by
the project to strengthen O&M services.  With the recent increase in the O&M
budget, functioning of the project facilities can be expected to be fully
sustained over the economic life of the schemes. Benefits will improve if and
when the development of tertiary systems is extended over all the project area
as anticipated.
Findings and Lessons Learned
The overall project concept of supporting irrigation development in
East Java proved to be appropriate both in terms of rehabilitation efforts and
developing groundwater in water deficient areas. The project was innovative in
iY



that it combined physical imnrovement measures with the strengthening of
provincial and district authorities, and it tried out various distribution
systems for the groundwater subproject. With inclusion of the subproject for
upgrading schemes for effective O&M the Bank gave new impetue to a long standing
effort to improve O&M standards in Indonesia on a scale that can be replicated.
Since groundwater is widely available in East Java there was no rationale for
limiting groundwater development under the project to deep tubewells, excluding
shallow wells with their lower costs and more appropriate technology.   The
experience gained in two previous groundwater pilot projects was insufficiently
applied, leading to considerable implementation delays and uInduly costly
solutions.
At preparation stage more time should be spent on evaluating relevant
experience, particularly when, as in the case of groundwater development, an
important step is taken from pilot to full scale development. The Department of
Agriculture (DOA) should be more directly involved in implementation of both
rehabilitation and groundwater projects.
v



INDONSSIA
SEVENTEECNT IURIGATION (IHST JAVA PROVINCE) PROJFeT
(Loan 2119-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION UEPORT
PART I
1. Project Identitv
Project Name         s Seventeenth Irrigation (East Java Province) Project
Loan No.             : Loan 2119 - IND
RVP Unit             s Asia Region
Country              : Indonesia
Sector               : Agriculture
Sub-Sector           : Irrigation
2. Background
2.1     Despite a favorable performance of the Indonesian economy that
followed the dramatic increase in oil revenues of the early 1970's, it was
estimated that in 1978, almost 50? of the population, some 65 million people,
were living in conditions of absolute poverty. Household expenditure surveys
indicated that the core of the poverty problem continued to be in rural Java,
where landless laborers form a large segment of the population. At the time,
the major national objectives for the agricultural and rural sactor included
the creation of productive employment to raise incomes of the rural poor and
the increase of domestic food supply to keep pace with rising demand and to
ensure productive, sustainable use of the country's varied land, water and
other natural resources. In Java, it was widely felt that rice croppirng
intensity could be raised through water storage, groundwater development and
flood control projects. Yields and cropping intensity were to be increased
also by improving water management at all levels.
2.2     The Seventeenth Irrigation Project was initiated at the request of
the GOI to support its program of irrigation development in the Province of
East Java and comprises: rehabilitation of existing surface irrigation
systems; development of groundwater irrigation systems; upgrading for
efficient operation and maintenance of irrigation systems and establishment of
improved methods of operation and maintenance; and strengthening of the East
Java provincial irrigation service (EJIS). The latter was in line with the
1



goal of increasing EJIS capacity for irrigation development in order to reduce
demands on the Central Government's DGWRD in the Ministry of Public Works
(MPW).  At the time, GOI also requested assistance for studies and designs for
proposed projects located in Java and Sulawesi and to study how best to
strengthen the SSPIS.
3.  Proiect Oblectives and Description
3.1     The project's principal objectives were to: (a) improve the
productivity and incomes of about 150,000 farm families in East Java through
the rehabilitation of surface irrigation schemes, the construction of tertiary
irrigation networks in those chemes and the development of production
tubewells; (b; lay the basis for continuation of rehabilitation and
groundwater development programs by providing survey and design for
rehabilitation and through large-scale groundwater exploration; (c) improve
OEM by the upgrading of already rehabilitated systems in two pilot irrigation
districts; (d) prepare for future construction on Java and Sulawesi through
studies and designs for three projects; and (e) recommend how best to
strengthen the SSPIS.
3.2     The project comprised three subprojects and a studies and design
component: (a) under the rehabilitation subproject some 40 schemes covering a
total of about 50,000 ha were to be rehabilitated in whole or in part, and an
additional 15 schemes were to be designed for future rehabilitation; (b) under
the O&M subproject two irrigation districts which had benefitted from large
irrigation rehabilitation programs were to be used as pilot districts for
developing and implementing an appropriate O&M system to sustain full
agricultural production; (c) the groundwater subproject was located
throughout East Java in areas identified as watershort areas and having
sufficient groundwater resources to be exploited. Development was to be
concentrated in four areas for a total of about 13,000 ha. The principal
project works were to be irrigation wells and upgraded or newly constructed
distribution system channels; and (d) the studies and design component was to
include feasibility studies and detailed design for irrigation systems to
serve a total of 52,000 ha in Central and South Sulawesi and the collection
and analysis of additional hydrological data on river flows in Central Java.
3.3     Total project costs were estimated at US$144 million.  The Bank loan
of US$70 million would cover foreign exchange, about 50Z of total project
costs. In line with the responsibility of provincial level irrigation staff
for O&M and national tertiary program operations the rehabilitation and O&M
subprojects were to be implemented through EJIS. This was also in lire with
the goal of GOI to gradually entrust large scale rehabilitation programs to
the prcvincial irrigation services. The groundwater subproject was to be
implemented through the Groundwater Development Agency (PZAT) with the
assistance of foreign and local consultants. Technical assistance was also to
be provided to the agencies within DGWRD responsible for implementing Bank
Group-assisted water resource projects, i.e. PIBD/PROSIDA, which were to carry
out the studies and design component. The agricultural impact ';f the project
was to be largely in terms of an increase in rice production.
2



4. Prolect Dealan and Oraani.ation
4.1     The overall project concept of v4pporting irrigation develcpment in
East Java proved to be appropriate both in terms of supporting rehabilitation
efforts and developing groundwater in water deficient areas. The focus on a
large number of small schemes whick, since their establishment in the 1940's,
had received little maintenance/rehabilitation attention was justified. The
project was innovative in that it coupled these physical improvement measures
with a strengthening of the provincial and district irrigation authorities.
The separation of the project from the Irrigation XVI project was intended to
support the decentralization effort and facilitate project implementation (see
*Com&ients* under Part III, Para. 2). Roles and responsibilities of agencies
responsible for implementation, including consultant services, were adequately
defined and understood. However, the mechanism for post-project integration
of the project office, in which much implementation experience was
concentrated into.the overall EJIS structure should have been addressed more
specifically. A better definition of the rehabilitation vis-a-vis the
upgrading component would have avoided somo confusion. Implementation
experience shows that a more critical review at project preparation of
existing designs, previous experience (groundwater) and agricultural
performance, would have avoided certain delays (tertiary development) and
conceptual problems.
4.2     The project would have benefitted from inclusion of the DOA in its
organizational structure for project implementation as well as better
utilization of the facilities provided (extension, demonstration, performance
evaluation). Although the project consultants prepared relevant guides and
work schedules for an extension/demonstration program, this was implemented
only partially due to budget constraints.
4.3     Project monitoring and evaluation (PME) was not given the attention
in project design that it deserved, considering the pioneering role of some of
the project components. Although the central PHE institutions (DPP) received
Bank support through Credit 995-IND, there were no specific budget provisions
made for PME activities under the project.
5. Prolect Implementation
5.1     General.  The project had a late start and implementation progress
during the initial 3 years was slow, mainly due to severe budgetary
constraints, prolonged land acquisition processes and shortage of staff (see
Implementation Schedule attached). Through loan reallocation effected in
1986, the share of expenditures for civil works was increased from 222 of the
total loan amount to 31Z, while that for equipment was reduced from 31 to 171.
This stimulated progress in following years. Some targets, however, had to be
reset and an extension of the project up to end March 1989 was needed and also
granted. All civil works were undertaken by local contractors under the
supervision of EJIS and P2AT, involving their own staff as well as
consultants. The higher than anticipated level of disbursement during the
3



first two project years resulted mainly from payment of consultant fees and
from meeting start-up cost for project implementation.
5.2     Rehabilitation of Irrigation Systems. Although survey and design of
main systems under this subproject pLogressed largely according to schedule,
construction lagged behind and by end-1986/87 only about 59 percent of the
SAR target for that date 1   been achieved. The improved financial situation
in the following two years resulted in the completicn of a further 67 percent
of target and, conseluently, an over achievement by 26 percent. The start of
tertiary development was initially delayed by ona year when it was found that
prepr,-ject designs and mapping could not be used immediately for construction.
After implementation of about 8,000 ha, 1/ tertiary works had to be halted
in 1986 due to the withdrawal of GOI funds for this category. Although no
formal statement was obtained, it was understood that all future tertiary
development was to be the responsibility 3f water users. Apart from minor
completion works no further tertiary development took place during FY1986/87
and 1987/88. Upon Bank intervention, agreement was reached in 1988 to resume
financing of tertiary works. Thus in FY88/89 a total of about 27,800 ha were
completed, raising overall achieveme   to about 37,600 ha or 75 percent of the
SAR target.
5.3     The mapping and design for tertiary development available at
appraisal was not of adequate standard. It is now clear that this should have
beent firmly established during project preparation so that such designs are
fully compatible with those for the main system.
5.4     Upgrading for Efficient Operation and Maintenance. The SAR target of
140,000 ha had to be reduced to 127,000 ha which was identified as the maximum
available for upgrading within the areas that had been earmarked for this
subproject. Upgrading works were completed in 1987/88 in all of the target
area, and improved O&M procedures have been introduced covering the entire
127,000 ha. However scheme-specific O&M manuals were prepared for only about
68,000 ha. Some 1,280 staff attached to 90 sections offices have received
training in efficient O&M procedures, two Advanced Operation Units (AOU), each
covering some 5,000 ha were established as model cases. While most maintenance
machinery and vehicles were procured as planned, the tender for
telecommunication equipment was canceled for fear of costly O&M.
5.5     Irstitutional Strengthening of EJIS was a major project objective
geared to the planning, design, construction and maintenance of rehabilitation
and upgrading works. The intended role of Technical Assistance in this respect
was compromised by the short-term objective of completing the project targets
on schedule. However, by 1988 a core design team at Surabaya and 10 district
design teams bad been established which are currently active in rehabilitation
activities under the Irrigation Subsector Project (ISSP, Loan 2880-IND) and
other projects. Construction supervisior. capability has been substantially
strengthened but weaknesses prevail in planning, where reliance on external
consultancy inputs is still heavy.
This Is the official record while in one SPN report a figure of 3,000 ha is given.
4



5.6     Groundwater Development. The under performance in this subproject
(209 DTWs completed of which 39 are still without pumpsets, as against an SAR
target of 240) resulted from several factors, including: excessive delays in
appointment of consultants, budgetary constraints, conceptual and technical
problems regarding water distribution systems and excessive procurement
delays.
5.7     The conceptual and technical problems could largely have been avoided
if performance of existing DTW developments in East Java, especially
concerning the type of canal lining had been more critically evaluated.
Instead, the project went through a time-consuming and expensive selection and
learning process of its own before, after halting the implementation of
distribution systems for over two years, a solution consisting of precast
reinforced concrete channel segments was finally adopted. Justification for
this alternative as against the previous use of stone masonry linings appears
weak: stone masonry, if made to required standards (curing), should be
qualitatively comparable to the precast channel lining, is likely to be less
expensive over time and is more labor-intensive. By not improving
construction standards and supervision the opportunity was lost to implement
the sub-component faster and at less cost.
5.8     On the positive side, the project successfully tested piped
distribution systems, an innovation which has meanwhile been adopted widely
under the ongoing ISSP.  The subproject also substantially increased P2AT's
implementation capability, including the use of advanced drilling techniques.
5.9     Procurement delays, caused by complex procedures, bidding problems
and delayed customs clearances prevailed throughout the project. Thus the
delivery of 70 pump units ordered in 1988/89 is still outstanding.
5.10    Studies and Designs. This component has been completed according to
schedule. The detailed designs for Parigi-Poso have been included for
implementation under the ongoing ISSP while the feasibility study for an
additional 8,000 ha of irrigated area is to form part of the Provincial
Integrated Agricultural Development Project (PIADP), currently under
preparation.
5.11    The Kali Progo (Central Java) hydrological studies were a
continuation of works initiated under Irrigation X (Loan 1578-IND). They
confirmed the feasibility of a proposed reservoir scheme and a project is in
active pipeline for financing by ADB under the Integrated Irrigation Subsector
Project.
5.12    Completed feasibility studies and detailed designs for four
irrigation schemes in the Polmas-Sidrap area of South Sulawesi (Sadany,
Lanrae, Batubassi and Mambu) are under consideration for development under the
PIADP. The feasibility study for the Maloso scheme is under revision after
detailed design work carried out by another consultancy firm revealed
deficiencies. The project is under considerat on for bilateral assistance
(CIDA).
5



5.13    Prolect Monitoring & Evaluation (PME). Overall this has not been a
very successful activity under the project. The causes appear to have been
shortage of funds for carrying out field activities, lack of coordination
between the project and the regular EJIS/P2AT services, '/ lack in clarity
of implementation and poor motivation. PME for surface schemes was started
only in 1984/85. After a slow start, reasonable progress has been reported
which included a gradual expansion of PME to cover over 15,000 ha of sample
project area.
5.14    In the groundwater subproject monitoring of water levels was
initiated in 1982 but a comprehensive PME, including technical as well as
production and socio-economic parameters, started only in 1987/88, and that
too on a very limited scale.
5.15    The socio-economic benchmark survey of 1984/85 and subsequent PME
activities are not comparable as far as yields and production of major crops
and cropping pattern are e-3ncerned. Interpretation is made difficult by the
fact that they were carried out by different consulting firms using different
methodologies. Apparently DPP which has developed a considerable M&E
capability should have played a more authoritative role in the PME process. In
conclusion the PME, despite repeated assurances, did not succeed in providing
an acceptable data base for benefit evaluation after completion of the
project.
6. Proiect Results
6.1     The success of the project as designed depended on its ability to
make available additional quantities of water both through restoring
deteriorated supplies by means of rehabilitation/upgrading and through the
development of groundwater. 'Where this would be achieved the project would
result in substantial incremental production, attributable to larger
irrigation flows, extended irrigation season and more reliable and timely
water deliveries. The latter was to stimulate the optimization of cropping
calendars and increase in farm inputs used.
6.2     Implementation experience and limited production data indicate mixed
success and over-optimistic appraisal assumptions, both for rehabilitation and
groundwater development. Due to the poor performance of the PME system no
reliable assessment could be made at PCR stage of project impact on poverty
alleviation and income distribution.
6.3     Rehabilitation subproject.  As could be expected, the 48 schemes
rehabilitated under the project show great diversity in size, soils, water
availability, cropping pattern, calendar and yields. The evaluation of 5
schemes, totalling about 7,100 ha (11Z), monitored by EJIS from 1982/83 to
87/88, show slight shifts in cropped area percentages. As indicated below by
the increase in fallow, the overall cropping intensity, including the wet
season, decreased slightly, from 254? to 247Z.
Because diffee sysems of data collection were used.



Ooecad Are In 1Ha1/                  Chanc  In
lo-VW           I                  Ha              L%2 
Paddy                 2,368            2,681            +313             +4.4
S8yb_a                1,821            1,350            -471             4.7
Maie                  3,035            3,65             +630             +8.9
Caava                   a                28             +18              +0.3
&Vu=Mrcn               So1              705             -18              -2.6
Other                 1,919            1,279            .640             .9.0
Falow                 3,235            3,W6             +461             +6.5
Land Logt io Other                      31              +31              +0.4
ToWal 3/             14.168          14A168             0                0
1/ Sumn of Pakowjo Iand N coiTespondlng to 2 croppIn sasn.
21 Pent of net ouiabis ae.
3/ Sugarwo and land bm are counted twice.
04      CorpondIg date for thTanggswhoem (772 ha?, which at appai was chon as reresetaV for the
nt*e subpmW% are avaable for the peId 1984/85 to 67/88 orly, and indicate te following shfts:
Actu                        SAR
Paddy                                 -12                         +9
Soybeans                              +36                        +10
MaIz                                   + 1                        -4
Caava                                  0                         -14
Sugaroane                              +2                        n.a.
Oer Crops                             -27                        n.a.
Falow                                 -2                         n.a.
6.5           Considering that the scheme, including tertiary development, was
rehabilitated in 1983/84, the above cropped area shifts should reasonably well
reflect the transformation from the *without" to the 'with project'
situations. The shifts in paddy and soybean production, apparently resulting
from a recent GOI policy towards increased soybean and less emphasis on paddy
production, could not be anticipated at appraisal. The absence of mother
crops, in the appraisal projections does not allow a valid interpretation of
actual shifts in cropping pattern. The variance in cropping pattern between
Tanggul and the other 6 schemes, for which data were available, indicate that
Tanggul is not as representative for the 48 schemes rehabilitated as believed
at appraisal.
7



6.6     Available PME data on crop yields are limited to four rehabilitation
schemes whtch however are not among those for which cropping pattern had been
recorded. This further limits the usefulness of the PME surveys, which are
not compatible with a project baseline survey conducted in 1984/85 (para
5.15). Based on the entire subproject the ERR has been re-estimated at 30Z.
This compares with a rate of 25? at appraisal.  For mission estimates of crop
yields and other assumptions see Attachment.
6.7     Groundwater subproject.  The project was intended to develop
groundwater in water-short areas where there was no other water supply for
irrigation during the dry season. Actually this objective was strictly
applied to only about 60 DlWs which were sunk in rainfed areas, while about
150 DTWs were installed for conjunctive use within existing surface irrigation
schemes. Aggregate net command area is about 10,000 ha as against an SAR
target of 13,000 ha. The time lag between the SAR assumption and actual full
development of the subproject is about five years. The intended main benefit
of the inclusion of a second rice crop in the tubewell areas was only
partially achieved. This is also indicated in the table below. In
conjunctive areas planted paddy area increased by only 13Z while no additional
paddy planting is reported for previously rainfed tubewell areas. Main
benefits of the subproject instead are generated through increase in polowijo
crop production, especially during the second half of the dry season (3rd
crop).
Shift in Cropping Pattern, Pre-Project to Full Development,
(Weighted Average)
PCR (Z)                    SAR (Z)
Paddy                                 +10                         +75
Soybeans                              +21                         +25
Maize                                 +22                          _
Groundnuts                            +30                          _
Fallow                                -83                        -100
6.8     The average cropping intensity is estimated to have increased from a
pre-project level of 2002 to some 2802 at full development. An additional
benefit in previously rainfed DTW areas has been the occasional supplementary
irrigation of wet season paddy, a benefit which the appraisal did not take
into account. In conformity with the unexpectedly small increase in dry
season paddy the actual number of pumping hours per year has stabilized at
only about half of the 2,800-3,200 hours per year estimated at appraisal.
This is largely explained by farmers' attachment to traditional farming
practices, unfamiliarity with irrigation, reluctance to use water that has to
8



be paid for, as well as market and price factors. It points to a weakness in
project design (para 4.2) which did not provide funds for extension,
demonstration and training in farm/field water management. This became
particularly apparent in the groundwater subproject. Its ERR, at appraisal
established at 24X, is re-estimated at 42 (Section III, Para. 6, Table 8).
GOI had reestimated the ERR at 20X. These calculations: (a) did not include
equipment replacement costs; (b) overestimated the economic value of paddy;
and (c) did not adjust phasing of O&M costs and benefits on the basis of
build-up of net irrigated areas. With these adjustments and paddy used as a
proxy, the ERR would drop to 52 (Attachment, Table 8A).
6.9     Upgrading for efficient operation and maintenance.  Project
objectives under this component were generally achieved, which is confirmed by
the fact that the entire project area of 127,000 ha has qualified for
inclusion under the national scheme for Effective Operation and Maintenance
(EOM) which is supported under the ISSP.
7. Prolect Sustainabilitv
7.1     Available agricultural data indicate that productivity was declining
substantially until scheme rehabilitation took place. Although success after
rehabilitation has been varied and a thin data base precludes reliable
quantification, the indications are that production recovered in terms of
yield increases and a shift to higher value crops. Sustainability of project
benefits will depend on the success of efforts initiated by the project to
strengthen O&M services. Both the rehabilitated schemes and the areas with
upgraded irrigation facilities/services, are now under the EOM system which is
providing an annual O&M budget of about Rp 25,000 per ha, compared to a
provincial budget provision of about Rp 7,000 in recent years and an
allocation of Rp 14,000 per ha in 1990/91. With the financially as well as
technically strengthened O&M services, functioning of the project facilities
can be expected to be fully sustained over the economic life of the schemes.
Benefits would improve if and when the development of tertiary systems would
be extended over all of the project area, as intended. On the other hand
there is a risk of declining benefits if water users fail to fulfill their
share of maintenance responsibilities.
7.2     In order to sustain the groundwater subproject GOI has accepted full
financial and technical responsibility for DTW replacement needs and major
repairs of physical facilities. Responsibility for operation and routine
maintenance lies with the beneficiaries who are organized in Water User
Associations (WUAs). Prior to the project the provincial P2AT agency was weak
in mechanical staff and had no maintenance organization. The post-project
institutional framework and its capabilities seem to be gearel more towards
further groundwater development than towards sustainability of existing DTWs.
There are already reports of failing pumps and problems with corrosion of
screens and casings.



S. lank Performance
8.1     After implementation of 15 large and widely dispersed water resources
projects by DGWRD, this was the first Bank supported project to be
concentrated in a single province and largely implemented by a provincial
irrigation service. This was in line with GOI policy of decentralization but
required a modification of the original project proposal which, because of its
wide geographical spread and national issues involved, would have severely
hampered the innovative decentralized implementation. The Bank was
instrumental in molding the components located in East Java into one distinct
project. It also expanded the loan period, from the originally designed three
years to five years which also meant a larger project. This was justified,
considering the existing groundwater potential of East Java and the
availability of numerous schemes still urgently requiring rehabilitation.
8.2     Individual project components should have been more thoroughly
prepared. Experience gained in two previous groundwater pilot projects was
insufficiently applied, leading to considerable implementation delays, costly
solutions (para 5.7), and overoptimistic estimates of benefits (para 6.7).
8.3     Since shallow groundwater is widely available in East Java there was
no rationale for limiting groundwater development under the project to deep
tubewells, to the exclusion of shallow wells, with their lower costs and more
appropriate technology.
8.4     With inclusion of the subproject for upgrading schemes for efficient
O&M, the Bank invigorated a long standing effort to improve O&M standards in
Indonesia on a scale that could be replicated. The rationale for the proposed
composite measures, including technical assistance, training, O&M equipment
and civil works for upgrading the irrigation systems, was correct in its
intention to facilitate O&M of schemes, thereby at least partially offsetting
the negative effects of chronic under-budgeting of O&H services. However,
sustained benefits from the investment still depend largely on increased O&M
budgets, which are available only because of renewed external support (ISSP),
and not from improved cost recovery, or more intense participation by water
users.
8.5     The SAR did not clearly spell out the financial implications of the
proposed investment in DTWs. Since participating farmers are not required to
contribute to recovery of investment and replacement costs attention should
have been drawn to the resulting burden on GOI budget. The role of the DOA in
assuring agricultural support, trial demonstrations and training in water
management in the groundwater subproject was not eufficiently defined.
8.6     The main strength in Bank supervision performance lay in groundwater
development technology, while the weakest area was agricultural/extension
backstopping and in directing consultants. Of considerable significance was
the introduction of piped distribution system technology in tubewell
development. In only one out of nine missions did an agronomist participate.
From available records it appears that there was an unexplainud break in
supervision between February 1985 and August 1986.
10



8.7     Since PMI  was glven insufficient attention at appraisal, supervision
missions soon identified substantial deficiencies which they tried to rectify
through lmprovement of methodology and computer-aided data processing.
However, the outcome was a system too complex to be handled successfully under
the budgetary and staff constraints. The utility of PME efforts could have
been greatly improved by limiting the number of parameters to be covered.
Data collection should have been focussed on carefully selected sample schemes
and more motivation for the exercise was needed.
8.8     The Bank's flexibility in fund reallocation greatly helped to ease
budget constraints that threatened project implementation in its early years.
The Bank also granted a one-year extension of th6 loan closing date which
greatly helped to achieve, and even exceed, SAR targets.
8.9     Many of the constraints experienced in earlier projects resurfaced
under this project, notably inadequate beneficiary participation, inadequate
cost recovery, poor construction quality control and continued excessive
dependence on consultant services. The main lessons which emerge from project
implementation, which may be
relevant to irrigation projects elsewhere, relate to the following:
(a) Project preparation should be given more time and better
direction in terms of evaluating previous experience more
carefully, especially when, as in the case of groundwater
development, an important step is taken from pilot to full scale
development, but also in terms of fully appreciating and
incorporating agricultural aspects.
(b) During supervision more attention should be given to the role,
activities and performance of consultants. particularly in
projects with a comparatively high consultancy input (18Z of
civil works, equipment and supplies in this case) and where
consultants have a significant responsibility in institution
building.
(c) Delays in implementation due to late appointment of consultants
could be avoided by stipulating that consultancy contracts be
signed prior to loan effectiveness.
(d) Project proposals that will result in substantial investments
per unit area, as in the case of groundwater development through
DTWs, should be analyzed at appraisal not only in economic but
also in financial terms.
(e) Economically viable and sustainable groundwater development
requires a degree of interaction between engineers and
agronomists which can best be attained through active
participation of DOA in project implementation. Adequate budget
provision should be made for extension, demonstration and
training in tubewell command areas.
11



9. Borrower Performance
9.1     Despite difficult implementation conditions (budget constraints,
shortage of staff) the project was effectively managed. Apart from generally
achievng its physical targets it also acted as a vehicle for implementing the
GOI policy of decentralization of DGWRD responsibilities. The strengthening
of EJIS could however have been broader if consultant inputs had been more
specifically directed towards strengthening of planning and design
capabilities.
9.2     The financing of tertiary development, which was an integral part of
the system rehabilitation package, should not havy been discontinued without
an adequate alternative solution based on water user i.v.-olvement.
9.3     Compliance with covenants has been generally satisfactory.  The task
of involving MOA, Ministry of Home Affairs and other agencies in training and
other assistance to WUAs was only partially achieved, mainly due to inadequate
budget provisions. Also the covenant related to funding for O&M was not
entirely complied with.
9.4     The borrower did not adequately evaluate and apply experience gained
in two previous groundwater pilot projects regarding water distribution
systems, and provided insufficient quality control, to the construction of
conventional stone masonry and concrete slab linings. Procurement of pumps
and other equipment was unduly delayed.
9.5     The objectives of the PME program have not been achieved.  The
program was started late, was not well conceived in that it duplicated already
established monitoring of certain parameters, and was too complex to be widely
understood. Although large quantities of data have been collected, their
limited comparability has considerably reduced the overall usefulness of the
exercise.
9.6     Training activities were conducted successfully under the project.
Particularly the approach using mobile training units was much appreciated and
was extended to cover all six irrigation districts of East Java.
9.7     Lessons Learned.  A lesson already learned and applied under the
ongoing ISSP and other projects is that wherever aquifer conditions permit,
shallow tubewells should be preferred to deep tubewells, mainly because of
their lower investment costs per unit irrigated area and their simpler
technology.
9.8     Since groundwater development in East Java is likely to expand
substantially in the future, the institutional decentralization of its
implementation and of operation and maintenance should be pursued vigorously.
For pumps and engine maintenance and repair it may be advantageous to promote
privately run workshops and spare part supplies.
12



9.9     In order to respond properly to the policy of expanding crop
production through irrigation a development project requires adequate and
timely budget allocations.
10. Proloct Relationship
10.1    The Bank maintained good relationships with GOT and DGWRD through its
resident mission. This was of particular significance in successfully
maneuvering the project through times of severe budget constraints and in
extending it by one year in order to achieve important project targets. A
member of IFAD, the cofinancing agency, participated in one of the supervision
missions.
11. Consulting Services
11.1    With a share of about 20? of total project costs consulting services
constituted a major investment, which was basically justified considering the
absence of sufficient planning and design capacity in DGWRD and EJIS.
However, the heavy consultant input in groundwater development, where the SAR
cost estimate was exceeded by 32 percent, was out of line with physical
accomplishments in the field, both in quantity and quality. The role of
consultants in strengthening the EJIS services, although eloquently defined,
was diluted when too much attention was given to achieving physical targets
rather than to the training of counterparts. Resources were wasted when
consultants designed and tendered for a telecommunication system which then
was not installed. Lack of coordination and/or guidance of two consulting
firms involved in monitoring and evaluation led to sets of data which are not
comparable.
12. Prolect Documentation and Data
12.1    The SAR and loan agreement provided a generally adequate framework
for project implementation. The provisions of the loan agreement were
generally observed (Part III, Para. 7). The borrower in 1989 prepared a .R
which provided a useful source of data for this report, after updating and
enhancement of the analytical contents.
13



SEVENTEENTH IRRIGATION (EAST JAVA PROVINCE) PRQJECT
LOAN No. 2112-IND
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART II - BORROWER'S COMENTS
A. The adequacy and accuracy of the factual information contained in
Part ITI.
It is surpricing that the EIRR of Groundwater Development
drops from 24 % ( in the SAR ) to 4% or 5% (see table 4 and
table 8.a ).
GOI had reestimated the EIRR at 20%.  These calculation
i)   did  not  include  replacement  cost for equipment;
ii) over estimated the economic value of paddy ;
iii) made on adjusments for the phasing of costs for 0 & M,
nor for the phasing of benefits, during the development of
irrigation areas.
ad i)   replacement  costs  for equipment were not  included  as
this is part of 0 & M ;
ad ii)  the  incremental  benefit  is  not  only  based  on  the
economic value of paddy, but also on the value of
palawija.
The Groundwater Development Project is badly needed in those
areas where there is shortage of water. Therefore the EIRR is
not the only parameter to be considered.
B. Comments on the analysis in Part I of the PCR
1. The Tanggul scheme (772 ha) was selected as being representative
for the entire sub project. However, else where (in fact on the
same page ), it is stated the variance in cropping patterns
betwvma the Tanggul scheme and the other 6 schemes for which
data were available, indicates that the Tanggul scheme can be
considered  representative  to  what  was  assumed  during   the
project's appraisal.
The choise of the Tanggul scheme as a sample of 48 schemes can
not be accepted. The choice should be based on a statistical
evaluation and verifiable criteria.
15



2. The  figure  for  the   achievement of the  project  as  regards
upgrading for Efficient Operation and Maintenance is stated on
page ii as 127,000 ha out of 140,000 ha, while this figure is
126,500 out of 140.000 ha Ln the PCR by GOI.
On page iii, the total number of DTW's is given as 210, while
this should be 209.
As these things have happened for other projects as well, the
Bank is advised to obtain unbiased data.
3. -On page 9 it is stated that teh Provincial P2AT does not have a
maintenance organization.
However, P2AT disposes over workshops which are responsible for
all DTW's which have been handed over to the provincial
government are maintained by these wokshops.
- According   to  the  report,   the  postproject  institutional
framework and its capabilities seem to be more greared towards
further groundwater development than towards sustainability of
existing DTW's.
In fact, not only for groundwater irrigation projects, but also
for surface irrigation,more attention should be paid to existing
irrigation.
.There are reports of failing pumps and problems with corrosion
of screens and casings.
According to P2AT however, the total number of pumps failing 0?
showing other problems, is only 7 % of the total number of
DTW's.
C. Bank's performance
1. Lessons
Thn five main lessons issued by the Bank will be helpful for
future, similar irrigation projects.
2. Appraisal and implemerntit .n :
From the table on Projo-t Implementation (page 18, part III),
from the table  on Proj',! Result (page 21 and 22),and from  the
table  in Annex I,  it 'nn he concluded that some of the targets
from the SAR sould he achieved, but not all. The great
discrepancy between the SAR targets and actual implementation
should also be reevdliatpd, as it seems that some of the SAR
targets were too optimistic.
16



3. Field visits
Table B on page 2C, Part III, shows that 9 reguler missions were
sends to the field; it olso shows the number of days in the
field and the specializations involved.
Considering that some actual implementation is still far below
the SAR target, and that the area is scattered throughout the
entire province of East Java, supervision by the Bank should be
increased. Field visits should have been organized at least
twice a year during the period 1982. 1989, and more agronomists
should have been involved as mentioned by the Bank.
4. Supervision :
During supervision mission by the Bank, the Indonesian side
should be more involved, in order to ensure that the Bank's
suggestions are followed up.
5. Appraisal :
During appraisal missions of the Bank, the Indonesian side shall
be more involved, especially with regards to the collection and
preparation of the Benchmark Information, in order to avoid
overestimation of benefits.
D. Borrower's performance
Lesson learned :
It is suggested by the Bank, that whenever aquifer conditions
permit so, shallow tubewells should be preferred to deep
tubewells, mainly because of their lower investment cost per
unit irrigated area and their simple technology.
Preference for shallow tubewells must be based on costs,
technology and incremental benefit.
Comparison of water price based on operation cost
- DTW = Rp. 50,8/liter
- ITW = Rp. 80,7/liter
- STW = Rp. 205,3/liter
The shallower the tubewell, the more expensive the price of
water produced by well ( source P2AT ).
The calculation of incremental benefits of ITW and STW shows
no date. Anyway, at present P2AT has been developing 83 DTWS,
195 ITWS and 180 STW in East Jawa and Sulawesi since 1988.
17



E. Bank. Borrower relationship .
The offectiveness of the relationship between Bank and Borrower
during the implementation and evaluation of the project has been
excellent.
For implementation of the project according to the planned
schedule, Bank and Borrower follow their own procedures, but
usually the Borrower's procedure is more complicated. When the
Bank's  or the Borrower's procedure can not be met  because  the
procedures are different, the procedures on both sides should be
interpreted as simple as possible.
18



PART XII STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.    Rotated  Back Loans/IIDA  Credits
i~~t!.~PWDOZ                      I/                     Yer Of              S e          Commeat
Fowlh ri. Projet        RWhblto VWd eipoey                 1972            C     ampltd
(C: .)                  wofd  on   w ater
deveomn h Eat Jav
(PakWe Saen  and ledk1).
ESham brig. Project        I     upWonnding               1977             Cop d
(UL.14344ND)            Eas Java (adku).
Fourlm4h bitg. ProCt                      kVug g h        1960             Compl
(Lt181 14ND)            Est Jav (Sooegr and
Lwer S0o0  r  Bsaw).
Fifteenth brig Project  hitiorhl trengthening for         1960             Compl          Meniod In SAR wilh
(r.6B8ND)               DGWRD.                                                            epeto
svtrengtheing Otftf
Evakutin Secion of
DPP In DGMWRD.
oxeenth ri. Projet    TA for I      rstIIona              1962             Compbl         Durig prepaatn
(d.n21184ND)            etnllgd  of DGWRD and                                            compon     ocated in
in~provement of management                                       East Java were
Informat. rutm for                                               rmoved to form th
kdgato seco.                                                     phhcal omponen
of Irgaton XVN.
g. SSctor (Ln.   Emflio   O&M                          1967             Orgoig        Proision of finance for
IND)                                                                                     *efficlent 08W  In
areas upgraded for
ta purpose under
-rglo XVN.
I/ As far as retd to Inigation XVN.
19



2.   Project Tmetable
Item                 Date Planned       Date Revised   Date Actual
Identification                                         August 1980 1/
Preparation                                             February 18-March 17,
1981 2/
Appraisal Mission                                       May 1981
Loan Negotiations    December 1981                      January 28-February 9,
1982
Board Approval       March 30, 1982                    March 30, 1982
Loan Signature       April 5, 1982                     April 5, 1982
Loan Effectiveness                                      December 14, 1982
Loan Closing         March 31, 1988    March 31, 1989 March 31, 1989
Loan Completion                                         January 25, 1990 3/
1/ Date of initiating project brief.
2/ Preappraisal.
3/ Date of payment against final applicatioi.
Comments (Issues raised at each stage of pr3ject cycle)
Identification/Preparation
Project Origin and Status of Preparation   The programs and works included
in Irrigation XVII were originally proposed !ir inclusion in Irrigation XVI
Project. It gradually became apparent that tite provincial level focus, issues
and problems (related to decentralization and ds olution of responsibility from
the central to provincial levels; improvement .f operation and maintenance;
development of groundwater) would in practice hecome totally overshadowed by
outstanding national level issues should all components be included in a single
project. In addition, the geographic dispersion of even the major physical
components would make final preappraisal, appraisal, and supervision totally
unwieldy, possibly to the detriment of the technical quality of appraisal and
supervision. On this basis those components located in the province of East
Java, the implementation of which would require a high degree of cooperation and
transfer of responsibility between Central and East Java Province agencies, were
removed from Irrigation XVI and formed the physical components of Irrigation XVII
Project.
20



Hain Pro1ect Issues. The main issue associated with the project and its
objectives related to the optimum extent and pace of devolution of responsibility
for irrigation development and operation from centralized DGWRD to provincial and
local authorities. A second issue directly affecting the size of the proposed
project was the period to be covered by the loan. Originally, the two major
physical   components   (rehabilitation/upgrading   program   and   groundwater
development) had been formulated to cover a three-year project period (1982/83 -
1984/85) which would approximately cortespond to the remainder of the Third
Five-Year Plan period. A longer period for a separate operation had, however,
to be provided to accommodate a larger project, since the Province's groundwater
potential and needs for irrigation rehabilitation/upgrading far exceeded the
initial targets.
Project Processing. As the project comprised programs and works originally
intended for inclusion in Irrigation XVI Project, no formal project preparation
was undertaken and considerable work remained to be done during appraisal. As
the components of Irrigation XVII were previously included in a large national
package, the status of the dialogue with the central government (including DGWRD
and BAPPENAS) concerning the objectives and content of this project was quite
advanced, as it was with the consultants who had been working in East Java for
many years. However, contacts with the East Java government were at the time not
well developed, and the appraisal mission had to devote considerable effort to
explaining the project at the level of the Government's office and provincial
planning board, to assessing the capabilities of the provincial irrigation
service and its regional sections, and to coming to broad agreement on
objectives, content, procedures, and inputs at these levels.
Appraisal
Project Finance and Implementation. The appraisal mission proposed that
the groundwater component be financed on a time slice basis, that is, the Bank
would finance only the first three years of the groundwater program and that
finance for later slices of the program be considered by the Bank under a future
loan.   This procedure was suggested to avoid over committing scarce Bank
resources while at the same time not interfering with the implementation of the
program and also tc reduce the commitment charges to the GOI.   The funding
channel and lines of responsibility for the rehabilitation and operation and
maintenance subproject to be implemented by the Provincial Irrigation Service
with DGWRD assistance required clarification by the Government.
It was further agreed that the Bank would review progress of all contracts
required for implementation with GOI during negotiations.   Subject to this
review, DGWRD should have the following contracts fully cleared within GOI and
ready  for  signature before  the project  is presented  to the Board:   i)
construction of at least 6,000 ha upgrading/rehabilitation works in East Java;
ii) drilling 35 production wells for the groundwater project; iii) consultant
services for engineering, design, construction upgrading/rehabilitation sub-
project; iv) consultant services for construction supervision and implementation
of the groundwater project.
21



Negotiations
Project Composition and Costs. The original total project cost of US$135.3
million has been increaeed to US$142.6 million with foreign exchange contents
rising from US$60.3 million to US$73.5 million. These changes arose from the
inclusion of designs and studies (originally included in Irrigation XVI) costing
US$12.9 million, and detailed revision with the GOI delegation of unit costs and
implementation schedules, particularly of the groundwater component where the
work originally scheduled to be completed in three years would, under the
separate project, be implemented over five years.
Procurement. Initially the Bank had proposed to disburse 1002 against a
few large contracts for civil works in order to simplify GOI budget processes and
Bank supervision and procurement, while turning more responsibility for
procurement supervision over to the GOI. A lengthy discussion ensued on the
Bank's concern with the efficiency and economy of procurement for those items
against which the Bank would not be disbursing.   While the GOI delegation
appreciated the Bank's efforts and concern, it was against any Bank intervention
in procurement of such items on the grounds that proposed procedure would
interfere with GOI's sovereignty.   In the face of this impasse, the Bank
delegation reluctantly agreed to drop the proposal.
S. Loan Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ million)
FY83    FY84    FY86  FY8S  FY87  FY88  FY89  FY90
Appraial Estmate          1.00    8.50    23.50  43.50  66.50  70.00
Acual                     5.50    11.50   25.38  38.48  45.08  50.68  62.45  68.98
Actual s % of Eimate      50       135     10B    88    68    72   89   96
Date of Final Disbursement:  January 25, 1990.
Comments
The undisbursed balance of US$3,020,568.03 (4.3? of the loan amount) was
canceled on the date of final disbursement.
22



4. Prolect lilutati.of
Km                                                 Unit -!!_A l                                    % of AR
PART A (PRhab. & Upg.)
Min Sysem                                          ha           70,000             71,133            102
Tutay Systm                                        he           70,00              49,90a             71
COuuclon
Man Sys*s                                          ha           50.000             699               126
Teriey SYStm                                       ha           50,000             37,65              75
UDsrdkv for Elffbnt O&M
PhyIca UpWadhig
Deign                                              ha          140,000             126,580           s0
ConstacUon                                         ha          140,000             12,5600           s0
Pllot Tral a Trnn
Prep. of O&M Mamua                                 ha                              68,400
Opwratn                                            ha          140,000            128,560            90
Makntenuc                                          ha          140,000             128,560           90
PAT B (Groundvate Dev.)
DKig (foducion weft)                                no.            243                 209             a6
Caratatlon                                          ha           13,000               9,332            72
Pump ktMlaon                                       no.             240                 172             72
Ca Lw    (prect emnwt)                              ha                               5,108 1/
km
Esablsi  WUA                                        no.            240                 204             85
I/ inkde urde canagzaln.
23



A. ProZot s
QJ8 milan)
kw-a corson          Lal   Loa        E i         LOtal
CoX  ,0              ~Cost       b
PART A (Rshab. & Upgr.)
Chll Works                                 33.1         17.6    50.7    41.9     22.6       64.5
E64nt & Supps                               0.9          4.5     5.4     0.2      0.8        1.0
ConitKAIs                                   6.2          6.0    122      SA4      5.3       10.7
Trnk*                                       0.1          0.2    0.3    0.1        0.1        02
Admin/Oveheads                              4.4                  44     1         '          1.2
Lad. Acquallon                              0.4                  0.4     2.9                 2.9
Sub-Toal                                  45.1         28.3    73.4    51.7    2z.8        80.5
Taxeson Cl Woeas                            1.4          *       1.4     1.8                 1.8
TOtl                                      46.5         28.3    74.6    53.5     28         82.3
PARr B (Growatsr Dwv.)
ChI Works                                   5.5          5.6    11.0    3.i       3.1        8.2
Drang &l halon                              2.4          3.6     6.0     2.0      Z.0        5.0
Matral & Equlpmt                            4.9         25.0    29.9     2.8      14.5      IT.3
ConstMants                                  1.9          4.4     6.3     2.6      6.8        8.3
TraklngV                                                 0.3     0.3             0.11        0.1
Admin./Overheaft                            2.8                  2.8     7.4                 7.4
Uand -A                                                  -       -       0.4                 0.4
Sub-Total                                 17.5         38.8    58.3    18.2     28.5       44.7
Tom aon OiNWor                              0.4          -       0.4     1.4                 1.4
TOal                                       17.9        38.8    56.7    19.6     28.5       46.1
PART C (Sudin  Oetign)
Consult                                     5.3          5.9    11.2     3.0      3.3        6.3
EquInwn & Suppgle-                                       0.5     0.5
Admkinilrolko                               1.2                  1.2
DPP                                                              -       0.6                 0.6
Toual                                      6.5          .4    12.9      3.6      3.3        6.9
Grand Total (exol. axe)                    69.1         73.5   142.6    73.5     58.6       132.1
Grnd TotWl (. taes)                        70.9         73.5   144.4    78.7     58.6       135.3
Comments
Total project cost in US$ terms remained 7Z below appraisal estimates. This
can be explained by a devaluation of the Rp against the US$ which reached almost
300Z at PCR as compared with the time of appraisal. Changes took place in the
cost  shares of  individual  sub-projects.   The cost of the  rehabilitation  and
upgrading sub-projects (Part A) exceed SAR estimates by 10?, largely due to over-
achievement of construction work for main systems which in turn led to an
increase of expenditures for civil works by 27?. By contrast, the groundwater
sub-project costs remained 20? below the SAR figure. This is attributable to a
24



reduction in number of pumps installed which caused a decline in civil works by
44U and in materials and equipment by 42Z.
The impact of the devaluation of the Rp against the US$ on cost estimates is
well illustrated by the unit investment zost as shown below. While the estimates
in US$ show little change, the ones in Rp increased almost threefold.
At appraisal                     Actual
US$/Ha       Rp/Ha            US$/Ha       RI/Ha
Rehabilitation                     1,100      687,500           1,000   1,768,000
Upgrading                            130       81,250              150     263,000
Groundwater Development            4,330    2,706,250           4,440   7,849,920
B. Prolect Financing
(US$ million)
Plnned                Rsvsd                 Final
(Loan -Wnn
Loan 21194NS)
Bank  IFAD  GOI  Toal Elank  IFAD  001  Total Bank  IFAD  GOI  Totl
CH Works & Dln    15.7  15.7  31.8  63.4  27.4  19.2  31.8  78.4  28.7  18.3  28.7  75.7
Equlpms &Suplm    21.7  7.1       28.8  11.7  3.5       15.2  12.9  5.1  0.3  18.3
CoAsulat          27.7            27.7  28.0            26.0  25.4   -        25.4
Tfa.n1-    0.5                     0.5   -    0.5       0.5        0.3   -    0.3
AdmIOvrih. & Mbc.            8.5  8.5         -    8.5  85   -    -   12.5  12.5
Unraocad          4.9  1.7  3.2  9.7  4.9  1.8  32   9.9
Total           70.0  25.0  43.4 138.4  70.0  25.0  43.4 138.4  67.0  23.7  41.5 132.1
Coments
During implementation, the Bank agreed to reallocations of loan proceeds. The
allocations for civil works and drillings were increased to US$27.4 million, up
from the original US$15.7 million.   Those for equipment and supplies were
reduced, from US$21.7 million to US$11.7 million. The reallocations reflected
changes in project expenditures as already discussed under 5B.
25



. Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
Indicators                                          Appraisal      PCR Estimate
Estimate
Incremntal Production 1/
(1) Rehabilitation Sub-Project Tanggul Scheme
- Paddy    (tons)                                 552             137
- Soybeans (tons)                                  25              46
- Maize    (tons)                                  68              1
- Cassava  (tons)                                - 582             _
(ii) Groundwater Sub-Project 2/
- Paddy      ('000 tons)                          48.4            5.7
- Soybeans   ('000 tons)                          3.7             3.3
- Haize      ('000 tons)                          0.5             3.5
- Groundnuts ('000 tons)                          0.1             4.6
Number of Beneficiaries (families) 3/                150,000          180,000
Comments
1/ The project monitoring and evaluation as undertaken does not provide a
reliable base for estimating direct benef.aLs attributable to the project. The
PCR estimates, largely based on data on cropping patterns as collected by EJIS,
suggest an incremental production of paddy much lower than anticipated at
appraisal and a growing preference for crops other than paddy including soybeans
and groundnuts. Since the mid 1980s Indonesia ceased to be a net importer of
rice, with consequently less emphasis placed on stimulating paddy output.
2/ The remarkable difference between SAR and PCR estimates reflects the fact
that paddy cropping intensity increased by only 131 against a 1001 increase
anticipated at appraisal. It should also be noted that the actual groundwater
command area is 231 below the SAR estimate.
3/ The increase in number of beneficiaries results from exceeding SAR targets
in rehabilitation by 13,000 ha. In the absence of data, the SAR ratio of 2.4
families benefiting per irrigated hectare has been applied.
26



B. Economic Impact
Economic Rate of Return                Appraisal Estimate        PCR Estimate
(Z)                    (Z)
Rehabilitation Sub-Project                     25                      30
Groundwater Sub-Project                        24                      4
Comments
At appraisal the ERR estimate for the Rehabilitation Sub-Project was based
on the Tanggul scheme which was believed to be representative for all schemes to
be rehabilitated.   The PCR estimate reflects implementation results from the
entire sub-project.
For the Groundwater Sub-Project the ERR turns out to be lower than estimated
at appraisal largely because of a slower than anticipated build up of benefits,
changes in cropping patterns that were different from what had been expected at
appraisal and because of large investments in on-farm civil works (canal lining).
Assumptions used in the analysis and other details are presented in the
Attachment.
C. Financial Impact
Net Fann h     1/                      SAR Es*                  PCR Estimate 2
I PhabMtalon   c
Prent (at Apprasl                        388,420                  385,654
Fu  wlo Pro jec                          373,198                  268,612
Futur wfth Project                       419,740                  616,451
khremen                                  468,4                    349,839
U GrourKNdwae su.proIsct 3/
Pre (at Apprsa                          299,108                   199,062
Futur w/o Project                        362,040                  325,643
Futu wih Proct                           630,486                  592,333
_!nrnt                                  276,416                   266,690
1/ hI 196/90 Rp per 0.4 ha farm.
2/ Basd on assumpto used for Ft reestimation of ERR (se Attachime).
3/ The PCR esmat reers to conuctv aeas which raprent about 75% of te tot areabeneftin foM the projec
27



D. Studies
Studies & Desians        Purpose as defined   Status        Impact of Studies
at Appraisal
1.  Parigi-Poso          Detailed designs for Completed   Detailed designs
(Central Sulaweui)  irrigation systems                  included for
to serve 21,000 ha;                implementation under
a feasibility study                ongoing ISSP.
for the development                Feasibility study to
of an additional                   form part of PIADP
area of 8,000 ha and               (currently under
following review of                preparation).
the study by GOI and
the Bank, detailed
design.
2.  Kali Progo           Collection and        Completed   Feasibility of
(Central Java)      analysis of                        proposed scheme
additional                         confirmed and in
hydrologic data to                 active pipeline for
study river flows in               implementation.
the Kali Serang;
collection and
analysis of
hydrologic data for
the proposed Sermo
dam for establishing
rainfall/run off
relationship and for
performing reservoir
operational studies.
3.  Polmas-Sidrap        Feasibility studies  Completed   Schemes studied are
(South Sulawesi)    for the proposed                   in active pipeline
Sadang (5,300 ha)                  for implementation
pump irrigation                    except for Haloso.
scheme, and the
Lanrae (1,500 ha),
Batubassi (2,000
ha), Maloso (7,500
ha) and Hambu (6,500
ha), gravity
schemes. Subject to
study findings which
will be reviewed by
Bank and GOI,
detailed design.
28



7. Statu, of Covenantg
Loan Acrowmt                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Deadkon for  Statu
4.01 (a)        EAO lo cany out Parl A of projt under DO; P2AT to cany out             n cmpnoo
Pal B of dt  projt PROSDA to oany out Pait C1 (o) and C2 (a)
and (b)
4.01 (b)        Borwr fo provdo wfnds, aclie, eve and othr recurce                   hI oom
requhd for te puro  of th Projet
4.01 (o)        Eure wMfilnt liquid hnds D oor budge eendu                  0/01      in cmpance
avabble o EN8, P2AT, PROSIDA and PIOD                     each yea
4.02 (a)        Employ cnutn for Parts A, 81 (b) to 81 (d) and C           0U01/82    Complid
4.02 (b)        Employ cnutjn for Pait 81 (a)                              0V01/83    Comp
6.04 (a)       Adequaty opea  and maintin canas, tubews, drafn ec.                    Mahienance b
rehabitated or otuctd under projct Ensure efficient watr              adeqa
use
5.04 (b)        Eure adequat saff and funds for propor O&M of Igaton,                 Provion of funds
draia  and road sytms                                                 b hIndqa
5.04 (c)      khfom Bank and Fund of 0 apoved cost per ha for O&M         0501 each   Pare*y omplbd
budget                                                    year 10/01
II) saff provWion for each InIgation rsystn  each year
8.05 (a)       Ensure War Usw Asociati  (WUAs) Invoed In panning                      Compid
y nehak
3.05 (b)        Exchage viws with WUAs to esure membe  agree to objoeie               Compied, but
and will, threafr, operate and maintan traris                         many WUAs are
Inace
.O              Gol to review te dute and responsibitlites of th exeso     07/01/83    Palty oompied
servkes of Miniy of Home Affa. DGWRDs Provincial Irrion
Sevie, for estblishing tnin and asing WUAs and furnish
Bank and Fund W fndings and recmmend#akin
EFFECTIVENESS CONDMgNS
7.01 (a)       IFAD Loan Ageemet authoized or raifid by 001 and otr                   In complkn
condWons met for effetvene  of IFAD oan. IFAD must appoint
Bank as Coopet   niu0 n
7.01 (b)       Consultnts contract lor Part A of projet negodated and approved        In comnplin
In accordance wih Bowers procedure
29



S. Use of Bank Resource.
A. Staff Inputs
Staae of          Planned          Revised            Final        Comments
Proiect
Cycle
HQ     ?ield            Field     HQ      Field
Through                      n/a                      46.0
Appraisal
Appraisal                    n/a                      10.2
through
Board
Approval
Board                        n/a                       n/a
Approval
through
effectivenes
Supervision                  n/a                      82.2
Total                                              138.4
30



B. Missions
d     Monlh/ Number Dm                                                                 _ S_bn  Pd
Pxbet       Y"r         of   Fbd I P f   _   V                                           Probbm
Sttu 3/    Trend 4/
uprYIn   1/83       3       15   AEAG,IE                      I            I             F,M
SupWviIn   9/83     5       15   AG,EC,EN,HE,IE               2            1             F.M
SupriIn   3/84      1       6    IE                           2           2              F,M
Superin   2085       1     n.a.  IE                           2           3              F,M
Avaiabl    D            0OM
W_Eg          k8E       St
Supvsion  8/86      1       3    EN                 3         1           2         3
Supevson   2/87     1       3   EN                  2         2           2         2
Suprvin   8/87      3       15   ENAE               1         2           2         2
Suprvso    2/88     1       5    EN                 1         2           2         2
8upero    11-       2       18   EN,HG              1         2           2         2
1,:Y88
1/ Most supervin n msonsb woedd on sral asslgnments.
21 AG - Agriculturst AE - Aglc. Economist EC - Eonmist EN - Enginer  HE - Hydrlgckal Enginer HG -
Hydrobgit IE - higatlon Enginer.
3/ 1 - Problem free or mnor problems; 2 - Modt probbms; 3- Major probm.
4/ 1 - Improving; 2 - Stslna  3 - Deterlorating.
5/ F - Financial: M - Managerial.
C. Cost
Ssas of FIoleye   Tota $ Cost of Staff Cduts    Avros S Cost of HO    Amase S Cost o Fieid
Acivine or Mbsson Member Act  owr Mssion Member
Through Appraisl
Apprail through Board     Not avalble
Board Apprwal trough      Not avalble
31.



Attachment 1
_O H HAWM IlON ECT n
Aetivity                     UFt ISCAL YELAf (Aprit to March)                                                    TotaL
_     19263   1983/64 1 184/85     16wed 196/I1 1967/88    1988/89
main System            ha   12,000                 I-9 =        -M- 20,0                                 'MAW
*aulr                                                  i7,6-   122,C        15,7X      14*.3 
Tarti   tySyste                 10,=       15,CM   | 2n,rm       ZD,=
- NW Ytitv                                   5,900     13,30      6.600
-~~~~~~h Cgn1Xb                    __A    ,,     z                                                    25,15Z)
- Nw 1nBWl   S Osuigi                          n. J..          -J40-                                        (24,1W)
ji   ~~~~~~1tn Syrcm                           l.t.mn    s.fm- 20.r                                                       xD,=
Z                                 h~~~~~~~~~~~~~t    3J6_    $.07  S ,9$3_  9,n5    2,8Z7_  15,WV_ 18-_    (62,9,e)
* otncticl    Ttry system             h_M              10- an               20, cm                                      50,1=
I4 '          It 0    _ 3. Ia_                1.8)    27.83S5    C(7,6351
bc1          tgrading Onig                                                                                              140ha
6       - 6wrat                     h      , =      X 0        42,CM      17,50      25,1=                            122's1)
rw        - lnhmiv                                                L,mQ, i  2'.00                                        (4.S2)
a t     , MOMI            hh h                                                                             140-=
Pit lt         4xt10n                    he                                                                               1401=
Tr109*__d]_____                                                                                                            2 0
Trn                     tin                                                tr,O
.   I   zzo_4        I127,=O)
CiviL Iorks                     ha        0                 M     m s .u       I          Iu,m
Gvra  Wgr are                          94R     - 201500     27,7M    17,         26,2m0     21,7m               122X0)
Int1iW Ugsdirg                                             j 00    -         _
Exploratory WeLLs     M.       .9    j     61         761       352                                       273
hDi9Lo.toty WLLI                to.-                          -    '                       I.u                     C I3 5  c)21 
ti      PP t1dicn Wtts 1/                              5           i           s 15    10          20  I                          65
1. Enat Java           -o.                   6__                                                                        (6S5
Ig2.    1ri-t4WJul                  ro.      I           31 21 23                         25                            1 2
3.                                            9 _!__   20 _i  __ 20  L e     _________ 2__l                      (95!
s          ~~~~3. FWivv-50to                     r.      12          20                   is t5t66;
j  t2  |    20       s      i      S    I   19       6S                 (M
V/  cLositrgf  n  Sa  civiL barks wd dt 70  uosts fina,cd * a rr         Ject sajrces wre stiLL to be ceteted/irnstatled.
StEn: Cnt Java Irrpigatin Projct, Tranimg Wd  Caurdiratin CotSuLtauncy, QarterLy PDOe  R=rts, For,th QA"tr JuLy to Set. e, DSJRD VW Ris
astiast.                     APaPisal Revot P,,r4m,
____        kActLat                           32



ATTACHMENT 2
Page 1
INDONESIA
SEVTNT  IRRIGATION (EST JAVA PROVINCE) PROJECT
(Loan 2119-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Economic Analysis
1.        At appraisal, the ERRs had been established for the rehabilitation
and groundwater sub-projects. An attempt has now been made to re-estimate
these rates, but the results should be taken as only indicative. While it can
be assumed that project expenditures and areas benefiting have been
established fairly accurately, the data collected through PME proved to be
inadequate to allow a quantification of benefits attributable to the project
investments (see also Part I, paras 5.13 and 9.5).
2.        The analysis was made in constant 1989/90 Rupiahs.  Deflator and
conversion factors applied are presented in Table 1 of this Attachment. For
the financial prices and economic values of crops and inputs see Tables 2 and
3.  Future prices are based on World Bank Commodity Price Forecasts dated
January 1990.
Rehabilitation Sub-Project
3.        Based largely on data on cropping patterns as collected regularly
by EJIS for selected schemes under its responsibility, changes in net revenue
on a hectare basis have been estimated for the period 1982/83 to 1987/88.
Three schemes, namely Abab (1400 ha), Molek (4,000 ha) and Skinjing (1,400 ha)
which together represent about 6,800 ha or some lIZ of the total scheme area
to be rehabilitated, have been used to establish the situation "future without
project,. The main systems of these three schemes which are assumed to be
respresentative for all schemes rehabilitated were completed only in 1987/88.
As shown below, the data which refer only to the two dry seasons indicate a
considerable decline in the shares under paddy and soybeans, while that of
maize increased. The corresponding reduction in output value has been
interpreted by the mission as representing the declining scheme performance if
the schemes were not rehabilitated. Reciprocally it has been assumed that
scheme rehabilitation would reverse this trend through restoring previous
cropping pattern/intensities and moderately increasing yields, within one year
following rehabilitation. The wet season is not considered in the analysis as
no changes in cropping pattern are observed.
33



ATTACHMENT 2
Page 2
Cro2ning Pattern 1982/83 and 1987/88
1982/83                      1987/88
DS I          DS II          DS I           DS II
Paddy                        49             12            30             -
Soybean                      12              3              4              2
maize                        18             48             31            53
Other                        20             25            22             17
Fallow                        1             12            13             28
100            100           100            100
'Yelds (t/ha)
Paddy             Soybean              Maize
Pre-Project                3.5                 0.9                 1.5
(1982/83)
Future w/o                 4.0                 1.0                 1.8
Project
(1987188)
Future with                4.5                 1.2                 2.3
Project
(1988/89)
4.        By combining the above cropping pattern and yields the following
production per hectare was deriveds
Pre-Protect       Future w/o        Future with
1982/83          Project            Proiect
1987/88           1988/89
Paddy                              4.3              2.4                5.5
Soya                               0.3              0.1               0.4
maize                              2.0              1.4                3.0
Other                              0.4              1.3                1.9
34



ATTACHMENT 2
Page 3
5.        The build up of benefits is based on project-related changes in net
return per hectare and follows the areas rehabilitated (Tables 4 and 6). In
the absence of more detailed information *other" crops are costed at 10 below
maize. The ERR for the whole sub-project results as 30? (Table 7). This
compares with the SAR of 24Z as estimated for the Tonggul scheme only.
Net Return per Hectare
loam1I       10867/821    j1  3/      I_ 3/    2003/
.......................... ('O0 ORp) .
Curnt Rp.               6a4.5        537.7       1,146.0
s16/ Rp.               969.1        56.3         1,211.3     1,217.3    1,7.3
1/ Cord PProMct
21 Cokidd Fut wWhout roje
3/ Co_ered Fure wth Project
Groundwater Sub-Pro1ect
6.        The analysis largely follows the approach used for the
Rehabilitation Sub-Project. A distinction is made between DTWs sunk in
conjunctive areas and in rainfed areas (Para 6.7 of Part I and Table 4). The
changes in cropping pattern assumed for the without and with project situation
are based on reports from individual pumps and on mission estimates (Table 5).
The corresponding changes in yield estimates and production are shown below.
The physical inputs used per crop and per hectare are presented in Table 6.
Paddy Wet Seaon   dv Rv Sw"   Sohffu        Mato      Gnxrdnuts
...........................  ( f   .....................
Confuncte heas
WthounProcm       5.0           4.5           0.9         1.4          -
WIh Posc          5.0           5.0           1.3         1.6         1.5
hacrnt            0.0           0.5           0.4         0.2
PsIntd Aroa
Wiout Proje       2.8                          1.2        1.0
Wih Projec        3.0                         1.6         1.5         2.0
khomnt            0.2                         0.4         0.5         2.0
NoWs: No dstnoton Is made bWn ylds In Dry Sason I and I.
35



ATTACHMENT2
Pae. 4
Ch Inae   Produiodon  Modw Hatm
Conkm" Ar"~Rnd Area
Dry  DI    t Season I  Tote  Wet Season  D e     0eD Season I   Tod
......................................  (I n )..........................
PFady          1.3                1.S    2.           -                   2.8
Sobe"m         0.7                0.7                0.5         ,        0.5
bbUs           0.2        0.1     0.3      -         0.5                  0.5
romundnI                     -- 
Paddy          2.1         -       2.1     3.0                            3.0
Soybean        0.8        0.4     1.2                1.3         -        1.3
make           0.1        0.8     0.7      -         0.3        0.6       0.9
Grouridnub     0.4        0.2     0.6      -                    0.8       0.8
PaXdy          0.8                0.8      0.3        -          -        0.3
Soybea         0.1        0.4     0.5                0.6                  0.8
mabi          (0.1)       0.5     0.4      .         (0.2)      0.8       0.4
Groundnut      0.4        02       0.6     -          -         0.8       0.8
7.        All investment costs which pertain to the sub-project have been
included in the cost streams.  Replacement costs are based on the assumption
that 502 of the equipment require renewal every ten years.  O&H costs,
estimated at Rp40,000 and RpS5,000/ha/year for conjunctive use and rainfed
areas, respectively, are based on P2AT data for existing wells in the project
area. To allow for different size and depth, these estimates represent
weighted averages. The benefit stream, based on changes in production as
shown above per model hectare, follows the build up of operational wells in
conjunctive and rainfed areas as shown in Table 4. Based on these
assumptions, the ERR for the groundwater sub-project has been re-estimated at
41 over 25 years as shown in Table 8.
36



ATTACMNT 3
Table 1
INDONESIA
SEVENTEENTH IRRIGATION (EAST JAVA PROVINCE) PROJECT
(Loan 2119-IND)
Inflation Factors and Exchange Rates
MUJVIndx 1/            eflato          Excan
-Rate 2/
(1981-100)                          (Rp to USS)
1981-82            99.84              135.4               625
1982-83            97.84              138.1               797
1983-84            95.71              141.2               983
1984-85            95.37              141.7              1,039
1985-86            104.20             129.7              1,118
1986-87            117.97             114.6              1,352
1987-88            127.89             105.7              1,651
1988-89            132.14             102.3              1,690
1989-90            135.16             100.0              1,768
Conversion Factors
Civil Works                                            0.82
Drilling and Installation                              0.82
Equipment                                              1.00
Consultants                                            1.00
Administration & Overheads                             0.90
Source: 1/ World Bank, January 1990.
2/ Average annual rates as used by project office.
37



ATTACHMENT 3
Table 2
INDONESIA
SEVENTEENTH IRRIGATION (EAST JAVA PROVINCE) PROJECT
(Loan 2119-IND)
Financial Prices and Inputs at Farmgate
19823          1938           l'W8          ,19S           19U           .1978            19gi
(Current Rp) ....
(Rp/kg)
Paddy                       110            115            120            130            ISO            170            225
Maize                       105            110            120            130            120            140            lS0
Soybean                     31S            330            350            375            520            S40            S50
Groundnut                   410            430            450            470            S00           530             550
&g& (Rp/kg)
Rice                        220            250            270            300            320           340             350
Maize                       1SS            160            180            195            200            220             250
Soybean                     360            380            400            430            S80            620            650
Groundnut                   460            480            520            S60            590            620             650
(Rp/kg)
Urs                          75             85            100            120            120            125             130
ISP                          75             85            100            120            120            125             130
Pesticide                  1,250          1500           2,000         3,000          4,000          5,000           6,000
Farm L&kour
(Rp/day)
Man                         700            900           1,100          1,300         1,500          1,600           1,700
Anima                      1,500          1800           2,100          2S00           2,800   ^     3,200           3,500
38



ATTACHMENT 3
Table 3
INDONESIA
SEVENTEENTH IRRIGATION (EAST JAVA PROVINCE) PROJECT
(Loan 2119-IND)
Economic Values of Crops and Inputs at Farmgate
l9B3  tg4         98          198        97.       1S           es     19 
83        4          SS          Jo          87        n           MS         9
. ........  (Curent Rp) ... ......                              .... (1989.90 Rp)
(Rp/kg)
Paddy            132       148         139          76         95        152        196        196      126        131
Maize             99       134         127         112        110        150         183       187      179        198
Soybean          241       313         309         288        343        509        571        SS3      583        507
Groundaut        408       658       1,080         655        S95        751        938      1,041      972        903
S41
(Rp/kg)
Rice             132       148         139          76         95        152        196        196      126        131
Maize             99       134         127         112        110        1SO         183       187      179        198
Soybean          241       313         309         288        343        509        571       S53       S83        507
Groundnut        408       658       1,080         655        59S        7S1        938      1,041      972        903
(Rp/kg)
Unea             167       215         229         21S        247        348        373        373      479        534
TSP               t81      226         232         252        318        429         444       463      539        564
Pesticide      6,5       7,500       8,0 8,      8,500      10,000     15,000      16,000    16,400   16,400    16,400
(Rp/day)
Man              350       400        50         600         700       SO         900      1,000    1,00       1,000
Animal          1,500     2000       2,500       3,000      3,500      4,000       4,500     5.000    S,000      5,000
DIp Fucl          187       195        200         230        260        300         30S       315       31t       315
(Rp/l)
Soume: Woilk Bank, Commodity PiceForecasts, Januaty 1990.
39



ATTACHMNT 3
Table 4
INDONESIA
SEVENTEENTH IRRIGATION (EAST JAVA PROVINCE) PROJECT
(Loan 2119-IND)
Build up of Areas Rehabilitated and of Qperationial DTWs
NW  2i  i1  84/ Jl ,                                        w  is  73  lo
A             0     AO    87          18    /8   /9 m         f       .S m
Mehab. Sub Proc
Art   Rehabiltated 1/         ha            3,056   8,047  5,953  9,305  2,827  15,0W9 18,362   18,362   18,362  18,362
Cumulative                    he      .    3,056  11,463 17,416 26,721 29,548 44,C27 62,989   62,989  62,969  62,9S9
No. of Schemes Cmpleted    No.                 8       6      3      4       8     19
cumulative                   No.    -          8      14     17     21     29      48    48        48       48     40
Giroundwater Sub:Maice
Building of Opational
Weles 2/
, W lsciTn Conj.Azua         No.    -         14      11     11    34      24      33      0       24               -
- In Ranfed AMU              No.                       S    11        7     13      7       0      15 i             -
Cumulathe Total                               14      30    52      93    t30    170    170       209      209     209
Build Mg of Net rrited
A 3/
- Conjunctive Use DIWs        ha      -       380    860  1.340  2,550  3,800  S,320   5,980   6,920   7,240   7.460
- Rainfed Use DTWs            ha      -       -       110   420    770  1,250  1,660   1,870   2,Z60   2,470   2,610
xgw                         ~- -w -M iJmt ~                         L   i   2Jm  2i9 AO2
1/ Refen to flist yar of production under rmhabilitation conditions.
2/ Refers to firt eatr of operation.
3/ Are buid up baed on PUT reords of atual pumping hous of representative  sbeUs and avrage command aea of S5 and
50 ha per wel in conjunctive and fainfed aeas repectively. The ltter ar adjusted fcr an sumed 90% of D7W  'command
area  being atually  sale for irrigtion i.e. nct command ar.
40



ATTACHMT 3
Table 5
INDONESIA
SEVENTEENTH IRRIGATION (EAST JAVA PROVINCE) PROJECT
(Loan 2119.IND)
Groundwater Sub-PrQject - Changes in Cropping Pattern and Ihtensity
(%)
Wells in Coniuncthve Use I/                          Weils in Rainfed Ares
WetSL D        PflJ      hzn          Jnensiu Wuet Sciom         ZAu aJ                    Intensi
Paddy            100          2            -          2            100                         -           10
So M              -           48           -           48           -            40            -           40
Maize                         17           10          27                        s 5o          .           50
Gndut             -                        . 
Falkow            -           10          90         (100)                       10           100         (110)
SubT2          jQQ                                  AUp Jlg       OD          .1Q          .]Q          .L2
WYith Proec
Paddy            100          38           .          138          100           -             -           100
Sobens                        42           20          62           -s                                     80
Maize                          3          50           53                        20           40           60
Groundnut                     17           10          27                                     40           40
Fallow            .           .           20          (20)          -                         20           (20)
Sub-Total       .0                                  AVg jQg  MQ                                         Al jQj
Paddy             .          +13                      +13                        -                   -
Soybeans          -           -6         +20          +14           -           +40           -           +40
Maize             .           -14         +40         +26                      -30           +40          +10
Growndaut         -          +17          +10         +27                        -           +40           +40
Fallow                        -10         -70        -d0                  -      10           .10         -90
1/ Use of DIWs in lilght.medium soils and medium to bey sils aumed in propotion  of 5050.
41



ATTACHMNT 3
Table 6
INDONESIA
SEVENTEENTH IRRIGATION (EAST JAVA PROVINCE) PROJECT
(Loan 2119-IND)
Physical Inputs 1/ pier Crop (Dry Season) per Hectare
Situation PE-Proiect                     Zs&                 Sovhs                 Mz                  roundnu
Cuh lInvu (kg)
Una                                         130                                     150
TsP                                         so
Pesticide                                    2                                         I
Seed                                        30                  40                   30                   60
Lau9 (Units)
Team  days                                   8
Man days                                    96                  115                  85                   80
Yiekd (kg/ba)                            (4,500)               (900)              (1,400)              (1,000)
Puture W/o Proiea
Urea                                        130                 50                  1SO                   25
TSP                                         50                   25                                       50
Pekide                                       2                    3                    1                   2
Seed                                        30                  3S                   25                   40
Jjal       (Units)
Team day                                     8
Man days                                    96                  11S                  8S                   80
Yield (kg/ha)                            (4.500)              (1,000)             (1,400)              (1,200)
Future With Project
Cash nODut
Una                                        150                  SO                   200                  SO
TSP                                        1O0                   25                  -                    35
Pesticide                                    2                    3                   1                    1
Seed                                        25                  35                   25                   40
Teamd ays                                                                             4
Men day                                     96                  120                  60                   80
Yidd (g/ba)                              (5,000)              (1,300)    ^        (1,600)              (1,500)
1/ Refer to the yield Icewls indiated in brackets (Groundwater Sub-Project) and  have been adjusted for the
Rehabilitation Sub-Project (Pare 4).
42



ATTACHMENT 3
Table 7
INDONESIA
SEVENTEENTH IRRIGATION (EAST JAVA PROVINCE) PROJECT
(Lean 2119.IND)
Rehabilitation Sub-Project - Cost and Benefit Streams
(Rp Million)
.Qil   Eauiloment  Conwltant   Tfaninc Admin- J     In mntc             T1      Incremena        NeS
Wor14                                         O ed          IM           CMe         Benefits   Bencfi"
1/
1982/83                    -           1,633                   86           96         1,81S                   (1,81)
83/84          20         *             743         -        116          336        1,403         -         (1,3)
84-85       10,871        -           1,675         -         24          525        1,19S        611       (1,584)
85/86        12.760      830          1852         97        125          708        16,372      1,236       (15,136)
86/87        7,575       270          1,297        83        265          73i        10,221      6,677       (3,544)
87/88        6,824       157          1,086        95        296          1,053      9f511      is,2          3,759
88/B9       22570                     1,184                  311          1,448      25,13      15,2         (9,55
89/90        11,640       65            761                  319          1,531      14,316     23,164        8848
90/91          -                        *-               -               1,31        1,531      32,308       30,m
91/92                                                                     1,531      1,531      35,652       34,127
92/93                                                                    1,S31       1,531      37,488       35,957
93/94                                                                     1531       1,531      37,488       3S,957
94/95                                                                    1,531      131        37,488       35,957
95/96                                                                     1,531      1,531      37,488       35,9S7
96/97                                                                    I131        1,531      37,488       35,957
97/9S                                                                     1,531      1,531      43,963       42,432
98/99                                                                     1,531      1,531      43,963       42,432
99/2000                                                                   1,531      1,531      43,963       42,432
2000/2001                                                                 I131         1,531     43,963        42,432
2001/2002                                                                  1,531       1,531     43,963        42,432
Ecogognik Rate of Raturt; 30%
1/ At Rp2S,O00/ha in 1989/90 for main sytem and Rp3,000 ha (or tea   "stem cnwrted with (tor 0.9.
43



IL
.A .~~~~~~~~r
X {giSilaa{l{i{i{f......I.I.
t~~~~~~
at     X;SisMgE c
appu  a a p" pE                         E sg
a88    W iiiss   *     &                               a1
Wl""|||W"""""%x2Xt  4  5    X     ~     ~



~~MqMCNT3
Table 8A
INDONESIA
SEVENTEENTH IRRIGATION PROJECT (Loan 2119.IND)
Economic Rate of Return Calculst!zn
Groundwater Development Project (US$ miUlion)
Year  Economic  Replacement   O&M   Total Costs Benefits 2/    Net
Costs        1/       Costs 2/                        Benefits
1      3.80                              3.80         -       (3.80)
2      4.47                    0.01      4.48       0.23      (4.25)
3      937                     0.03      9.40       0.46      (8.94)
4      9.64                    0.06      9.70       0.92      (8.78)
5      6.22                    0.11      6.33        1.51     (4.82)
6      2.37                    0.14      2.51       2.29      (0.22)
7      6.84                    0.20      7.04       3.20      (3.84)
8                              0.22      0.22       3.66       3.44
9                              0.25      0.25       4.12       3.87
10                             0.28       0.28       4.58      4.30
11                             0.28       0.28       4.58      4.30
12                  0.09       0.28       0.37       4.58      4.21
13                  0.11       0.28       0.39       4.58      4.19
14                  2.50       0.28       2.78       4.58      1.80
15                  2.48       0.28       2.76       4.58      1.82
16                  1.90       0.28       2.18       4.58      2.40
17                   -         0.28       0.28       4.58      4.30
18                  1.94       0.28       1.22       4.58      3.36
19                             0.28       0.28       4.58      4.30
20                             0.28       0.28       4.58      4.30
21                             0.28       0.28       4.58      4.30
22                  0.09       0.28       0.37       4.58      4.21
23                  0.11       0.28       0.39       4.58      4.19
24                  2.50       0.28       2.78       4.58       1.80
25                  2.48       0.28       2.76       8.83       6.07
Economic Rate of Return: 5%
Source: GOI/DPP, Project Completion Report Irrigation XVII Loan 2119-IND,
February 1989, Table 13.2.
Note: 1/ 50% of equipment cost (DPP Table 12.2);
2/ Adjusted to reflect build up of irrigated areas (Attachment Table 4).
The benefits have also been adjusted for distortions in the economic
value of paddy which is used here as a proxy.
45



.
I  r.THAILAN0  ,,                ,,,,,sl|,,                                                                            %%4                                                                                 IBRD 1c03Ml1
M4LAYSgA                                                                                                                                                  I I T  ,#  1,3  INDONESIA
,,   t     ~ KAOMANTAN'                                                                                                   IRRIGATION  PROJECT XVI! (EAST JAVA PROVINCE)
'   2         . !   : .   5        Sl4AN JAYA                                                  IPRIGATION AREAS                        Lfh    PROJECT REHABILI rATION AREAS
' MW,* rH Ares of MaO                                                         I { ,1  ! i   s   1 DELTA BRANTAS                  IRRIGATION AREAS Where initial rehabilitation completed,
JAWA     AoMOTM                                                                                                                                             in progress, or under consideration)
LJAr,. . .ea . ,,i,             \                                                  2 PEKALENSAMPEAN                           0       GROUNDWATER CENTERS
!1/(/(,- 0 (',                T rIMOR                                                              3 MADIUN                                          IRRIGATION DISTRICT OFFICES
A WARU TURI                                       ROADS
1*10                                                    5 LODOYO                                           RIVERS
6 LOWER SOLO BASIN                                MOUNtAINS
2 . > ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7 KLAMPIS                                                            PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
Tuban~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
70                                                                                                                                                  Sumenep  0                                         70~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1,00h
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n alanXtE                                                           V>
JAWA TENGAH
80                                                                                                                                                                                              *1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0    eaa
-A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IA
INA D I A. N   O CEA N                                                                                                                                                                              \
r*S_x_dr^@@-~~sadrfeX;f                                   KILOMETERS 0   10  20   30   40   50 60  7~0  80 p
_                                                             MILES          b      io J             4       50
+_1,_-_g*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d"~~~~~ '                                                                                                                                           I7
1110                                                        112                                                     lo14                                                            
JUNE 1991



103                                r16                                   10-9                                 11,20                                                                    18 1210                                                                   1IBRD 16315R
MALAYSIA
S.bolgo                                                                                                                                                   MALAYSIA                                 [
eatang Gadis
Study Area                                         - n.SINGAPORE
7,000ha                                                                                                                                                 /        ---                 .{
atngTongar         ,Panti Rao         .-        *       ,                                                                                                           ,                    ,.Duoabporc
Std  Are 8        Sub.prjt         Pahanfbaru                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     15 <8 
S8,0e00bprfcT%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Dumoga Sub-project
B        U kiOR   t 4-                 R PlkO on bi oru
BuIcttnggi                                                                               0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pontionoc                                                                                                                                                                    0
*   Podone                      ~~~~~~~Sungai Dareh
S 1ub-Oooireat     .                                                                                   K    A    L    I   M        A    N    T   A     N
u Sb-proo   jrortb                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        }    Po|v
..   \   7,600 ha                                                                                                                                                                                                    ' 93   hlonoipur  Gurrobeau Studyr AreS Aa              Biak
Blikpopon              15,000ha                010
Burntok                                                                  Parigi-Poso Stui. ea
0ofngkoipinang                                                                                                                                                     Wotukomo
f       S U  M(A  T  E  R                   v               BANGKA                                                                                                                                                                                         Ko /nod'
Sve3mp RcIamation        \     KarangAgung Study Area 200,000ha                                                                                                                         .'o
\Ph r)   _ oleosboag               BELITUNG                                                            ijSebangau Stwdy Area s/Ma1                                                                                                                              30
Lubuklingla    ir Beliti Study Are                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~12Q.000 ha
15,000 ha              t)MesuiiStdyAreaO,C20ha                                                                                                                                  Polmas-Sidrap    S   U   L   A   W    E   S   I
b iulunStudy Area 'OPn
Way Seputih Extension                                                                                                                                               N        or t h a                                             K dndori
mks-ovement Projet 24,   ha                                                                                                                                                W N
aySeputihSu b-project 25,000 ha                                                                                                          d' Dadn$g Flood Control &               pa'                   Kolot
Mengglo,                                                                                                                                                 54in,000ud Ara
\   W ay  Sekampung Sub-project                                                                                                                           000 he
Bekri Sub-proiect 8,600 ha                6,000 ha
Way Kandis Sub-pirject 1,1250 ha-[     Cluiung Sub-project 24,300 ha 
Tanjung Ksoa          Drainage Sub-project 5,800 ha                                                                                                                              Ujung Padong            Sinjoi
Wayi Ke ng S e  \ Cisedane Drainage Jatiluhur Project253,000ha
KCaiad   I    Project 42,00602 00h
INDONESIA                                                    Serc,ng                \      Rentang Sub-project 92,000 ha   SFalno RovectioinageP &
IRRIGATION  PROJECT    XVII              CtpamingkusSub.project                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~PemaliaConmal Sub-proJect    ~ Sedeku DaneSbproject 30,000 ha
IRRIGATION  PROJECT XVII                                              cw m k5b^A;123,CvODDheUp9K k                                                    DrSin2tposdi230 h Su
Uppe & Lwer atflhuranoa                                      Inar                          KtoSuVAra360h                                                                                                            This mnap hos been prepared by Tlse world Bank's ,taf
Upperu Std Lower atiuu  n                                ToaNarngo                                      MA DuI       ~     eheiastiWn Jaaxduj~eolssry for the. co-nish-iec of the readers and is
_ PROJECT AREAS                                           Cibeet Stud7Awa-Q K w                                                                                              MAOURA  Reliebilitation,D & M, and                                                                *nclo    for the intenal useTtdiWsrld -aol  ond the
IRRIGATION STUDY AREAS                         7,WOha         Cilandak StudyArea                                                                                      Ground        ProIntent alonal Finance Coportion. The denominations used
rRRIGATION  PROJECTS  l-XVI                         Lower Cimanuk   BasinrFlood  J  t ugd    D                    -                                        Sampean Baru Sub-project                                                                                   Corporatio and rnnon    thl ega lnotusof nyterito
E =                                              ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Control Project                                                                                                                                                                          Coriacppor any a. ejdosemntior acetane ofga sodts bofn aro terior
ROADS                                                              CJarhartungRiverCibon                                                                                                                                                                             o, aoy ndonamento,occptocso  uchbounool.
RIVERS                                                                                               Stn tudy Area  Baoan gS An tf fyuwongi                                                LOMBOK              ,-, =                                                              -            :    ' -
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                        Madlun    140bli000 hD asar   M                                                               Raba                                BRU NE.ALAYSA                PHILIPPNES
Rehabilitation Sub-project                               Sun                                               iNGAPO RE
Pekalen Sampean          '          -- '  '..' 'J                                          -{NAOR,
KILOMETERS                                                                                                                                                 229,000 ha                                        SUMBAWA
0        tOO        200         300        400         600                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Kalimantan    Sulawesi                  Irian Jsna
0i#lLE    2D0                                 300 
0          100   ~~~~~MILES 
REA OF MAP    J',!
Tirror
100,                                 103'                                      106                                   109'                                  112 1151
JUNE 1991



