Document of         FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3226-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR THE
SEVENTEENTH IRRIGATION
(EAST JAVA PROVINCE)
PROJECT
March 3, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriaton.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00       -  Rupiahs (Rp) 625
Rp 1.00       -  US$0.0016
Rp 1 million - US$1,600
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA - FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
DGA           -  Directorate General Agraria
DGWRD         -  Directorate General of Water Resources Development (in MPW)
EJIS          -  East Java Irrigation Service
GOI           -  Govermient of Indonesia
ICB           -  International Competitive Bidding
IFAD          -  International Fund for Agricultural Development
IPEDA         -  Land Tax
OEM           -  Operatiom and Maintenance
P2AT.         -  Groundwater Development Agency (in DGWRD)
PIBD/PROSIDA  -  Special agencies within DGWRD responsible for implementing
Bank Group-assisted water resource projects
REELITA       -  National Development Plan
RSI           -  The Bank's Resident Staff in Indonesia



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
SEVENTEENTH IRRIGATION (EAST JAVA PROVINCE) PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:        Republic of Indonesia
Amount:          $70 million equivalent /1
Terms:           20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest
at 11.6% per annum.
Project
Description:  The proposed seventeenth irrigation (East Java Province)
project is the first to be concentrated in a single
province and implemented through a provincial irrigation
service. The project would comprise: rehabilitating
existing surface irrigation systems serving about 50,000
ha; developing groundwater irrigation systems to serve
about 13,000 ha; upgrading operation and maintenance for
about 140,000 ha of irrigation systems already rehabili-
tated; and strengthening of the East Java Provincial
Irrigation Service (EJIS). The project is a time slice
of ongoing Government of Indonesia programs in East Java
to improve small and badly deteriorating irrigation
systems, and to provide groundwater for dry season
cropping. Its main objectives are to establish a sound
provincial irrigation service capable of designing and
implementing irrigation improvements and properly
operating and maintaining them, and to expand the use of
groundwater, which will result in steadily increasing
output and incomes of smallholders. A rrkigati n
rehabilitation has low risk and has robust economic
returns. The main project risk is that farmers may not
use groundwater efficiently. Nonetheless, sensitivity
analysis indicates this risk to be tolerable, and project
actions are included to minimize such a risk. The
studies have little risk of inadequate quality or slow
implementation.
/1 Cofinanced with the International Fund for Agricutural Development (IFAD)
which will provide a loan of $25 million equivalent.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of|
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:/a
Local   Foreign   Total
- ($ million) -----
Irrigation rehabilitation         24.9     15.3       40.2
Operation and Maintenance          7.0      5.9       12.9
Groundwater Development           13.3     30.4       43.7
Studies and Design                 4.4      4.9        9.3
Base Cost                     49.6     56.5      106.1
Physical Contingencies             4.8       5.6      10.4
Price Contingencies               16.5      11.4      27.9
Total Project Costs             70.9     73.5      144.4
Financing Plan:
Local   Foreign   Total
…---( $ million)    --
Bank                              27.7     42.3       70.0
-IFAD                             11.4      13.6      25.0
Government                        31.8      17.6      49.4
Total                          70.9     73.5      144.4
Estimated
Disbursements:  Bank FY          1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988
…        0 ~----- -- - --($ million) ---  --
Annual          1.0    7.5    15.0   20.0   23.0    3.5
Cumulative      1.0    8.5    23.5   43.5   66.5   70.0
Rate of Return:   24% on construction costs, representing 79% of the
project's base costs.  Other project components have
non quantifiable returns.
Staff Appraisal
Report:         No. 3648-IND, dated March 3, 1982.
/a Costs include 5% taxes on civil works ($1.8 million).



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR THE SEVENTEENTH IRRIGATION (EAST JAVA PROVINCE) PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of $70 million to help
finance the Seventeenth Irrigation (East Java Province) Project. The loan
would have a term of 20 years, including five years of grace, with interest
at 11.6% per annum. The project involves cofinancing from the International
Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) of $25 million with interest at 4%
per annum for 20 years, including 5 years grace.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        A basic economic report, "Indonesia:  Growth Patterns, Social
Progress and Development Prospects" (No. 2093-IND dated February 20, 1979),
was distributed to the Executive Directors on February 26, 1979. An updating
country economic memorandum, "Indonesia: Long-Run Development and Short-Run
Adjustment" (No. 2788-IND, dated February 20, 1980), was distributed to the
Executive Directors in 1-980 and a further country economic memorandum,
"Indonesia: Development Prospects and Policy Options," (No. 3307-IND dated
April 6, 1981) was distributed to the Executive Directors on April 13, 1981.
Annex I gives selected social and economic indicators for the country.
Background
3.        The Republic of Indonesia is an archipelago of more than 13,000
islands covering a land area of about two million sq km. With over 147 mil-
lion people /2 it is the world's fifth most populous nation. The population
growth rate between 1971 and 1980 was 2.3% per annum. The population den-
sity exceeds 650 persons per sq km on Java, where 62% of the population
live, but averages less than 30 persons per sq km in the rest of the
country; 80% of the population live in rural areas. GNP per capita is
estimated to be $430.13
/1 Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on Second Teacher
Training Project (No. P-3214-IND) circulated under cover of R82-38,
dated February 25, 1982, and scheduled to be considered by the
Executive Directors on March 16, 1982.
/2 Preliminary results of the 1980 population census.
/3 Estimate for 1980.



4.        The Indonesian economy has a highly diversified resource base,
with plentiful primary energy resources, significant mineral deposits, large
timber potential and a developed system of agricultural commodity production
and export. However, the dominant feature of the 1970s has been the rise to
prominence of the oil sector. Net oil exports rose fron $0.6 billion in
1973/74 to $10.8 billion in 1980/81, at which time the oil sector accounted
for almost 70% of both exports and Central Government domestic revenues. As
a consequence the country's resource position has been highly sensitive to
terms of trade developments. Following the second oil price hike a resource
deficit turned into a substantial surplus (of $3.6 billion in 1980/81) and
the current account moved into surplus for the first time in two decades.
In 1981/82 declining real oil prices, combined with weak prices for other
commodities and the recession in OECD countries, contributed to a reversal
of this position, with a resource deficit estimated at $0.8 billion. The
effects of these dramatic changes are still working their way through the
system. However, the infusion of foreign exchange into the economy has
certainly contributed to a highly favorable growth performance, despite weak
production linkages between the oil enclave and the rest of the economy. A
sustained growth rate of almost 8% per annum for over a decade is higher
than that of any other low-income country. While oil has played an import-
ant part, it should be stressed that the initial impetus to this growth
occurred in the period of recovery from the severe dislocation of the 1960s.
The Government of Indonesia (GOI) took effective action to restore and then
maintain macroeconomic stability, liberalize the economy and provide incen-
tives for investment. There was a major rehabilitation of the neglected
infrastructure, and the investment rate doubled to 18% of GDP. Throughout
the period growth has been well diversified, with sectoral growth rates
varying from 4% per annum in agriculture to 12% per annum in manufacturing
and construction. However, despite this favorable growth performance, the
economy is still underdeveloped, with a share of manufacturing in GDP of
less than 10%, and a persistent deficit on the nonoil current account.
Incomes and Poverty
5.        Average incomes per capita have been growing at 5% per annum, but
Indonesia remains an extremely poor country. It is estimated that almost
50% of the population, some 65 million persons, were living in conditions of
absolute poverty in 1978. Household expenditure surveys indicate some
reduction in poverty incidence in the 1970s, especially in urban areas, hut
a widening in rural/urban disparities.  The core of the poverty problem
continues to be in rural Java, where landless laborers form a large propor-
tion of the population. Here the number in poverty appears to have
increased to almost 50 million by the end of the decade.
6.        The availability of productive employment is a key determinant of
incomes. Total employment has been increasing at 3% p.a. during the 1970s.
In 1977/78 open unemployment was less than 2% in rural areas and about 6% in
urban areas. There was, however, a particularly heavy incidence among young



- 3 -
educated males - 30% for urban males aged 20-24 with secondary school educa-
tion. In the period 1971-78, manufacturing provided only 6% of the increase
in employment, and mining almost none, while the more labor-intensive agri-
culture and tertiary sectors provided 42% and 52% respectively. Agriculture
still accounted for 61% of total employment at the end of the period.
Because the oil sector has played a leading role in economic growth, thereby
encouraging a fast growing tertiary sector, the relative lack of industrial
employment has not had serious consequences in the past. However, in the
future, the growth of the industrial sector will be of critical importance
for the direct and indirect provision of employment. It is also clear that
increasing remunerative employment in agriculture, for example in cash crop
production, will have a major role to play in poverty alleviation.
7.        Significant progress has been made in the social sectors.  Univer-
sal primary enrollment will be achieved in the near future, and an adult
literacy rate of 62% compares well with an average of 50% for other low-
income countries. However, secondary and higher education is comparatively
less welldeveloped, and this has been a major factor behind the current
shortage of skilled manpower. With respect to health and demographic
indicators, there have been significant declines in both crude birth and
death rates. An effective family planning program helped reduce fertility
rates on Java and Bali, while the 46% reduction in the crude death rate
between 1960 and 1979 was only exceeded by seven developing countries.
However, the level of provision of services remains inadequate, and only 12%
o. the population has access to safe water, compared with 29% for all
low-income countries.
policy for Structural Adjustment
8.        Indonesia's past growth performance has been good, but the country
is now faced with the need both to put the non-oil economy on to a viable
long-run growth path and to effectively improve the basic needs situation of
the poor. This will require two broad types of policy measure. First, there
is a need for substantial investments in economic and social infrastructure.
Increasing the capacity of the transport network and electric power system
will be critical to sustain the rapidly expanding demands of the productive
sectors of the economy. Second, this must be complemented by improvements in
the policy environment to provide an appropriate incentive structure for
private sector investment. This is illustrated for the major economic
sectors.
9.        In the industrial sector, GOI is planning a program of large-scale
industrial investments; in refineries, LNG, petrochemicals, fertilizer,
cement, pulp and paper, basic metals and mining, with an estimated investment
cost of $15-20 billion. This will broaden the industrial base, but will have
very limited employment implications. Of greater importance for both
employment and exports is the encouragement of small- and medium-scale private
manufacturing through an improvement in the economic environment. The 1978
devaluation from Rp 415 to Rp 625 per US dollar significantly improved the
profitability of labor-intensive import substitution and export industries.



- 4 -
GOI is now backing this with a general review of the trade regime, with a
view to removing the distortions due to the wide variation in rates of
effective protection, and a strong push for the expansion of non-oil
exports, including financing arrangements, improved ports procedures, export
processing zones and a system of export certificates (duty rebates). How-
ever, the private sector also suffers from significant domestic constraints
to its expansion, notably a heavy regulatory burden, especially in the area
of investment licensing, and a distorted and poorly developed financial
system. Further pclicy reforms to create an environment conducive to
private investment are needed to alleviate these constraints.
10.       Despite the abundance of energy resources, Indonesia also faces a
potentially serious structural energy problem. Oil and gas now account for
98% of domestic consumption of commercial energy and demand has been growing
rapidly. If Indonesia is to avoid a serious reduction in foreign exchange
earnings from the oil sector in the 1990s, it is essential to diversify
energy usage, in particular through the development of the coal, hydropower
and geothermal potential. This will require both a major investment program
in this decade and measures to encourage interfuel substitution and more
efficient energy use. In January 1982 domestic oil prices were increased by
over 60%. This was a decisive step toward the reduction of a major distor-
tion in the economy; it followed similar increase of about 40% in May 1980
and demonstrated the GOI's commitment to tackle this politically difficult
issue. However, domestic prices are still only about 55% of the opportunity
cost on average, and price relativities between products diverge widely from
those prevailing on the international market.
11.       Agriculture will continue to be of great importance for export
revenue (accounting for almost 75% of 1980 non-oil exports), food production
and employment. Rice production has been steadily rising to a record level
of about 22 million tons in 1981, compared with 13 million a decade earlier,
largely as a result of irrigation and the dissemination of new agricultural
technology particularly with respect to the timely delivery of adequate
seeds and fertilizers. Future investment in physical infrastructure,
especially irrigation and roads, combined with a favorable market environ-
ment will be the main determinants of further expansion in food production.
Tree crops have suffered from relative neglect, and the age structure of the
trees is now very old, but GOI has a highly ambitious program of rehabilita-
tion and replanting, necessitating substantial investment in manpower and
improved organization of distribution and marketing.
12.       To sustain rapid economic growth and reduce poverty, substantial
investment in human resources development will be critical. The lack of
skilled manpower affects almost every sector. Shortages are largely due to
the poorly developed secondary and higher education system, and in recent
years GOI has clearly demonstrated its strong commitment to the expansion of
the system. However, the high rates of unemployment amongst secondary school
leavers suggest there may be problems of mismatch between supply and demand at
some levels. In the short run there is scope for better utilization of



- 5 -
existing manpower through stopgap training schemes, while available foreign
exchange resources could be used to finance fellowships abroad and, in the
interim, to purchase foreign skills. There is also a strong justification for
the use of incremental resources in the health sector. However, increased
outlays on health infrastructure will have to be complemented by the develop-
ment of innovative approaches to identifying and tackling health problems,
involving the participation of local communities. The successful family
planning program provides a good model.
Domestic Resource Mobilization and External Capital Flows
13.       The dramatic increase of oil revenues in the 1970s allowed a large
expansion in GOI's expenditure including subsidies (especially on petroleum
products) and resulted in a relative neglect of the nonoil tax effort; non-
oil taxes contributed less than 9% of total non-mining GDP in 1980/81. The
constancy of oil prices in 1981-82 and the consequent real decline in reven-
ues, suddenly brought forward the problem of domestic resource mobilization,
at a time of rapidly expanding development finance requirements. The two
major policy measures required are a steady rise in domestic oil prices to
reflect opportunity cost, and an improvement in the tax effort. The 1982/83
budget represents a significant effort in these directions. First, the
budgetary subsidy,on petroleum products has been reduced from an annual level
of over $3 billion to less than $1.5 billion. Second, domestic nonoil tax
revenues have been budgeted to increase by over 15% in real terms, with the
major emphasis on improved administration and collection procedures.
14.       Total disbursed and outstanding external public debt was almost
$15 billion at the end of 1980; while undisbursed debt amounted to an
additional $9 billion. On the basis of present projections of development
financing requirements and external resources deficits, there will be a
continued need for significant inflows of foreign savings in the 1980s.  The
Inter-Governmental Group on Indonesia remains the principal source of external
capital, including Official Development Assistance (ODA), to the country.
However during the 1970s Indonesia experienced an unusually rapid transforma-
tion in its public debt structure from a situation of heavy reliance on
official concessional loans to increasing use of private, nonconcessional and
variable interest loans in the second half of the decade. The fact that
Indonesia remains highly creditworthy at the beginning of the 1980s, and the
efficiency with which GOI has managed debt, are clear indicators of how far
the country has progressed. However, the debt servicing capacity depends on
commodity production rather than a broad industrial base, and this makes
Indonesia somewhat more vulnerable to price developments in international
markets. The implication is that debt utilization should remlain very prudent,
and that there will be a continued justification for official debt of long
maturities and fixed interest in the 1980s. Present projections suggest that
Indonesia's financing requirements can be met with the debt service ratio
remaining below 20% throughout the decade.



-6-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA /_
15.       As of September 30, 1981, Indonesia had received 48 IDA credits
totalling $931.8 million, and 59 Bank loans amounting to $3,814.0 million.
IFC investments totalled $132.5 million. The share of the Bank Group in
Indonesia's total (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end of 1979 was
about 9.5%, and the share of debt service about 4.7%. By the end of 1980,
these ratios are estimated to have increased to around 10.8% and 6.7%, respec-
tively. Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans and IFC
investments as of September 30, 1981, as well as notes on the execution of
ongoing projects. Given the critical importance of agriculture (including
transmigration) for employment, food security and exports, over one-third of
Bank Group supported projects have been in this sector. In addition, loans
and credits have been extended to virtually all other sectors of the economy,
including transportation, education, urban development, water supply, rural
development, nutrition, industrial development financing (including
small-scale industry), power, telecommunications, population and technical
assistance.
16.       During Repelitas I and II, and in line with the objectives of these
first two Five-Year Plans, a high proportion of Bank Group lending was
directed initially toward the rehabilitation and then the expansion of
infrastructure and production facilities. Special attention was also given
to meet the shortage of skilled manpower and technical assistance needed for
preinvestment studies and project execution. Repelita III, published in
early 1979, stressed the need for continued high growth and stability, but
departed from previous plans by placing special emphasis on more equitable
income distribution and poverty alleviation. This focus, which was fully in
line with the conclusions of the basic economic report, required greater
attention to employment generation (particularly in the industrial sector)
and to Improvements in basic public services. While Bank lending was already
consistent with these objectives, increased emphasis is being given to GOI's
new priorities.
17.       Although the country has moved from a position of resource surplus
to deficit, as discussed in Part 1, it is essential that the development
momentum be maintained. This will require both effective policy reform,
notably in improving the environment for private investment, and major
investments in industry, infrastructure, treecrop development and human
resources development. The Bank's program of lending and economic work is
being geared to support the required measures. The primary emphasis of Bank
involvement will be on policy and institutional development and technical
assistance in the key sectors. This will involve a close integration between
sector work and lending and the gradual broadening of lending to the
subsector and sector level in order to assist with policy issues at this
level.
/1 Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Second
Teacher Training Project (No. P-3214-IND) circulated under cover of
R82-38, dated February 25, 1982 and scheduled to be considered by the
Executive Directors on March 16, 1982.



-7-
18.       The only significant shift in the composition of lending involves a
rapid expansion planned in the education sector, a direct response to the
severe shortage of skilled manpower. In the industrial sector, in-depth
sector work focused on a policy for the promotion of labor-intensive, export-
oriented growth has been substantially completed, and it is planned to follow
this with a series of industrial projects. In energy, new sector work and
continued lending will concentrate on policies to diversify Indonesia's energy
base, rationalize pricing and improve sectoral planning. Irrigation and
treecrops will continue to absorb a substantial portion of lending in view of
the importance of these sectors, and continued support for transport is
anticipated. Continued lending in the areas of provision of social services,
in population, health and nutrition, urban development and water supply will
increasingly emphasize institutional support and the development of innovative
low-cost solutions. For example, the proposed health project will focus on
improving the working of the whole health care system at the level of a
specific province.
19.       For about the last two years the Bank and GOI have made a major
effort to improve disbursement performance. Many of the problems appear to be
related to GOI's cumbersome budgetary, procurement and payment procedures,
including issuance of tender documents and opening of letters of credit.
These problems are further compounded by the severe shortages of both mana-
gerial and technical manpower. A number of steps have been taken by GOI and
the Bank to address these issues. Several special Bank missions have visited
l1idonesia to analyze the problems and make recommendations for simplifying
budgetary and financial procedures. The GOI and the Bank have also instituted
formal and regular joint review procedures to identify general and project-
specific problems and work out corrective measures. In addition, procurement
seminars were held in Jakarta in September 1979 and November 1981. As a
consequence of these joint initiatives, GOI has taken several measures to
streamline some of the complex budgetary and financial procedures affecting
project implementation. In addition, the Bank is helping the GOI in a special
effort to identify problems in the construction industry with a view to
developing appropriate remedial actions and policies. Weaknesses in the
domestic contracting have been identified as one of the major causes of
implementation problems in Indonesia. Finally, to reduce initial project
implementation difficulties, many operations are now being presented for Board
consideration at a later stage in the project cycle. Indications are that, as
a result of these efforts, improvements are taking place. This was reflected
id an increase in disbursements from $204.0 million in FY79 to $277.8 million
in FY80, and to $373.5 million in FY81. While it is important that the Bank
and GOI maintain their efforts, these trends are encouraging.
20.       From 1968 until 1974, all lending to Indonesia was made through IDA.
Due to the country-s improved creditworthiness following the commodity and oil
price boom in 1973/74, the bulk of the Bank Group's subsequent lending has
been through IBRD loans, with a modest amount of IDA lending being justified
primarily on poverty grounds, as the per capita GNP was well below the IDA
cutoff of $625. Given Indonesia's much improved balance of payments position,
IDA lending was discontinued in FY80.



-8-
21.       The proposed project constitutes the ninth lending operation pre-
sented to the Executive Directors this fiscal year. The Jakarta Cikampek
Highway, Eleventh Power, Second Seeds, Bukit Asam Coal Mining Development and
Transport and Rural Roads Development projects have already been approved by
the Executive Directors this fiscal year. Board Documents for the Second
Textbook, Teacher Training have been circulated for consideration by the
Executive Directors. Projects under advanced stage of preparation and
appraisal are the Sixth Nucleus Estate Project, Coal Exploration Engineering
and Third Transmigration Projects.
PART III - AGRICULTURE AND RURAL SECTOR
22.       Objectives.  The GOI's major objectives for the agricultural and
rural sector are to: (a) create productive employment to raise incomes of
the rural poor; (b) increase domestic food supply to keep pace with rising
demand; (c) expand agricultural exports particularly of smallholder tree
crops; and (d) ensure productive, sustainable use of Indonesia's varied
land, water and other natural resources.
23.       Despite a 4% average annual growth of production, agriculture's
share of GDP has declined from 40% to 30% since 1968, while its share of
exports dropped from 45% to 33% due mainly to the markedly increased value of
oil exports. Nevertheless, the agricultural and rural sector remains of
overwhelming importance to the great majority of Indonesians; nearly 80% of
the population lives in rural areas, and agriculture is the major source of
income for about two-thirds of rural households and one-tenth of urban
households. Some 15.6 million smallholder families produce subsistence and
cash crops on 15.8 million ha, while 1,800 estates occupying 2.2 million ha
produce mainly rubber, sugar, tea, palm oil, and tobacco.
Development Strategies
24.       Emplo  ent.  Agriculture's share of total employment decreased from
69% in 1961 to 64% in September 1971, while in 1978 it accounted for 61% of
total employment. Nevertheless, agriculture remained by far the largest
single source of new employment (42%) during 1971-78 (para. 6). Outside Java,
employment prospects in agriculture appear quite promising, given the
sustained increases in the smallholder area due to land reclamation and irri-
gation development, including both GOI-sponsored and spontaneous transmigra-
tion. In Java, rehabilitation of irrigation systems, which generated
significant employment in the last decade, should continue to provide
additional construction and farm work.
25.       Food Crops.  Given its limited manpower and financial resources, GOI
has concentrated on increasing the production of rice, the preferred staple
food of the great majority of Indonesians. Rice production increased rapidly
(4.5% p.a.) between 1968 and 1974, chiefly due to irrigation rehabilitation



-9-
(4.5% p.a.) between 1968 and 1974, chiefly due to irrigation rehabilitation
and the provision to irrigated rice growers of fertilizer and high-yielding
variety seed, financed largely through the BIMAS credit program. The growth
rate slowed markedly to 1.7% p.a. over 1974-77, in the wake of severe
declines in fertilizer usage (due to restrictions on private sector fertili-
zer trade), successive seasons of untimely rainfall, and unprecedented
attacks by pests and diseases, principally the brown plant hopper and
associated viruses. In 1978 rice production increased by 10% with favorable
weather, improved and liberalized fertilizer distribution, and nationwide
GOI-sponsored distribution of recently introduced pest-resistant varieties.
Rice production in 1979 increased only 2% over 1978 due, mainly, to insuffi-
cient rainfall. In 1980 one of the largest proportional increases (13%) in
national rice production since records have been kept, to over 20 million
tons milled rice equivalent, was achieved and preliminary estimates for 1981
production are 21.6 million tons. Over the past decade, output of secondary
food crops (maize, cassava, soybeans, peanuts, and sweet potatoes) grew more
slowly, at an average of only 1.6% p.a., composed of a 1.1% p.a. average
decline in area (much of this land shifting to irrigated rice) and a 2.7%
p.a. increase in yield. Due to the bumper rice harvests of 1980, Indonesian
rice imports declined in that year to about 1.4 million tons, a considerable
turnaround from the previous three years.
26.       To prevent a widening food production consumption gap, producti-
vity and area under ri:ce and secondary food crops must be increased. In
Java, rice-cropping intensity could be raised through water storage, ground
water development, and flood control projects, although relocation of
inhabitants of reservoir sites may delay progress. Yields and cropping
intensity can also be increased by improving water management at all levels
which will require increased operation and maintenance (O&M) efforts in
GOI-operated and farmer-operated systems. In the Other Islands there is
potential for new irrigation and swamp reclamation schemes which GOI is in the
process of developing. Yields of existing varieties of secondary food crops
could be increased by improved husbandry, including fertilizers and
insecticides.
27.       Tree Crops.  GOI has embarked on a major effort to develop small-
holder tree crops outside Java as part of its national rubber and coconut
replanting and transmigration programs. One of GOI's main approaches has been
to use public estate companies to plant tree crops on land to be settled by
local landless families as well as by transmigrants. These companies clear
the land and provide settlers with planting material, other inputs, processing
and marketing facilities. This approach is appropriate in view of constrain-
ing management and technical capabilities.
28.       Area Development and Transmigration.  In 1980, about 88 million
people lived in Java, at a density approaching 650 persons/sq km.  The island,
with 7% of Indonesia's land area, has 45% of the cropped area and 62% of the
population. Java generally has more fertile soils and better infrastructure
than the Other Islands, however, its cultivable land is almost fully utilized.



- 10 -
In some watersheds cultivation already exceeds ecologically safe limits,
contributing to increasing erosion, flooding, and siltation of reservoirs,
irrigation canals and ports. GOI is preparing integrated watershed devel-
opment projects to address this problem. The primary program for new area
development in the Other Islands, as well as for creating employment and
settlement nuclei for Javanese migrants, is transmigration. An organized
transmigration program is important for regional and natural resource
development in the Other Islands, production of food and export crops, and
creation of employment and decent living conditions for landless Javanese.
29.       Role of GOI.  While the private sector should be encouraged to
expand its role in agricultural input supply, marketing, and processing, GOI
continues to bear the major responsibility for infrastructure, resource con-
servation, and other services. Despite marked improvements over the past
decade, technical and managerial manpower constraints continue to impede plan-
ning and rapid implementation of agricultural and rural development, including
irrigation and drainage works. GOI must therefore continue to strengthen its
key rural development institutions, particularly through education,
recruitment, training and retention of technical manpower.
30.       Bank Lending for Agriculture.  Since the first of 16 irrigation
and swamp reclamation projects was approved in 1968, the Bank Group's
agricultural lending has rapidly expanded to include estate and smallholder
tree crops, fertilizer production and distribution, sugar, livestock,
fisheries, research, extension, training, seeds, transmigration, and
resource survey and mapping. The Operations Evaluation Department's Sector
Operations Review of Bank Group agricultural lending in Indonesia (Report
No. 2166, dated August 9, 1978) concluded that despite deficiencies in some
projects, the Bank's portfolio was "of overall good quality and likely to
contribute substantially to increased production." Within the context of
GOI's agricultural objectives and priorities, as outlined in Repelita III,
future Bank lending is expected to focus on:
(a) irrigation, flood protection, drainage and swamp reclamation to
intensify rice cropping on Java and to expand water resources
infrastructure in the Other Islands;
(b) smallholder and nucleus estate tree crop planting programs
including industrial forest estates; and
(c) area development projects aimed at watershed management to
conserve soil and ensure long-term productivity in the densely
populated areas of Java; and transmigration.
Bank Assistance to the Irrigation Subsector
31.       The Bank has provided $757.5 million for project assistance
in irrigation and has played a significant role in Indonesian irrigation
development since 1968. The earliest Bank supported irrigation projects
were designed to rehabilitate major systems to quickly increase rice
production. Later projects upgraded existing systems and financed drainage
and flood protection works and tertiary networks. Bank assistance was



- 1.1 -
channeled through two special agencies /1 of the Directorate General of Water
Resources Development (DGWRD) which were set up to implement Bank projects,
but now supports also operations of the Directorate of Rivers, (Loan
1691-IND) the Directorate of Swamps (Loan 1958-IND), and the Directorate of
Planning and Programming (Cr. 995-IND). The first four Bank-assisted
irrigation projects have been completed and performance audits issued./2 The
most serious problems were construction delays and cost overruns. Delays
arose mostly because of GOI's unfamiliarity with international procurement
procedures, cumbersome local bidding, contracting and fund release
procedures, and shortage of local funds. However, the cost increases were
more than offset by higher rice prices, and economic rates of return (ERR)
of the four projects are expected to exceed 40%.
32.       These lessons, together with those learned from the staff-s own
reviews/3 and supervision, were taken into account in formulating and imple-
menting subsequent projects. Appraisal quantity and cost estimates are now
based on final designs for at least the first year-s work program and major
structures. Multi-year contracts with price escalation provisions, standard
contract documents and standard bid evaluation procedures have been intro-
duced together with mobilization and prompt payment provisions. However,
despite these measures and the remarkable success of DGWRD in expanding its
overall activities, many projects still suffer delays, primarily during the
startup period.
31. The maJor causes and actions taken to address them are discussed below.
(a) Delays in land acquisition. Possible Bank assistance is being
discussed to strengthen the Directorate General Agraria (DGA),
which is responsible for land acquisition and registration.
Measures have been agreed to use private surveyors or DGWRD
surveyors where DGA capacity is insufficient. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations for the seventeenth irrigation
project that all land rights required for construction would be
acquired in the year preceding construction (Section 4.05 of
the draft Loan Agreement);
(b) Inadequate Contractor capacity and construction standards. A
training project to upgrade the capabilities of the Ministry of
Public Works staff and private contractors is being appraised
by the Bank. The Bank is also assisting GOI to review construc-
tion industry policies and procedures with a view to making
improvements.
/1 PROSIDA and PIBD
/2 Credit 127-IND, PPAR Report No. 2047, May 1978. Credits 195, 220 and
289-IND, PPAR Report No. 3269, December 1980.
/3 The Irrigation Program Survey (No. 705-IND), April 15, 1975 and the
Irrigation Program Review (No. 2027a-IND), October 16, 1978.



- 12 -
(c) Difficulties with Surveying and mapping. The Bank has recommended
and GOI is implementing improvements for quality standards.
Equipment to expand and modernize surveying and mapping, and
training of contractors and DGWRD supervisory staff is being
provided under Irrigation XV (Cr. 995-IND); and
(d) Delayed fund releases. GOI's budget system and fund release
procedures have been improved, and training in procurement and
disbursement procedures given to staff. Measures to improve
budget processes in DGWRD have been initiated.
34.       These steps to improve project implementation performance have
been accompanied by an increasing dialogue between the Bank and GOI towards
strengthening DGWRD's institutional capacity. The critical areas being
addressed include: improving planning and programming, particularly with
respect to strengthening DGWRD-s project appraisal capacities (Cr. 995-IND);
streamlining the flow of management information related to resolving
problems of project implementation, including procurement and construction
progress so that managers can take earlier remedial actions whenever
necessary; reducing the administrative and executive burden on the Director
General, and increasingly delegating responsibilities; progressively
reducing the extensive use of foreign consultants employed by DGWRD for
feasibility and engineering design work, and to a lesser extent for
construction supervision; and reviewing the DGWRD work program and budgets
proposed from 1982/83 to 1988/89 and the relevant institutional implica-
tions. It is expected that this increasing focus on institutional issues
should enable the Bank to move progressively towards sector lending.
Disbursement Performance and Trends
35.       Disbursements of previous Bank irrigation Loans reflect the delayed
project implementation schedules discussed above. Currently, cumulative
disbursements (Irrigation V-XV) run at about 55% of appraisal estimates,
with little difference between projects. This performance is in line with
experience for irrigation projects supported by the Bank in the Region, and
with other sectors in Indonesia. Progress has been made in improving dis-
bursements (which were below 50% in FY80) through more intensive supervision
by the Bank's staff resident in Indonesia, the use of statements of expendi-
tures for small civil works contracts, and by accelerating start up activi-
ties of new projects. For the seventeenth irrigation project consultant
short lists and proposed direct invitations for consulting services were
agreed with the Bank at appraisal, and evaluations of proposals were in
progress at the time of negotiations. During negotiations GOI agreed that
the consultant contract for East Java Irrigation Service (EJIS) rehabilita-
tion design and construction supervision assistance will have been
negotiated and approved in accordance with GOI procedures before Loan
Effectiveness (Section 7.01) of the draft Loan Agreement). These actions,
together with other actions in progress to reduce project implementation
delays (para. 33) are expected to result in progressive improvement.



- 13 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
36.       The proposed project was prepared by DGWRD and the East Java Irriga-
tion Service (EJIS) with the assistance of consultants (Sir M. MacDonald and
Partners) engaged under British assistance programs, and (Loan 1435-IND). The
project was appraised in May 1981. A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 3648-IND)
is being circulated separately. Negotiations were held in Washington from
January 28 to February 9, 1982 with a GOI delegation led by Mr. Soebandi
Wirosoemarto. Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III.
37.       The project will improve the productivity and incomes of about
150,000 farm families in East Java through the rehabilitation of about 40
surface irrigation schemes serving over 50,000 ha, the construction of
tertiary irrigation networks in those schemes, and the development of about
240 production tubewells and associated distribution facilities serving about
13,000 ha. It will also lay the basis for continuation of rehabilitation and
groundwater development programs by providing survey and design of 15,000 ha
of rehabilitation in addition to the construction program, and through large
scale groundwater exploration (including the drilling of 140 exploratory
holes) concentrated in areas of East Java where groundwater development is
more recent. The project will also provide for upgrading of already
rehabilitated systems in two pilot irrigation districts of about 140,000 ha
to implement improved operation and maintenance and study the interrelations
between levels of upgrading and costs, and effectiveness of operation and
maintenance. Studies and designs for three projects for future construction
on Java and Sulawesi (Parigi-Poso, Polmas-Sidrap and Kali Progo) will be
carried out, together with a study on how best to strengthen the South
Sulawesi Provincial Irrigation Service. The long-term strengthening of the
Provincial Irrigation Services to reduce present reliance on central
government services (DGWRD) is the major institutional objective of the
project.
38.       The rehabilitation subproject will be limited to about 50,000 ha
within the irrigation'districts of Mojokerto, Malang, Kediri, Jombang, and
Madura (together serving about 320,000 ha) not included in centrally imple-
mented rehabilitation programs. The program could be implemented more
quickly with increased foreign consultant assistance, but this would result
in an imbalance of foreign and local expertise and reduce technology trans-
fer and institution-building for EJIS and local consultants. A priority
system was used by EJIS and consultant staff in reconnaissance surveys of
over 160 scheme areas in the five districts during project preparation. On
this basis 80 schemes were placed in the first priority category for
rehabilitation, with a total service area of 115,000 ha and area requiring
rehabilitation of 95,000 ha. During the first year of project implementa-
tion (1982-83) detailed surveys will permit a more detailed ranking of
schemes, on the basis of severity of engineering deficiencies now constrain-
ing water management and agricultural production intensity. The schemes



- 14 -
to be rehabilitated will average 1,400 ha in total service area with none
over 5,000 ha. About 40 schemes will be rehabilitated in whole or in part
under this project, and an additional 15 will be designed for future
rehabilitation. Designs for the first year's implementation are completed
and ready for tendering. The other systems will be reviewed to determine if
it is more cost effective to restore them to their original design, or to
redesign. The design standards to be used in evaluating those alternatives
will be agreed with the Bank by April 1983 (Section 5.07 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
39.       Upgrading for efficient O&M would be carried out in the two
irrigation districts of Mojokerto and Bondowoso in the Brantas and Pekalen
Sampean Basins. These two districts have benefitted from large irrigation
rehabilitation programs and would be used as pilot districts for developing
and implementing an appropriate O&M system to sustain full agricultural
production. Intensive studies will be made of the results of past rehabili-
tated schemes to both guide future rehabilitation and to derive improved
cost-effective O&M systems. In particular, trade-offs between O&M and
rehabilitation will be studied to determine the costs and benefits of the
typical practice of deferred maintenance as opposed to intensive regular
maintenance. The components of the subproject will consist of technical
assistance, staff training, O&M equipment, and civil works for upgrading the
irrigation systems.
40.       The groundwater subproject is located throughout East Java in
areas identified as watershort areas and having sufficient groundwater
resources to be exploited. Development will be concentrated in Madiun
(about 6,750 ha), in the Kediri-Nganjuk area (3,600 ha), and the Tuban and
Mojokerto areas (2,650 ha), giving a total area of about 13,000 ha. The
principal project works would be irrigation wells, equipped with pumps and
engines, and upgraded or newly constructed distribution system channels.
Additional construction would include pump houses, access roads, stores and
fuel storage facilities. The project would include the drilling, develop-
ment, testing, and equipping of about 240 production wells over a five-year
period, and the drilling of about 140 exploratory holes and 125 test and
observation wells. Drilling rigs are already on site, and advance procure-
ment of casings, screens and other materials is underway (financed from Loan
1434-IND).
41.       Studies and Designs would include detailed designs for irrigation
systems to serve 21,000 ha at Parigi Poso (Central Sulawesi) and a feasi-
bility study and detailed design for the development of an additional 8,000
ha; the collection and analysis of additional hydrologic data to study river
flows in the Kali Serang (Central Java), and the collection and analysis of
hydrologic data for the proposed Sermo dam; and feasibility studies and
detailed design for the proposed Sadang (5,300 ha), Lanrae (1,500 ha),
Batubassi (2,000 ha), Maloso (7,500 ha) and Mambu (6,500 ha) schemes in the
Polmas-Sidrap area of South Sulawesi.



-15 -
Organization and Management
42.       EJIS will implement the rehabilitation and O&M subprojects, in
line with the responsibility of provincial level irrigation staff for O&M
and national tertiary program operations as well as the goal of GOI to
gradually entrust large-scale rehabilitation programs to the provincial
irrigation services. Assurances were given at negotiations that by March
31, 1983 EJIS will employ at least 41 qualified and experienced engineers
for project implementation (Section 5.08 of the draft Loan Agreement). The
Directorate of Irrigation (in DGWRD) will provide technical guidance and
administrative support to EJIS and serve as the central government funding
channel for Loan and government funds. The Groundwater Development Agency
(P2AT), will implement the groundwater subproject. P2AT maintains its own
drilling rigs and materials stores which are provided to contractors as part
of contract packages, and P2AT staff have operated all production wells
drilled thus far.
43.       To ensure proper farmer participation in the rehabilitation and
groundwater subprojects, assurances were obtained at negotiations that
water-user associations will participate in the planning of tertiary net-
works; and during the design phase of any tertiary networks, the GOI will
exchange views with the water-user associations in order to ensure that the
members agree to the objectives and operational procedures and thereafter
operate and maintain the networks (Section 5.05 of the draft Loan Agreement).
44.       Action will be taken by GOI to improve support for the water user
associations, and assurances have been obtained that GOI will comprehen-
sively consider the duties and responsibilities of the extension services of
the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Home Affairs and its local
administration, DGWRD's Provincial Irrigation Services and any other agency
or agencies involved or concerned for establishing, training and assisting
water-user associations; and that not later than July 1, 1983, or such other
date as the Bank may agree,.GOI will furnish to the Bank, for comments, the
findings and recommendations thereby obtained; and promptly thereafter, will
cause the agency or agencies selected on the basis of such review, to
undertake the training and support of the water-user associations taking
into account the comments made by the Bank. (Section 5.06 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
Technical Assistance
45.       To mount, for the first time, a major irrigation rehabilitation
effort in the project districts linked to improving operation and mainte-
nance standards while simultaneously building up local staff and consultant
capability and maintaining technical standards, will require about 380 man-
months of international consultant services and about 840 man-months of
locally recruited services. It is part of GOI's long-tern manpower strategy
to enhance provincial consultant capability which could thereafter be relied
on for such functions as survey and design, rather than attempting to estab-
lish large specialized units in each government agency. GOI has selected
foreign consultants who have assisted both EJIS and P2AT in East Java
operations for many years to provide consultant assistance (jointly with



- 16 -
local consultants) for both the rehabilitation and the O&M subprojects.
This arrangement will ensure the maximum emphasis on upgrading of EJIS and
East Java engineering firms, technical continuity, and coordination of
efforts and results between these closely related activities.
46.       International consultants have played an important role in provid-
ing technical support, unavailable in Indonesia, to the groundwater develop-
ment program. Under the project the Madiun and Surabaya P2AT project
offices will continue to utilize the international consulting firms which
best suit their needs. At GOI's request, local consultants will be engaged
both to assist in routine engineering functions and to benefit from the
transfer of groundwater technology from the international consultants, whose
presence will gradually decline over the life of the project. About 320
man-months of international consultant services and 170 man-months of local
consultant services will be financed under the proposed project. About 320
man-months of international consulting services and about 890 man-months
of local consultant services will be employed to conduct the studies.
Selection of consultants with qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment satisfactory to the Bank will be made in accordance
with principles and procedures described in the Bank's guidelines (Section
4.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
47.       Total project costs are estimated at $144.4 million of which $73.5
million (51%) will be foreign exchange. All project costs are expressed in
end-1981 prices. Estimated monthly basic costs of local and foreign con-
sultants are $2,500 and $12,500, respectively, for professional staff and
$1,000 for technicians and draftsmen; these are derived from costs of recent
contracts in Indonesia. Physical contingencies of 10% have been added to all
works and services. Estimated price increases have been calculated on
projected inflation rates: for local costs 14% in 1982, 12% in 1983, and 10%
thereafter; for foreign cost 8.5% in 1982, 7.5% in 1983 to 1985, and 6%
thereafter.
48.       The proposed Bank loan of $70 million would cover foreign exchange
about 50% of total project costs, excluding taxes ($1.8 million), reserve
procurement of vehicles ($1.2 million) and advance procurement ($3.0 mil-
lion). IFAD will contribute a loan of $25 million equivalent as cofinancing,
and GOI will provide the remaining funding required ($49.4 million) through
annual budgetary appropriations.
Procurement and Disbursement
49.       Civil Works.  Civil works and drilling to be implemented under
the project (totalling $63.4 million) would be widely dispersed, small in
scale, and would require close interaction with villagers both as benefici-
aries and as laborers. As such they would not be suitable for International
Competitive Bidding (ICB), but would be tendered on the basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally (in accordance with GOI procurement regulations



- 17 -
satisfactory to the Bank) which would permit efficient procurement for this
type of work. The Bank will review prior to tendering and award about
thirty contracts ($19 million) over $320,000, covering about 30% of the
value of civil works. The other 100 civil works contracts would be procured
using the GOI's procedures and would be reviewed prior to award by the GOI's
procurement control units, and by the Bank on a post award sample basis.
50.       Equipment and Materials.  Equipment and materials worth about
$27.3 million (including contingencies) would be procured under the project
through ICB following review by the Bank of proposed tenders and awards.
Specialized equipment, instruments and materials in small lots or on an
emergency basis, worth an aggregate total of not more than $1.5 million,
would be procured through GOI procurement procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Local manufacturers would be granted a preference of 15% of the c.i.f. price
of imported goods, or the customs duty, whichever is lower.
51.       Disbursements of Bank and IFAD Loan Proceeds will be made jointly
against full documentation at the rates of 40% of total expenditures for
civil works for contracts worth about $320,000 equivalent and above for the
rehabilitation subproject; 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported
equipment, 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory prices) for locally manufac-
tured equipment, and 65% of locally procured off the shelf items. Disburse-
ment at the rates of 100% of consultants costs will be made from the Bank
loan. Joint Bank/IFAD disbursements will be made against quarterly state-
ments of expenditure at 40% of total expenditure for civil works contracts
worth below $320,000 equivalent for the rehabilitation subproject; 40% of
total expenditures for civil works and drilling and installation for the
groundwater subproject; and 100% of total expenditures for civil works for
the upgrading of O&M subproject. IFAD will disburse 100% of training costs
against quarterly statements of expenditure. Documents in support of the
statements of expenditure would be retained by EJIS and P2AT and made avail-
able for inspection by Bank supervision missions.
Accounts and Audits
52.       EJIS, P2AT, PROSIDA and PIBD budget procedures as in other GOI
line departments are tight though cumbersome. The Bank has assisted PROSIDA
and PIBD in establishing accounting systems but has no experience yet with
EJIS, and little with P2AT. Although the accounting and auditing system has
provided reasonable financial control for Bank-supported projects, improve-
ments are desirable in: (a) timeliness of annual accounts and audits;
(b) systems of internal control, especially for the reconciliation of assets
with cumulative expenditures and procedures for writing off assets; and
(c) state auditors should prepare long form reports following specific
guidelines for each agency to be reviewed with the Bank. Consultant
accountants will be engaged under the Sixteenth Irrigation project to review
with EJIS and P2AT the accounting systems to be introduced for the project
and establish the content of audits to be carried out by the Director of
State Audit.  Assurances were obtained at negotiations that project
implementing agencies would maintain separate accounts for each subproject;
engage auditors acceptable to the Bank and to audit their accounts; and



- 18 -
submit to the Bank, within nine months of the close of each fiscal year,
audited statements, together with the auditors comments (Section 5.03 of
the draft Loan Agreement).
Operation and Maintenance (O&M)
53.       Although the O&M funding of irrigation, drainage and flood protec-
tion systems is a provincial responsibility, provincial funding is inade-
quate and is supplemented by the Central Government. Assurances have been
obtained that GOI will cause all canals, tubewells, drains, structures,
roads, equipment and other facilities rehabilitated or constructed with the
financial assistance of the Bank to be adequately operated and maintained.
GOI will also ensure the economic use of the water made available for
agricultural development and operations; by May I in each fiscal year,
provide an amount of liquid funds equal to the amount budgeted by DGWRD for
operation and maintenance; and progressively increase the number of
qualified operation and maintenance staff until adequate staff levels,
established in consultation with the Bank, have been attained; and inform
the Bank by May 1 of each year, of the approved budgets for irrigation
systems; and by October 1 of each following year, of the staff O&M of
provisions made (Section 5.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
54.       The O&M of surface irrigation systems, such as those to be
rehabilitated and upgraded under the project, is hampered to varying degrees
by deficiencies in funding and staff organization and discipline, difficul-
ties in coordination with large numbers of farmers, and lack of technical
knowledge at field level. The O&M subproject will develop solutions to
these and other problems which would be applicable to surface schemes
throughout East Java. O&M of tubewells is a more crucial matter than for
surface irrigation, and in both the Kediri and Madiun areas, all maintenance
of wells, pumps and engines is performed by P2AT personnel with the excep-
tion of the daily checking, and replenishment as aecessary, of engine fuel
and- lubricants. Each well is visited by a mechanic from the area's central
workshop after approximately every 250 hours of operation during the pumping
season; at that time routine inspection and minor maintenance is performed
as required. When emergency minor repairs are needed, the pump operator
notifies the workshop and a mechanic with tools and parts is dispatched
within hours. Major repairs and general engine or pump overhauls are
performed in the central workshop. These arrangements will be continued for
the first four years, and thereafter transferred to EJIS.
55.       Before well installation water user groups are formed composed of
all farmers within the proposed command area.  These groups build where
possible on traditional water user groups. The command area is then divided
into blocks, each block receiving water on a specified day. In Kediri-Nganjuk
the pump operator, employed by the water users' group, is responsible for
water distribution, and purchases fuel only when sufficient funds are
collected by the water user group. This system will be applied
project-wide, as farmers in each area become convinced of the value of
irrigation water supplied on demand.



- 19 -
56.       Daily operation of each well would continue to be by local oper-
ators selected and paid by the water-user organizations. Each operator
would receive an initial training by P2AT. The responsibility of the opera-
tor or water-user group would be limited to daily checking and replenishment
of fuel and lubricants, with the area workshop responsible for all other
maintenance and repairs. It is not technically feasible to expect water
user groups to assume responsibility for maintenance of and repairs to these
comparatively sophisticated pump units.
Monitoring and Evaluation
57.       Provincial agricultural staff would monitor and record agricultural
yields and production of each subproject. Irrigation and groundwater data
will be collected by EJIS and P2AT. Monitoring the impact of the project
would be the responsibility of the Evaluation Section in the Directorate of
Planning and Programming in DGWRD. The Evaluation Section is being
strengthened with Bank assistance (Cr. 995-IND).
Agricultural Support Services
58.       Agricultural support services have been strengthened with Bank
assistance (Ln. 1267-IND and Cr. 996-IND). In East Java services provide
satisfactory coverage and farmers are making use of the assistance
available to them.
Farm Incomes and Cost Recovery
59.       Indonesian farmers pay land taxes (IPEDA) related to the level of
irrigation service, and water charges to their village watermasters who are
responsible for tertiary network O&M. Project beneficiaries are anticipated
to increase their payments by an average of over $12/ha after project
development. In addition, groundwater beneficiaries will gradually pay
all financial fuel and operator costs of the tubewells, averaging $45/ha at
full development. These payments (discounted with all investment and 0&M
costs at 10%) would achieve cost recovery indices of 11% and 20%, and rent
(benefit) recovery indices of 23% and 29% respectively for the rehabilita-
tion and groundwater subprojects. Beneficiaries will be taxed much more
heavily than this in an indirect way, as they are anticipated to sell about
50% of their incremental rice output to GOI procurement agencies at prices
below world market levels./l This will result in direct financial savings
/1 Without the project, GOI would have to import rice at a price equiva-
lent to $356/ton in 1985 as paddy, while with the project it could
procure paddy on the local market at a substantially lower price of
$195/ton, resulting in a gross saving of $161/ton. This is equivalent
to a net saving of about $142/ton, after netting out Government
subsidies on fertilizers and agrochemicals, which could be considered
an indirect cost recovery from farmers.



- 20 -
to GOI from import substitution of S1O million per annum at full develop-
ment, the discounted present value of which ($45 million) is equal to over
40'% of project base costs and physical contingencies.
60.       The current Bank estimate of the absolute poverty line for rural
areas in Indonesia is S112 per capita per annum. The overwhelming majority
of potential beneficiaries of the rehabilitation and groundwater subprojects
live on incomes far below the poverty line. In the groundwater areas per
capita incomes average about $58.  In representative rehabilitation
schemes only the poorer classes of farmers are likely to benefit
from the project, which would redistribute fixed water supplies in their
favor; the weighted average per capita income of those likely to benefit is
$71. At full project development (1990) per capita incomes in the ground-
water areas are projected to reach about $135, with most of this increease
due to the project, while the weighted average income of beneficiaries in
the rehabilitated scheme would rise only 21% to $86.  Over this period the
absolute poverty line can be expected to rise with living standards at a
minimum of 2% per annum, to at least $134 in 1990. From the point of view
of equity the level of cost recovery is considered reasonable.
Benefits and Justification
61.       The agricultural impact of both the rehabilitation and the ground-
water subprojects will be overwhelmingly an increase in rice production. In
the case of rehabilitation, this increase is substantially at the expense of
subsistence production of polowijo crops (chiefly maize and cassava), as a
constant abstraction of river water is applied more equitably and effi-
ciently to permit an upgrading of crops. In the case of groundwater,
additional water supplies provided by the tubewells will generally permit
the introduction of a second rice crop between the wet season rice and the
dry season polowijo. In either case, increased rice production is the
benefit.
62.       The anticipated ERR for rehabilitation works (38% of the project's
base costs) has been estimated on detailed analysis of a representative
system at 25%. Economic returns on the groundwater subproject (41%7 of the
project's base costs) are estimated at 24% (28% in Madiun; 20% in Kediri-
Nganjuk; and 20%O in the remaining East Java areas). The overall ERR of the
project is 24%.
Risks
63.       The viability of the groundwater subproject is most sensitive to
reductions in expected agricultural benefits, less so to delays in achieving
full benefits, and least sensitive to cost overruns. The success of the
project depends on the ability to deliver sufficient, reliable water to grow
a second rice crop. If expected increased rice production is reduced by
50%, the ERR will fall to 14%.  Full benefits from groundwater development
are expected to be realized four years after well installation. If benefits
are delayed until the sixth year, and there are no benefits in the first two,



-21 
the ERR will fall to 16%. The project is less sensitive, however, to
increases in capital costs. If these rise 50% above estimates, the ERR will
only fall to 17%.
64.       The rehabilitation component has little risk.  The projected
economic analysis is based exclusively on a small shift from polowijo to
irrigated rice cultivation in the early dry season due to better distribution
of fixed water supplies. It totally ignores potential increases in paddy
yields, or improvements in cropping intensities in the wet season, and thus
may be considered a minimum estimate of returns from rehabilitation.
Environmental Impact
65.       Irrigated paddy fields are ecologically the most stable and
nonerosive form of land use in Indonesia, and the project will have a very
positive environmental impact. The monitoring of aquifer levels under the
groundwater subproject would continue to be a key task of P2AT and its
consultants, to ensure that groundwater resources are not overexploited in
any tubewell area.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
66.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and the
Bank and the report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4
(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. Special conditions of the project are listed in
Section III of Annex III. Of particular note are the two special conditions
of effectiveness, the condition of effectiveness for the IFAD Loan must be
met and the consultant contract for the rehabilitation and O&M subproject
must have been negotiated and approved (para. 35).
67.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
68.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
by Moeen A. Qureshi
Attachments
March 3, 1982
Washington, D.C.



22                                                            ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5 pages
INDONESIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDUXIESIA                        REFERENCE CROUJPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
"A.LJ ARLA  lIOUSAN  SQ. HM.)                                                                  HOST RECENT ESTIMATE)!a
uTA1L            .9l9.3                                            MOST RECENT        LOW 1NCONE          KID1  TC
ARRLkLULA:L      24...                    1960  /b    1970 /b       ESTIMATE /b   ASIA 6 PACIFIC          ASIA & PACIFIC
(NF PER CAPITA (Lb4)                        8a.0         140.0            370.0             232.3                  1136.1
0btKGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(IROLRAMS OF LOAL SU(IVALENT)             130.1       128.4             237.1             499.4                  1150.6
PQPULATION AN40 VITAL STATISTICS
P?PULATIN, MIKD-YLAR (TIUUSANDS)       94680.0    116143.0           14287W0.0
URbAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)        14.6        17.1              19.8              17.3                    40.8
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION UN YEAR 2U0U  (MILLIONS)                                  219.7
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                                      388.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULArION IS REACHED                                2110
POPULAT1ION DENS ITY
PER SQ. KM.                             49.3         60.5              74.4             1$3.6                   373.1
PER 4Q. NH. AGRILCULTURAL LAND         355.9        417.9            487.3              160.3                  2382.8
PUPULATIUN AL£ STRUCTuRE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                               40.7         44.0              40.8              37.4                    39.8
15-64 YRS.                               56.2         53.5              56.3              59.2                    56.7
bs YtS. AND ABOVE                         3.1          2.5               2.9               3.5                     3.5
POPULATlON ORUWTH KATE (PERGENT)
TUTAL                                     2.1         2.0               2.3               2.1                     2.3
URBAN                                     3.7        * 3.6              4.0               3.4                     3.8
CaLDE 6IRTH RArt. (PER THOUSAND)          46.7         40.8              16.2              27.7                    29.7
CRU1   DEAIH RATE (PER THOUSAND)          24.8         17.7              13.3              10.2                     7.5
GROSS k0RIUDUCTION KATE                     3.0         2.8               2.3               2.5                     1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTOMS, AhNUAL (THOUSANU)               ..       18i.1            2216.0
USERS (PERLk.NT OF HARRItD WOMEN)          .          0.2              27.1              20.4                    44.1
tuou ANI] NUTRITION
INDLX Of tuQU PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-i00)                93.U        102.0             103.0             107.1                   i23.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                         89.0         9Z.o             105.0              98.6                   112.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER UAY)                41.0         41.0              47.0              56.9                    62.5
OF WhICH ANIMAL AND PULSE              6.0          6.0               6.0              14.i                    19.7
CHILL) (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE           31.2         20.4             13.7              14.6                     4.8
HEALTH
LIPs EXPECTANCY AT 3IRTH (YEARS)           39.0        46.7              53.0              57.7                    64.0
LNFANT MORTALITY RATS (PER
rTOUSAND)                                 159.0        126.0            120.0              89.1                    50.2
ACCESS TO SAi'E WAT)R (PERCENT OF
PJPU LATIUN)
TQTAL                                     ..          3.0              12.0              30.1                    45.9
URBAN                                      .         10.0              35.0              65.8                    68.0
RURAL                                      *-         1.0               6.0              20.1                    34.4
A(CELS TO SXCR£TA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                     .. 2.0                       15.0              17.6                    53.4
URBAN                                      *-        50.0              60.0              71.0                    71.0
RURAL                                      *          4.0               5.0               4.8                   42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN               46778.7      26498.5          136S4.4             3857.7                 4428.7
POPULATION PER NURSINC PERSON                ..      7672.8            8851.9            6411.8                  2229.7
POPULATION P'KR H0SPITAL BED
TOTAL                                 1364.1       164.6             1606.0            1132.8                  588.5
URBAN                                  251.8           .             697.3              322.3                  579.6
RURAL                                      ..          ..           3159.0             5600.5                 1138.5
ADHlSSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED                  .            ..             22.4
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE Of HOUSEHOLD
MTAL                                     4.4          4.8                ..
URRAN                                    4.9          5.3
RURAL                                    4.3          4.7
AVERAGE NUhMR OF PERSONS PER MOO
TITAL                                      ..          1.5
URNBA                                      .          1.6
RURAL                                     ..          1.5
ACCESS TU ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWhLLINuS)
TOTAL                                                              ..                ..
URAN                                      ..           ...
RURAL                                      ..           ..



23                                               -             ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5 pages
INDONESIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDONESIA                          IEFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVRAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-a
MOST RECENT      LOW INCOME         MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b   1970 /b    ESTDIATE /b   ASIA 5 PACIFIC         ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLHENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                    71.0        78.0            94.0             85.9                  99.8
MALE                     86.0        83.0           100.0             94.4                 100.6
FEMALE                   58.0        73.0            89.0             64.5                  98.8
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                      6.0        16.0            22.0             38.0/ea               53.5
MALE                     10.0        21.0            27.0             34.67;iw              58.4
FEMALE                    3.0        11.0            18.0             18.d7i;               48.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY)      20.0        22.0            20.0              3.8                  21.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                               39.0        29.0            30.0             32.8                  34.2
SbCOND&RY                             14.0        13.0            17.0             19.9                  31.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)           39.0        56.6            62.0             52.8                  86.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                             1.0         2.1             3.5              1.7                  12.7
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                             7.2        22.0            38.5             35.3                 174.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                             0.1         0.8             7.3              3.7                  50.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
TOUSAND POPULATION                        ..          ..            17.7             14.6                 106.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA       ..          ..             0.8              3.4                   4.3
L.ABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCI (THOUSANDS)        34752.5    41034.6          50929.1
FEMALY (PERCENT)                      27.9        31.0            29.5             29.3                  37.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                 74.8        66.3            59.1             69.8                  50.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                     8.4         9.7            11.8             14.1                  21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                   36.7        35.3            35.6             39.7                  40.2
MALE                                    54.2        49.5            50.1             51.5                  49.8
MALE                                    20.0        21.6            21.1             23.3                  31.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                  1.2         1.3             1.2              1.1                   1.1
INCONE DISTRIBUTION
pERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGH'dST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..        33.7/c          23.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..        52.077          49.4
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS         ..         6.87w           6.6
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS         ..        17.37;w         14.4
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..          ..           136.0            134.1                 248.6
RURAL                                   ..          ..           112.0            111.6                 193.7
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..          ..           119.0               ..                 249.8
RURAL                                   ..          ..            98.0               ..                 234.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCO11E LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                   ..          ..            28.0             41.7                  21.2
RURAL                                   ..          ..            51.0             51.7                  32.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
ja  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/aa  China included in total only.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c  Income recipients.
May, 1981



24                                                            ~~~~~~~ANNEXI
DETIITIOS O SOCL IDICAOISPage  3  of  5  pages
-t-sa   Altba.ae  the data are dram  fea.  -at.c. aac. .ly            .d tba maca auM1tbartair  .,4 reltasla. :0 ehad eta  by torad  tha  Ohy mew , t baloa
neatsa     .. taerbi. bea..- If the (a., ataaaf     dla   d.fuoltca..   Ia ....st  camS-.  bY diff-sat.                L.tto    Ia 1 ...eoir 1.Om d.t..  1t. data r.    n
ticoa.ueial  odaacrb. arts,. If a                IIit I..  attat  -rsad. eAd ch.--os . -o.ota    -ara  aLt  -Areae   hars   rctie
ad re ahjeo  caaan (at"p  ta        aItal. Sat.a Oi  fpate.  tap what. 'fidul  Itart  9wrth Af rit  tad Riddle EaCt" is ceace b.c.e.  If .....a
eri-al 1a fut istan.  :a cb.a taira   am   dat. the ar g. a. Pepa.a.tia  wathbtd  -rtsi    an  tat ..ach indctr ......d eh.-o ..lT wee
aJorty af the caatl.   tS a  r_p he, data tr that LAdL C.aatSar                .h.)la    b   a.u    tcra,a    ea  the ladtoe.".Zr. daed        .o   h                 Iftahlr   a    -
aa -cntuIfo.-,oaotatas  -at ha aeerCled L.a  ..Catato    avre  of owe ititAr to ath.,.  Itar   a..a.a AS.  C nl ..I,                  u -.f.   o ra   cIahn.
uw tdtate  at a tis. amat - On . SwYet r.dawa  Imope.
(h.C...4  a,.t.n            tu      .    1- AtJd-...                                       ornbtlo  oAM   Z.  ita ; tat4 by moa.   Wt       n   u -      PapoatiW'   (tota.
iaAlru"- 1 aal  Safc C   rf Saiitlidae   e    la    aas                                               rA,aertl   t.4  by-1 thn-ayato .                   c4eSarL ad i.ia 
by at least  O_  hatia    Ztetahitbaat :ypetdL.g PftCirety1  S.tat-
CUP ?TR CAPITA (US$) - (UP ow  ..hlts esimte   -t oarrC Svraat  tcw 01-dia.L _ Sar Co. no  Ot_od.d.  toral (oaptS. h-.e,.rlaed   hazlt
.,I .. Aby   a    --serWa  asase  at leId  Baah All.. (1977-It boateR   (990,                        Cdd eeetol-     -etr   O  Pe.e*etIt%y statfto  by I hyai    boa byC
90.ad1979 data.                                                                                sddual a....t...t. nree. .at4at,  Ca. ( which oft., is_patlwn   Ot
dAtCII  Sad Pravid  C ILaIttd r-te  af svdici   f.titltie.   Ieart
OMtit      Coem'oiP    AITA ;.d-         k.:;-svPaa tLaaa  coanla   mejy(5.                            IoL. Irrae N     ursa.lb   henlet .I.  icte WHO. 91"attol./ae-.el(a9tl
eat .geOts  patnles,  taurLP.gean  hydra-. no.1t oa   aebaalca-                             attdrurl heaPtta14 toI    on. I  Ioe       Wl heit.l. sd sedtoal tAd   tr
triit)  I  Alatat  of001 eqeatralent peM, Ol    1960,190. and199                             Satr.S,tled   aptl   r   Slte    07udnttl
data.                                                                o4eiestota wet noew~~,ttgl ned - (orl  aaw  o              L4...It . tor d hre
frmOetta1   lnidad by abs _roar  ofaw.
POPUITO2.t050   VITA  OTA ISTCS
ooa Pwraltia. 04-Sat  hoseoA$) . AS  ft Iuy L; !9W0. 1970  . to  1979                    tita
l.ts.                                                                                      AreratIfaItsf  Size. -I    of.sl    doust-l   araeat(aaal)-ttl   ra.adrr
dLtftrto   di.tatof  abs.... treas              1- .ayaft  .. anabhlit  af aar.a                  sa  tbsir ate  -.le.  A hoarar o  l.odhar mr or mayn   by  ald.I
aset oOantrl.eI 1940. 197..4n 1979 dat                                                    the h ... Mild for.    airoa   ayaw
'atuistlow  Ir7at.                                                                                      Ifroaaar SC   _asn  Oa   o-ta.cra.edrrl_                           nr     u
..e.. blt .. Lawa      d 200      Coate d wptlt~tia   rlria    r  hdo   90tro -ersaCoar cas                         t  w      ar- c  ted. -u    - StPt. -   a.  etla
Lstlids eeptaeey at bittk Ittr.ao   with  aun7*P., ."t.lt  Lstom                              All                                                  I.C.ritn'Dma  o   wllts  -ttL, orbs.  n   ua 
eas. I      frIllyrt   l.or  as    ieaeotd Ia.L                                                  tOtl  arts, b. e          I rra   ooellLte.a.....oe..
tah .-Ctry ts thas aal.da    f Chete ald.                 aat faa  ssrteity             MUCATIDII
adfartiliwy   Ctmat  for9--1 Oratcw -o paayeea.                                              tute  tsol.. II 'atca
StatamarC, salcm-I.sainr    oalao   90   aa tP.eb l-h  Cus                                         Tlear eha    - Iaaal. cas  and AM al F -I        srssiwl.  .1  end fa1e
maIneceastst.  ito  Iasablesi oL, oft.c fouliyCta    aliat                               Or sar thba-I-I   ePelsato-a: noma_     lna          'Te hiltree aad h-ti
t C wpat l.ts.  af ..lt at  naldadia.  era  nhe   -ha eeeatts                                   bersht adlate  far dLf!.foes  Istrh. of pria-                fd.alo    a
eccinated an lhe b-.a  If th. prelatnd zhe-aanatfttc    ttapps.to                                  t fssPoaitl  am  hela  or sti  the otfitta   sobIl et..
LsIa te  ea  l0t. an  the-1 rat   ad tsis at faroitly rats nt rala-SOo.r  hw  -tnl   10adtml-   Concesahne ndssl                                                              ?,
matInli.                                                                                          St,aiu  ohra  tIs I    we? ter   of  pyed   ine?    ict-nats:~
Toe ..,attwe"  tcac     xas1  racabe  - ma. yea  oh-  etantsay roaaicProytee gaCarl .... aoatioe. or tesohar  ,ratatt                                            fa.rarta          L]a.ar
at.. baa boa  -wibe.                                                                               o.a.iyo     I t  17 rears oI eattattrsessanre  r                        -srLIT
Pera'lata  temit,                                                                                       oadd
?ar se. ke. - tid-rea   ownaiaPar ae4ar  kilcar 1100 hsettaratf at                                 atOOjtrlm a(tts    teocaw)-ectaa    etttoa
teta  are; IM194. 19701 and 1979 data                                                             ielto."  Itecatu.1  tataaitl.oLtC psrsno                            -ort -osed
at5.:he. aatltr'.aad  - Cvsu.Ad a. ahon., Per  1ertoet.oe  Iand                                   "ttly or  o  eaatms o               deosaar    -t.attta.
oalr; 1940. 1970 end (9ft dO.-                                                                  Pnott-..ce.earti-r ao .aa s -Ane - - To.. A erudea   amwsdt
fanIanlo  oa  Saratra(onras) - C" ---re  (0-IA  Y-)re. .rrtss                   (15-                   PriasOy and  -enedAry Lamb   dlatded  by asbat If  _esCa.. La the
94years. ad .ealoed  (hO ynae  and051)a  retetem    tl-ws-r 95-                                     Iorreanwedtfl losl.
laalOnt 1940. 1970. and 1979 teta.                                                                   at A lt Ira-     raeLatet            ... arte adal   (abM. an  .a  an  -pIt.)
Geraaia  rea  IC'e  oaos) ,- tna.7 &S- aL gaa   rete  at al..eat IA_n ePS.-as"ee  wf t-to  a4t rewalaaln  ft"  10 Years and  n.
yea  Pcra.P aLaeas for10L 0,190-7. ed 1990-79.
Panmls. las tet  tate As..c t -  ra             iaI   rh rate, If -ha pepa- 
Utif   e  15-O    90-70 sd 1970-79.                                                             FeaanoCa.. (Os? tbhamea  noalaiost - P                       .senger .ta y Idsrlttc
CrueSohat   oacaaef-a lln    ttsptreaa                                       d t-y.n                tar.       I es iss le  the  aisha peta ; enaleds.        hOt .berma   Ad
P"pelton   1940. 1970. sd 1979 data,altayiatia
Cosa m atht  (mar"C    C heed)  I I     sal. dnba per abssands  ad-,-pecRdi  earr  (at? tbeused nat                                           t  -All  ,,ea If ra              ..at   taomdia
reatst   900, 1979, ad17dae                                                                brdaSa a. S Cre   realio P-  t-Aad" ef 9Pmlatusat. ecoae  s-
Irt  etowtittt  - i              ban s. a  desgh ...         will be  s. tlIt.ee   r_e n -.  S                            _aart. awe to Y.n-  abe  rag       rais at radI
her noma  r_Prsc_tii Pe"iod if she                      7        . e-traAplos    aa-a,Laft  ta-   act, ma. ta  If-Ca; daa  e Cra sa yeas may cot he OsIareSi -              s
Wtiya  r-,s uo.eU   0 ii-ysar ancaes  aedim I. 1940. 1970. s.d 1979.                               -st tesCt,I.  a.1holee   IL.= 'atg
Patt Plats.   datCCaro  Aessn   ft:=sd) - AmAS-L -W-   ttaww                                TO tsCs W     tearObacds  -4-acato) -.T -P attrreda  b,sdooa   te
yalr  lasnse -  sers(eare=   af marria  in         -             Ifaata    ed    la           i. ootarle   ad in rars ab.  rOetatrIat... itof TVaa  was Lafmt-..
fsnw  thllA-bearia age (15-44 y-ntal shW .   hiroftb-ne,tam   Attises CetarCiwlaao    c  ftaedrrtltet                                                -Obe nba. anwa   ic-
All mare            t         g  gs.taaisd                                                                      005is    eeaaiita.st P-P.or' dttd  nartdol
p.bhIaaia  t..stdarsiy   a  ctdegtaAL ts.I   atets
POW tee OrTIlets                                                           to he "daily'-   It is ens., atIetratrd tOes, aIt                     s
ted  od?aw  Prahetia  ran  osi. tl.919-7tsi1tl - tEdss af pan 0591t. e..-L                 Pnsdt    Atedeece  Pst.   a    ea   - S""d onth                       's"ce  of
prdoitadaf    fn  SnIls    "ind"at"' etlds awe  a's fen   d ist.ha    a                                    u Iw the year. t.olatto   atnuiantm   to drtra-tn t,
tsaaad  af .5ear  Slber   dbl.s an  as.itn erstrit                 (0.6. ac f- Ass
stiatal   -Ssag  9.rvd-   price -ot..te  191-hO. 1970,. ad 1979 dons.                                         y-. aawP .t (th-tseta  - faas-usally    tt5pre. tolod&ag
La. ta-it.  -.L' 0 If - tI-us oa  of r-tresta   - Csswesd tr.                                     arsW te... .an.d uavLoyed but oatldia   heuac.t-s.araceat.
-snoty ejtltast Id new is_d nPlls  e                llh     to osetry  Per wtspt                  _Lwta  POP.CutcIat ad al  ago..   e Dauntasei l.a .1 oc ic . castisnara
peCe.AwaLIo. napple  casiaa  ddssO.ti  VCrndtscc . taorta Is.                                 eat aeaerhL.s. 1960. 1970 and 1979 data.
aran.  n   aoenO  eto.   a  naplte  elate  ...-I fend. eanda.                            uagas.       a              sslbo  farea   ertoaocratlbrfra
ntetitia aaa  Lo tIad proamaig. end L-ee  ic dtsltrbtas.mqis                                  tAtut -4.tt  (os-as    - "Lobe  farce 0.0 ao.G  fa-anr. bea"tIC$ ant
-       -awt steadby P&O base  an phystLogdaat coats tar tona   Cot-                            liehipe an  WC-C.tg. ad t...A  L.r A.,        a  1940. 1970 and 1979 dat.
city ad healib  -cae-utt    -Titlreotal  Oneeat.    y waigbhts 9.ag                           tad%at. (0-C-ea  - Isber fort. (   Iing    oeratt.eaeso
and cc di.nribotla. at PePr1aloaO. -an  elasiag  10 p'Aren   f or seen 00                       end atcoai.Ii. water and An. Cs                    Ifneaoa  ta-a  LtAWr f..... 1900,
her .Ael.   aaI= ; 1961-45. 1070, and 1977 dat.                                                 1970 ad 1979 date.
Pa  cic as y       of1 M I    riTa.n. (Ass'n a.? day) - PreasOn .-sas. at Per .it.              P.ttitIi..iw  bats .    ra    - toal.. mAL.. an  fate, - Psrtiaipettw. 0
eat   anl  Cd  ana perda.  cat -opply If toad tA defies4a Ashoe 9-              -                ttilityC. osse   ..e a-tCd  as roa. maa. sd fta. 1h..c faire 
alt-C.  fat All.   - Iarcs. -th.bcah   by USD  v-Id.t far adat-                                 pecte.4  at tAl. svI.  Can  fadL. pas?."tis of .11 acs-rnawla
alIas.ss 05      Stas adI.. tas  pretet  per day ad 20 sna  at atoma  ad                        1960. 1970. and 1979 "eU.  Ita    r    aso   70spritst   ae
pels pteteIs. ad ybtab 10 ewes whcst be  Issni piated.  V---a sead-                             rodlatatag agee  etwar.e If the p.Pml.Cus, ad la.4 aas tCe.d.A
erd. -r  tat thea ths .f 75  oes nd te.L pron... 1Cad  23 pa of                                 fs mactate  tt  fessiatl   tr
eaeasl prtatn  n ananse Ceta      -Id, cr1 .".Apen  by PM   M aba Third              Ctoonsta   aeio   ei  - tast  at pstu.alata   adW-  tO ad h6a   am
herd  Pad 1snat$ Iti%-h. 1970 ad  1977 data.                                                    tw  the I.tA1 lae   aCe-.
ol,ed its  sasuead.   psst0ap                 AnSda   1961-45. 1979 avd 19P7.da-a.          o~   om,
Chil laes -At  hatlia  ZSa. (tar tbovadSvo  -Adsan, dAstba Per tb....d  I.                  Proso  PteeI a(er   ccn   n  Atedl                                I-este  by  iht
age ans, I-,  Wso    tohoILtr         . Ib tis age ga-p; far mas  d.neIpSn  t5                                 rcet2pao.para20P.--Ct. ad  =ans  ad Pet-
tr...de.drme    Lre. Ii  tailsa  l9SO  1970 ad 1979 dASa.                                         ci b.asslte..
a.bIrth;190. 1970 anda it19 data                                                                 ad  .i-i4 he tetenroae  with tmieel   et
hednaY.tnlt tte(so theoendb  - AdoL denche ad tfatt  aderAs - tn                            teiodSeia   catites(nl(i  e  sna       rsa    ua
ot ~t     f    .         vC_ f       M     ISSpr  ChasanElLrebirte.                                tAbsdl.t  p~maT, itsss 1.-t  Inte  S.aa    lani beis. wuhIth    .iaaa
baresa  afeP0 Vats(sstomrba. at               :I;kla toa. Cb . a          ti0.  -                  atiitlyence   itpa.mnoa    sddrqlso                                           a
,hot f-  #-C-..d              ."LICT -1ttisadaa.at.a Pwarr  es  7,wa (ti e   sda      rSa    ua
rwaaddeed s. sas stab . o vsasb    osnea  ed- thea hem, f    0h. -oe   are.                 P__ist    L- betsa   lbt.  ah,tstaasU Poosto   t Un  d-Ivvd feac,n -IS*
resneashl  cos        i hs"   ft hL     thaI h   Iftsat  at. hsssa  at the he hlta-o1 th"- Par                             C.s od ppotl.tSo    fsb   aLt" rual  an  aC-a--  a
oowa toM-C trApAbOlSeea (attrst atsc atraat..  - t e   orbsL.   ondhif no.1
esIL  ci pssyta (tate..     ob.   drtI   e               yaua3,0
ss-CS  byeta-em   arata   or lhe un   odpit roirs and elafcsc   elaea                                                                                   DweaeatapanSa
.,PeV. iaa.Ies dusted by nasa? advvAI. Assysts   dOpyyob.-
PsOvi"       ff.hf P.. aaeal anocaie                                                                                                                      M"y cral
Passlta  -   aI     l . P    -d.  PnpASAAcs. dits   b   inoa   rot.            a
mal  addal   erat Pen       ". pnsta.   ears   isAbWIf pst.Stan



ANNEX I
25                                                  Page 4 of 5 pages
Population         147.4 million (mid-1980)
GNP per Capita:  US$365 (1979)
INDONESIA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount                                   Annual growth rate (2)
(million US$ at                             (at constant 1973 prices)
current prices)                        Actual                                   Projected
Indicator                            1980            1975   1976   1977   1978  1979    1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product /a         70,024            5.0    6.9    8.8    6.9    5.3    9.7    7.2    7.3    7.3    7.4    7.4
Agriculture                     18,003           0.0    4.7    1.3    5.2    4.0    5.5    3.5    3.5    3.5    3.5    3.5
Industry                        29,227           5.6   11.1   14.2    5.9    5.5    9.0    9.0    9.0    9.0    9.0    9.0
Services                        22,794          10.1    5.9   12.0    8.9    6.9    8.5    8.5    8.5    8.5    8.5    8.5
Consumption                       48,976            6.9    6.4    7.9    8.5    9.9   11.6    8.7    7.8    7.2    8.2    6.0
Gross investment                  15,176           14.6    6.0  .16.0   15.0    4.4   17.8   12.5   12.5   12.5   12.5   12.5
Exports of GNFS                   21,365           -9.7   12.5   22.4    1.9   -1.0   -4.2   -5.5    8.2   13.6    1.0    2.5
Imports of GNFS                   15,494            7.9    8.1   22.2   15.6   13.9   13.6   20.1    7.2   13.4    3.2    0.5
Gross national savings            17,576         -19.7   12.0   33.3   -2.1   37.1   -2.1    7.2    9.6    9.0    7.4   12.3
PRICES
GDP deflator (1973 - 100)                           166    190    214    237    311    400    440    493    542    591    638
Exchange rate                                       415    415    415    442    623    625    625    625    625    625    625
Share of GDP at market prices (z)                          Average annual increase (Z)
(at current prices)                                   (at constant 1973 prices)
1960   1970  -1975   1980   1985   1990         1960-70    1970-75    1975-80    1980-85         1985-90
Gross domestic product        100    100    100    100    100    100            3.9           8.4         7.5         7.3         7.5
Agriculture                 54      47      32      26     22      17         2.7           4.1         4.1         3.5         3.5
Industry                    14      18      34      42     44      46         5.2         12.0         9.7          9.0         9.0
Services                    32      35      35      33     36      36         4.8          9.7          9.0         8.5         7.5
Consumption                 91      89      79      70     74      74         4.1           8.4         8.9         8.6         7.6
Gross investment             8      14      20      22     26      27         4.8          18.3        11.7        12.5         7.8
Exports of GNFS             13      13      23      31     23      18         3.6          9.2          8.7         3.7         3.2
Imports of GNFS            -13    -16    -22    -22    -23    -19             3.2         22.1         14.0         8.7         4.9
Gross national savings        8      9      17      25     25      22         6.1          23.1        14.4         4.8         7.3
As 2 of-GDP
1960           1970            1975           1980
PUBLIC FINANCE /b
Current revenues                                                           11.7            10.1           10.5                23.4
Current expenditures                                                       14.0             8.4            9.3                13 3
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                                 -2.3           +1.6            +7.1              +10.1
Capital expenditure                                                         n.a.            5.0           10.7                13.5
Foreign financing                                                           0.2             3.5            3.7                 3.4
1960-70         1970-75             1975-80          1980-85         1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
Annual GNP growth rate (Z)                               4.5              7.6                 6.9             7.3              7.3
Annual GNP per capita growth rate (%)                    2.4              5.1                 4.5             4.9              5.0
Annual energy consumption growth rate (Z)                2.9             16.0                15.0            11.0             10.0
ICOR                                                     2.2              2.2                 3.1             3.4              3.8
Marginal savings rate                                    0.30             0.48                0.30            0.18             0.26
Import elasticity                                        1.2              2.8                 1.9             1.2              0.7
/a At market prices.
7T Central Government only, on an April-to-March fiscal year oasis.
East Asia and Pacific Programs
January 20, 1982



26                                                          MLI
ANNEX I
Populati-on        147.4 million (mid-1980)                                                                             Paxe 5 of 5 ol2es
GNP per Capita:  USS365 (1979)
INDOWNSA -  ALAINCZ 0or PAYhMNTS, EXTRNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(MlUlions USS at current prices)
Actual                  Estimate                       ProTjocted
Indicator                   1977      1978      1979      1980      19IT       l982      1983      1i84      1985  ..gI?
BALA1ICE OF PAYMENTS /a
1.  Exports                             10,861   11,353   17,494   22,245   22,373    24,528   30,108   33,241   36,790   60,153
(a)  Oil & L.G (gross)               7,354    7,374   11,323   16,661   17,990    18,836   22,869   24,279   25,975   37,119
(b)  Nonoil                          3,507    3,979    6,171    5,584    4,393          5,492    7,239    8,964   10,815   23,834
2.  Imports (including not NFS)        -10,686  -11,493- -14,035  -18,649  -23,135   -26,095  -31,886  -35,253  -3R,187  -65,903
(a)  Oil sector                     -2,909   -3,364   -4,348   -5,884   -7,658    -8,606  -10,585   -9,972  -10,006  -16,n01
(b)  Nonoil imports                 -7,241   -7,543   -9,028  -11,790  -14,509   -16,389  -19,999  -23,755  -26,399  -46,657
(c)  MFS (net)                        -536      -586      -659      -975      -968    -1,100   -1,300   -1.526   -1,782   -3,195
3.  Resource balance                        175     -140    3,459    3,596        -762    -1,567   -1,778   -2,010   -,1197   -4,950
4.  PFctor services                       -865   -1,015   -1,261   -1,205   -1,203           -732   -1,247   -1,529   -I,968   -4,430
(a)  Interest public debt             -441      -514      -772      -824   -1,012    -1,226   -.1520   -1,810   -2,119   -3,882
(b)  Other (net)                      -424      -501      -489      -381      -191        494       273       281       151     -548
5.  Capital grants                           66        46        52       76        67        100       10O       100       100       1on
6.  Balance an current account             -624   -1,109    2,194    2,467   -1,898    -2,199   -2,925   -3,439   -3,265   -9,280
7.  Direct foreign investment               285      271       217       140       178        200       350       450       600    1,000
8. Public If & LT loans
(a)  Disbursamnt                     1,956    2,205    1,865    2,612    3,976          4,120    4,777    5,548    6,063    9,695
(b)  Amortization                     -825   -1.548   -1,329        -952   -1,168    -13,08   -1,493   -1,719   -1,983   -3,603
(c)  Net disbursemnts                1,131       657       536    1,660    2,808        2,912    3,294    3,829    4,060    6,092
9.  Other capital (net)                   -140       891   -1,261   -1,531   -1,418           500       800    1,n00        700    2,000
10.  Change in reserves (- increase)    -651         -708   -1,690   -2,736         330    -1,313   -1,509   -1,840   -2,115           186
11.  Not official reservem                2,208    2,916    4,606    7,342    7,012          8,325    9,R34   11,674   13,789   17,543
Res-rves in months of nonoil
imports + NFS                        3.4       4.3       5.6       6.9       5.6        5.7       5.5       5.5      5.9       4.2
Meaorandum  Item
Not foreign assets of the banking
system /d                                 -         -    6,906   10,787   10,357        11,670   13,179   15,019   17,634   22,388
Total reserves in months of nonoil
imports + 8FS                           3.4       4.3       8.6      10.1       8.3        8.0       7.4       7.0       7.5       5.4
=XTRIIAL CAPITAL AID DEBT /b
Gross Disbursemests                      1 956    2,205    1 865    2 b12
Concessional Loans                   -       -
Bilateral                               381       448       399       684
I0D                                      49        29        30        42
Other                                    12         6         5         6
Nonconcessional Loans                    1 514    1 721    1 432    1 880
Official export credits                'TT       '7T       'AT         44L
I31D                                    191       168       199       331
Other zultilatersl                       16        12        46        52
Private - source                      1,089    1,270    1,126    1,453
External Debt (fixed-term)
Debt outstanding & disbursed /d   11 658   13,107   13 233   14 940
Official - source                  777        8,390    8
Private  - source                   4,583    4,717    4,799    5,497
Undisbursed debt                      4,475    5,839    7,932    8,889
Debt Service
Total service payments                1,262    2,062    2,101       1,777
Interest                              441       514       771       824
Payments as S exports /I               11.6      18.2      12.0       8.0
Average Interest Bate on New Loans
(C)                                     6.3       7.6       6.6       8.1
Official - source                       5.4       4.6       5.0       5.0
Privace  - source                       8.6      10.2       8.6      12.8
Averace Maturity of New Loans
(Years)                                20.5      18.7      19.1      18.9
Official - source                      23.9      30.1      25.8      24.8
Private  - source                      10.4       8.6      11.1      10.0
As S of debt outstandint at end of 198n
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturitles due vithin 5 yasrs                                                                                 30.5
Meturities due vithin 10 years                                                                               64.6
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                                                                4,1
/a  O  an April-to-March fiscal yur basis.
Tb  Ezcludes private nonuarantad loans.
77 Includes foreign assets of deposit mnony banks in addition to official reserves.
/d  At end of period.                                                                                    East Asia and Pacific Progtra,s
7e  Oil exports treated on gross basis.                                                                          January 20, 1982



27
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 28 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of September 30, 1981)
US$ million
Loan/                                                               Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                              (less cancellations)
Number   Year              Purpose                       Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
Seven Loans and thirty Credits fully disbursed           357.0   453.30        -
300     1972   Population                                         13.20       0.45
387     1973   Third Education                                    13.50       3.03
400     1973   Smallholder and Private Estate Tea                  7.80       3.51
428     1974   Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate                      16.50       8.56
451     1974   Fourth Technical Assistance                         5.00       0.95
479     1974   Bali Tourism                                       16.00        3.97
480     1974   Fisheries Credit                                    6.50       0.51
514     1975   Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension                     30.00       9.16
785     1978   Small Enterprise Development Project               40.00       9.93
8'7     1978   Rural Credit                                       30.00      16.67
869     1979   Polytechnic                                        49.00      45.55
898     1979   Fifth Technical Assistance                         10.00       8.96
919     1979   Transmigration II                                  67.00      49.72
946     1980   Yogyakarta Rural Development                       12.00      11.29
984     1980   Smallholder Rubber Dev. Project                    45.00      42.15
995     1980   Fifteenth Irrigation                               45.00      41.25
996     1980   National Agriculture Extension II                  42.00      41.48
1014     1980   National Ag. Research Project                      30.00      29.95
1049     1975   Five Cities Water Supply                  14.50                 1.47
1100     1975   Sixth Irrigation                          65.00               14.79
1179     1976   Agricultural Research & Extension         21.50                5.99
1197     1976   National Resource Survey & Mapping        13.00                 5.45
1236     1976   Fourth Highway                           130.00               36.99
1237     1976   Fourth Education                          37.00               10.94
1250     1976   Second Shipping                           54.00                16.30
1254     1976   Third Fertilizer Extension PURSI IV    70.00                    0.03
1259     1976   Fifth Power                               90.00                 5.08
1267     1976   National Food Crops Extension             22.00                 3.91
1268     1976   Seventh Irrigation                        33.00                10.14
1318     1977   Transmigration and Rural Development   30.00                    8.17
1336     1977   Second Urban Development                  52.50                 8.83
1337     1977   Tanjung Priok Port                        32.00                11.40
1363     1977   Second PDFCI                              15.00                 1.06



28
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 28 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                              Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                              (less cancellations)
Number   Year              Purpose                       Bank     IDA   Undisbursed
1365    1977   Sixth Power                              116.00            37.89
1373    1977   Nutrition Development                     13.00              8.52
1433    1977   Teacher Training-Fifth Education          19.00             12.57
1434    1977   Eighth Irrigation                         63.00             41.49
1435    1977   Ninth Irrigation                          35.00             12.26
1437    1977   Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO III)  40.00                 1.26
1472    1977   Second Population                         24.50             14.83
1486    1978   Non-Formal Education                      15.00              8.12
1499    1978   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I        65.00             37.36
1513    1978   Seventh Power                            109.00             52.35
1578    1978   Tenth Irrigation                         140.00           123.60
1579    1978   Eleventh Irrigation                       31.00             22.82
1604    1978   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders II    65.00                62.36
1645    1979   Twelfth Irrigation                        77.00             59.78
1653    1979   Third Urban Development                   54.00             39.45
1691    1979   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control         50.00            44.11
1692    1979   Second Agricultural Training              42.00            37.74
1696    1979   Fifth Highway                            130.00            107.48
1703    1979   Fourth BAPINDO                            50.00             26.48
1707    1979   Transmigration II                         90.00             90.00
1708    1979   Eighth Power                             175.00            139.74
1709    1979   Second Water Supply                       36.00             34.29
1751    1980   Nucleus Estates and S'holders III         99.00             83.96
1811    1980   Fourteenth Irrigation                    116.00           111.78
1835    1980   Nucleus Estates and STholders IV          42.00             39.37
1840    1980   Nat. Ag. Research Project                 35.00            35.00
1869    1980   Third Population Project                  35.00             35.00
1872    1980   Ninth Power Project                      253.00           240.22
1898    1981   S-holder Coconut Dev. Project             46.00            45.21
1904    1981   University Development Project           45.00             45.00
1950    1981   Tenth Power Project                     250.00            250.00
1958    1981   Swamp Reclamation Project                 22.00            22.00
1972    1981   Fourth Urban Development Project          43.00            43.00
2007    1981   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder V         161.00            161.00
2011    1981   Second Small Enterprise Development   106.00               106.00
2049    1982   Jakarta-Cikampek Highway /1               85.00            85.00
/1  Not yet effective



29
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 28 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                               Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                               (less cancellations)
Number   Year              Purpose                       Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
Total Bank loans and IDA credits              3,814.00  931.80
less cancellations                           -23.13   -1.65
Total                                        3,790.87  930.15
of which has been repaid                     -92.24   -2.89
Total now outstanding                         3,698.63  927.26
Amount sold to third party            28.24
Amount repaid by third party         -27.21      -1.03
Total now held by Bank and IDA /a             3 697.60  927.26
Total undisbursed                             2,457.84  327.09   2,784.93
/a Prior to exchange adjustment.



30
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 28 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30, 1981)
Fiscal                               Type of             Loan    Equity    Total
year         Obligor                business            -    (US$ million)    -
1971   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement              10.6      2.5       13.1
1971   P.T. Unitex                  Textiles             2.5      0.8        3.3
1971   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles               2.0      0.5        2.5
1971   P.T. Kabel Indonesia         Cable                2.8      0.4        3.2
1972   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.         Textiles             4.5      1.5        6.0
1973   P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel    Tourism               11.0        -       11.0
1973   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement               5.4      0.7        6.1
1974   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles               2.0      0.3        2.3
1974   P.T. Monsanto Pan            Electronics          0.9        -        0.9
1974   P.T. PDFCI                   Devel. Fin. Co.        -      0.5        0.5
1974   P.T. Kamaltex                Textiles             2.4      0.6        3.0
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement               5.0      1.5        6.5
1976   ?.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement                 -      1.1        1.1
1977   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.         Textiles             0.4        -        0.4
1977   P.T. Kamaltex                Textiles             1.3      0.2        1.5
1979   P.T. Daralon                 Textiles             0.9        -        0.9
1980   P.T. Papan Sejahtera         Capital Market       4.0      1.2        5.2
1980   P.T. Indo American
Industries           Glass Dinnerware  11.1        0.9       12.0
1980   P.T. Semen Andalas           Cement and
Indonesia            Construction
Material           48.0       5.0       53.0
Total gross commitments                           114.8      17.7      132.5
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled                74.2       3.4       77.6
Total held by IPC                                  40.6      14.3       54.9
Undisbursed (including participant's portion)   53.1          0.9       54.0



31
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 28 pages
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
As of September 30, 1981
These notes are arranged by sectors in the following order:
Page No.
Agriculture
Irrigation (514, 1100, 1268, 1434, 1435, 1578,                             6-9
1579, 1645, 1691, 1811, 995 and 1958)
Other Agriculture Production (358, 400, 480, 1318,                         9-13
1707/919, 1499, 1604, 1751,
1835, 984, 1898 and 2007)
Agriculture Support Services (1179, 1267, 996 and 1840/1014)              13-14
Rural Development (946)                                                    14
Agro-Business and Credit (785, 827 and 2011)                                  15
Education (387, 869, 1237, 1433, 1486, 1692 and 1904)                        16-18
Energy (1259, 1365, 1513, 1708, 1872 and 1950)                               18-20
Indi'strial Development and Finance
Ildustrial Estates (428)                                                   21
Development Finance Companies (1363, 1437 and 1703)                        21
Population and Nutrition
Population (300, 1472 and 1869)                                            22
Nutrition (1373)                                                           23
Technical Assistance (451, 898 and 1197)                                     24
Transportation
Highways (1236, 1696 and 2049)                                            24-25
Marine Transport (1250)                                                    25
Ports (1337)                                                               26
Tourism (479)                                                                 26
Urban Development (1336, 1653 and 1972)                                      26-27
Water Supply (1049 and 1709)                                                  28
/1  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



32
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 28 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
AGRICULTURE
Irrigation
Credit No. 514 Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension: $30 Million Credit of
October 3, 1974; Effective Date: January 10, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Initial organizational difficulties, extensive changes in the design
of project works and delays in awarding civil works contracts are expected to
substantially delay project completion by four years. All major contracts
for civil works have been awarded, and the last of these is expected to
be completed by mid-1984. The total project cost is currently estimated
to be about 90% over the appraisal estimate. The credit is expected to be
fully disbursed by December 31, 1982, the new closing date.
Loan No. 1100   Sixth Irrigation:  $65 Million Loan of April 10, 1975;
Effective Date: June 20, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The pro-ject is currently expected to be completed by March 1985,
about four years behind the original completion date. This is mainly due to a
delay of more than one year in the completion of bidding documents, followed
by a delay of about two years due to delayed land acquisition, delayed
payments to contractors and the effects of the 1978 Rupiah devaluation.
Another year's delay has been added lately by the constant postponement of
drainage works in both Rentang and Cerebon subprojects due to overall budget
constraints imposed by the GOI on the Directorate General of Water Resources
Development annual budget during the last three years. Disbursements are
currently about 73% of the appraisal estimate. It is possible that because
of the continuing delays in this project that the closing date will have to
be postponed.
Loan No. 1268   Seventh Irrigation:  $33 Million Loan of June 4, 1976;
Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
The main components of the project are tertiary development on an
area of 100,000 ha served by irrigation systems rehabilitated under previous
credits and the construction of 6,000 ha of a new irrigation system in the
Sadang area of South Sulawesi. The construction of tertiaries has progressed
well and gained such a momentum that the scope of work was increased to
115,000 ha. About 85,000 ha have been completed and the balance will be
completed by the end of 1981. The construction of North Sadang has suffered
a delay of about three years due to design revisions and late award of
contracts. All of the remaining works of the project will be completed by
July 1983. Disbursements are currently 25% behind the appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1434   Eighth Irrigation:  $63 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date:  July 7, 1977; Closing Date:  March 31, 1983
The main components of the project are rehabilitation of the Madiun
Irrigation System serving an area of about 75,000 ha in Stage I including
30,000 ha of tertiary development, pilot ground water scheme for 2,800 ha in



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 28 pages
the Madiun-Solo area and the improvement of flood control, drainage and road
networks on 5,700 ha of coastal land in the Ciujung subproject. The Madiun
Irrigation and pilot ground water scheme components have made satisfactory
progress and are expected to be completed by the end of 1983. The Ciujung
drainage component has suffered the most delay caused by the late completion
of feasibility studies and inaccurate maps and some difficulties with land
acquisition. Disbursements are currently about 75% behind the appraisal
estimate largely due to initial delays but are expected to improve in 1982
when all of the contracts for the Ciujung drainage component will be under
implementation.
Loan No. 1435   Ninth Irrigation:  $35 Million Loan of June 6, 1977; Effective
Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The project consists of three components: (a) the Sedeku Irriga-
tion and Drainage Subproject; (b) the Sungai Dareh-Sitiung Irrigation Project;
and (c) various studies and investigations. Progress on these components is
as follows: (a) consequent on GOI-s decision not to construct the Jragung
Dam, the down river drainage works and designs are being reviewed. Delay in
completion is currently estimated to be about three years; (b) all the
contracts of the Stage I area are awarded and the project is estimated to be
completed by mid-1982, a delay of about one year. Problems of land clearing
and land shaping on about 3,000 ha to convert to sawahs (wet rice fields) are
unresolved and might delay early benefits. The Stage II area was appraised by
the Bank in September 1980 and due to a low economic rate of return it was not
recommended for further Bank consideration; and (c) feasibility studies of ten
systems have been completed. Three projects were recommended for Bank
assistance under the proposed sixteenth irrigation project, two were financed
by KfW and one is proposed to be financed by the Asian Development Bank.
Three ongoing projects would be completed fully by GOI financing. Disburse-
ments are at about 58% of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1578   Tenth Irrigation:  $140 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date:  August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
The project includes: (a) rehabilitation and improvements of about
34,700 ha of Kali Progo irrigation system; (b) improvements of about 19,900 ha
of Way Seputih; (c) improvements and expansion of about 63,100 ha of Way
Sekampung irrigation projects; (d) studies and detailed designs of two dams
associated with (b) and (c) above; (e) studies of Dumoga and Gumbasa irriga-
tion projects; and (f) consulting services for the above and also studies of.
two dams in the Kali Progo project area, extension of irrigation to Bekri,
West Rumbia, Way Kandis and Way Ketibung in Lampung Province. The Kali Progo
project is behind schedule by 12 months whereas the Way Seuptih and Way
Sekampung projects have slipped further and are behind schedule by 24 months.
The status of down river works of the latter two irrigation systems,
associated with the two dams, was reviewed by the Bank in April/May 1981 and
the GOI was informed that the rehabilitation and extension of irrigation
systems would only be justified if the two dams are built; alternatively the
program under the current project has to be curtailed. Subject to resolving
the issue within six months and if there are no slippages, the current



34
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 28 pages
estimated completion is December 1985; a delay of two years. Disbursements
are currently 33% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1579   Eleventh Irrigation:  $31 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Due to slow progress the project is currently estimated to be
completed in June 1983, a delay of about one year. The Hydrologic
Measurement Program has been delayed by about 2-1/2 years due to a setback in
the program for procurement of equipment and selection of sites for gauging
stations. Studies for a master plan for the development of the Cimanuk River
Basin have been completed and a final report has been submitted to the Bank.
Detailed designs of flood control works of the Lower Cimanuk, Cipanas and
Ciwaringin Rivers have been completed and construction is proceeding under
Loan 1691-IND. Due to unfavorable foundation conditions at the dam site and
GOI's decision not to construct large dams on Java this component is
indefinitely postponed and it is proposed that these funds be utilized for
feasibility studies of Glapan Barrage and Tuntang River and upgrading of
irrigation systems. Disbursements are about 39% of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1645   Twelfth Irrigation:  $77 Million Loan of December 29, 1978.
Effective Date: May 10, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
The Jatiluhur Tertiary Development on an area of 186,000 ha is
proceeding on schedule; construction on 103,731 ha has been completed and
the balance of the area would be covered in two fiscal years 81/82 and
82/83. The Cisedane drainage works have been delayed; two small contracts of
about $2 million were awarded in January-February 1981, and are about 30-40%
completed. Tenders for three major contracts, aggregate $30.4 million,
received in March-April 1981, are expected to be awarded in November 1981.
Right-of-way acquisition is also behind schedule. This subproject is
currently estimated to be completed by March 1985, a delay of two years over
appraisal estimate. All studies are expected to be completed by July 1982.
Disbursements are about 35% of the appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1691   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control:  $51 Million Loan of
May 7, 1979; Effective Date: October 16, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
The main components of the projects are flood protection levees,
bank stabilization and river training works on the lower Cimanuk river,
widening of the Rambatan Channel and construction of a hydraulic control
structure at Bangkir, the Cimanuk river estuary study and the flood control
operating and flood forecasting study. Good and satisfactory progress has
been made on the civil works and various studies. Civil works are expected
to be completed by the end of 1983. Disbursements are currently about 50%
behind the appraisal estimate largely due to initial delays and lately due to
the late award of contracts caused by the review required by the GOI's
procurement committee.



35                            ANNEX II
Page 9 of 28 pages
Loans No. 1811 Fourteenth Irrigation Project: $116 Million Loan of April 3,
1980; Effeative Date: July 3, 1980;
Closing Date: January 31, 1986
The main components of the project are construction and rehabilita-
tion of drainage and flood protection works on the Serang River to reduce
flooding of some 61,000 ha of farm land, rehabilitation of Madiun irrigation
systems serving about 65,000 ha area of Stage II and tertiary development
serving 120,000 ha in the Pemali Comal and Pekalen Sampean Sub-projects. The
project is in the initial stages of mobilization for the Serang River. Works
in Madiun area and tertiary development are progressing well ahead of
schedule. Consultants contracts are being finalized.
Credit No. 995 Fifteenth Irrigation Project: $45 Million Credit of April 3,
1980; Effective Date: July 3, 1980;
Closing Date: January 31, 1985
The project includes: (a) the completion of the Kosinggolan
irrigation system on about 5,500 ha and construction of the new Toraut
irrigation system on about 6,600 ha; (b) catchment protection and a nature
reserve on an area of about 100,000 ha; (c) institutional support to the
Directorate General of Water Resources Development (DGWRD) through consultancy
services and training; (d) strengthening of mapping capabilities; and (e)
studies and investigations of four irrigation systems. A contract for the
COT. truction of the Toraut headworks and the first two kilometers of the main
canal commenced in early 1981 and two major contracts are programmed for award
in FY81/82. A start has yet to be made on the nature reserve component by the
appointment of personnel and the construction of the headquarters.
Consultants for the studies and institutional support of the DGWRD have been
appointed. The project is currently about 6-8 months behind schedule.
Loan No. 1958 Swamp Reclamation Project: $22 Million Loan of March 31, 1981;
Effective Date: July 9, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
This loan was declared effective on July 9, 1981. The project
assists GOI½s effort to reclaim and settle swamps by implementing a 9,000 ha
swamp reclamation and settlement project at Karang Agung, South Sumatra. In
addition to physical works, the project comprises the preparation of future
swamp investments, an ecological impact study, an investigation of groundwater
for drinking and project monitoring.
Other Agriculture Production Projects
Credit No. 358 North Sumatra Smallholder Development: $5 Million Credit
of February 14, 1973; Effective Date: August 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The 9,000 ha planting program under the project is now completed.
Rubber and oil palm continue to show very satisfactory growth with the
1974/75 plantings of rubber and oil palm coming into production. Control of
weeding and general maintenance standards will require close supervision up
to 1982/83 when all plantings reach maturity.



36
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 28 pages
Credit No. 400 Smallholder and Private Estate Tea: $7.8 Million Credit
of June 22, 1973; Effective Date: November 30, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project provides credit through Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) and
extension advice through a Project Management Unit for improvement of
Indonesian smallholder and private estate tea. Of 13,200 ha, 60% was to be
rehabilitated and 40% replanted. Participants have preferred more costly
replanting and the target area has therefore been changed to 10,500 ha, and
the proportions reversed. The project is making a substantial contribution to
the smallholder tea industry with over 7,000 participants (appraisal forecast
7,700); five private tea estates (four factories) making fair to excellent
progress; one of two new major tea factories to be built; and 16,000
smallholders helped by excellent village and research institute training.
However, disbursements continue to be behind target due to a combination of
early sluggish progress in implementation combined with continued delays that
occur between BRI branch disbursements and submission of applications for
withdrawal.
Credit No. 480 Fisheries Credit: $6.5 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: January 8, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Initial delays have put the project about 18 months behind schedule.
The marine fishing complex at Ambon is completed, making a promising start
with twenty fishing boats operating, ten by GOI's skipjack tuna enterprise
and ten by a cooperative; two 100 gross ton catcher/carriers have been ordered
and are due to be delivered late 1981. The quality of fishpond lending by
Bank Rakyat Indonesia suffered early deficiencies, but is now completed; loan
arrears worsened statistically since mid-1980 although they improved
slightly in the first quarter of 1981. Coverage is much less than appraisal
forecast (31% of farmers, 60% of area) and details not yet available, but
inflation and the inability of smaller owners to participate are probably the
reasons. The skipjack tuna enterprise has improved markedly following a
management change, and catches could improve still further. Although not
a profitable enterprise, it is expected to improve in FY81/82.
Loan No. 1318   Transmigration and Rural Development:  $30 Million
Loan of July 21, 1976; Effective Date: March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Although the project is still about 2 years behind schedule, It has
progressed considerably since July 1980. To date about 4,300 families have
been settled in Baturaja, which is 95% of the target. About 200 water
supply reservoirs have been built at Baturaja. The pasture development
program is well established and 4,800 cattle have been distributed. Rubber
development at Baturaja is behind schedule and 1,900 ha need to be planted in
1981/82 to complete the program. The cropping system trials continue to
progress satisfactorily. Disbursements have now reached 62% of appraisal
estimates.



ANNEX II
37                        Page 11 of 28 pages
Loan No. 1707   Transmigration II:  $90 Million Loan and $67 Million Credit of
(Cr. No. 919)   June 1, 1979; Effective Date:  October 4, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
There have been delays in the implementation of the project. Land
clearing and road construction are now about six months behind appraisal
estimates due to: (a) the rejection of large areas identified for site
development in the appraisal report due to unsuitability for the agri-
cultural development proposed; (b) weak overall project organization and
management; and (c) delays in contractor's and consultant's engagement.
More recently, significant numbers of unauthorized settlers have been found
in areas presently identified for site development, and the GOI has. proposed
some changes to design criteria for the large areas already prepared. These
matters are being reviewed with GOI but will likely take some time to resolve.
Consequently, completion of project works and settlement of families are now
expected to lag at least one year behind appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1499   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I:  $65 Million Loan
of November 18, 1977; Effective Date: January 12, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The nucleus estates have planted about 7,000 ha of rubber for
smallholders, constructed about 1,400 settler houses and settled about 850
families. In their own estates, the nucleus estates have rehabilitated 18,400
ha of rubber; planted 7,200 ha of rubber; 3,300 ha of coconuts, and 5,600 ha
of oil palm and are about to complete construction of three rubber
factories and one palm oil mill. Start-up delays are, however, unlikely
to be made up, and the loan closing date may have to be extended at some
future date.
Loan No. 1604   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders II:  $65 Million Loan of
July 12,-1978; Effective Date:  September 13, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
After a slow start in 1979 due to labor shortage, budgetary cons-
traints and procurement difficulties, good progress was achieved in the last
twelve months. Further improvement is expected in project implementation.
All major project components are, therefore, expected to be completed as
originally planned, except the rubber replanting component in Jambi Province,
which has run into unexpected difficulties due to the reluctance of small-
holders to participate in the replanting scheme.



38
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 28 pages
Loan No. 1751   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders III:  S99 Million
Loan of August 13, 1979; Effective Date: November 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
All implementing agencies have made good progress. Although some
components are slightly behind schedule, the overall project is on or slightly
ahead of schedule. About 7,500 ha of rubber have been planted, half of which
is for smallholders. About 420 recently completed settler houses were fully
occupied in April 1981. A PNP Estate being upgraded under the project is to
take over responsibility for completing the Alue lemerah smallholder component
under NES I (1499-IDI) in 1982 from another PTP which has no estate in that
area.
Loan No. 1835   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders IV:  $42 Million
Loan of May 16, 1980: Effective Date: August 11, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
After an initial delay due to lack of maps the project's small-
holder development component is off to a good start and is expected to be on
schedule by 1982. The Nucleus Estate and Smallholder V (Loan 2007-IND)
start-up component has progressed well and, largely because of this, the
FY81/82 development targets are likely to be achieved in the major compo-
nent supervised. Other project components are approximately on schedule.
Credit No. 984 Smallholder Rubber Development: $45 Million Credit
of April 3, 1980; Effective Date: May 23, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
The project continues to make satisfactory progress, but at a pace
somewhat slower than envisaged at appraisal. The shortage of vehicles and
suitable access road is impeding project implementation. It is anticipated
that the planting program for 1981/82 (about 6,000 ha) will be substantially
achieved. Disbursement in FY82 are expected to be on target at US$7 million.
Loan No. 1898   Smallholder Coconut Development Project:  $46 Million
Loan of August 25, 1980; Effective Date: November 25, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
The project has got off to a satisfactory start in spite of
delayed establishment of the project entity and late release of funds. There
are no major problems with the project at this stage and the planting
and rehabilitation targets set for June 1981 should exceed appraisal
estimates by approximately 50%.



39                           ANNEX II
Page 13 of 28 pages
Loan No. 2007   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder V:  $161 Million Loan of
June 26, 1981; Effective Date:  October 21, 1981;
Closing date:  June 30, 1988
Smallholder development program to establish 53,000 ha of tree
crops (rubber, oil palm, coconuts), food crops and house gardens in West
Java, West Kalimantan and Bengkulu provinces with public sector estates as
implementing agents.
Agriculture Support Services
Loan No. 1179   Agricultural Research and Extension I:  $21.5 Million
Loan of December 19, 1975; Effective Date: February 23,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Overall progress continues. Under the Agency for Agricultural
Research and Development, civil works in Pangragajian, Baruajak and
Margahayu (all highland vegetable) have been completed, while in Sungei
Putih, Sembawa (both rubber) and in Sukamandi (Phase I and II rice and
palawija crops) are behind schedule due to shortage of laborers and delay in
procurement. Civil works are expected to be completed in Sungei Putih,
Sembawa and Sukamandi (Phase I) by July 1981 and in Sukamandi (Phase II) by
P cember 1981. Most of the field and workshop equipment, furniture and
,vhicles has been received. A contract has been awarded for laboratory
equipment and chemicals for Margahayu and bids for the same for Sungei Putih
and Sembawa are being evaluated. The fellowship program is continuing
satisfactorily. Under the Agency for Agricultural Education, Training and
Extension, all equipment, furniture and vehicles have been received and
distributed to ten completed agricultural information centers (AICs).
Preparation of tender documents for two additional AICs at Aceh and Ambon
is completed. Extension materials are being produced and distributed from
AICs.  Disbursements under the project are improving.
Loan No. 1267   National Food Crops Extension; $22 Million Loan of
June 4, 1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project management unit is functioning at full strength at the
senior level, four other positions are part-time staff. Over 90% of field
extension workers have been appointed, while appointments of subject-matter
specialists have exceeded target. However, there is an imbalance in that
appointments in the Other Islands is comparatively lower than in Java. Of the
projected civil works program of 64% of the new Rural Extension Centers have
been constructed and 80% rehabilitated. The entire program is expected to be
completed by December 31, 1981. Procurement of vehicles, equipment and
furniture and the training program, both inservices and overseas, are
progressing satisfactorily.



40                          ANNMEX I I
Page 14 of 28 pages
Credit No. 996 Second National Agricultural Extension: $24 Million
Credit of April 3, 1980; Effective Date: July 3, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
The project is the second phase of the national program for
strengthening extension services covering transmigration areas, estate crops,
livestock, inland fisheries, soil conservation activities in addition to food
crops in 26 provinces. All six Assistant Directors are in position, one
Assistant D)irector, one Divisional Chief, and two Sectional Heads are working
on part-time basis, the rest being on full-time basis. 57 new Rural Extension
Centers (RECs) have been constructed and 31 renovated; 103 jeeps have been
procured against the target of 96 during 1980/81. It is proposed to complete
the construction and renovation of all RECs during 1980/81. Adequate
provision has been made in the budget for planned civil works (procurement of
64 jeeps and provincial and village equipment package), inservice training of
791 field extension workers, 120 extension subject matter specialists and
overseas fellowships during 1981/92.
Loan No. 1840   National Agricultural Research:  $35 Million Loan and $30
(Cr. No. 1040) Million Credit of May 16, 1980; Effective Date: July 16,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1990
The project is the second phase in the strengthening of the overall
institutional framework of the Agency for Agricultural Research and Develop-
ment for agricultural research in fruits, lowland vegetables, livestock,
fisheries, forestry, estate crops other than rubber and industrial crops.
A Ministerial decree announcing the appointments of directors for the Central
Research Institutes and Research Institutes and Centers already approved by
the Minister of Agriculture, became effective in March 1981. The project
secretary and one head of office are yet to be appointed. Of civil works at
six locations planned for 1980/81, four have been tendered and a contract for
one awarded. Civil works at twelve locations have been programmed for
1981/82. Fifty candidates for long term local fellowships have been
selected. A consulting firm for technical assistance is expected to be
appointed in July 1981.
Rural Development
Credit No. 946 Yogyakarta Rural Development: $12 Million Credit of
August 13, 1979; Effective Date: December 5, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1987
Project implementation continues to run behind schedule, but staff
development and collection/analysis of basic data have made good progress,
and physical construction and field operations within the agricultural
component show encouraging advances, despite adverse conditions (protracted
nonpayment of project staff salaries because of late release of funds and
unavailability of transportation). However, an assurance given by the
Provincial Government to bridge any financing gaps for payment of staff
salaries, due to belated arrival of project funds, from its own budget,



41                             ANNEX II
Page 15 of 28 pages
should put staff remuneration on a more regular schedule. The expeditious
procurement of project vehicles, the absence of which is more acutely felt
as field operations grew in number and scope, remains a major concern.
Project completion is presently expected for mid-1987, implying a delay of
about nine months.
AGRO-BUSINESS AND CREDIT
Credit No. 785 Small Enterprise Development: $40 Million Credit
of April 7, 1978; Effective Date: August 17, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project provides financial and technical assistance to
strengthen Bank Indonesia-s (BI) small credit programs, KIK/KMKP. Despite
start-up difficulties, BI has now established and staffed all project
management units. The three field units in Central Java, East Java, and West
Sumatra are developing new lending approaches and assisting handling banks in
project promotion and preparation. The training and studies components of the
project are progressing satisfactorily. On the whole, progress under this
project (SEDP I) has been satisfactory. The credit component of the project
has been fully disbursed, but the technical assistance component will not be
fully disbursed for two years. The undisbursed proceeds of this credit are
being used for technical assistance to the Ministry of Industry. The closing
date has been postponed to enable disbursements for the technical assistance
component to be made.
Credit No. 827 Rural Credit: $30 Million Credit of June 23, 1978;
Effective Date: November 3, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1985
This project provides long-term credit to about 40,000 smallholders,
primarily for fisheries, perennial crops and livestock, and technical assis-
tance to Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) for program development, training
in term lending, credit procedures and accounting and management information
systems. Due primarily to delays in obtaining consultancy services,
the project is about nine months behind schedule. Following extension
of the project to cover additional provinces and commodities, it is
rapidly catching up.
Loan No. 2011   Second Small Enterprise Development:  $106 Million Loan of
June 26, 1981; Effective Date: October 16, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31,1984
From the three regions covered under SEDP I (Credit 785-IND) this
project would be expanded to cover all 27 regions in Indonesia where the Small
Investment (KIK)/Small Permanent working Capital Credit (KMKP) program has
been in operation since 1974. In addition to credit and technical assistance
to the banking system, the project provides for the strengthening of



42                        ANNEX II
Page 16 of 28 pages
nonfinancial support services for small scale enterprises (SSEs) by the
Ministry of Industry.. This is being financed by $1 million from the proceeds
of this loan and the undisbursed credit proceeds of SEDP I (Credit 785-IND).
EDUCATION
Credit No. 387 Third Education: $13.5 Million Credit of June 1, 1973;
Effective Date: August 29, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
This first textbook project is an ambitious undertaking under diffi-
cult circumstances. Since the start five years ago, over 150 million books
have been printed, 120% of the appraisal target, and about 430,000 teachers
have been upgraded, or 23% over the original target of 350,000. About 100
million books have been distributed to schools. Textbook distribution to
schools continues to pose problems and quality control of textbooks cannot
be maintained by the present number and quality of staff. Printing of
Grade 5 texts will start soon and the Project Implementing Unit has been
asked to take steps to ensure an adequate supply of paper for production
of Grade 6 texts as well as reprinting of other texts. Project costs have
increased due to the increased scope of the project and inflation since 1973.
Credit No. 869 Polytechnic: $49 Million Credit of December 29, 1978;
Effective Date: May 11, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
This credit is helping to finance: (a) the establishment of a
technical Education Development Center (TEDC), six polytechnics and four
accountancy development centers (ADCs); (b) related technical assistance and
associated studies - as required to meet the project's objectives of:
(i) establishing a new system for training engineering technicians;
(ii) improving accountancy training; and (iii) strengthening educational
planning and management. Implementation of physical components is being
initiated somewhat behind appraisal schedule but is progressing well and
should be completed by July 1982, well before the closing date.
Implementation of technical assistance is progressing on schedule for the TEDC
and the polytechnics, but lags about 16 months behind schedule for the ADCs.
Five studies financed under the project are also behind schedule, in some
instances by as much as 24 months. The total project cost is close to
appraisal estimate and disbursements exceed appraisal forecasts.
Loan No. 1237   Fourth Education:  $37 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: June 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
The loan is helping to finance physical facilities and related
technical assistance for: (a) two faculties of technology at existing teaching
training colleges (FKITs) and four new centralized workshops for technical



43                       ANNEX II
Page 17 of 28 pages
training (TTCs) for the Ministry of Education and Culture (MEC); (b) 17 new
vocational training centers (VTCs), an existing instructor training center and
25 mobile training units for the Ministry of Manpower (MOM); and (c) new
premises for the National Institute of Administration (LAN), the country s
principal civil service training institution. In the MEC subproject
construction of all institutions has been completed and all are in use though
operating under some difficulties since about half of their equipment needs
have still to be received. The MOM and LAN subprojects are progressing about
two and a half and three years behind schedule respectively and the Closing
Date has consequently been extended by two years. Delays have been
occasioned, initially, by slow site acquisition and, subsequently, by belated
release of funds and prolonged consideration of claims for the adjustment of
contract prices to compensate for the 1978 devaluation of the Rupiah. The
underlying cause has been weak management. The total project cost is likely
to exceed the appraisal estimate by about 50% in local currency terms but only
slightly (perhaps 3%) in terms of US$ equivalent (due to the change in the
exchange rate during implementation). The rate of disbursement is improving.
Adequate steps are being taken to staff new institutions as they are
commissioned and a national skill standards system is being developed.
Loan No. 1433   Teacher. Training:  $19 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project is now progressing satisfactorily. About 36% of civil
works have been completed. Phase I is 95% completed. Phase II is
approximately 75% completed. Tendering for the third and final phase has
begun and construction is expected to be finished in April 1982. Furniture
is being supplied to completed buildings according to schedule. Equipment
procurement is about one year behind schedule. The first cycle began
in July 1981 and will finish in mid-1982. Four hundred administrators are
being trained and will conduct local seminars. Project studies are to be
completed mid-1981. While disbursements are currently only 31% of appraisal
estimates, it is expected that they will accelerate considerably during
the coming months. Despite earlier delays and the low disbursement
level, the project is expected to be completed as planned.
Loan No. 1486   Non-Formal Education:  $15 Million Loan of
September 14, 1977; Effective Date: November 4, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project aims at strengthening the Department of Education's
nonformal education programs in seven provinces. Financing would cover civil
works to renovate two existing and establish four new provincial centers,
instructional equipment and vehicles, in-service training, materials
development, a basic learning fund, and related technical assistance. Of the
six Balai PENMAS (directorates for out-of-school education) centers, five have
been completed. Construction at the remaining two centers is 50% completed;



44                         ANNEX II
Page 18 of 28 pages
both centers will be ready by August, 1981.  All furniture and equipment have
been ordered; 80% is already on site and the rest is due to arrive later this
year. About 90% of the staff training program is meeting appraisal targets,
production and distribution of pretested learning materials is accelerating.
The technical assistance program is on schedule; local staff are gradually
replacing foreign consultants. Disbursements will increase substantially this
year and are expected to reach 90% of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1692   Second Agricultural Training:  $42 Million Loan of May 7,
1979; Effective Date: July 31, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The project constitutes the second phase of GOI's long-term strategy
to improve the quality and supply of middle level agricultural manpower. Good
progress continues to be made. Although some slippage has developed in the
physical implementation, it is not yet serious. Costs are tending to rise.
The project also provides technical assistance for the improvement of
curricula, education planning and evaluation; this technical assistance has
started, and fellowship utilization is up to schedule. Efforts to redress
a shortage of teachers outside Java are making steady progress. Through its
national schools, the Agency for Agricultural Education, Training and Exten-
sion is having significant impact on improving the efficiency of regional
and private schools, as planned. Little progress has been made on evaluation,
tracer or manpower studies; specialist assistance is expected to stimulate
these activities.
Loan No. 1904   University Development Project:  $45 Million Loan of
November 13, 1980; Effective Date: January 22, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
This Loan was declared effective on January 22, 1981. The project
is the first phase of a long-term university development program. Its main
objectives are to increase the output of high level manpower in the fields of
engineering, science, agriculture, and economics (including business
administration and accountancy), improve the quality of university education
in these four fields, and strengthen the management of the overall university
system.
ENERGY
Loan No. 1259   Fifth Power:  $90 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: September 20, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
Implementation of the project is proceeding satisfactorily to
completion. Disbursement targets for FY81 were substantially (98%) met and
the loan is expected to be drawn down within the extended closing date
(December 1981), six months later than scheduled at appraisal. Installation
of 80% of medium voltage (20 kV) cables and 50% of the 20 kV overhead lines
has been completed. This represents satisfactory progress as the scope of



ANNEX II
Page 19 of 28 pages
these items of the project was considerably increased as a result of
favorable prices obtained during bidding. Progress on construction of the
low voltage networks has been slow (about 40%) but it has been programmed to
complete the rest of this work by March 1982. Construction of the project
should be substantially completed by mid-1982.
Loan No. 1365   Sixth Power:  $116 Million Loan of February 4, 1977;
Effective Date: June 6, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
Construction work on the project is reaching its final stage. The
slow performance of the electrical and mechanical contractor has delayed
progress on construction and slowed down disbursements, as the main
expenditure now is on this item of work. Firing of the boiler for Unit 4
has been delayed; steam admission will also be delayed, but it is expected
that the unit will be in commercial operation during the latter half of 1981.
Unit 5 is expected to be commissioned by end-1981. There are no other
problems of significance at the power station. There is concern, however,
that the 150 kV ring around Jakarta (not Bank-assisted) will not be
strengthened in time to run the power station at its full capacity (700 mW),
although the electricity authority (PLN) is making a concerted effort to
complete ongoing work on the transmission lines'and substations involved.
The delay in commissioning of Units 4 and 5 is estimated at about nine months
and six months, respectively.
Loan No. 1513   Seventh Power:  $109 Million Loan of February 3, 1978;
Effective Date: June 30, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1983
All contracts have been awarded at highly competitive costs with
a substantial reduction in foreign costs and, therefore, $15 million of the
loan has been cancelled. The latest cost estimate update indicates that a
further saving will be realized compared to appraisal estimate. Subsequently
therefore, the Bank has agreed to the inclusion of the following additional
studies in the scope of the project: (a) Sunda Strait submarine cable
feasibility; (b) optimization of location of future thermal plants: (c)
power sector management information system design; and (d) energy pricing
study. Construction work at the site has been delayed by the need to devise
a new method of pile driving to avoid soil displacement. This work has now
been completed and installation of the main plant resumed. The boiler has
been received at site and is under erection. The turbo generator is expected
to be received during the latter part of 1981. Although work of the civil
works of the substations and associated transmission lines has been delayed,
it is progressing satisfactorily. The feasibility study of the Turan
coal-fired thermal power station site in East Java has progressed to the
point of selection of a site for detailed investigations; these are in
progress. Contracts for the additional five studies mentioned above have not
been signed, but proposals for (a) and (c) have been received and are being
evaluated.



-46-                   ANNEX II
Page 20 of 28 pages
Loan No. 1708   Eighth Power:  $175 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: November 5, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project is now about eight months behind schedule due to
(a) slow progress of work by the piling contractor in site improvement;
(b) delay in finalizing various critical contracts; and (c) delay in final-
izing designs and tender documents for the marine works. The most signifi-
cant contributory factor in the delays is the cumbersome procedures for
evaluating bids and approval of contracts that have been introduced as a
result of Presidential Decrees 10 and 14A (procurement procedures). Also,
the GOI-s budgetary process makes it difficult for the electricity authority
and the project management to have flexibility in the deployment of Rupiah
funds. The Bank is continuing to pursue these problems with the GOI. Dis-
bursements are much slower than projected. Project cost estimates are now
based on available contract and tender prices and the total cost of
contracts being financed by the Bank loan amount to $140 million, plus
contingencies. Present indications are that there will be a saving of
about $20 million in the loan amount.
Loan No. 1872   Ninth Power:  $253 Million Loan of June 13, 1980;
Effective Date: October 24, 1980; Closing Date:
September 30, 1985
This project is experiencing delays. However, the commissioning
date of the second unit of Suralaya is still not affected. Tenders for EHV
lines, substations, transformers and reactors were received in November-
December 1980 and as of the last supervision mission in July 1981, were
expected to be finalized in October 1981. Commissioning date for the EHV
lines and substation is now estimated to be June 1982, which would be ahead
of the commissioning of the first Suralaya unit in August 1984, though six
months behind the appraisal schedule. Progress in land acquisition is
satisfactory, the land for all substations has been purchased. Also,
negotiations for the purchase of land for tower locations is in progress.
Tenders for control and communications equipment were issued in April 1981.
Loan No. 1950   Tenth Power Project:  $250 Million Loan of March 6, 1981;
Effective Date: April 23, 1981; Closing Date: June 30,
1987
This loan was declared effective on April 23, 1981. The project
would utilize the hydroelectric potential of the Citarum River to meet
Java's growing demand for economical electricity.



-47-                     ANNEX II
Page 21 of 28 pages
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND FINANCE
Industrial Estates
Credit No. 428 Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate: $16.5 Million Credit of
September 14, 1973; Effective Date: November 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate is now scheduled for completion
in 1982. Of 415 ha of raw land now earmarked for acquisition, 358 ha had been
purchased as of mid-1981, 164 ha of developed land reserved for factory use
has been sold to 210 firms, with employment currently estimated at around
9,700; at full capacity production employment is expected to be around
23,000 workers. Despite the slow development of the estate resulting in
protracted disbursement of the credit, and substantially higher cost than
estimated at appraisal, PT JIEP's financial performance has been
satisfactory. Some adjustments of its dividend, cost and price policies
were nevertheless called for and were recommended to PT JIEP during the last
project supervision mission. GOI has agreed to designate 22.5 ha of the
Pulo Gadung industrial estate as an Export Processing Zone (EPZ) with PT
JIEP as the sole administrator. The closing date of the credit was
therefore postponed by two years to December 31, 1982, reallocating the
remaining funds for the establishment of the EPZ. However, the loan docu-
ments have not yet been amended because the required Presidential Decree and
subsequent operating license by the Department of Trade and Cooperatives
bvve not yet been issued.
Development Finance Companies
Loan No. 1363   Second PDFCI:  $15 Million Loan of January 28, 1977;
Effectae Date: April 21,1977; Closing Date: December 31,1981
The project is proceeding satisfactorily. PDFCI has deliberately
spread Bank funds over as large a number of subprojects as possible to match
its resources from Bank Indonesia. The loan is now fully committed and.
disbursements are expected to be completed by the Closing Date.
Loan No. 1437   Third BAPINDO:  $40.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effectave Date: September 23, 1977; Closing Date:
September 30, 1981
The project is being implemented satisfactorily. The loan was fully
committed by the end of 1979 and $36.1 million was disbursed as of March 31,
1981. The loan is expected to be fully disbursed by the present closing date.
Loan No. 1703   Fourth BAPINDO:  $50 Million of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: September 25, 1979; Closing Date:
September 30, 1983
This project is being implemented satisfactorily. Commitments
have increased rapidly since the last supervision mission in May 1980. As
of March 31, 1981, 73% of the loan had been committed. Disbursements have
also caught up and it is now expected that the loan will be fully committed
by September 1981 and fully disbursed by the closing date.



ANNEX II
-48-                       Page 22 of 28 pages
POPULATION AND NUTRITION
Population
Credit No. 300 Population: $13.2 Million Credit of April 20, 1972;
Effective Date: November 2, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The project is nearing completion. The family planning program
continues to show outstanding performance. Annual targets of new contracep-
tive acceptors for the period 1972/73-1980/81 were nearly all exceeded.
Current contraceptive users as a proportion of married women of reproductive
age increased from 27% in 1979 to 36% in 1981. The birth rate is estimated to
have declined from about 44-46 per 1,000 population in 1971 to around 32-34
per 1,000 population in 1980. All the activities financed out of project
savings have been completed, except the utilization of two overseas
fellowships and the installation of the computer. Two officials of the
National Family Planning Coordinating Board have been nominated for the
fellowships to undergo training during this year. Installation of the
computer is expected to be completed shortly and conversion of existing
programs and testing are scheduled to also be completed shortly. All
activity connected with, the computer should be completed by the end of
August 1981. Disbursements are expected to be completed by the scheduled
closing date of December 31, 1981.
Loan No. 1472   Second Population:  $24.5 Million Loan of July 6, 1977;
Effective Date: August 4. 1977; Closing Date: -April 30,,
1983
The implementation of the second population project is proceeding
satisfactorily. The construction of all buildings has been completed.
The major issues outstanding are (a) expediting the implementation of the
contraceptive raw materials study, (b) implementation of the community
incentive scheme, and (c) acceleration of the rate of disbursement.
Regarding the contraceptive raw materials study, the mission was assured
that all obstacles will be overcome and progress should be faster in the
coming months. The community incentive scheme has been redesigned and the
National Family Planning Coordinating Board (BKKBN) undertook to prepare
an operational plan for review. This is expected shortly and we expect
implementation to start on schedule early 1981. Progress on these aspects,
coupled with timely submission of withdrawal applications, should
contribute to the acceleration of the rate of disbursement. The BKKBN is
also reviewing the costs of the project in order to determine the extent of
savings. We expect to receive the revised costs as well as proposals for
utilization of project savings, if any, shortly.



ANNEX II
Page 23 of 28 pages
Loan No. 1869   Third Population:  $35 Million Loan of June 13, 1980;
Effective Date: September 10, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1985
This loan was declared effective on September 10, 1980 and a
smooth start to project implementation has begun. A Ministerial Decree
establishing a steering committee and appointing a project coordinator has
been signed. Civil works constitute the largest component of this project
and considerable attention is being given to this component so that delays
will not occur; the mission recommended that the staff entrusted with the
handling of this project be brought to at least the strength of that
provided for the second project (Loan 1472-IND).
Nutrition
Loan No. 1373   Nutrition Development:  $13.0 Million Loan of March 14,
1977; Effective Date: March 31, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Despite initial difficulties which resulted in an overall delay of
about 1-1/2 years, project implementation is being improved and sustained.
Due mainly to the devaluation of the Rupiah and revised construction
standards, project cost is considerably less than anticipated at appraisal.
A partial reallocation of funds between components and categories has thus
been proposed. This measure, along with 18 months postponement of the
completion date, would allow virtually all appraisal targets to be
achieved as well as a modest expansion (beyond those targets) of existing
activities of the more successfull components, and would not alter project
concept, objectives or content. With regard to present project status, the
Center for Research and Development of Nutrition (CRDN) is now operational
and a long-term research program is under preparation. Food Technolgy
Development Center (FTDC) staff have moved to the new campus. The pilot
plant is still unfinished, but should be functioning by the end of 1981.
Village food storage is fast becoming an important area for further trials
and development. Nutrition Academy enrollment has been increased to 24,
with consequential staffing and space requirements. Consultants on the
Nutrition Improvement Pilot Project (NIPP) have produced an interim report,
reintroducing a positive, promotive program which accords with the views
expressed by previous Bank missions. Nutrition Education consultants have
submitted two reports on communication and behavioral change; pre-tested
materials are ready for reproduction. All NIPP villages will be covered.
Arrangements have been made for radio and television airtime. The Nutrition
Anemia Pilot Project (NAPP) has continued on schedule and shows favorable
returns on investment. No advance has been made in the preparation of a
master plan for home garden improvement. The closing date has been post-
poned by one year to March 31, 1983.



ANNEX II
-50-                   Page 24 of 28 pages
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Credit No. 451 Fourth Technical Assistance: $5 Million Credit of
January 2, 1974; Effective Date: February 15, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Progress under the project is satisfactory.
Credit No. 898 Fifth Technical Assistance: S10 Million Credit of May 7,
1979; Effective Date: September 5, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984
Progress under this project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1197   National Resource Survey and Mapping:  $13 Million Loan
of February 5, 1976; Effective Date: April 2, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The National Coordinating Agency for Surveys and Mapping
(BAKOSURTANAL) complex at Cibinong is completed, and most of the cartographic,
photographic processing, including color photo processing equipment and
printing equipment required to produce maps, is installed. Computer equipment
for resource analysis including a topographic data bank and flatbed plotter
has been installed. Various resource evaluation activities have been
undertaken using these facilities. Recruitment and training of new staff,
particularly at junior and middle level has recently been accelerated. The
new photography operation financed under the parallel Canadian Project was
delayed as a result of which the Bank agreed to extend the project until end
of 1983. The photography operation is now expected to start in July 1981 and
completed at the end of 1983.
TRANSPORTATION
Highways
Loan No. 1236   Fourth Highway:  $130 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: August 13, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project has been under implementation for four and a half years.
Because of slow execution, the closing date has been postponed by two years to
December 31, 1982. -The only component still ongoing is the road betterment
program and the related consultancies for works supervision. Other
consultancies have been completed satisfactorily, sometimes with substantial
delays. Design changes by the Directorate General of Highways (DGH) geared to
speeding up construction works were reviewed by the October 1980 supervision
mission. Most of the changes were accepted but reinstatement of the original
standards in a few specific cases is now being finalized by DGH. According to
estimates there is expected to be a surplus of up to $10.5 million in the loan
account. Ways in which to use this surplus are under discussion; one option
is to increase the volume of road betterment by including new sections in the
project.



-51-                     ANNEX II
Page 25 of 28 pages
Loan No. 1696   Fifth Highway:  $130 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: August 28, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Project implementation, which started nearly two years ago, is
substantially behind schedule. The causes for delay are: (a) the ambitious
project objectives, which translate into program-type components and numerous
consultancies; (b) overcentralization of the Directorate General of Highways
(DGH); (c) a shift of senior staff within DGH; and (d) new development
guidelines of the GOI under Repelita III emphasizing the spread of investments
over a larger number of projects with reduced standards. The latest
supervision mission noted a marked improvement in project execution, with all
components now actively pushed forward by DGH, and the project should be
completed with a total delay of only one year. The road betterment program is
well underway. The major issue of reoptimization of road betterment standards
is now solved satisfactorily and DGH should soon send to the Bank the contract
amendments legalizing the agreed changes. Tendering for the first batch of
bridge replacements should start soon. The Provincial Departments of Public
Works programs of support works for 1981 have just been submitted to the Bank
following several revisions. $6.8 million of the loan amount has been
cancelled due to misprocurement of road maintenance equipment.
Loan No. 2049   Jakarta-Cikampek Highway: $85 million Loan of October 9, 1981;
Not yet effective; Closing Date: December 31, 1987
The project would increase road capacity between Jakarta and
Cikampek (about 70 km to the east) by construction of a new toll road and by
improvements to the existing highway.
Marine Transport
Loan No. 1250   Second Shipping:  $54 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project is part of the first phase of the Government s Inter-
Island Fleet Development Program and is designed to modernize, expand and
improve the efficiency of the inter-island fleet. Demand for general cargo
ships in the Regular Liner Service (RLS) expected at appraisal was slow in
materializing due to (i) slow scrapping of obsolete ships with consequent
reduced replacement demand; and (ii) effects of the rupiah devaluation on the
price of replacement ships. Conditions considerably improved in 1979 and 80%
of the loan has now been committed. The project entity, P.T. PANN, is
reasonably well managed; the operation and maintenance of its ships is being
regularly monitored and no major financial problems exist in its Bank-financed
operations. P.T. PELNI, the state-owned shipping line, accounting for about
half of the RLS, continues to incur substantial losses. On January 27, 1981,
Motor Vessel Tampomas operated by P.T. PELNI caught fire and sank while
carrying passengers from Jakarta to Sulawesi. The purchase of this ship was
financed in part from the proceeds of this loan. The circumstances of the
accident are the subject of an ongoing GOI Court of Inquiry.



ANNEX II
-52-                      Page 26 of 28 pages
Ports
Loan No. 1337   Tanjung Priok Port Project:  $32 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 3, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The Government-financed works in Basin III, delayed due to the
impact of the 1978 Rupiah devaluation, are completed, and the Basin III civil
works finance by the Bank loan, also delayed due to the devaluation, are 85%
completed. Civil works financed by the Bank loan in the Regional Harbor, are
62% completed. The work is now three months in arrears and a revised
construction schedule is being prepared. These delays will probably postpone
overall completion of the project but it is too early to estimate the full
effect of delays on project cost.  Several Bank-financed studies which are
underway or have been completed, will enable the Government to identify
components of a further ports project suitable for Bank financing.
TOURISM
Credit No. 479 Bali Tourism: $16.0 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: December 4, 1974; Closing Date: June 30,
1982
With the exception of the amenity core and the extension of some
utility services, infrastructure at Nusa Dua is complete. The access road
to Nusa Dua from the airport and the Denpasar bypass road were completed and
opened for traffic in December 1980. The preparation of additional infra-
structure improvements and possible participation by the Bali Tourism Deve-
lopment Board (BTDC) in hotel investment for Nusa Dua utilizing the uncom-
mitted portion of the credit is underway. On the other hand, the Ministry
of Transport is proposing to use additional funds from the credit to cover the
cost overrun incurred on the already completed access and bypass road
component. The allocation of the uncommitted funds to the two agencies is
under review by the Government. The market for tourism to Bali has held up
well in 1980/81. Hotel occupancies in international standard hotels in Bali
exceed 80%. The construction of a first hotel (450 rooms) by Garuda at Nusa
Dua is progressing well for completion in December 1982. The negotiations
with Club Mediterranee for a holiday village has been finalized and the
construction is expected to start in early 1982.
URBAN DEVELOPMENT
Loan No. 1336   Second Urban Development:  $52.5 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 28, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project consists of provision of basic infrastructural
facilities including footpaths, drainage, water supply and human waste



ANNEX II
Page 27 of 28 pages
disposal to about 3,000 ha of densely populated slum areas in Jakarta and 374
ha in Surabaya. Community health workers are to be trained under a pilot
program in both cities. Except for small carryover items (filter plant, deep
wells and health clinics) and the conduct of a proposed urban transport study
for Jakarta under the technical assistance component (Jakarta transport study,
Semarang and Surabaya drainage studies), the project progress is essentially
complete. Upgrading costs for the program have been within the appraisal
estimates. About 3,435 ha of kampungs in Jakarta and 441 ha of kampungs in
Surabaya have been covered so far, benefitting a total population of about
1.4 million. About 180 community health workers in Jakarta and 93 in
Surabaya have been trained and are working in the improved kampungs.
Loan No. 1653   Third Urban Development:  $54 Million Loan of January 31,
1979; Effective Date: September 26, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project provides basic infrastructural facilities including
roads, footpaths, water supply, and sanitation to impoverished, low-income
kampungs (neighborhoods) in the cities of Jakarta (750 ha), Surabaya (580 ha)
Ujung Pandang (375 ha), Semerang (310 ha) and Surakarta (170 ha), benefitting
a total population- of about 2.25 million. A comprehensive solid waste
management program is also included in Jakarta and Surabaya, together with a
drainage program in Surabaya. About 775 community health workers are to be
trained in the above two cities to work in the improved kampungs. The kampung
improvement is proceeding satisfactorily in all project cities. The
implementation progress of solid waste management and drainage components has
improved during this fiscal year (FY80/81) compared to last year. This
technical assistance component is proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1972   Fourth Urban Development Project: $43 Million Loan of
May 8, 1981; Effective Date: September 9, 1981;
Closing Date: September 30, 1986
The loan has not yet been declared effective. The project expands
the Bank's assistance to GOI's basic shelter programs evolved in earlier
projects and concentrated mainly in Jakarta and the major cities of East Java
to nine provincial capital cities spread throughout Indonesia. Basic infra-
structure and housing facilities will be provided through slum impovement and
sites and services developments on a total of over 2,000 ha benefitting an
estimatad 800,000 persons. Improvements to citywide infrastructure
deficiencies in main drainage; water supply and solid waste disposal will be
studied and implemented in three cities. A national urban mapping program
covering 125 cities will be undertaken providing base data for future city
planning, land registration and valuation programs. Institutional develop-
ment is a prominent feature and technical assistance for management, training
and feasibility studies to various urban authorities and agencies will be
provided.



ANNEX II
-54-                       Page 28 of 28 pages
WATER SUPPLY
Loan No. 1049   Five Cities Water Supply:  $14.5 Million Loan
of October 31, 1974; Effective Date: May 21, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project is about two and a half years behind schedule. Time was
lost because of delays in design work, tender evaluations, awards and contract
processing. All equipment supply and all major civil works contracts have
been completed or are under execution. Pipelaying is the only remaining major
work in progress and is delayed by the slow supply of special fittings. A
cost overrun of about 45% is expected.
Loan No. 1709   Second Water Supply:  $36 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: February 29, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project is 9-12 months behind schedule due to delays in loan
effectiveness and in tendering and award of contracts. Most procurement
contracts for equipment have been awarded except for the water meter contract.
The civil works bidding documents for the construction of water treatment
plants were approved during the last supervision mission and were tendered
in September 1981. A problem affecting the Directorate of Sanitary
Engineering (DSE) in managing the project is its delay in employing management
consultants to develop the administrative capacity of the seven beneficiary
water enterprises (WEs) and to employ a management specialist for DSE's own
organization; both actions have been delayed and DSE's staff is not adequately
monitoring the WEs because of inexperience and heavy workload. Additional
staff have been employed for this purpose and are being trained.



--55-
ANNEX III
Page 1
INDONESIA
SEVENTEENTH IRRIGATION (EAST JAVA PROVINCE) PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section 1: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:  2 years
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:  DGWRD with consultant assistance
financed by GOI, the British
Government and under
Loan 1435-IND
(c) Date of first Bank mission to
consider project                 : November 1980
(d) Date of departure of appraisal
mission                           : May 1981
(e)  Date of completion of negotia-         February 1982
tions
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness          July 1982
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III:  Special Conditions
1.   The GOI would
(a) provide adequate funds for and take action as necessary to
acquire in the year preceding construction all land and rights
in respect of land required for the construction and operation
of the facilities included in the project (para. 33);
(b) cause EJIS to develop and adopt, not later than April 30,
1983, a detailed rehabilitation construction program based
on a priority evaluation system acceptable to the Bank,
and a manual of major technical design standards for reha-
bilitation acceptable to the Bank; and cause EJIS to employ,



-56-
A.NNEX III
Page 2
not later than March 31, 1983, and thereafter maintain, at least
41 engineers for implementation of the project (paras. 38, 42)
2.   Conditions of Loan Effectiveness would be that:
(a) the consultant contract for the rehabilitation and O&M subproject
(EJIS) has been negotiated and approved (para. 35); and
(b) the IFAD Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by
governmental action and other conditions for effectiveness of the
IFAD Loan pursuant to the IFAD Loan Agreement have been duly
fulfilled; and the IFAD has appointed the Bank as Cooperating
Institution to administer the IFAD Loan on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank (para. 66).



________________________________________4e                                                                                                                                                                                         IBRD   16037   R
ANCI  V            Pb~~~~L....                                                                                                                                                      11471"                         MARICH 1982
'Qu \K M{SibYstlb Clll'.t' g   p$,fik Ot                                                                                               INDONESIA
;\E,Xlct    <7   0                                                               0                  IRRIGATION PROJECT XVII (EAST JAVA PROVINCE)
"'\ "'7,O S L"S<Sl v AVA 1 B                                    IRRIGATION AREAS                                         PROJECT REHABILiTATION AREAS
Ar.," >                                            I>> c   X   J A  V A  5 E  A            DELTA DRANTAS                                          RRATION  AR  CNTERS
-                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                    ~~~~~2 PEKALEN SAMPEAN  0  'GROUNDWATER CENITEPRS  r E./tOl
3 MADIUN                                        (3      IRRIGATION DiSTRICT OFICES
4 WARU TURI                                             ROADS
5 LODOYO                                    '            RIVERS
61LOWECR SOLO BASIN                                     MtNAN
_      _      ,~~~~1                                     7 KLAMPIS                                    -     -*PRtOVlhCIAL 8GUNDARIFS
7,                                                                           /- A7,                   A    D   U
C g N F F 4 Z ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AA  VA  
ie~~~~~~~~- J _ I DUU hd ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a, WOl/                                                                                                        BA  LI , 
6WE700, .ny 0AN / A W  /       7  O     0    W        o
/1/"          ONI-                                             7"O C,fA   IV                                                     o
.   .                                  KILOMETERS °   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~10  :20   30   40   8,0   @)   7 1 p>                                           S  )       _\X
ith;rofn rfJ*Wliahrlh@T,, fot~Vgtnvt e.                                                        MILES 0       0X          0       3         0       i:       :            
EffBi/ltEt, A$tt/VCfdiCTf rrEt/%f hlD,tl/tt t."titoGltfttt72/trtRtaX emkrsemwtm ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ 114






IBRD 16315
MALAYSIA          SOQLrH         CHINVA         S4AM
S,kr,,; aIga       SIMALY A N  T A  N
Btng :G            i.utd,t         S' - N-' A! P_  ,us
7.X-00   50 hM-r                                                                                                    twPM0
8.000  Q~~~~~~~~~0,00'
0      -                                         ~~                                                                                     I                                  --.--------  I  I-
,"ft?,t'tlt= A  '=;} _    _    t6'';'\  0  ;;0  '    lr  .    l00;;  5   ;0         '  t       0_;__             It8-         1 0|                                  0~~~~~~~~~~8o kpoo.r     15.00 
s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S Ss
T E                                                                                                                       I dol~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~uBr00
fl*W  t 8,600  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BA:  Ajer                            YrNu'
27                                                                       Tt* R, fw A~~~~~S0JC8by 0It..~
AIRRGAtION   PROIE,CT-  XV~ 1N/AfO,hu



