Document of             .,                -
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3648-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
SEVENTEENTH IRRIGATION (EAST JAVA PROVINCE) PROJECT
March 3, 1982
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00       =  Rupiahs (Rp) 625
Rp 1.00       =  US$0.0016
Rp I million  =  US$1,600
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES - METRIC SYSTEM
1 millimeter (mm)              =   0.039 inches
1 meter (m)                    -   39.37 inches
1 kilometer (km)               =   0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (sq km)    =   0.386 square miles
1 hectare (ha)                 =   2.47 acres
1 cubic meter (cu m)           =   35.31 cubic feet
1 million cubic meters (MCM)  =   811 acre feet
1 liter (1)                    =   0.264 gallons (USA)
1 liter/second (1/sec)         =   0.035 cubic feet per second
1 kilogram (kg)                =   2.2 pounds
1 metric ton (ton)             =   2,205 pounds
INDONESIAN FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB           -  Asian Development Bank
BULOG         -  National Food Procurement and Distribution Agency
BAKOSURTANAL  -  National Agency for Coordination of Survey and Mapping
DGWRD         -  Directorate General of Water Resources Development (in MPW)
DOI           -  Directorate of Irrigation (in DGWRD)
DPP           -  Directorate of Planning and Programming (in DGWRD)
EJIS          -  East Java Provincial Irrigation Service
GOI           -  Government of Indonesia
IFAD          -  International Fund for Agricultural Development
INPRES        -  Revenue-sharing grant programs from GOI to provincial,
district and village authorities
IPEDA         -  Land Tax
IRRI          -  International Rice Research Institute
MPW           -  Ministry of Public Works
O&M           -  Operation and Maintenance
P2AT          -  Groundwater Development Agency (in DPP)
PIBD/PROSIDA  -  Special agenciess within DGWRD responsible for implementing
Bank Group-assisted water resource projects



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY
Daerah     -  Irrigation district (about 90,000 net ha of sawah)
Juru       -  Irrigation overseer (responsible for 500-700 net ha of
irrigated sawah)
Kabupaten  -  Administrative district; headed by Bupati
Pengamat   -  Irrigation inspector, head of cabang seksi
Polowijo   -  Secondary food crops (maize, soybeans, cassava, groundnuts,
sweet potatoes, etc.) grown mainly in dry season. Pronounced
and written palawija in western Java
Sawah      -  Lowland rice fields with bunds to collect irrigation or rain
water and maintain controlled inundation
Seksi      -  Irrigation section (about 25,000 net ha of sawah); a
cabang seksi is a subsection with about 5,000 net ha
regal      -  Dryland fields for growing of upland crops
lUlu-Ulu    -  Village water master
PREVIOUS IRRIGATION PROJECTS
Project No.                Ln./Cr. No.      Year approved      Ln./Cr. Amount
US$ million
I                    Cr.  127-IND          1968                   5.0
II                    Cr.  195-IND          1970                  18.5
III                    Cr.  220-IND          1970                  14.5
IV                    Cr.  289-IND          1972                  12.5
V                    Cr.  514-IND          1974                  30.0
VI                    Ln. 1100-IND          1975                  65.0
VII                    Ln. 1268-IND          1976                  33.0
VIII                    Ln. 1434-IND          1977                  63.0
IX                    Ln. 1435-IND          1977                  35.0
X                    Ln. 1578-IND          1978                 140.0
XI                    Ln. 1579-IND          1978                  31.0
XII                    Ln. 1645-IND          1978                  77.0
XIII                     Ln. 1691-IND         1979                  50.0
XIV                    Ln. 1811-IND          1980                 116.0
XV                    Cr.  995-IND          1980                  45.0
Swamp Reclamation I        Ln. 1958-IND         1981                  22.0
XVI /1                     n.a.              n.a.                  37.0
Total                                                          794.5
/1 Proposed Irrigation Project XVI, presented to Board simultaneously
with the project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I
I
t



INDONESIA
SEVENTEENTH IRRIGATION (EAST JAVA PROVINCE) PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
1.  PROJECT AND SECTOR BACKGROUND . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          1
General   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  1
The Agricultural Sector . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          1
Development Strategies  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          2
Bank Group Assistance to the Irrigation Subsector . . . .          4
Performance Audits on Completed Projects. . . . . . . . .          4
Bank Review of DGWRD Operations and Performance . . . . .          5
Disbursement Performance and Trends . . . . . . . . . . .          7
2.  EAST JAVA PROVINCE AND PROJECT FORMULATION. . . . . . . . .          8
Geographical Background ... .  .  .  .   .   .                     8
Climate   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  8
Soils   ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  8
Agriculture ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   ..  9
Irrigation Development  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         11
Groundwater Development . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         15
Groundwater Resources   ... .  .  .  .  .   .. .  .  .  .  .  .   .  16
Irrigation Agencies in East Java  . . . . . . . . . . . .         16
Funding of Irrigation Activities in East Java . . . . . .         20
3.    THE  PROJECT   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  23
Project Description ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  23
Rehabilitation of Irrigation Systems. . . . . . . . . . .         24
Upgrading for Efficient Operation and Maintenance . . . .         29
Groundwater Development ... .  .  .  .    .....  .  .  .  .   .   30
Studies and Design  ... .  .  .  .  .    ....  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  33
Status of Planning and Design . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        34
Implementation Schedules  ... .  .  .    .....  .  .  .  .   .   35
Cost Estimates  ....  .  .  .  .  .   .....  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  36
Financing   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  37
Procurement ....  .  .    .  .  .  .   .....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  39
Disbursements ....  .  .  .  .   .    ......  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  39
Accounts and Audits .              . . . . . . . . . . . .        40
Environmental Impact  ..................                          41



- ii -
Page No.
4.' ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   41
Rehabilitation and Upgrading for Efficient O&M Subprojects  41
Consultant Services for Rehabilitation and Upgading for
Efficient O&M Subprojects   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   43
Groundwater Development Subproject. . . . . . . . . . . .   44
Consultant Services for Groundwater Development . . . . .   44
Operation and Maintenance of Tubewells  . . . . . . . . .   45
Studies and Design  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  46
Monitoring and Evaluation ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  47
5. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION, ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS .    47
General    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  47
Groundwater Subproject  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   49
Rehabilitation Subproject ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  51
Farm Incomes and Cost Recovery  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   53
Risks ......................... .                           54
6. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    55
LIST OF TABLES IN THE MAIN REPORT
2.1:  East Java:  Land Use . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    10
2.2:  Major Seasonal Crops in East Java, 1978-79 . . . . . . .    11
2.3:  Irrigation Areas Not Yet Included in
Rehabilitation Programs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   13
2.4:  Budgeted Expenditures for Irrigation in East
Java,  1969-82.    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  21
3.1:  National Tertiary Program Works in East Java . . . . . .   26
3.2:  Summary Implementation Schedules . . . . . . . . . . . .   35
3.3:  Project Cost Summary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    37
3.4:  Project Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    38
4.1:  Consultant Inputs for Rehabilitation and Upgrading for
Efficient O&M  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  43
4.2:  Consultant Inputs for Groundwater Development. . . . . .   44
4.3:  Consultant Inputs for Studies and Design for
Future  Projects.    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  47
5.1:  Expected Annual Production Increases from Groundwater
Development.    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  50
5.2:  Projected Changes in Cropping Pattern, Early Dry
Season, Tanggul Scheme .52
ANNEXES
1.  Cost Estimates, Schedules of Expenditures, Cost Estimates by Category of
Works, Proposed Allocation of Loan Proceeds, Estimated Schedule of
Disbursements, Unit Costs and Standards, Phasing of Well Drilling,
Consulting Services, List of Equipment and Procurement Schedule for
Materials and Equipment.



- iii -
2.   Commodity Price Projections, Summary of Commodity and Price
Projections, Input Costs and Farm Revenues Per Crop, Cropping Pattern
Changes, Cost and Benefit Streams, Supplementary Crop Budgets, Cropping
Patterns and Water Usage, Calculation of Net Benefits, Net Farm
Incomes.
3.   Required District Level Engineering Staff, Available EJIS Staff,
Functional Responsibilities for Rehabilitation Engineering, Full
Project Staffing, Operation and Maintenance Subproject.
4.   Statements of Expenditure.
5.   Project File References.
6.   Climatological Data.
CHARTS
23414 - Organization of the Directorate General of Water Resources
Development
23415 - East Java Province Irrigation Service
23416 - Implementation Schedule
23202 - Designs and Studies Schedule
MAP
IBRD 16037R - East Java Province Irrigation Project
IBRD 16315 - Seventeenth Irrigation Project Areas






INDONESIA
SEVENTEENTH IRRIGATION (EAST JAVA PROVINCE) PROJECT
1. PROJECT AND SECTOR BACKGROUND
General
1.01      The Government of Indonesia (GOI) has requested Bank and IFAD
assistance for a program of irrigation development in the Province of East
Java, comprising: rehabilitation of existing surface irrigation systems
serving about 50,000 ha; development of groundwater irrigation systems to
serve about 13,000 ha; upgrading for efficient operation and maintenance of
140,000 ha of irrigation systems and establishment of improveA methods of
operation and maintenance concentrated initially in selected districts where
rehabilitation has taken place; and strengthening of the East Java
provincial irrigation service (EJIS). The latter is in line with the goal
of increasing EJIS capacity for irrigation development in order to reduce
demands on the central Government's Directorate General of Water Resources
Development (DGWRD) in the Ministry of Public Works (MPW). GOI has also
requested assistance for studies and designs for proposed projects located
in Java and Sulawesi (Parigi-Poso; Polmas-Sidrap; Kali Progo) and to study
how best to strengthen the South Sulawesi Provincial Irrigation Service.
The previous 15 water resource projects assisted by the Bank Group, as well
as the swamp reclamation project, were implemented chiefly by DGWRD units,
due to the magnitude and dispersion of the work and limited capacity at the
provincial level. This project would be the first to be concentrated in a
single province and largely implemented by a provincial irrigation service.
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission composed of
Messrs. J. Goldberg, H. Matheson, Ms. M. A. Bromhead (Bank), B.
Sinclair, and K. Anderson (consultants) which visited Indonesia in May
1981, and contributions by Mr. D. Gunaratnam (Bank).
The Agricultural Sector
1.02      Objectives.  The Government's major objectives for the agricultural
and rural sector are to: (a) create productive employment to raise incomes of
the rural poor; (b) increase domestic food supply to keep pace with rising
demand; (c) expand agricultural exports particularly of smallholder tree
crops; and (d) ensure productive, sustainable use of Indonesia's varied land,
waLter and other natural resources.
1.03      Despite a 4% average annual growth of production, agriculture's
share of GDP has declined from 40% to 30% since 1968, while its siare of
e:.ports dropped from 45/. to 33% due mainly to the markedly increased
value of oil exports. Nevertheless, the agricultural and rural sector
remains of overwhelming importance to the great majority of Indonesians;
nearly 80% of the population lives in rural areas, and agriculture is the
major source of income.for about two-thirds of rural households and
one-tenth of urban households. Some 15.6 million smallholder families produce
subsistence and cash crops on 15.8 million ha, while 1,800 estates occupying
2.2 million ha produce mainly rubber, sugar, tea, palm oil, and tobacco.



-2-
Development Strategies
1.04      Employment.  Agriculture's share of total employment decreased
from 69% in 1961 to 64% in September 1971, while in 1976 it ranged between
66% in March and 60% in October./l Nevertheless, agriculture remained by
far the largest single source (with 46%) of new employment during 1971-76.
Outside Java, employment prospects in agriculture appear quite promising,
given the sustained increases in the smallholder area, due to land reclamation
and irrigation development, including both Government-sponsored and spon-
taneous transmigration. In Java, rehabilitation of irrigation systems, which
generated significant employment in the last decade, should continue to
provide additional construction and farm work.
1.05      Food Crops.  Given its limited manpower and financial resources,
GOI has concentrated on increasing the production of rice, the preferred
staple food of the great majority of Indonesians. Rice production increased
rapidly (4.5% p.a.) between 1968 and 1974, chiefly due to irrigation rehabil-
itation and the provision to irrigated rice growers of fertilizer and high-
yielding variety seed, financed largely through the BIMAS credit program.
The growth rate slowed markedly to 1.7% p.a. over 1974-77, in the wake of
severe declines in fertilizer usage (due to restrictions on private sector
fertilizer trade), successive seasons of untimely rainfall, and unpreceden-
ted attacks by pests and diseases, principally the brown plant hopper and
associated viruses. In 1978 rice production increased by 10% with favorable
weather, improved and liberalized fertilizer distribution, and nationwide
Government-sponsored distribution of recently introduced pest-resistant
varieties. Rice production in 1979 increased only 2% over 1978 due, mainly,
to insufficient rainfall. 1980 saw one of the largest proportional increases
(13%) in national rice production since records have been kept, to over
20 million tons milled rice equivalent, and preliminary estimates of 1981
production are 21.6 million tons. Over the past decade, output of secondary
food crops (maize, cassava, soybeans, peanuts, and sweet potatoes) grew more
slowly, at an average of only 1.6% p.a., composed of a 1.1% p.a. average
decline in area (much of this land shifting to irrigated rice) and a 2.7%
p.a. increase in yield. Due to the bumper rice harvests of 1980, Indonesian
rice imports declined in that year to about 1.4 million tons, a total
surpassed by Korea and representing only about 15% of world imports, a
considerable turnaround from the previous three years.
1.06      Tree Crops.  The Government has embarked on a major effort to
develop smallholder tree crops outside Java as part of its national rubber and
coconut replanting and transmigration programs. The objective is to improve
production on existing plantations while developing large areas of new land
for settlement. One of the Government's main approaches has been to use
/1 The share of agricultural employment in March ranged between 63% in
Java and 72% in the Other Islands. The corresponding figures in
October were 57% and 66% respectively. The seasonal differences
represented a drop of 6.7 million workers in agricultural employment.



public estate companies to plant tree crops on land to be settled by local
landless families as well as by transmigrants. These companies clear the
land and provide settlers with planting material, other inputs, processing
and marketing facilities. This approach is appropriate in view of
constraining management and technical capabilities.
1.07       Future Strategy.  To prevent a widening food production consump-
tion gap, productivity and area under rice and secondary food crops must be
increased. In Java, rice-cropping intensity could be raised through water
storage, irrigation, and flood control projects although relocation of
inhabitants of reservoir sites may delay progress. Yields and cropping
intensity can also be increased by improving tertiary irrigation and
drainage networks in conjunction with well-planned rehabilitation projects,
developing groundwater potential and improving support services. In the
Other Islands there is potential for new irrigation and swamp reclamation
schemes which GOI is in the process of developing. Yields of existing
varieties of secondary food crops could be increased by improved husbandry,
including fertilizers and insecticides. GOI is now giving serious attention
to varietal improvement of such crops.
1.08      Area Development and Transmigration.  In 1980, about 88 million
people lived in Java, at a density approaching 650 persons/sq km. The island,
with 7% of Indonesia's land area, has 45% of the cropped area and 63% of the
population. Java generally has more fertile soils and better infrastructure
than the Other Islands; however, its cultivable land is almost fully
utilized. In some watersheds cultivation already exceeds ecologically safe
limits, contributing to increasing erosion, flooding, and siltation of
reservoirs, irrigation canals and ports. GOI is preparing integrated
watershed development projects to address this problem. The primary program
for new area development in the Other Islands, as well as for creating
employment and settlement nuclei for Javanese migrants, is transmigration. An
organized transmigration program is important for regional and natural
resource development in the Other Islands, production of food and export
crops, and creation of employment and decent living conditions for landless
Javanese.
1.09      Role of Government.  While the private sector should be encouraged
to expand its role in agricultural input supply, marketing, and processing,
Government continues to bear the major responsibility for infrastructure,
resource conservation, and other services. Despite marked improvements over
the past decade, technical and managerial manpower constraints continue to
impede planning and rapid implementation of agricultural and rural develop-
ment, including irrigation and drainage works. GOI must therefore continue
to strengthen its key rural development institutions, particularly through
education, recruitment, training and retention of technical manpower.
1.10      Bank Lending for Agriculture.  Since the first of 16 irrigation
and swamp reclamation projects was approved in 1968, the Bank Group's
agricultural lending has rapidly expanded to include estate and smallholder



-4-
tree crops, fertilizer production and distribution, sugar, livestock,
fisheries, research, extension, training, seeds, transmigration, and resource
survey and mapping. The Operations Evaluation Department's Sector Operations
Review of Bank Group agricultural lending in Indonesia (Report No. 2166, dated
August 9, 1978) concluded that despite deficiencies in some projects, the
Bank's portfolio in Indonesian agriculture was "of overall good quality and
likely to contribute substantially to increased production." Within the
context of GOI's agricultural objectives and priorities, as outlined in
Repelita III, future Bank lending is expected to focus on:
(a) a diversified irrigation, flood protection, drainage and swamp
reclamation program to intensify rice cropping on Java and to expand
water resources infrastructure in the Other Islands;
(b) smallholder and nucleus estate tree crop planting programs
including industrial forest estates; and
(c) area development projects aimed at (i) watershed management to
conserve soil and ensure long-term productivity in the densely
populated areas of Java; (ii) rural works programs; and
(iii) transmigration.
Bank Assistance to the Irrigation Subsector
1.11      The Bank has provided $757.5 million /1 for project assistance in
irrigation and has played a significant role in Indonesian irrigation
development since 1968. The earliest Bank supported irrigation projects were
designed to rehabilitate major systems to quickly increase rice production.
Later projects upgraded existing systems and financed drainage and flood
protection works and tertiary networks. There has been little construction
of new systems. Studies supported by the Bank for possible investment in the
next few years include large storage dams to serve existing irrigation system.
Bank assistance was channeled through two special agencies /2 of the
Directorate General of Water Resources (DGWRD) which were set up to implement
Bank projects, but now supports also operations of the Directorate of Rivers,
(Loan 1691-IND) the Directorate of Swamps (Loan 1958-IND), and the Directorate
of Planning and Programming (Cr. 995-IND).
Performance Audits on Completed Projects
1.12      The first four Bank-assisted irrigation projects have been
completed and performance audits issued./3 The most serious problems were
/1 Not including proposed Irrigation XVI presented to Board simultaneously
with this project (see frontispiece).
/2 PROSIDA and PIBD
/3 Credit 127-IND, PPAR Report No. 2047, May 1978. Credits 195, 220 and
289-IND, PPAR Report No. 3269, December 1980.



-5-
construction delays and cost overruns. Delays arose mostly' because of
GOI's unfamiliarity with international procurement procedures, cumbersonm
local bidding, contracting and fund release procedures, and shortage of
local funds. Cost overruns were due to additional quantitities of work
found to be needed following detailed design, and increased unit costs from
unexpectedly rapid inflation and construction delays. However, these cost
increases were more than offset by higher rice prices. Although it is not
possible to disaggregate benefits between irrigation and supporting services
due to concurrent and subsequent projects, economic rates of return of the
four projects are expected to exceed 40%.
1.13      These lessons were taken into account in formulating and imple-
menting subsequent projects. Appraisal quantity and cost estimates are now
based on final designs for at least the first year's work program and major
structures. Multi-year contracts with price escalation provisions, standard
contract documents and standard bid evaluation procedures have been
introduced together with mobilization and prompt payment provisions. Other
problem areas being tackled include: improving effective operation and
maintenance services (O&M) at the provincial level; providing technical and
administrative support to water user associations; and promoting greater
efficiency in water use.
]L.14     In recent Bank irrigation projects, measures have been taken to
improve O&M including providing adequate staff; and increased and timely
budgetary support. These measures improved O&M funding, but not standards.
Specific proposals to improve O&M in East Java Province are included in the
proposed seventeenth irrigation project and may be proposed in later projects
for other provinces. The importance of ensuring farmer commitment to
tertiary development was recognized from the first tertiary subproject
supported by the Bank (Ln. 1268-IND). Water user associations are
established before starting tertiary construction and later collect member
c-ontributions, normally in kind after each harvest for O&M. Actions are
included in the project to provide better training and support for such
Water user associations (para. 6.01g).
Bank Review of DGWRD Operations and Performance
1.15      In 1975 and 1978 the Bank reviewed GOI's irrigation program, its
contribution to national food supply, and the ability of DGWRD to expand its
activities./I These reviews reported on the remarkable success of DGWRD and
the ability and energy of its senior staff, but concluded that the present
staffing and organizational structure of DGWRD needed further strengthening.
1.16      Although measures have been taken to accelerate project imple-
mentation since then, many projects still suffer delays, primarily during
the startup period. Bank Group experience since 1978 confirms that the
/1 The Irrigation Program Survey (No. 705-IND), April 15, 1975 and the
Irrigation Program Review (No. 2027a-IND), October 16, 1978.



-6-
present DGWRD implementation capacity limits project and disbursement
performance. The major causes of delayed implementation identified during
supervision and the actions taken to address them are discussed below.
(a) Delays in land acquisition. Possible Bank assistance is being dis-
cussed to strengthen the Directorate General Agraria (DGA), which
is responsible for land acquisition and registration. Measures
have been agreed to use private surveyors or DGWRD surveyors where
DGA capacity is presently insufficient. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that all land rights required for construction
would be acquired in the year preceding construction (para. 6.01c);
(b) Inadequate contractor capacity and construction standards. A
project to assist contractors through training and to improve
supervision of construction and contracts has been prepared by the
Ministry of Public Works and is being appraised by the Bank. The
Bank is also assisting GOI to review construction industry policies
and procedures;
(c) Difficulties with surveying and mapping. The Bank has recommended
improvements for quality standards and procedures. Equipment to
expand and modernize surveying and mapping, and training of
contractors and DGWRD supervisory staff is being provided under
Irrigation XV (Cr. 995-IND). The GOI has also agreed that the
National Agency for Coordination of Survey and Mapping
(BAKOSURTANAL) will oversee all GOI agencies' large-scale mapping
needs, monitor available photography and mapping capacity, and
increase capacity if needed (Section 4.09 of Loan Agreement
1972-IND);
(d) Delayed fund releases. GOI's budget system and fund release
procedures have been improved, and training in procurement and
disbursement procedures given to staff. Measures to improve budget
processes in DGWRD have been initiated; and
(e) Reduced DGWRD annual budget allocations. GOI allocations for the
irrigation sector have not kept pace with expectations of the Third
Five-Year Plan and increasingly projects have been delayed. There
is an overall shortage of funds for the sector program, and not
enough flexibility for DGWRD to quickly divert funds during the
budget year from slower moving projects to those which need more.
1.17      These steps to improve project implementation performance have
been accompanied by an increasing dialogue between the Bank and GOI towards
strengthening DGWRD's institutional capacity. The critical areas being
addressed are:
(a) improving planning and programming, and the budget system to
concentrate available financial resources on priority irrigation



- 7 -
investments. DGWRD project appraisal capacities are being estab-
lished, a coordinating unit for benefit monitoring and evaluation
is being strengthened, and appropriate economic criteria are being
determined for project selection and preparation;
(b) improving the flow of management information related to resolving
problems of project implementation, including procurement and
construction progress so that managers can take earlier remedial
actions whenever necessary;
(c) reducing the administrative and executive burden on the Director
General, and increasingly delegating responsibilities. Several
alternative structural changes are under consideration by GOI;
(d) progressively reducing the extensive use of foreign consultants
employed by DGWRD for feasibility and engineering design work, and
to a lesser extent for construction supervision; and
(e) reviewing the DGWRD work program and budgets proposed from 1982/83
to 1988/89 and the relevant institutional implications.
1.18      Institutional strengthening has become an increasing objective of
Bank assistance. Bank inputs will also seek to address policies and
procedures which could improve the sector program or accelerate project
implementation. While the institutional strengthening now started is
progressing, lending, which will include increasing cofinancing, will focus on
te,chnically complex projects where high design standards must be set, or
difficult economic choices made. These measures are designed to move
progressively towards sector lending.
Diisbursement Performance and Trends
1.L9      Disbursements of previous Bank irrigation Loans reflect the delayed
project implementation schedules. Currently, cumulative disbursements
(Irrigation V-XV) run at about 55% of appraisal estimates, with little
difEference between projects. This performance is in line with experience for
Irrigation Projects supported by the Bank in the Region, and with other
sectors in Indonesia. Progress has been made in improving disbursements
(which were below 50% in FY80) through more intensive supervision by the
Banik's staff resident in Indonesia, the use of statements of expenditures for
small civil works contracts, and by accelerating start up activities of new
projects. For the seventeenth irrigation project consultant short lists and
proposed direct invitations for consulting services were agreed with the Bank
at appraisal, and evaluation of proposals was in progress at the time of
negotiations. Because lengthy bid evaluations and GOI procurement control
clearances have frequently delayed contracts, during negotiations GOI agreed
that the contracts for consulting services for the EJIS rehabilitation and
upgrading subproject will be negotiated and approved in accordance with GOI



-8-
procurement control procedures before Loan Effectiveness (para. 6.03).
These actions, together with other actions in progress to reduce project
implementation delays (para. 1.16) are expected to result in progressive
improvement.
2. EAST JAVA PROVINCE AND PROJECT FORMULATION
Geographical Background
2.01      East Java province, which includes the island of Madura, extends
over some 48,000 km2, and with a population of 30 million is the most popu-
lous in Indonesia. Its capital, Surabaya, is the second city of Indonesia
and the main entrepot for the east. The topography is dominated by volcanic
mountains several of which rise to over 3,000 m (Map 16037R). The two main
rivers are the Solo and the Brantas, the former rising in Central Java
between the volcanoes Merapi and Lawu and flowing to the Java Sea north of
Surabaya. The Brantas rises north of Malang in a bowl formed by several of
Javas highest peaks (Semeru, Arjuno, Kawi), flows around these mountains to
Mojokerto, where it bifurcates and reaches the Strait of Madura at Surabaya
and south at Porong. The alluvial plains and slopes at the feet of the
volcanoes are fertile and intensively farmed. Exceptionally, the Tuban area
in the northwest and some hilly areas in the south and southwest are lime-
stone.
Climate
2.02      The climate has uniformly high temperatures, high humidity and
heavy rainfall (Annex 6). There are two distinct seasons, the wet season
from November to May and a dry season from June to October with limited and
unpredictable rainfall. Average annual rainfall, over 80% of which falls in
the wet season, varies from less than 1,500 mm on the northeast coast and on
Madura to over 4,000 mm in the higher mountains; on the plains the average
is about 1,800 mm. Mean air temperature and relative humidity remain almost
constant throughout the year, at about 270C and 79% respectively. Solar
radiation is sufficient to grow a wide range of tropical and subtropical
crops.
Soils
2.03      East Java has unusually fertile soils which cover large areas,
generally developed from intermediate to basic volcanic rocks. In areas
over 600 m elevation, volcanic ash soils, younger laterites and podsolic
boils predominate. The areas lying below 600 m are agriculturally most
important. Soils originating from quartcruary and volcanic rocks are
exceptionally fertile, but tertiary marl and calcareous soils of low fer-
tility are also found, particularly in the northern part of the province.



-9-
Agriculture
2.04      Over half the land in East Java is used for agriculture, on which
over 60% of the population is dependent for its livelihood. The most econ-
omically productive and valued land category is irrigated sawah (riceland),
which is typically bunded to retain irrigation and rain water for rice
cultivation in the wet season, and where irrigation water supplies permit,
during the dry season also. /1 Sugarcane is also grown on irrigated sawah,
on a very long-term rotation with rice, and takes 80,000 ha out of rice
production annually. As rainfall and river flows diminish drastically
during the dry season, and existing dam reservoirs on the Brantas and other
streams can store only a fraction of excess wet season flows, only 35% of
the 925,000 ha of land in this category can be planted to rice during the
dry season. The remainder is planted chiefly to maize, soybeans, ground-
nuts, cassava, and sweet potatoes (collectively known as polowijo)/2 or
tobacco.
2.05      Other agricultural land includes rainfed sawah, where heavy soils
permit wet rice to be grown during the rainy season without irrigation.
Tegal consists of dry upland fields, where some dryland rice is grown but
maize is the predominant crop. Cassava is extensively planted on tegal
land, either in rotation or intercropped with maize and other crops. A wide
range of crops (including coconuts, fruits, vegetables, and medicinal herbs)
are grown for family use and sale in the house compounds, which represent a
major agricultural asset in Java given the extreme density of population,
tiny farm holdings averaging less than 0.4 ha in area, and large number of
families without fields. The distribution of major land use categories
is given in Table 2.1.
/1 In small particularly favored areas of East Java, triple-cropping
of rice is practiced.
/2 This term is pronounced and written palawija in Western Java.



- 10 -
Table 2.1: EAST JAVA: LAND USE
Category                    Area       Percentage of
(ha)       total area
Irrigated sawah                     925,000          19.2
Rainfed sawah                       322,000           6.7
Tegal                             1,188,000          24.7
Housing and garden compounds        642,000          13.4
Coffee and tea plantations          226,000           4.7
Forest and scrub                  1,223,000          25.5
Unproductive land                   274,000           5.8
Total Land Area             4,800,000         100.0
Source: Annex 5, Reference A, Vol. 1, pg. 4.
2.06      Table 2.2 presents average net area harvested, production and
yields for major food crops and tobacco in East Java for the years 1978-79.
1978 was officially assessed by the EJIS as "extremely wet" on the basis
of an annual rainfall of 2,392 mm (averaged over all 36 irrigation sections
in the province), a 7-month rainy season, and commencement of the wet season
in December. 1979 was "relatively dry", with average rainfall of 1,813 mm
and a 6-month wet season beginning in December./l
2.07      For wet rice, areas planted, production, and average yields in the
province have increased in recent years largely independently of average
rainfall, as in 1978-79. While data for 1980 are not complete, it is clear
that rice production growth accelerated rapidly despite average rainfall of
1,400 mm. In that year, East Java smallholders provided about 800,000 tons
of milled rice to the national rice procurement agency (BULOG) out of a
total national offtake of 1.6 million tons, twice as large as any previous
/1 Annex 6, Reference B, pg. 39.



- 11 -
Table 2.2: MAJOR SEASONAL CROPS IN EAST JAVA, 1978-79
Net area
harvested    Production    Average yield
(ha)         (tons)        (tons/ha)
Wet rice /a            1,324,000    4,978,000            3.76
Dry rice 7a               60,000        83,000            1.38
Maize                  1,161,000    1,636,000             1.41
Cassava                  438,000    4,032,000            9.21
Sweet potatoes            44,000       292,000           6.63
Groundnuts               136,000       119,000           0.87
Soybeans                 362,000       352,000           0.97
Smallholder
cigarette tobacco      109,000        46,000           0.43
/a  Rice production given in dry unhusked grain.
Sources: Central Bureau of Statistics, annual reports on food
crops. For tobacco, U.S. Department of Agriculture
estimates.
domestic rice procurement achievement./I The surprisingly large recent
increases in provincial rice production can be traced to several factors,
including widespread adoption of pest-resistant high yielding rice varieties
and increased fertilizer use together with continuing programs of irrigation
development and upgrading in East Java.
Irrigation Development
2.08      Background.  Irrigation has been practised in East Java for cen-
turies. Early systems were primitive, usually involving the diversion of
streams into sawah fields for the annual rice crop. Later more sophisti-
cated systems were constructed by the Dutch, originally for sugar
p:Lantations; these were generally well designed and constructed. Most of
the 861 irrigation units serving paddy smallholders in East Java today were
constructed before 1941.
/] Official estimates for 1981 imply a total BULOG domestic procurement of
1.8 million tons, of which East Java would supply 950,000 tons.



- 12 -
2.09      With few exceptions, existing irrigation systems rely on run-of-
the-river diversions which can assure water supplies from the start of the
wet season through the early part of the dry season (para. 2.02). Depending
on topography, a stream with a 10-15 km run through sawah areas may have
five diversion weirs. Villages and towns frequently straddle larger canals
and canal structures, which provide the only drinking water, and town
sewerage and drainage available for as much as half the population of East
Java.
2.10      In line with the national approach to irrigation operation and
maintenance (O&M), the EJIS controls the source of each irrigation unit,
primary and secondary canals, and tertiary offtakes. Within the tertiary
blocks of 50-150 ha of sawah, farmer groups operate the tertiary canals and
field channels. Primary and secondary canals in East Java total about 1,100
km and 5,600 km respectively. The EJIS has field offices throughout the
province organized in 10 irrigation districts (averaging 90,000 ha of
sawah), 36 sections (25,000 ha), and 180 subsections (5,000 ha).
2.11      From the beginning of World War II until the middle 1970s the
irrigation systems received very litle maintenance and deteriorated. The O&M
staff and funding available were devoted to the most crucial upkeep of major
structures (few of which have failed) and dry season water distribution and
rationing. Prevention of silt accumulation throughout the system and
installation or replacement of gates and measuring structures were beyond
the capabilities of the irrigation services. While system capacities were
reduced, demands increased as estate sugar was replaced by smallholder rice,
new sawah areas were irrigated and double cropping of rice became common
practice with new varieties.
2.12      In 1969 GOI commenced a large program of irrigation rehabilitation
and upgrading which has received continuous Bank Group assistance (paras.
1.11-1.14). In East Java the highest priority for rehabilitation was
assigned to Brantas Delta irrigation area (33,000 ha) in the Mojokerto
irrigation district surrounding Surabaya, and to the three easternmost
districts on the island known collectively as Pekalen-Sampean (290,000 ha).
Basic rehabilitation began in these areas in 1971-72, and was completed in
Brantas Delta in 1976 with Japanese assistance and in Pekalen Sampean in
1980 under Irrigation IV (Credit 289-IND)./1 A fourth complete irrigation
district (150,000 ha) encompassing the Madiun Valley in the western part of
the province is being rehabilitated under Irrigation Projects VIII (Loan
1434-IND) and XIV (Loan 1811-IND) while rehabilitation of the Bojonegoro
district (91,000 ha) covering the lower Solo River Basin is being
/1 Tertiary canal constructon in Pekalen-Sampean is being financed under
Irrigation Projects VII (Loan 1268-IND) and XIV (Loan 1811-IND).



- 13 -
studied and designed with Canadian assistance. Finally, in the Brantas
Basin ADB is financing rehabilitation or new construction serving 37,000 ha
in three project areas.
2.13      Many works and even entire irrigation schemes in areas already
covered require further work; limited budgets even for recent externally
aided projects have necessarily forced rehabilitation in the above mentioned
regions to be concentrated selectively on highest priority works./l As nearly
a decade has passed since the first surveys in Delta Brantas and Pekalen
Sampean, many works and schemes considered adequate then should now be
included in an upgrading program, and this is addressed under the operation
and maintenance subproject of this project. Nevertheless, there remains a
large number of irrigation schemes, constituting about 35% of the total
irrigated area of East Java and concentrated in the Brantas Basin and the
Island of Madura, which has never been included in any large-scale
rehabilitation program. These areas, which must now be considered the
highest priority regions in the province for survey and remedial work, are
summarized in Table 2.3. Proposed project works form a time slice of a
rehabilitation program for these areas.
Table 2.3: IRRIGATION AREAS NOT YET INCLUDED
IN REHABILITATION PROGRAMS
Irrigation            Areas included in           Unrehabilitated
district               other programs                 areas
(ha)
Malang                                                88,870
Kediri                     Lodoyo, Waru              112,410
Jombang                     Turi                      57,230
Mojokerto                   Brantas Delta             37,193
Madura                                                22,426
3182129
/l One engineering aspect frequently disregarded during initial rehabili-
tation appears to have been cross-drainage in hilly areas, where many
canals are susceptible to undermining.



- 14 -
2.14      While individual schemes vary widely in physical condition and
operational capability, the following problems are typical:
(a) Intakes: Most weirs and intakes require structural repairs, and
many gates are in poor condition, requiring replacement or major
repair. Stop logs have been removed and metalwork is rusted and
damaged. Many gates cannot be operated because of silt deposits
and on some the hoisting mechanisms are defective. A major
complaint is the difficulty in adjusting and the slowness of
action of the sluicing and regulating gates, which is partly a
problem in the original designs. In some cases, erosion of aprons
and wing walls has occurred which threatens the stability of
structures.
(b) Canals and canal structures: Most canals suffer from excessive
silt deposition and loss of capacity. In other reaches severe
erosion continues to occur. This has resulted in damage to canal
banks and inspection roads, and is the cause of excessive seepage.
Near villages canals are partially blocked by domestic and village
refuse. Many damaged canal structures are no longer operational.
Flash boards have been removed and drops replaced with rock and
brush plugs. Control gates are damaged or nonexistent. Masonry
lining along the canals and near structures requires extensive
repairs.
(c) Tertiary systems: The present tertiary systems are inadequate to
achieve full benefits of irrigation. Intakes are primitive and
lack facilities for efficiently delivering, measuring and appor-
tioning the water in the dry season. Channel banks are usually
in poor condition and cross-sections have deteriorated. This
leads to farmers having to steal water from main system canals,
and also running water from field to field, which is wasteful and
inefficient.
(d)  Drains:  Drainage is usually achieved by farmer-constructed out-
let drains to a canal or natural drainage channel. Virtually all
drainage maintenance is performed by the farmers or villagers. In
some areas farmers have dammed drains to provide a water supply
pool, leading to flooding elsewhere. In general improved drainage
is needed in the lower areas to remove excess water and avoid
waterlogging of crops.
(e) Access roads: Many major canal systems lack roads for inspection
or equipment access. In other cases, erosion of canal banks has
caused access roads to become impassable.



- 15 -
Groundwater Development
2.15      Given East Java's pronounced dry season, but large areas of sawah
and high paddy yields when water is available, DGWRD has undertaken over the
past decade groundwater exploration and development throughout the province.
These investigations have been carried out by P2AT,/1 the groundwater
organization within DGWRD (para. 2.24). Initial exploratory work was
conducted in the Madiun-Solo area under Irrigation IV /2 (with consultants
Electroconsult Nippon Koei), and in the Kediri-Nganjuk area assisted by
British aid with MacDonalds consultants. Examination of geological history,
tectonic structure, lithology, characteristics of the aquifer system, recharge
and discharge capabilities and water quality suggested promising supplies.
2.16      By 1977 enough work had been carried out in Madiun to identify
sufficient groundwater to irrigate 30,000 ha or more, mostly through supple-
menting surface irrigation. A pilot groundwater irrigation scheme for 2,800
ha was undertaken with IBRD financing,/3 to test the feasibility and problems
involved with large scale groundwater development. By July 1980, 33 tubewells
had been installed in the pilot project area, with encouraging results.
2.17      Pilot groundwater schemes were started in Kediri-Nganjuk with
British aid. By 1976, 26 tubewells were operating, and by 1980 there were 67
pilot wells in 3 areas, irrigating 1,652 ha. Tubewell command areas were
small relative to Madiun, since most cultivated land in the pilot areas had
previously been entirely dependent on rainfall. Long-term development poten-
tial is estimated at about 25,000 ha. In Kediri-Nganjuk cropping patterns
were studied and models for cultivation with groundwater were developed with
local extension staff. Water user associations were formed and in Kediri
these have developed successfully; in the longer established tubewell areas
farmers are organizing and paying for tubewell pump operation themselves.
Maintenance is carried out by P2AT (paras. 4.13, 4.14).
2.18      Hydrogeological investigations elsewhere in East Java were begun in
1976, also with British aid. Survey work was completed in late 1979, and
15,000 to 20,000 ha in water-short areas were estimated to have good ground-
water potential. These were mostly in Tuban in the north, in Mojokerto
beltween Surabaya and Kediri, and in Jember-Lumajang in the southeast. Over
100 exploratory holes and test wells were drilled, and by May 1981, 4 pilot
production wells had started in Tuban, and 4 in Mojokerto.
/1 Proyek Pengembangan Air Tanah.
/2 Completed under Irrigation VI (Loan 1100-IND).
/3 Irrigation VIII (Loan 1434-IND).



- 16 -
2.19      In summary, groundwater potential in East Java has been well
studied for the past 10 years. Investigations in the Madiun and
Kediri-Nganjuk areas indicate that groundwater development may readily move
from the pilot to the development phase under the proposed project. Pilot
schemes and further investigatory work elsewhere in East Java will benefit
from experience in the longer established tubewell areas. P2AT has built up
experience in groundwater development, and over the next five years should
be able to take over many responsibilities presently assumed by consultants.
Groundwater Resources
2.20      The principal aquifers capable of supplying groundwater to large-
capacity irrigation wells are the thick water bearing strata amongst alluvial
sediments and the limestones of the northern hill zone. Water levels in
wells are generally only a few meters below land surface although in some
areas of confined groundwater the artesian pressure is sufficient to cause
the wells to flow without pumping.
2.21      Recharge to the aquifers occurs primarily during the November-May
season of heavy rainfall, both from direct infiltration from precipitation
and stream flow as well as seepage losses from irrigation channels and paddy
fields. Extensive monitoring of water levels in the pilot areas irrigated
from wells has shown the recharge to be rapid and capable of sustaining
withdrawals of groundwater to meet project requirements as well as for
additional areas for future development.
2.22      The chemical quality of water is suitable for irrigation with low
salinity or alkalinity hazard. The only exception is a narrow strip up to 1
km wide bordering the sea in various subareas where salinity may be
excessive, particularly at depth. Complete data on the groundwater balance
has not yet been collected, but expected yield at full development would be
enough to irrigate about 75,000 ha without recharge problems. Thus the
proposed project for about 13,000 ha would have no adverse effects on the
overall aquifer level, though there may be local recharge problems which
should be carefully monitored.
Irrigation Agencies in East Java
2.23      Central DGWRD Units.  Most large-scale irrigation development in
East Java is managed by project units of central DGWRD agencies (Chart
No. 23414). The Directorates of Irrigation and Rivers maintain project
offices in Sidoarjo and Bojonegoro to administer planning, development, and
recurrent activities in the Delta Brantas and Lower Solo project areas
respectively, while PROSIDA maintains offices in Madiun, Jember, and other
towns as headquarters for Bank-financed rehabilitation and tertiary
development programs. In these centrally-controlled project areas, however,
much of the design and other engineering work and all operation and
maintenance are performed by provincial (EJIS) staff, who are frequently
seconded to project units for this purpose.



- 17 -
2.24      P2AT.  The most specialized central DGWRD project unit working in
East Java is P2AT, established in 1971. P2AT headquarters are in Jakarta, and
exploratory work has been carried out in Central Java, Bali, Lombok and
Yogyakarta (Gunung Kidul) as well as East Java. However, over half of known
groundwater resources are in East Java, where most staff outside headquarters
are concentrated. P2AT is divided into two subproject units in East Java,
whose managers are responsible for activities in Madiun and elsewhere in East
Java /1 respectively. Staff in both subproject units are divided into
sections for administration, finance, technical assistance, and operational
field staff. Field staff are further subdivided into units of survey,
planning and drilling, irrigation and agriculture, and equipment and
materials. The East Java manager, based in Surabaya, is also responsible for
M4adura, where investigations have so far revealed only limited resources.
There are offices in Surabaya, Madiun, and Kediri, where most development
activities outside Madiun in East Java have so far been concentrated. There
are also well-equipped workshops in Kediri and Madiun.
2.25      P2AT currently has approximately 480 staff in East Java, including
65 senior technical staff. Most professional staff are irrigation or
groundwater engineers or geohydrologists. Drilling supervisors and foremen
are also gaining experience. P2AT is weakest in its mechanical staff; their
role will become increasingly important as more pumps are installed and a
maintenance program is established. The total also includes over 80 financial
and administrative staff, concentrated in Surabaya, and 135 pump operators.
The latter are currently employed by P2AT to operate existing pumps; in the
future, however, they will be employed and paid by water-user associations
commencing two years after pump installation.
2.26      EJIS.  Within the East Java Province Public Works Department there
are three major functional services which operate fairly autonomously:
roads, housing and urban development, and irrigation. The Chief of the
irrigation service (officially titled Deputy Director of the Provincial
Public Works Department) is administratively responsible to the Provincial
Governor through his Director, but for all technical and personnel matters
he comes under the jurisdiction of the central Director General of Water
R,esources Development. This pattern is similar to other provincial ser-
vices. The agency in DGWRD generally responsible for guiding and coordin-
ating provincial irrigation activities is the Directorate of Irrigation
(DOI), with central units responsible for O&M, rehabilitation, and the
national tertiary program (para. 3.07). The headquarters of the EJIS in
Surabaya includes sections for planning and design, operation and mainte-
nance, irrigation development (rehabilitation and new systems), rivers and
/1 Administratively, P2AT operations outside Madiun are divided into sub-
projects for Madura, Kediri-Nganjuk, and East Java (Tuban, Mojokerto,
Jember, Pasuruan,.etc.), following mainly the phasing of British aid
projects.



- 18 -
swamps (including flood protection and disaster relief), and logistics
(including workshops and stores), as well as specialized staff for account-
ing, personnel, legal, information, and other matters (Chart No. 23415). The
headquarters offices and workshops carry about 300 permanent staff
(including about 20 fully qualified engineers) and 150 daily paid workers.
Aside from the routine administration of the 7,000 staff of the service and
procurement functions, the headquarters must fulfill numerous allocative and
technical functions. East Java is dependent on its irrigation systems and
organization for its basic subsistence. The 925,000 ha of irrigated sawah
provide the basic food supply and income to about 2.3 million families (12
million people). Together with the Food Crops Agriculture service /1 the
EJIS is held directly responsible for ensuring the rice harvest. On the
other hand, the 33 sugar mills in the province have strict quotas to meet
as part of a national effort to reduce imports, and their demands for land
and water must be weighed against the needs and smallholder preferences for
rice cultivation. As dry season water supplies are severely constrained,
particularly in the Brantas basin and Madura, the EJIS must allocate water
among scheme areas and irrigation blocks in ways which will balance equity
with productive efficiency; this is the major operational problem of the
EJIS. In the densely populated lowlands any overtopping or breaching of
flood dikes endangers huge populations; limited funds for river training and
flood control must be allocated weighing risks and demands in various
districts.
2.27      Technical tasks of the headquarters unit include survey and design
for the national tertiary construction program and for large rehabilitation,
new irrigation construction, and flood control programs not financed by the
Bank,/2 and supervision and programming of O&M.
2.28      The typical irrigation district (daerah) employs about 650 staff
(50 in the district office) and is responsible for 90,000 ha of sawah. The
Chief of the district typically holds a B.I.E. degree,/3 although a few now
hold the higher Ir. degree and an upgrading program is being established to
permit officers to take higher degrees. The district office staff are
/1  Under the technical guidance of the central Directorate General of Food
Crops Agriculture in the Ministry of Agriculture.
/2  Bank-financed works have been handled mainly by PROSIDA; other
externally financed programs have not.
/3  This is the first engineering degree obtained in Indonesian univesities,
typically after a 3-year course of study. The Ir. degree, obtained after
a 5-year course, is considered full qualification. There are now 40 Ir.
degree holders in the EJIS, roughly 20 at headquarters and 20 in the
field. Of this total, 20 have now completed a one-year advanced
course in hydraulic engineering at Delft in the Netherlands. For
purposes of comparison, the colonial government maintained 63 fully
qualified engineers in East Java in 1939.



- 19 -
responsible for design of minor rehabilitation works and repairs, supervis-
ing construction, assessing priorities among O&M and emergency works and
repairs submitted from below within extremely tight budget constraints
(paras. 2.33 to 2.35) and submission of priorities to headquarters, and
procurement of contract maintenance.
2.29      There are typically 3 or 4 irrigation sections (seksi) in each
district, each with about 170 staff (30 in the section office) controlling
about 25,000 ha. Section chiefs are either B.I.E. degree holders or, more
commonly, highly experienced field staff trained in technical high schools./l
The section is the lowest unit in the system which employs professional
irrigation engineers, which forces a considerable amount of centralized
decision-making and reporting from lower levels on even routine O&M matters
such as gate-settings. At this level, attention is clearly focussed on O&M
matters, particularly on detailed calculations of dry season water alloca-
tions based on field reports and supervision of contract maintenance opera-
tions. Section staff have also been the main contacts with territorial
district officers (Bupatis, executives of kabupatens) and kabupaten irriga-
tion committees on water allocation, sugar planting, small irrigation works
constructed with INPRES kabupaten funds,/2 and tertiary canal construction
programs which also function as employment programs./3  Under pilot O&M
projects, funded by British aid and advised by MacDonalds consultants, four
sections /4 have recently established labor gangs which for the first time
provide a skilled and mobile work force at section level capable of respond-
ing to maintenance emergencies throughout the section. The section gangs
typically consist of four craftsmen (masons, bricklayers, painters, carpen-
ters, construction foremen) and three laborers and are provided with a
pickup truck, jeep, and building material. Previously, all skilled mainte-
nance work had to be done by contract, which aside from cost considerations
required a long procurement period unsuitable for emergencies. These sec-
tion gangs, which are now being programmed for all 36 sections in East Java,
would be expected to stop seepage in masonry walls, reline canals, repair
and paint gates and other machinery, and do reconstruction work up to a
volume of about 5 cu m; heavier repairs would still be put out to contract.
/1 There is also an upgrading program to permit these valuable field staff
to obtain B.I.E. degrees.
/2 INPRES is a revenue-sharing program under which annual allocations are
made to various levels of local government (para. 2.34).
/3 The main program of this kind is Padat Karya, under which concrete or
masonry canal structures are built by EJIS on its budget, and the earth-
works are constructed by villagers on daily wages, provided by the
Directorate of Bina Guna, Directorate General of Manpower, Ministry of
Transmigration and Manpower.
/4 Kasri in Malang district, Jember and Genting in Bondowoso district, and
Mojokerto.



- 20 -
2.30      Each section typically consists of five subsections (cabang seksi)
of about 28 staff each, headed by an inspector (pengamat). The inspector is
basically a foreman supervising the work of about eight irrigation overseers
(juru), with the overseers meeting and dealing with farmers and village
leaders who use the irrigation systems. The overseer traditionally is
responsible for a 500-700 ha irrigation area, setting five or six gates,
estimating flows, recording rainfall and agricultural data, arranging for
emergency maintenance of his secondary canal, and persuading farmers through
their village headmen and irrigation leaders (ulu-ulu) to maintain tertiary
and quaternary canals /1 to agree on common planting dates which would per-
mit rational irrigation withoult conflict, to agree on micro-level water
allocation among themselves, and to prevent water wastage and theft. The
only paid assistance available to the juru has generally been two unskilled
laborers (sometimes functioning as resident gatekeepers), clearly inadequate
to maintain an average of 5 km of primary and secondary canal, 8 control
structures, and 6 outlets to irrigation blocks. Fragmented into small
groups, the laborers provided no real capacity for systematic work, and
spent most of their time cutting grass on canal banks. Better organization
and more laborers are clearly needed.
2.31      Another result of the pilot O&M schemes has been the establishment
in pilot areas of subsection unskilled labor gangs, of 7-13 men. These
gangs do basic manual maintenance, such as digging out silt (particularly in
measuring flumes), rebuilding collapsed earthen canal banks, and weeding.
Large canal desilting, and similar maintenance works costing over about
US$500, would still be contracted out. Properly managed, unskilled sub-
section gangs can accomplish substantial volumes of work. The output of six
pilot subsection gangs in Jember section (in the Pekalen Sampean region) in
1980 is given in Annex 3, Table 5. While these data indicate that weeding
still accounts for a disproportionate amount of labor input, the gangs have
accomplished a considerable amount of other work and provided flexibility
in response to seasonal and emergency situations, such as serious bank
slides and silting up of important canals. As the EJIS is now planning to
provide every subsection with a gang, management by inspectors and overseers
will become an important area for training and supervision.
Funding of Irrigation Activities in East Java
2.32      Table 2.4 summarizes major expenditure programs for the irrigation
sector in East Java since the beginning of the first five-year plan in 1969.
These data are somewhat misleading in two important aspects, in that they
understate the near total financial dependence of the province on central
Government subventions for irrigation (greater than the obviously large
/1 The Government's O&M responsibility ends at the secondary outlet; all O&M
below that level is done by the farmers. Before 1975 all canals and
drains below the secondary outlet were those built by the farmers them-
selves, led by their ulu-ulu and guided by the juru.



- 21 -
Table 2.4:  BUDGETED EXPENDITURES FOR IRRIGATIOU IN EAST JAVA, 1969-82 /a
Year program
1969-74   1974-79   1979/80   1980/81   1981/82        commenced
--------- (US$ million) /c ---------------  /b
Provincial Programs
Rehabilitation and upgrading                          8.91      12.82       1.44      0.48       0.96          1969
Operation and maintenance (grant)                     -         20.34       4.32       6.24      7.14          1974
New irrigation development in deprived districts   -            10.77       1.29       0.30      0.56          1974
River training/swaap reclamation                      -          1.32       0.26      0.73       0.83          1977
Staff training                                        -          0.73       0.14      0.14       0.14          1976
Offices, housing, warehouses, equipment -
procureaent and repair                              -          0.06       0.02      0.02       0.02          1978
Subtotal                                       8.91     46.04       7.47       7.91       9.65
National Programs
Canalization in small and medium
systems (including tertiaries)                      4.87      10.95       2.60      4.92       5.65          1969
Flood control aad river training                      2.51       2.51       0.47      0.66       1.43          1969
Hydrologic data collection                            -          0.26       0.13      0.14       0.11          1976
Warujayeng Turi-Tunggorono project                    -          -          0.80      0.80       0.96          1979
Subtotal                                       7.31      13.72      4.00       6.52       8.15
Centrally Implemented Projects
Delta Brantas - rehabilitation,
upgrading, tertiaries                               4.74      12.44       2.03      2.32       2.88          1972
Lodoyo Irrigation Project                             -         10.47       2.87      6.73       5.44          1976
Groundwater Development - liadiun/Solo                -          2.18       0.80      0.67    }18.56           1975
Groundwater Development - Kediri/Nganjuk/etc.         0.40       4.19       2.16      2.99                     1972
Pekalen Sampean - rehabilitation
and tertiaries                                      3.37      54.82       7.97     11.39      10.26          1972
M1adiun - rehabilitatioin and tertiaries              -         16.46       3.67     10.45      17.74          1975
Mt. Kelud - control of volcanic debris                1.93       5.07       1.22       1.66      1.12          1969
Mt. Semeru - control of volcanic debris               -          1.56       0.79      1.12       2.21          1976
Madiun River Project (flood control)                  0.75       1.67       0.82      2.26                     1969
Lower Solo River Project (flood control                                                        } 7.49
and irrigation)                                     2.67       2.24       3.09      4.59                     1969
Subtotal                                      13.86    111.10      25.42      44.18     65.70
Total                                         30.08    170.86      36.89      58.61      83.50
/a  Does not include storage and regulating dams on Branras River run by power authority, or expenditures
with provincial or nonsectoral (INPRES, Padat Karya, staff salary grant) funding.
/b Preliminary.
/c Conversion from rupiahs assumes weighted average of Rp 390 to USS1 in 1969-74, Rp 415 in 1974-79, and
Rp 625 thereafter.
Source: EJIS records.
N



- 22 -
share of national programs and centrally implemented projects in the total),
and on the other hand overstate the role of central Government agencies and
staff. Almost all work on national programs is actually implemented by the
EJIS, and EJIS staff are seconded to several of the central agency project
units responsible for larger projects.
2.33      Like most other provinces, East Java's independent revenues are
severely limited. In 1981/82 they are projected at only US$41 million.
Thus for irrigation only office operational costs and some staff training
programs are funded by provincial revenues. Other recurrent costs are
funded by subventions from the central Ministry of Interior (MOI) through
the provincial government under two programs, one for operation, mainte-
nance, and rehabilitation of irrigation systems /1, the other for salaries
of permanent civil servants (including those mentioned in paras. 2.26-2.31
above)./2 Although still rather small, the O&M grant has risen at a com-
pound annual rate of 36% in dollar terms over the past five years. The
portion of this allocated for rehabilitation works (as opposed to O&M) has
declined to a negligible amount, even considering that rehabilitation in
four of the ten districts (Madiun and Pekalen-Sampean) is executed by
PROSIDA on its central agency budget. Most of the O&M funds are used to top
up inadequate basic salaries of permanent staff, and to employ 800 temporary
overseers (jurus) and labor gang members./3 Thus in one form or another
almost all recurrent government costs of irrigation are funded by the
central Government.
2.34      New construction is also almost wholly financed by central sources.
The large-scale projects listed in Table 2.4 are on central agency (PROSIDA,
P2AT and Directorate of Rivers) budgets, and the national programs imple-
mented by EJIS are funded through DOI. Kabupatens typically expend 20% to
30% of their block grants from MOI (INPRES kabupaten)/4 on irrigation works
(small weirs and tertiary canals) and a small proportion of their IPEDA
receipts on repairing structures. Villages also spend some of their small
block grants (INPRES Desa, averaging about US$1,600/village/year) on
quaternary ditches, although a much larger proportion goes to roads.
/1 For 1981/82 this amounted to Rp 4.4 billion (US$7.0 million) on the
basis of Rp 4,900/ha (US$7.84) for irrigation.
/2  For 1981/82 this amounted to Rp 3.9 billion (US$6.2 million) on the basis
of Rp 4,300/ha (US$6.88) for irrigation.
/3 Local staff in Madura district estimate that 65% of their O&M funds are
spent on wages, 30% on materials (cement, stone, grease, paint) and 5% on
transport, etc.
/4 EJIS estimates than in 1979/80, 192 small irrigation schemes were financed
by INPRES kabupaten in East Java province at a total cost of US$4.3 mil-
lion (Annex 5, Reference B, pg. 120). It is not clear whether this entire
cost was to be expended in one year.



- 23 -
2.35      A comparison of the resources available to the irrigation sector in
East Java and the magnitude of the development and O&M tasks in that sector
yields the following general conclusions. The permanent civil service
responsible for O&M and small-scale development (EJIS) is probably adequate in
terms of numbers, but requires changes in organization patterns emphasizing
more control of physical field work and less reporting. Certain development
programs administered by EJIS may now be over-funded (e.g. the national
tertiary program), particularly in relation to the small rehabilitation
program outside the four PROSIDA districts (para. 3.08)./1 Increased funding
of rehabilitation is thus both justifiable in itself and would rationalize
investment in tertiaries. Regarding O&M, consultant studies indicate the
usefulness of casual labor forces to provide real maintenance capability to
field offices and overseers, and also that funding of these and other required
physical maintenance would cost an incremental US$5/ha/year based on studies
in four pilot sections. The project will include detailed surveys and studies
leading to more precise recommendations on optimum levels of O&M and
rehabilitation work and expenditures.
3. THE PROJECT
Project Description
3.01      The project will improve the productivity and incomes of about
150,000 farm families in East Java through the rehabilitation of about 40
surface irrigation schemes serving over 50,000 ha, the construction of
tertiary irrigation networks in those schemes, and the development of about
240 production tubewells and associated distribution facilities serving about
13,000 ha. It will also lay the basis for continuation of rehabilitation and
groundwater development programs by providing survey and design of 13,000 ha
of rehabilitation in addition to the construction program, and through large
scale groundwater exploration (including the drilling of 140 exploratory
holes) concentrated in areas of East Java where groundwater development is
more recent. The project will also provide for upgrading of already
rehabilitated systems and for the establishment and monitoring of improved
operation and maintenance procedures on about 140,000 ha in two pilot irriga-
tiLon distr-cts and field studies of the interrelations between various levels
oif engineering rehabilitation and costs and effectiveness of operation and
maintenance. Studies and design for three projects for future construction on
Java and Sulawesi (Parigi-Poso, Polmas-Sidrap and Kali Progo) will be carried
out, together with a study on how best to strengthen the South Sulawesi
Provincial Irrigation Service under the project. Inputs of international
/1] For 1981/82 the budget for rehabilitation in the six districts not
covered by PROSIDA was doubled to US$960,000 (Table 2.4), or to about
US$160,000 per district. Enlargement of one small culvert constricting
a secondary canal in one of about 100 schemes in Mojokerto district
would cost about US$8,000.



- 24 -
consultants (paras. 4.06, 4.07 and 4.09) are designed to both ensure
achievement of physical targets and to assist in strengthening local
engineering capabilities in EJIS and P2AT (particularly planning, operation
and maintenance, and supervision of design and construction operations) and
local consulting firms (particularly in field surveys and detailed design).
Rehabilitation of Irrigation Systems
3.02      This subproject will be limited to the areas within the irrigation
districts of Mojokerto, Malang, Kediri, Jombang, and Madura (Map 16037R) not
included in centrally implemented rehabilitation programs (paras. 2.12-2.13).
Of the 320,000 ha of irrigated land in this category, about 70,000 ha is
served by village systems of less than 100 ha, which will be rehabilitated and
upgraded under ongoing GOI tertiary development programs (para. 3.07). The
remaining 250,000 ha, and addiitional schemes requiring fundamental rehabilita-
tion in other districts (para. 2.13) including Bojonegoro, represent a 20-year
program of work, considering the capabilities of EJIS, central DGWRD project
units, and local consulting firms, and assuming a shift in emphasis of central
agencies to larger scale storage and flood control works and a gradual
build-up of EJIS and local consultant capabilities. The program could be
implemented more quickly with increased foreign consultant assistance, but
this would result in an imbalance of foreign and local expertise and reduce
technology transfer and institution-building for EJIS and local consultants.
3.03      A priority evaluation system will be used to determine the works to
be included under this project, which would represent a four year time slice
of the rehabilitation program. A priority system was used by EJIS and
consultant staff in reconnaissance surveys of over 160 scheme areas in the
five districts during project preparation. The surveys assigned weights to
various agricultural, socioeconomic (population density, holding size), and
water use factors as well as to scheme size and previous repair work invested
in each scheme./l On this basis 80 schemes /2 were placed in the first
priority category for rehabilitation, with a total service area of 115,000 ha
and area requiring rehabilitation of 95,000 ha. During the first year of
project implementation (1982-83) detailed surveys will permit a more detailed
ranking of schemes, on the basis of severity of engineering deficiencies now
constraining water management and agricultural production intensity.
Assurances have been obtained that EJIS will agree with the Bank on a
detailed rehabilitation construction program based on such a priority
evaluation system by April 1983 (para. 6.01(h)). The schemes to be
rehabilitated will average 1,400 ha in total service area (median of 1,100
ha), with none over 5,000 ha. About 40 schemes will be rehabilitated in whole
or in part under this project, and an additional 15 will be designed for
future rehabilitation.
/1 Annex 5, Reference A, Vol. 2, Annex 5.
/2 Listed in Annex 5, Reference A, Vol. 1, pgs. 43-45; shown on irrigation
district maps following pg. 10 of that volume.



- 25 -
3.04      Major Design Features.  The approach to rehabilitation will be to
review the state of each system and to restore it to its original condition,
but departures from original designs will be made where warranted. For
example, where particularly heavy siltation has occurred, an alternative to
massive desilting to regain original levels would be to redesign the system,
so that the rehabilitated canalization is similar to the present regime
evolved over the years. This could require raising canal banks, inverts
(bed levels), and crests of numerous structures, which would be compensated
for by reduced silt excavation. This basic decision will depend on the
cost-effectiveness of the two approaches in each scheme, and the least cost
alternative in each case will be selected. Assurances have been obtained
with GOI that EJIS will agree with the Bank on these major design standards
by April 1983 (para. 6.0lh).
3.05      As siltation is the major constraint on efficient irrigation
deliveries of available water, a second major area of redesign of the
original systems will be the provision of silt exclusion devices where
headworks cannot prevent excessive silt from entering the system. In these
cases settling basins or vortex tubes at the head of the main canal can
prevent substantial portions of the silt from being dispersed throughout the
system, in the first case by concentrating silt deposition in one location
where it can be excavated manually or mechanically; in the second case by
returning silt to the river automatically if available head and flow per-
mits. The various alternatives (including manual excavation throughout the
system on routine O&M) will be analyzed to determine a least-cost solultion
for each scheme. In addition, under the upgrading for efficient O&M sub-
project (para. 3.15) a detailed field study of the effectiveness of silt
exclusion methods will be undertaken to guide design of rehabilitation and
(&M programs over the long term.
3.06      In addition to desilting, rehabilitation will consist of struc-
tural repair of eroded and deteriorating weirs, intakes, syphons, drop
structures, and canals, and major repair and replacement of defective or
missing gates and flumes. Upgrading work, in addition to provision of silt
exclusion devices where warranted, will include increasing system capacity
for water diversion and distribution through raising of weir crest eleva-
tions, intake capacities, and canal bank levels; provision of improved
,drainage and access road systems; selective canal lining;/l improvement of
semitechnical systems by addition of control structures, measuring devices,
and linking canals; improvement of non-technical village systems by intro-
ducing permanent weirs and other structures to replace temporary structures;
and the construction of tertiary irrigation networks where required.
,/l New canal lining will be introduced primarily for bank stabilization
purposes in reachep liable to breach frequently; only slopes will be
lined.



- 26 -
3.07      Tertiary Irrigation Networks.  Tertiary system improvement and
construction in the five districts is far ahead of rehabilitation due to the
national tertiary program. A summary of work under this program in East
Java is given in Table 3.1.
Table 3.1: NATIONAL TERTIARY PROGRAM WORKS IN EAST JAVA
Design                  Construction
Year      Annual      Cumulative       Annual    Cumulative
----------------- (area in ha) ----------------
1976-77     1,363        1,363            n.a.        n.a.
1977-78     1,654        3,017            n.a.        n.a.
1978-79     6,690        9,707            n.a.       5,258
1979-80    21,867       31,594           2,008       7,266
1980-81    32,400       63,994          19,371      26,637
1981-82    20,035 /a   84,029 /a        17,500 /a  44,137 /a
/a Proposed.
Source: Annex 5, Reference A, Vol. 2, pg. 3.1.
This program is supervised by a Tertiary Development Section in the EJIS,
which has a full-time headquarters staff of one senior engineer (section
head), four assistant engineers., three draftsmen and three surveyors. For
surveys, designs, and costing, local consultants are engaged. The EJIS and
its consultants concentrate chiefly on structures, as earthworks are
supervised by the provincial unit of the Ministry of Manpower and
Transmigration and built by direct labor under the Padat Karya Program
(para. 2.29).
3.08      The national tertiary program grew from the substantial improve-
ments in water control and paddy production achieved in certain large
Bank-assisted projects (e.g. Pelcalen-Sampean) with the introduction of
tertiaries. However, while Bank-financed tertiaries have typically been
introduced in schemes already rehabilitated, the national tertiary program
has expanded so rapidly /1 that it is now moving into schemes which have not
yet been rehabilitated. This could create problems during rehabilitation
when controlling levels, design discharges, and system layouts could be
altered. Furthermore, tertiary construction (particularly earthworks) to
/1 The MPW target for the third five-year plan period (1979-84) is 2 mil-
lion ha of tertiary construction.



- 27 -
date has not been uniformly good. During negotiations, GOI confirm that
it will rationalize the planning and implementation of tertiary construction
in the five districts by:
(a) phasing the design and construction of tertiary networks to
follow main system rehabilitation;
(b) implementing tertiary earthworks through contracts under EJIS
supervision to raise quality standards and ensure that earthworks
are coordinated with construction of structures. Local villagers
would still be employed but they would be better paid and
supervised; and
(c) using 1982-83 budgets for tertiary construction and design staff
for the design of village systems, where introduction of tertiary
networks will be similar to system upgrading. This will enable
design of rehabilitation works in larger systems to move ahead of
the tertiary design program for those areas, and to set relevant
design concepts and criteria, while maintaining the overall pace
of small-scale irrigation development.  (Minutes of Negotiations
para. 7, February 9, 1982).
3.09      The present situation of tertiary units in the five districts,
based on surveys of 160 units, is as follows:
(a) tertiary channels generally exist but require rehabilitation;
estimated earthworks would be equivalent to 40% of that involved
in forming new channels. In the five districts an average den-
sity of 23 m/ha of tertiary channels would be achieved;
(b) quaternary channel density is low and their condition is poor,
and rehabilitation would be equivalent to nearly 75% of new
channel earthwork. Final quaternary density would average
52 m/ha;
(c) more drains and larger channel sections are needed. The amount of
earthwork needed is estimated at 20% of that required for new
channels. However, in approximately 50% of the area natural
drainage will suffice. Therefore, the average required excavation
will be equivalent to 10% of the earthwork involved in
constructing new drainage networks. A final average drainage
density of 29 m/ha would be achieved; and
(d) details of repairs and works to be performed on structures are
indicated in Annex 1, Table 10.
3.10      Other Design Aspects.  Many unofficial offtakes have been con-
structed on primary and secondary canals by villagers. These vary from



- 28 -
permanenL structures to breaches in the canal banks.  Most do not possess
adequate control gates or measuring structures and fall into two categories:
(a) offtakes constructed to irrigate small areas, typically about
2 ha, not included in the original system and
(b) offtakes constructed to irrigate land which was originally part
of another tertiary unit.
Under the project, the first category will be replaced with new
structures, including undershot gates with spindles so that all abstractions
from primary and secondary canals can be controlled. Village offtakes in
the second category, which constitute by far the greater proportion, norm-
ally require closing since they are disruptive to operation and cause much
wastage of water. In a rehabilitated system these offtakes will generally
become superfluous as water will be supplied via the correct tertiary canal.
However, in some cases, for example when they split up an unmanageably large
tertiary unit, they are desirable and will be incorporated into the system.
In rearranging tertiary unit boundaries in this way the optimum size of
tertiary unit will be 50 ha, and if possible tertiaries of less than 20 ha
or more than 100 ha will be avoided. As far as possible, tertiary unit
boundaries will remain within the original design.
3.11      Most existing road and footbridges, built by villages, are con-
structed of stone masonry or bricks; there are also many temporary bridges
of wood or bamboo. The foundations of those built recently on canal beds
which are heavily silted are likely to slip when the canals are excavated.
Also, due to their crude construction canal bridges often have large piers
in the center of the canal which disturb the flow and the backing up and
loss of head is not acceptable. In these cases replacement bridges will be
provided. New bridges will also be provided on important roads or paths
linking villages. New or replacement bridges will have single spans with
reinforced concrete decks and masonry abutments.
3.12      Measuring weirs will be provided at the head of every tertiary
unit, except for small offtakes supplying water to less than 20 ha. Primary
and secondary canal measurement weirs will be provided downstream of most
cross regulators.
3.13      Due to the intensive use of the existing canals for washing pur-
poses, steps will be provided at approximately 50 m intervals in village
areas. Washing bays will also be provided for domestic buffalo to minimize
bank damage. These bays cons:Lst of a 1:4 ramp entering the canal and a
floor of masonry on the canal bed. They will be sited where buffalo now
enter the canals and at locations suggested by local EJIS staff.
3.14      Many villages, partLcularly those downstream of irrigation units,
have constructed diversion weLrs on drains to supplement, or replace, water
received from the canal system. The majority of these weirs are undesirable
as they cause flooding in the wet season, and in any case they will be
unnecessary in a rehabilitated system. However, several instances exist



- 29 -
where weirs do not cause flooding and these enable efficient reuse of water
which would otherwise be wasted; repairs and modifications to these weirs will
be included in project works.
Upgrading for Efficient Operation and Maintenance
3.15      The scope of this subproject will be limited to the two irrigation
districts of Mojokerto and Bondowoso in the Brantas and Pekalen Sampean
Basins. These two districts have benefitted from large irrigation rehabili-
tation programs (para. 2.12), and thus can be used as pilot districts for
developing and implementing an appropriate O&M system to sustain full agricul-
tural production. In the case of Mojokerto district rehabilitation is not
f-ully completed. Intensive studies will be made of the results of past
rehabilitated schemes to both guide future rehabilitation and to derive
improved cost-effective O&M systems. In particular, trade-offs between O&M
and rehabilitation will be studied to determine the costs and benefits of the
typical practice of deferred maintenance as opposed to intensive regular
maintenance. The extent of irrigated area to be covered under this subproject
will be limited to 140,000 ha for about 300 systems in the two districts.
3.16      The components of the subproject will consist of technical assist-
ance, staff training, O&M equipment, and civil works for upgrading the irriga-
tion systems. The technical assistance will be provided by consultants
(para. 4.07), whose major tasks will be the following:
(a)  Design for minor upgrading of irrigation systems for more
efficient operation.
(b)  Review present procedures and implement better ones for system
operation at various levels, i.e.
(i) Review and improve the present system for forecasting water
availability in the Brantas River Basin. Based on this,
develop a system for forecasting floods and water allocation
for the various irrigation areas.
(ii)  Comprehensive operation plans for sections, subsections, and
irrigation overseers will be translated into Indonesian,
and implemented.
(c)  Maintenance manuals for the different levels of system responsibi-
lity will be developed, delineating clearly their respective
responsibilities. Prioritization of preventive maintenance
activities under budgetary constraints will also be studied and
appropriate approaches to be adopted will be indicated after pilot
trials in the field over several seasons. Procedures for use of
labor gangs and machinery for silt removal will be developed based
on data from previous studies.
(d)  Simplify the reporting system from irrigation overseers to higher
levels. The consultant will also design the telephone communi-
cation system needed to minimize the time for efficient trans-
mission of operational information.



- 30 -
(e)  Recommend staffing and institutional strengthening measures
for O&M (including manpower plans) within the context of the
present GOI framework, and
(f)  Estimate budgetary requirements for O&M, and long-run effects of
under-budgeting of O&M.
3.17      Training will take two forms.  Foreign training at various inter-
national water management courses organized by research institutions (e.g.,
IRRI) will be mainly for provincial, district and section staff, with courses
lasting 3-6 months. Local courses lasting 10-14 days will be given for about
400 inspectors, overseers, and gate operators. This training will be mainly
on irrigation system operation, maintenance and reporting requirements. The
various O&M manuals developed under this subproject will form part of the
training. Most of the local training will be undertaken by the consultants
and EJIS senior staff. Training materials will be prepared by the
consultants.
3.18      The equipment for this subproject consists mainly of telephone and
radio communications sets and lines, hydrometeorologic stations and gauges,
vehicles, earth moving equipment for emergency maintenance, and office, draft-
ing and survey equipment. These are listed in detail in Annex 1, Table 14.
3.19      The civil works for upgrading will be confined to improvements on
the system attributable to design faults, i.e. resectioning of canals to
improve flow efficiency and design changes in structures to prevent frequent
failure. These would include extending aprons, inclusion of silt extruders,
and reinforcing of bends to prevent bank failure. These faults have caused
excessive maintenance requirements and cost, and inefficient operation. In
some cases vital components are missing (e.g., drains or even field channels
or control structures) and these will be constructed. The civil works will
average about US$50/ha over the entire area of 140,000 ha.
Groundwater Development
3.20      The groundwater subproject is located in several areas throughout
East Java identified both as watershort areas and having sufficient ground-
water resources to be exploited (Map 16037R). In most cases groundwater will
be the only dry season supply. Development would be concentrated in Madiun
(6,750 ha), in the Kediri-Nganjuk area (3,600 ha), Tuban and Mojokerto (2,650
ha) giving a total area of 13,000 ha. The project area is part of 19,500 ha
for which extensive survey and exploratory survey and drilling has been
performed. The principal project works will be irrigation wells, equipped
with pumps and engines, and upgraded or newly constructed distribution system
channels. Additional construction will include pump houses, access roads,
stores and fuel storage facilities.
3.21      Wells.  The project will include the drilling, development,
testing, and equipping of about 240 production wells over a five-year period,
and the drilling of about 140 exploratory holes and about 125 test and
observation wells. The distribution of the production wells will be as
follows:



- 31 -
Estimated
Area           No. of wells       Command Area (ha)
Tuban-Mojokerto         65                  2,650
Kediri-Nganuk          107                  3,600
Madiun                  68                  6,750
Total Project        240                13,000
3.22      Well design will be standardized, with minor modifications
depending upon local geologic conditions. Drilling will be by reverse or
conventional rotary methods with steel casings of diameter sufficient to
accommodate the pump and with appropriate well screens opposite the
p,ermeable water-producing zones in the alluvial sediments. In areas of
limestone aquifers, the lower casings and all screens will be omitted and
t'he wells completed as open holes in the rock. The depth and yield of
typical irrigation wells will necessarily vary from one project area to
another, as well as within one area. Typically, however, depths will be
from 80 to 200 m with yields of from 30 to 90 1/s.
3.23      Pumps and Engines.  Each production well, when completed, will be
equipped with a water-lubricated vertical turbine pump driven through a
right-angle gear head by an air-cooled diesel engine. The capacities of the
pumps are standardized at 30, 45, 60 and 90 l/s to simplify pump and spare
part procurement and to permit interchangeability among wells. Some shallow
wells in the Kediri area will be equipped with diesel driven centrifugal
pumps of 30 l/s capacity.
3.24      If rural electrification becomes available to the project areas,
the right-angle drive and diesel engine units can be removed (for use in
other non-electrified development areas) and hollow-shaft electric motors
substituted.
3.25      Distribution Channels.  The extent to which new distribution
channels are needed depends upon existing irrigation conditions. Most of
the proposed development areas in the Madiun area lie within surface irriga-
tion systems so that only upgrading of existing channels (including lining)
is required. An exception would be the rainfed areas near Tanon where new
systems of channels must be built. In both the Kediri-Nganjuk and other
EaLst Java areas it will be necessary to build new systems and to line some
existing distribution systems to prevent excessive water losses. Standard
designs have been prepared for the channels, structures and lining.



- 32 -
3.26      Pump Houses.  Pump houses will be constructed at each production
well to provide protection of equipment against the weather, for short-term
storage of diesel fuel and other supplies, and for the operator's use in
record-keeping. The layout and design of the discharge channel at the pump
house also allows for provision of additional amenities for the villages
including domestic water supp:Ly and bathing and laundry facilities.
3.27      Roads.  Construction of new access roads, or improvement of existing
roads and structures, will be part of the project, to provide access for
drilling rigs and equipment during initial construction and for operation
and maintenance in future years.
3.28      Workshop and Stores.  The existing workshop and stores will be
augmented and new facilities constructed. Each sub-area will have, as a
minimum, facilities for minor repair of vehicles and diesel engines and a
storehouse for spares. These will be located at Kediri and Madiun. The
existing facilities at Surabaya are inadequate and a new store will be built
on land owned by P2AT. The Madiun workshop will require installation of some
new equipment. The Kediri workshop will be enlarged and would become the
central repair and maintenance site for major work on drilling rigs and heavy
equipment.
3.29      Small field storage depots for diesel fuel, each serving about eight
production wells, will be built as part of the project. Each depot will
have 10,000 liters of storage and would receive deliveries of oil by tanker
truck. Operators at the wells would come to the depot by bullock cart
periodically to fill the individual 200 liter drums that are used for fuel
storage at the pump houses.
3.30      Equipment and Materials.  In line with established modes of opera-
tion, P2AT would provide drilling contractors with standardized items of
equipment and materials, which will be procured under this project. Equip-
ment to be procured would include the pumps and diesel engine drive units;
spare pumps and engines as complete units as well as spare parts for drilling
rigs, pumps, and diesel engines; and transport, mobile, hydrologic, and
workshop equipment./1 Transport vehicles include four-wheel drive station
wagons and pick-up trucks, passenger cars, motorcycles, and bicycles. Mobile
/1 Pumpsets, well casings, screens and other like materials procured under
the project will cater for 380 wells for total irrigated area of
19,500 ha. The GOI will, however, within the five-year implementation
period of this project only implement about 240 wells which will irrigate
13,000 ha. The other 140 wells, irrigating an additional 6,5000 ha,
will be implemented between 1987/88 to 1988/89 using GOI funds.



- 33 -
equipment includes flatbed trucks and truck cranes, trailer-mounted compres-
sors, tanker trucks, truck winches, mobile shop vehicles, and minitractors.
Hydrologic equipment includes water-level measuring lines and automatic
recorders, water-analysis kits, sieve analysis equipment, test pumps, and
electrical logging units. Workshop equipment includes such items as hoists,
overhead cranes, lathes, milling machines, welding sets, grinders, drilling
machines, compressors, engine test equipment, and miscellaneous machine and
hand tools (Annex 1, Table 15).
3.31      Materials to be procured include mild black-steel well casings,
galvanized wire-wound well screens, drill bits, and drilling fluid additives
such as bentonite or polymer. Because of the time required to purchase such
items as casings, screens, pumps, and engines, an initial procurement of
US$3.0 million of items needed for the project's first year of operations
will be completed in 1981-82 financed from Loan 1434-IND, which covered the
Madiun pilot groundwater scheme (Annex 1, Tables 5 and 15).
Studies and Design
3.32      This subproject will include consulting services for future
developments for:
(a)  Parigi-Poso (Central Sulawesi).  Detailed designs will be under-
taken for irrigation systems to serve 21,000 ha at Parigi Poso;
and a feasibility study for the development of an additional area
of 8,000 ha and following review of the study by GOI and the Bank,
detailed design;
(b) Kali Progo (Central Java). The collection and analysis of addi-
tional hydrologic data will be performed to study river flows in the
Kali Serang; and the collection and analysis of hydrologic data
for the proposed Sermo dam for establishing rainfall/runoff
relationships and for performing reservoir operational studies;
(c) Polmas-Sidrap (South Sulawesi). Feasibility studies will be
undertaken for the proposed Sadang (5,300 ha) pump irrigation
scheme, and of the Lanrae (1,500 ha), Batubassi (2,000 ha),
Maloso (7,500 ha) and Mambu (6,500 ha), gravity schemes. Subject to
the findings of these studies, which will be reviewed by the
Bank and GOI, detailed design will be performed. The feasibility
studies will initially focus on hydrologic data analysis to
determine water supply requirement for irrigation achieving a
cropping intensity of at least 130% for rice production.



- 34 -
Status of Planning and Design
3.33      Rehabilitation and Tertiaries.  As described above (para. 3.07)
planning and design of tertiary networks is well advanced due to funding
under the national tertiary program. Designs, bills of quantities and cost
estimates are available for tertiary structures in 160 tertiary units
(12,000 ha) in the five districts, prepared by local consultants and
checked by international consultant advisors. Earthwork designs and
quantity estimates prepared under the Padat Karya program were found to be
inaccurate, and the tertiary design effort will have to be redirected to
include earthworks as these will increasingly be executed under contract
(para. 3.08b). This should not be difficult since earthworks will follow
the surveyed alignments determined for the structures. For rehabilitation
of main systems, structure surveys of ten sample schemes (16,000 ha) and
levelling surveys of six of those schemes (6,000 ha) had been completed by
appraisal. This provided an excellent basis for appraisal cost estimates,
as the sample schemes were representative (two in each district) of the
entire project area and earthworks constitute only about 15% of total
rehabilitation costs. It however did not permit a large construction pro-
gram during the first year of imaplementation (1982-83). Funding for
additional rehabilitation survey, design, and contract preparation of
15,000 ha of rehabilitation has been provided from Irrigation Project XIV
(Loan 1811-IND). GOI has agreed to ensure that tertiary designs for these
schemes will be ready at that time. From the available designs, modest
implementation targets have been projected during the start-up year
(5,000 ha construction) as described in Table 3.2.
3.34      Upgrading for Efficient Operation and Maintenance.  Upgrading
requirements and some operation procedures have been developed with British
assistance (para. 2.29) but have not been implemented widely. Trial
maintenance procedures were also tested on a limited scale. They provide base
data from which approved procedures can be developed and widely implemented.
3.35      Groundwater Development.  Survey, exploratory drilling, mapping of
aquifers, and pilot development of tubewells is far advanced in the Madiun
and Kediri-Nganjuk areas (paras. 2.15-2.19), and production tubewells can be
developed immediately on the basis of existing standard specifications
throughout a total net irrigated area of 14,900 ha. In the remaining areas,
sufficient preparatory work has been executed and analyzed to justify the
initiation of a full-scale development program. In addition, estimated
additional unproved groundwater potential is sufficient to justify expanded
exploratory programs under this project.
3.36      Studies and Design.  Invitations for consulting services for all
designs and studies were prepared by GOI and reviewed by the Bank in July
1981. Invitations were issued on October 16, 1981 and proposals were being
evaluated by GOI at the time of negotiations.



- 35 -
Implementation Schedules
3.37      Implementation targets are proposed which are modest in terms of
whtat has been achieved elsewhere in East Java in the same field
(rehabilitation/tertiaries) by another project agency (PROSIDA), or no greater
thlan schedules the same agency (P2AT) has achieved in groundwater development
in the province (Chart No. 23416).  Table 3.2 summarizes these target
programs. The implementation program for the design and studies subproject
is on Chart No. 23202.
Table 3.2: SUMMARY IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULES
GOI FY                          1982/83   1983/84   1984/85   1985/86   1986/87
Rehabilitation Program
(completed areas
in -000 ha)
Main system design
Annual                         12        19         19         20
Cumulative                     12        31         50         70
Tertiary system design
Annual                         10        15         15         20
Cumulative                    10         25         40        60 /a
Construction
Annual                          5        10         15        20
Cumulative                      5        15         30         50
Groundwater Development
LE! gram (number of
production wells
installed)
Miadiun area                     12        20          5         15        16
Kediri-Nganjuk area               5        30         24         23        25
Other East Java areas             5        15         15         10        20
Total Annual                 22         65         44        48         61
Total Cumulative              22        87        121       169        240
/a  Tertiary systems designs for the balance of the main systems area are
already completed.



- 36 -
3.38      Many factors argue for the realism of these schedules.  Both project
agencies have fulfilled their implementation schedules in the past, P2AT in
previous groundwater operations in the province and EJIS in its work on ADB
projects. For Madiun groundwater development and the rehabilitation and OM
programs consultants who have long worked successfully with the respective
project agencies would be appointed to take advantage of their long local
experience with the work required and capacity to mobilize immediately after
loan signing. Land acquisition problems in past irrigation projects have
chiefly involved excavation of large drains and river works; while tertiary
construction in both rehabilitation and groundwater areas could be somewhat
delayed by land acquisition problems, virtually no additional land is required
for rehabilitation of main systems or for groundwater development in existing
irrigation areas. Finally, procurement of equipment required for the first
year of groundwater operations is well underway: bids have been received
and are being evaluated by GOI (para. 3.31).
Cost Estimates
3.39      Total project costs are estimated at US$144.4 million (including
$1.8 million for taxes) of which US$73.5 million (51%) would be foreign
exchange. All project costs are expressed in end-1981 prices. For the
rehabilitation and upgrading for efficient O&M subprojects unit costs of
civil works have been based on similar costs of rehabilitation projects
undertaken by GOI between 1979-81. Quantities of civil works for
rehabilitation of main systems and tertiary construction were based on
sample surveys performed by consultants (para. 3.33). The quantities and
unit rates for the groundwater subproject are based on the various pilot
groundwater schemes (paras. 2.16-2.19) and estimates by P2AT. Estimated
monthly basic costs of local and foreign consultants are US$2,500 and
US$12,500 respectively for professional staff and US$1,000 for technicians
and draftsmen which are derived from costs of recent contracts in Indonesia.
A 10% allowance for physical contingencies and an additional allowance for
expected price increases, calculated on projected local cost inflation of
14% during 1982, 12% during 1983, and 10% during the following years and on
foreign cost inflation of 8.5% in 1982, 7.5% in 1983 to 1985 and 6% in 1986,
have been included in the project costs. Details of project costs are given
in Annex 1, and are summarized in Table 3.3.



- 37 -
Table 3.3: PROJECT COST SUMMARY
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total
---- Rp billion -----    ---- US$ million ----
Rtehabilitation subproject      14.9      9.5     24.4      23.8    15.3    39.1
operation and maintenance
subproject                     4.2      3.7      7.9       6.7      5.9    12.6
Groundwater subproject           8.1    19.0      27.1      12.9    30.4    43.3
Situdies and Design              2.7      3.1       5.8      4.4      4.9     9.3
Base cost                  29.9    35.3      65.2      47.8    56.5   104.3
Physical contingencies           3.0      3.5      6.5       4.8      5.6    10.4
Price contingencies             10.3      7.1     17.4      16.5    11.4    27.9
Project Costs              43.2    45.9      89.1      69.1    73.5   142.6
Taxes on civil works             1.1      -         1.1      1.8      -        1.8
Total Project Costs        64.3    45.9      90.2      70.9    73.5   144.4
Financing
3.40      Project costs will be financed by the Bank ($70 million), IFAD
($25 million) and the balance by GOI ($49.4 million) /1 through annual budget
appropriations. The Bank loan would finance the foreign exchange costs of the
project, adjusted downward by the following factors:
(a) government provision (through reserved procurement) of vehicles
for the rehabilitation and O&M subprojects; and
(b) advance procurement of start-up materials for the groundwater
subproject under Irrigation VIII Project (para. 3.31).
3.41      The portion of total project costs financed by the Bank loan has
beaen determined as follows:
/1 This figure includes $1.8 million taxes on civil works, $1.2 million
reserve procurement, and $3.0 million for advance procurement of
groundwater materials provided under Loan 1434-IND (Table 3.4).



- 38 -
Table 3.4: PROJECT FINANCING
Foreign            Total
----- US$ million
Total Project Costs Excluding Taxes         73.5              142.6
Less:
Vehicles                                     0.7                1.2
Start-up Groundwater Materials               2.6                3.0
Project Casts Financed                70.2               138.4
The proposed Bank loan of US$70 million would cover 50% of project costs
excluding taxes. The breakdown of financing between the Bank, IFAD and GOI
by categeory of works excluding items under advanced or reserve procurement
is as follows:
Bank    IFAD      GOI      Total
---------- $ million ----------
Civil works and drilling       15.7    15.7      31.8     63.4
Equipment and supplies         21.7     7.1         -      28.8
Consultants                    27.7       -         -     27.7
Training                          -     0.5         -       0.5
Administration overheads
and miscellaneous               -       -       8.5      8.5
Unallocated                     4.9     1.7       3.2       9.7
Total                       70.0    25.0       43.4    138.4
Procurement
3.42      Civil Works.  Civil works and drilling to be implemented under the
project (totalling US$63.4 million including contingencies) will be widely
dispersed, small in scale, and would require close interaction with villagers
both as beneficiaries and as laborers. They will be procured in small



- 39 -
contract packages which would not be suitable for ICB, and will be tendered
on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with GOI
procurement procedures acceptable to the Bank.
3.43      Equipment and Materials.  Excluding vehicles, equipment and materi-
als worth about US$28.8 million (including contingencies) will be procured
uinder the project, most of which is for the groundwater development program
(Aknnex 1, Table 15). Specialized equipment, instruments and materials
in- small lots or on an emergency basis, worth an aggregate total of less
than US$1.5 million, will be procured through GOI procurement procedures
acceptable to the Bank. All remaining equipment and materials will be
procured under ICB.  Local manufacturers will be granted a preference of 15%
of the c.i.f. price of imported goods, or the customs duty, whichever is
lower.
3.44      Review of Procurement.  Civil works and equipment will be procured
by the relevant DGWRD implementing agency using contract documents agreed with
the Bank. An independent but internal control of all procurement is made by
the DGWRD Secretariat, and larger contracts ($800,000 and above) must also
be cleared by the State Secretariat Procurement Control Unit. These
procurement controls appear to be working efficiently. The Bank has delegated
its supervision responsibility to RSI, which works closely with DGWRD and the
State Secretariat on procurement matters. For civil works contracts the Bank
will review prior to tendering and award about thirty contracts ($19 million)
each over US$320,000, covering in aggregate about 30% of the value of civil
works. The other 100 civil works contracts will be procured using the GOI's
procedures and will be reviewed prior to award by the above procurement
control units, and by the Bank on a post award sample basis. Equipment
contracts to be procured through ICB ($27.3 million) will be reviewed by the
Bank prior to tendering and award; small contracts for local procurement (an
aggregate of $1.5 million) will be funded wholly by GOI and follow the GOI's
procurement procedures.
Disbursements
3.45      The Bank and IFAD loans will be jointly disbursed/l at the following
rates against full documentation as follows:
(a)  40% of total expenditures for civil works for contracts worth
about $320,000 equivalent and above for rehabilitation subproject;
and
(b)  100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment,
100% of local expenditures (ex-factory prices) for locally manu-
factured equipment and 65% of locally procured off the shelf
items.
11 At the ratios of 1:1 for civil works and 3:1 for equipment (Bank.IFAD).



- 40 -
The Bank will disburse at the rate of 100% of total costs against consultant
contracts.
3.46      Joint Bank and IFAD loan disbursements will be made against
quarterly statements of expenditure /1 as follows:
(a) 40% of total expenditure for civil works contracts worth below
$320,000 equivalent for the rehabilitation subproject; and
(b) 40% of total expenditures for civil works and drilling and instal-
lation for the groundwater subproject; and
(c) 100% of total expenditures for civil works for the upgrading for
efficient O&M subproject.
In addition, quarterly statements of expenditures will be used to disburse
100% of total expenditures for training from the IFAD loan only.
The proposed allocation of loan proceeds is presented in Annex 1, Table 8.
The disbursement profile has taken into consideration time overruns in Bank
financed projects in Indonesia, and the disbursement schedule (Annex 1,
Table 9) is projected over the six-year period from June 1982 to June 1988.
Accounts and Audits
3.47      EJIS and P2AT budget procedures as in other GOI line departments are
tight though cumbersome. Accounts are kept in considerable detail though
single entry bookkeeping is used and recording is frequently not on a cash
basis. Accounts and records are kept under separate budget heads for each
budget year. Although the above system of accounting is acceptable, it does
have the following weaknesses:
(a) payments are recorded in the year of commitment; and
(b) cash books and accounts are not closed until the full budget is
spent or unspent balances have been used.
3.48      The Bank has assisted PROSIDA and PIBD in establishing accounting
systems. For these agencies, final accounts including balance sheets and
consolidated receipts and expenditures statements are prepared at the year end
to satisfy Bank requirements. Each accounting section is headed by a
certified public accountant and the finance divisions are almost fully
staffed. They report monthly on budget and financial status to the General
Manager of each agency. Both finance divisions have internal audit sections
responsible for visiting project sites quarterly and examining local
accounting records. Accounts are subject to audit by State Auditors
(Directorate General of State Financial Control). The State Auditors'
short-form reports have so far analyzed income and costs, and checked that the
costs have been properly incurred according to budget allocations. No
long-form reports are prepared. Although the accounting and auditing system
has provided reasonable financial control for Bank-supported projects,
/1 Annex 4.



- 41 -
improvements are desirable in: (a) timeliness of annual accounts and audits;
(b) systems of internal control, especialy for the reconciliation of assets
with cumulative expenditures and procedures for writing off assets; and (c)
state auditors should prepare long form reports following specific guidelines
for each agency to be reviewed with the Bank. Despite the above shortcomings,
in most Bank-supported projects satisfactory data have been obtained to ensure
proper use of funds.
3.49      The Bank has no experience yet with EJIS, and little with P2AT.
Accordingly, consultant accounting advisors will be engaged under the
Irrigation XVI project to review with EJIS and P2AT the accounting systems to
be introduced for the project and establish the content of audits to be
carried out by the Director of State Audit. Assurances have been obtained at
negotiations regarding maintenance of adequate accounts, independent auditing,
and timely submission to the Bank of financial documentation for EJIS, P2AT,
PROSIDA and PIBD (para. 6.01e).
Environmental Impact
3.50      Irrigated sawah is ecologically the most stable and non-erosive
form of land use in Indonesia and the project will have a very positive
environmental impact. The monitoring of aquifer levels (paras. 2.20-2.22)
under the groundwater subproject will continue to be a key task of P2AT and
its consultants, to ensure that groundwater resources are not overexploited
in any tubewell area.
4. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Rehabilitation and Upgrading for Efficient O&M Subprojects
4.01      The EJIS will implement the rehabilitation and upgrading for O&M
subprojects, in line with the responsibility of provincial level irrigation
staff for O&M and national tertiary program operations and the goal of the GOI
to gradually entrust large scale rehabilitation programs to the provincial
irrigation services. The DOI will provide technical guidance and adminis-
trative support to EJIS and serve as the central government funding channel
for loan and government funds, in keeping with established patterns of
operations (para. 2.26) and GOIs requirement that a central government entity
administer external assistance.
4.02      A project office will be formed in EJIS to execute the rehabili-
tation subproject. A project manager will be appointed to head this office,
reporting directly to the Chief of the EJIS who will serve as project direc-
tor. The project office will consist of three divisions, for design, con-
struction, and administration, each of which would be headed by engineers
who have held major responsibility for large projects. The design division
will consist of three units responsible for survey, main system designs



- 42 -
and tertiary designs, each unit comprising one senior engineer, one assistant
engineer, and two or three technicians. As consultants will be engaged to
carry out detailed surveys, mapping, design and cost estimation (para. 4.06),
the task of this comparatively smaall design unit will primarily consist of
planning, programming of work, supervision and verification. The construction
division will be responsible for tendering and contract management, monitoring
of construction progress, programming and budgeting, and mechanical engineer-
ing, with units for each of theses functions staffed similarly to the design
division. The administration division, which will also handle administrative
functions for the upgrading for efficient O&t siibproject, will comprise units
for personnel, logistics, finance and progress reporting. Other routine
administrative functions, including data acquisition, legal work as required
for land acquisition, and internal auditing, will be performed by regular
units of EJIS.
4.03      Effective implementation of the rehabilitation program will require
full-time engineering staff at irrigation district level, based at Malang,
Kediri, Jombang and Mojokerto, the latter office also covering Madura
district. Functions at district level will include:
(a) assisting and supervising consultants in preparing corrected
base maps and inventories, carrying out canal and structure
surveys, consulting with farmer groups on tertiary layouts and
finalizing those layouts, preparing working drawings and as-
built drawings; and
(b) construction supervision and quantity surveys.
Required engineering staffing in the districts, which will be organized and
directed by the respective district chiefs, is given in Annex 3, Table 1.
4.04      Annex 3, Table 2 shows the rather favorable relationship between
EJIS staff available for the rehabilitation subproject over the first two
years of project implementation and the maximum requirements of that sub-
project. The main source of staff to the project will be EJIS staff return-
ing from secondment to large central agency project units elsewhere in East
Java where the volume of work is now diminishing, e.g., Lodoyo and Pekalen-
Sampean. In addition, 15 engineers will be recruited over the next two
years. Nevertheless engineers capable of managing the project office divi-
sions (para. 4.02) may not be available full time in the province and some
senior posts may have to be filled initially by officers seconded from
Jakarta or other provinces. Technician shortfall, though apparently large,
should be easily made up through recruitment within the province. Finally,
the proposed work allocation will require the posting of several highly
qualified engineers to the districts. Assurances that necessary staff build
up will take place have been obtained at negotiations (para. 6.01h).



- 43 -
4.05      The project manager will be responsible for execution of the
upgrading for efficient O&M subproject, but the existing EJIS O&M section is
sufficiently large to serve as the implementing unit at provincial level. The
irrigation district offices at Mojokerto and Bondowoso will serve as the field
offices. The chief of the O&M section will serve as subproject manager,
reporting to the project manager and project director.
Consultant Services for Rehabilitation and Upgrading for Efficient
0&M Subprojects
4.06      To mount for the first time a major irrigation rehabilitation
effort in the project districts, while simultaneously building up local staff
and consultant capability and maintaining technical standards, a substantial
input of international and local consultant services is necessary to assist
EJIS. Local consultant inputs will be provided by firms based in East Java
Province. It is part of GOI's long-term manpower strategy to enhance pro-
vincial consultant capability which could thereafter be relied on for such
functions as survey and design, rather than attempting to establish large
specialized units in each government agency. While consultant usage under
the O&M subproject would be chiefly of a straightforward assistance nature,
for rehabilitation a more complex arrangement is required. Annex 3, Table 3
details the functional responsibilities of EJIS and local and international
consultants.
4.07      GOI has selected consultants which have assisted both EJIS and
P2AT in East Java operations for many years to provide consultant assistance
(jointly with local consultants) for both the rehabilitation and the O&M
subprojects. This arrangement will ensure the maximum emphasis on upgrading
of EJIS and East Java engineering firms, technical continuity, and coordina-
tion of efforts and results between these closely related activities. Planned
consultant inputs are summarized in Table 4.1, and combined consultant
terms-of-reference for the two subprojects are available in the project file
(Alnnex 5, Reference D).
Table 4.1: CONSULTANT INPUTS FOR REHABILITATION AND UPGRADING
FOR EFFICIENT O&M
International      ---- Local Consultants -----
consultant        Professional     Technicians
----------------- man months -----------------
(a)  Team leader                    48
(b)  Rehabilitation                 180               794             1,588
(c)  O&M                            128                50                150
(d) Unallocated and home
office support               20
Total                  376               844              1,738



- 44 -
Groundwater Development Subproject
4.08      The role of P2AT in implementing groundwater activities is rather
unique, in that professional and skilled labor staff of the agency actually
participate in drilling operations in conjunction with the contractors, P2AT
maintains its own large drilling rigs and materials stores which are provided
to contractors as part of contract packages, and P2AT staff have operated all
production wells drilled thus far.  The successes so far achieved in this
relatively new field of Indonesian irrigation development have derived from
the establishment of two effective project offices, in Madiun and Surabaya,
the latter covering the Kediri-Nganjuk and East Java components and a Madura
operation for which British aid is committed. Each of these offices will
continue to be headed by a project manager responsible for the respective
groundwater components. The groundwater subproject will utilize this
successful organization pattern and staff, requiring only minor increases in
staff to reach full project levels given in Annex 3, Table 4.
Consultant Services for Groundwater Development
4.09      International consultants have played an important role in provi-
ding technical support, unavailable in Indonesia, for the groundwater
development program. Under thLe project the Madiun and Surabaya P2AT project
offices will continue to select and utilize the international consulting firms
which best suit their needs. At GOI request local consultants will also be
engaged both to assist in routine engineering functions and to benefit from
the transfer of groundwater technology from the international consultants,
whose presence will gradually decline over the life of the project.
Terms-of-reference for foreign and local consultants are available in the
project file (Annex 5, Reference E). Consultancy inputs for the groundwater
subproject are given in Table 4.2.
Table 4.2: CONSULTANT INPUTS FOR GROUNDWATER DEVELOPMENT
International      ---- Local Consultants -----
-consultant        Professional      Technicians
--------- man months -----------------
East Java and Kediri-Nganjuk        180                 90            170
components
Madiun component                    135                  80           160
Total                          315                170            330



- 45 -
Operation and Maintenance of Tubewells
4.10      The operation and maintenance of surface irrigation systems, such
as those to be rehabilitated and upgraded under the project, is hampered to
varying degrees by deficiencies in funding and staff organization and
discipline, difficulties in coordination with large numbers of farmers, and
lack of technical knowledge at field level. The upgrading for O&M subproject
has been developed to provide solutions to these and other problems which
would be applicable to surface schemes throughout East Java. Nevertheless,
O&M of tubewells is a more crucial matter than for surface irrigation for many
reasons, including the following:
(a)  Surface gravity schemes can deliver water (though less than
optimally) and endure for decades with little or no official O&M,
as evidenced by the high standards of rice production even in
nonrehabilitated schemes in Java. Without a high standard of O&M
a tubewell could rapidly become inoperative;
(b)  Basic O&M in surface systems is not a technically complex matter;
organization, funding, and human muscle can accomplish much of what
needs to be done. Tubewell O&M involves large diesel engines and
pumps which untrained people cannot maintain or repair; and
(c)  Groundwater development involves a lower capital cost per ha than
surface gravity irrigation, which would require construction of
storage dams to match the all-season capability of tubewells. On
the other hand, recurrent costs per ha are much higher for ground-
water, which requires continuing financial support. For example,
the recurrent operating (largely fuel) costs of the 240 production
wells to be drilled under this subproject will average about
US$2.2 million (economic costs, 1981 constant currency values) in
1990. Replacement of pumps and engines will average a further
US$0.71 million annually, while operating overheads are estimated at
$0.22 million annually.
4.11      At the present time, in both the Kediri and Madiun areas, all
maintenance of wells, pumps and engines is performed by P2AT personnel with
the exception of the daily checking, and replenishment as necessary, of engine
f-uel and lubricants. Each well is visited by a mechanic from the area's
central workshop after approximately every 250 hours of operation during the
dlry season; at that time routine inspection and minor maintenance is performed
as required. When emergency minor repairs are needed, the pump operator
notifies the workshop and a mechanic with tools and parts is dispatched within
hours. Major repairs and general engine or pump overhauls are performed in
the central workshop.



- 46 -
4.12      Water Users Associations.  Before well installation water user
groups /1 are formed, composed of all farmers within the proposed command
area. These groups build where possible on traditional water user groups.
The command area is then divided into blocks, each block receiving water on a
specified day. In Kediri-Nganjuk the pump operator, employed by the water
users' group, is responsible for water distribution, and purchases fuel only
when sufficient funds are collected by the water user group. This system
would be applied project-wide, as farmers in each area become convinced of the
value of irrigation water supplied on demand.
4.13      For this project, P2AT will continue to be responsible for the
initial maintenance responsibilities, with a goal of transferring those tasks
to the EJIS within about four years. A few supervisory shop personnel (at
grade of foreman or superintendent) from the EJIS will be assigned to each of
the area workshops to be trained by staff of the consultants and P2AT in
methods and procedures. Near the end of the project, in possibly the fourth
year, the basic workshop personnel (mechanics, etc.) will be transferred from
P2AT to the EJIS to form a tubewell maintenance section within that service.
In the last year or two of the lproject, P2AT maintenance staff will consist
of a small number of supervisory people with the responsibility of seeing that
newly equipped wells were properly taken care of.
4.14      Daily operation of each well will continue to be by local operators
selected and paid by the water-user organizations. Each operator will receive
an initial training by P2AT. The responsibility of the operator or water-user
group will be limited to daily checking and replenishment of fuel and
lubricants, with the area workshop responsible for all other maintenance and
repairs. It is not considered technically feasible to expect water user
groups to assume responsibility for maintenance of and repairs to these
comparatively sophisticated pump units.
Studies and Design
4.15      Foreign and local consultants will assist PROSIDA and PIBD in
carrying out detailed designs of systems at Parigi Poso; investigations
at Kali Progo; and feasibility studies and designs of Polmas-Sidrap's systems.
Estimated schedules for consultant assignments and cost breakdowns are
detailed in Annex 1, Table 13, summarized in Table 4.3 and illustrated in
Chart 23202.
/1 In India, Pakistan, the U.S., and other areas, private ownership of tube-
wells provides strong incentives for economic use and careful maintenance
of tubewells. However, the extremely small size of East Java's farms
makes communal usage a necessity.



- 47 -
Table 4.3: CONSULTANT INPUTS FOR STUDIES AND DESIGN FOR FUTURE PROJECTS
Local
International   consultants
consultants      professional   Technicians
----------------(man-months)----------------
1.  Parigi Poso                    243            695              844
2.  Kali Progo                       9              40                -
3.  Polmas Sidrap                   66             156              165
Total                         318             891            1,009
Monitoring and Evaluation
4.16      The impact of rehabilitation, upgrading for O&M, and groundwater
investments on production will be monitored semi-annually for each subproject
area by agricultural extension staff attached to each Kabupaten (district).
Officers will collect sufficient detailed data on cropped areas and yields
for rice and secondary crops to be correlated to the areas improved.
Provincial irrigation staff will keep detailed records of water supplied
within each system improved. For groundwater, P2AT staff and water user
associations will keep records of pumping times and quantities of water
supplied. Coordination of these benefit monitoring and evaluation activities
will be the responsibility of the Evaluation Section, Directorate of Planning
and Programming, which is being strengthened with Bank assistance
(Cr. 995-IND).
5. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION, ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
General
5.01      The agricultural impact of both the rehabilitation and the ground-
water subprojects is overwhelmingly an increase in rice production. In the
case of rehabilitation, this increase is substantially at the expense of
subsistence production of polowijo crops (chiefly maize and cassava), as a
constant abstraction of river water is applied more equitably and efficiently
to permit an upgrading of crops. In the case of groundwater, additional
water supplies provided by the tubewells would generally permit the introduc-
tion of a second rice crop between the wet season rice and the dry season
polowijo. In either case, increased rice production is the benefit, in
keeping with the preferences and needs of the farmers, Indonesian consumers,
the provincial and central governments, and economic rationality.



- 48 -
5.02      Economic and financial prices for major agricultural inputs and
outputs are presented in Annex 2, Tables 1-2. Financial prices differ rather
widely from economic prices, particularly for rice, where the economic price
is nearly twice the farm-gate price, and for fertilizer, where economic
prices are nearly three times the subsidized farm level price. Despite the
fact that the implicit taxation of paddy sales amounts to over eight times
the subsidization of input purchases,/l few Indonesian farmers are diverted
away from their natural predilection to plant rice by Government's control of
the rice price (which is a politically crucial parameter in the urban areas).
5.03      Aside from lags in raising the government controlled market price
for paddy, the intensity of GOI's efforts in support of rice production,
across the spectrum of research, extension, credit, and marketing can be
matched by few developing courntries. These efforts are being assisted by
Bank Group support under two agricultural research projects, two agricultural
extension projects, two seeds projects, and an ongoing and proposed fertilizer
distribution project,/2 but in all cases the impetus for and emphasis on these
and other programs (such as subsidies for fertilizer and sawah formation)
supporting expanded rice production derive from the GOI itself. Partly as a
result, rice yields, husbandry, and cropping intensity on Java, and part-^u-
larly in East Java, are higher than in other large regions in the developing
world. At field level the major operative constraint is thus the supply and
distribution of water, and thLs project is aimed at alleviating that
constraint.
5.04      There is a wealth of experience in both ex ante and ex post evalua-
tion of the economic returns from rehabilitation and upgrading of irrigation
systems in Java, beginning with the first Bank Group supported project in
Indonesia (Irrigation I, Credit 127-IND) and including Irrigation IV (Credit
289-IND) which covered much of the rehabilitation of the Pekalen-Sampean
region of East Java. Project completion reports (para. 1.15) have re-esti-
mated economic rates of return for individual rehabilitation subprojects
ranging from 37% to 64%. The Project Performance Audit Report for Irrigation
I stringently revised PCR analytical assumptions by largely eliminating
improved wet-season paddy yields as a benefit attributable to rehabilitation;
the rates of return still averaged 30%. Rather than present another economic
analysis based on gross project areas for this subproject, the analysis of the
/1  Annex 2, Table 3 indicates that at present the implicit taxation of wet
season paddy through government control of prices amounts to about
US$547/ha or about US$160/ton, as opposed to net input subsidies of
Rp 42,000/ha (US$67/ha) or Rp 12,000/ton (US$19/ton).
/2  These programs are fully described in the SARs for these projects,
Report Nos. 646a,2805, 1105a, 2711a, PA-85A, 3121, and 3609-IND
respectively, and in agricultural sector reports on support services
(2060a-IND) and prospects (2374-IND) for food crop production.



- 49
combined effects of rehabilitation and tertiary construction given below
(paras. 5.09-5.14) is based on a more detailed review of a single representa-
tive scheme, in which all benefits are conservatively assumed to derive from a
change in cropping patterns during a single dry season crop due to improved
water distribution. The analysis of the groundwater subproject is based
on projections of total subproject inputs and outputs.
Groundwater Subproject
5.05      The main benefit of the groundwater subproject will be the inclusion
of a second rice crop in the tubewell areas as a direct result of increased
dry season water supplies. Yield increases are projected, particularly for
paddy where yields are expected to rise about 0.5 tons/ha in the wet season
and one ton/ha in the dry season chiefly due to increased quantity and control
of water supplies and earlier planting of the wet season paddy crop. Polowijo
(maize, soybeans, groundnuts) crop yields are anticipated to increase only
modestly in absolute terms, with about half of the anticipated increase due to
increased reliability of water supplies and the remainder to nonproject
factors such as increased use of inputs, better cultivation practices, and
improved varieties. Annex 2, Table 3 presents crop budgets showing detailed
assumptions on input usage and yields, and derives net economic and financial
production benefits from the various crops. Annex 2, Table 4 integrates these
data with the intensification of cropping patterns expected under the project
(and observed in established pilot projects) to generate net revenue increases
per ha and per farm on an annual basis.
5.06      Assumptions regarding benefit buildup are as follows:  No benefits
will be obtained in the year of well installation; in the second and third
years benefits from increased yields and cropping intensities will be half
of full potential; and full development will occur in the fourth year and
thereafter. Thus the expected annual production increases given in Table 5.1
below would be achieved by the eighth year of the project, or about 1990.



- 50 -
Table 5.1: EXPECTED ANNUAL PRODUCTION INCREASES FROM
GROUNDWATER DEVELOPMENT
Production  Production                  Increased net value
without      with       Increased         of production
prolect     project    production    Financial   Economic
---------- (000 tons)------------   --(1981 US$ million)--
Rice               55.6       104.0         48.4           4.06       14.57
Soybeans            5.2         8.9          3.7           1.30        1.30
Maize               3.6          4.1         0.5           0.09        0.70
Groundnuts          1.2          1.3         0.1           0.06        0.06
Total                                                 5.51       16.63
Minus operating and
replacement costs                                   0.80       3.0
Total                                                 4.71      13.63
5.07      Economic Rate of Return. Groundwater subproject costs and bene-
fits are summarized in Annex 2, Table 5. Costs are derived in part from
tubewell unit development costs given in Annex 1, Table 11 and procurement
schedules given in Table 15. The resulting economic rate of return of the
entire subproject is 24%. That of the Madiun component is 28%, of
Kediri-Nganjuk 20%, and of East Java 20%. The calculated ERR is lower for
East Java because further exploratory work will add to costs over this first
phase. That for Madiun is highier because the implementation schedule is
faster, and investment and operating costs are lower per unit area, given the
larger command areas which are feasible there. However, more remains to be
done to improve the current water management program in Madiun than in
Kediri-Nganjuk, where water users associations are clearly an effective
organization.
5.08      Sensitivity Analysis.  The viability of the subproject is most
sensitive to reductions in expected agricultural benefits, less so to delays
in achieving full benefits, and least sensitive to cost overruns. The
success of the project depends on the ability to deliver sufficient, reliable
water to grow a second rice crop. If expected increased rice production is
reduced by 50%, the ERR will fall to 14%. Full benefits from groundwater
development are expected to be realized four years after well installation.
If benefits are delayed until the sixth year, and there are no benefits in the
first two, the ERR will fall to 16%. The project is less sensitive, however,
to increases in capital costs. If these rise 50% above estimates, the ERR
will only fall to 17%.



- 51 -
Rehabilitation Subproject
5.09      As numerous irrigation rehabilitation and distribution programs in
Java have been analyzed before and after development, with the uniform result
of extremely high calculated economic rates of return, the analysis for this
subproject focusses on a more detailed projection of how those benefits may
occur, in relation to better distribution of a constant supply of water at
the field level. For this purpose a single proposed scheme was selected, the
Tanggul scheme in Kasri section, Malang district. Cost estimates for this
sc:heme are based on both levelling and structure surveys and detailed costing
executed during the feasibility study./l Water usage by various units in the
scheme was estimated by the consultants who supervised survey and design, and
who had extensive field experience (including frequent discussions with the
local irrigation inspector, overseer, and village officials) in the service
area during previous pilot O&M operations. Present cropping patterns were
estimated by the consultants and confirmed during field visits.
5.10      The Tanggul scheme is in relatively steep terrain characteristic of
about 80% of the schemes under consideration. It is below average in size
(687 ha), but is representative of a typical secondary canal block in larger
schemes.  The present rice cropping intensities (93% in the wet season, 31% in
the early dry season) and yields (4.0 tons/ha) are quite typical of unrehabi-
litated schemes in the subproject districts, as is the dry season planting of
polowijo. The small area devoted to sugarcane (1%) does vary from six
sections in the Brantas basin where location and climate are suitable for cane
and between 8% and 18% of the technical irrigation areas are typically planted
to sugar; it is however typical of seven sections in that basin and all of
Madura, where sugarcane hectarage varies between zero and 4% of the irrigation
area.
5.11      The physical condition of irrigation works is fairly typical of
the unrehabilitated state: while canals are not extremely heavily silted,
control structures are badly deteriorated, one entire secondary canal reach
has collapsed, there are few tertiaries or quaternaries, and there are few
operative gates. In sum, water control and distribution by the irrigation
overseer and village officials is only partial, and there is excessive waste
of water in the upper tertiary blocks and in the higher and smaller quaternary
blocks within the tertiary blocks./2 In the absence of rehabilitation
continued siltation, deterioration of control structures and gates, and
/1 Annex 5, Reference A, Vol. 2, p. 4.10 and 4.31-4.33.
/2 Both inequity and two forms of inefficiency in water allocation are
involved here. Excess water in higher blocks can be used more effi-
ciently, both within those blocks with better distribution channels and
in less favored blocks with operable control structures and rebuilt
canals (see Annex 2, Table 7).



- 52 -
erosion and collapse of canal banks are projected to lead to a loss of full
dry season irrigation service to an additional 75 ha (11% of the service area)
within 5-10 years, and a consequent shift of those blocks from dry season
paddy to irrigated polowijo, which requires much less water./l Erosion behind
the main headworks structure is likely to lead to its collapse within ten
years, but even with the limited funds available to it the EJIS would be
likely to respond to such an emergency in time and reinforce the structure, if
necessary with routine O&M funds.
5.12      As a sensitivity test of the frequently reported high economic
returns from rehabilitation, it was decided to account as project benefits
only a change in cropping pattern during the early dry season, which generally
occurs between about April 15 and August 15. This change in cropping pattern
is detailed by irrigation block in Annex 2, Table 7, and is summarized in
Table 5.2 below.
Table 5.2: PROJECTED CHANGES IN CROPPING PATTERN,
EARLY DRY SEASON, TANGGnL SCHEME
Land use category
Irrigated  Irrigated Polowijo   Rainfed Polowijo
paddy     Soybeans   Maize       Cassava  Maize       Total
________--------------(ha)-----------__________________
Present               215         139       139         97       97         687
With Project          278         205        204         -        -         687
Without Project       140         177       176         97       97         687
Increment            +138         +28       +28        -97     -97
Yield (tons/ha)       4.0         0.9       1.7        6.0      1.2
Incremental Pro-
duction (tons)      +552        +25        +48       -582    -116
(-68 net)
/1 To maintain even the present level of service the EJIS has spent about
US$40,000 per year (in 1981 US$) in recent years on repairs to the Tanggul
scheme, or about 16% of the costs of main system rehabilitation.



- 53 -
The with project cropping pattern does not assume optimal water distribution
at full development, merely a feasible improvement over the without project
case. This improvement would entail reducing field wastage of diverted water
from 50% in the without project case (39% at present) to 19%, with better
situated blocks still claiming disproportionate volumes of water.
5.13      The main benefit in this analysis is obviously an increase in paddy
cropping in the dry season of 138 ha (20% of the technically irrigated area)
over the without project case, or 63 ha above present paddy cropping. The
increased rice cropping would replace currently partially irrigated palowiJo,
while currently rainfed polowijo areas would receive enough irrigation water
(particularly in the early months of the dry season) to establish higher value
and higher yielding polowijo crops. Restricting benefit estimation in this
way ignores the following additional potential benefits of rehabilitating and
upgrading the Tanggul system:
(a) increased paddy yields in both the wet and dry seasons, due
to more rapid and efficient distribution of water;
(b) further increases in rice cropping intensity in the early
dry season due to earlier planting and harvesting of wet
season paddy and consequent use of March/April rainfall
for presaturation, and the ability to divert more water
should a study of Tanggul River prove this feasible; and
(c) additional planting of a second dry season polowijo crop
(August 15 - November 15) beyond the 57 ha currently
cropped, based on residual moisture in some areas irri-
gated in the early dry season.
Thus this analysis presents a minimum, bound to the actual benefits of main
system rehabilitation and tertiary construction in Tanggul.
5.14      Net benefits at full development are calculated in Annex 2, Table 8,
and phasing of benefits and costs is indicated in Annex 2, Table 9. Based on
the restrictive assumptions outlined above, the economic rate of return of
proposed project works in Tanggul would be 25%. The result is in line with
previous analyses which eliminated any economic benefits subject to reasonable
dispute.
Farm Incomes and Cost Recovery
5.15      The current Bank estimate of the absolute poverty line for rural
aLreas in Indonesia is US$112 per capita per annum while the relative
poverty line is estimated slightly lower at US$98. As Annex 2, Tables 10-11
demonstrate, the overwhelming majority of potential beneficiaries of the
rehabilitation and groundwater subprojects live on incomes far below both
poverty lines. In the.groundwater areas per capita incomes average about
US$58. In the representative rehabilitation scheme (Tanggul) only the poorer
classes of farmers are likely to benefit from the project, which would



- 54 -
redistribute fixed water supplies in their favor; the weighted average per
capita income of those likely to benefit is US$71. At full project
development (1990) per capita incomes in the groundwater areas are projected
to reach about US$135, with most of this increase due to the project, while
the weighted average income of beneficiaries in the rehabilitated scheme would
rise only 21% to $86./1 Over this period the absolute poverty line can be
expected to rise with living standards at a minimum of 2% per annum, to at
least US$134 in 1990. From the point of view of equity the level of cost
recovery is considered reasonable.
5.16      Nevertheless Indonesian farmers do pay land taxes related to the
level of irrigation service and payments to their village watermasters
(ulu-ulu) who are responsible for tertiary network operation and maintenance.
Project beneficiaries are anticiLpated to increase these payments by an average
of over US$12/ha with project development, and in addition groundwater
beneficiaries will gradually pay all financial fuel and operator costs of the
tubewells, averaging US$45/ha al: full development. These payments (discounted
with all investment and O&M cosl:s at 10%) would achieve cost recovery indices
of 11% and 20%, and rent (benef:Lt) recovery indices of 23% and 29%
respectively for the rehabilitation and groundwater subprojects.
5.17      Beneficiaries will be taxed much more heavily than this in an indi-
rect way, as they are anticipated to sell about 50% of their incremental rice
output to Government procuremenit agencies at prices far below world market
levels (para. 5.02). This will result in direct financial savings to GOI from
import substitution of US$6.0 million per annum at full development, the
discounted present value of which (US$33 million) is equal to about 37% of
project base costs and physical contingencies.
Risks
5.18      The viability of the groundwater subproject is most sensitive to
reductions in expected agricultural benefits, less so to delays in achieving
full benefits, and least sensitive to cost overruns. The success of the
project depends on the ability to deliver sufficient, reliable water to grow a
second rice crop. If expected increased rice production is reduced by 50%,
the ERR will fall to 14%. Full benefits from groundwater development are
expected to be realized four years after well installation. If benefits are
delayed until the sixth year, and there are no benefits in the first two, the
ERR will fall to 16%. The project is less sensitive, however, to increases in
capital costs. If these rise 50% above estimates, the ERR will only fall to
17%.
/1 About half the benefits of rehabilitation derive from prevention of
deterioration of irrigation service and cropping intensity, and the
remainder from improvements in service (Annex 2, Tables 7-8).



- 55 -
5.19      The rehabilitation component has little risk.  The projected
economic analysis is based exclusively on a small shift from polowijo to
irrigated rice cultivation in the early dry season due to better distri-
bution of fixed water supplies. It totally ignores potential increases
in paddy yields, or improvements in cropping intensities in the wet
season, and thus may be considered a minimum estimate of returns from
rehabilitation.
6. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with GOI on the follow-
ing:
(a)  GOI will employ consultants for the following subprojects by the
dates below:
Contract                                    Latest Date
Rehabilitation, O&M and East Java/           August 1, 1982
Kediri-Nganjuk Groundwater
Madiun Groundwater                           February 1, 1983
Studies and Designs                          August 1, 1982
The qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment of consultants would be satisfactory to the Bank, and
in accordance with principles and procedures of the "Guidelines on
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and the World Bank as
Executing Agency," published by the Bank in August 1981. (Draft
Loan Agreement, Section 4.02).
(b)  GOI will ensure that sufficient liquid funds would be made avail-
able to EJIS, P2AT, PROSIDA, and PIBD for the Project not later
than May 1 of each year for the ensuing GOI fiscal year to cover
budgeted expenditures for the project. (Draft Loan Agreement,
Section 4.01(c)).
(c)  GOI will provide adequate funds for and take action as necessary
to acquire in the year proceding construction all land and rights
in respect of land required for construction and operation of the
facilities included in the project and in all other Bank-supported
irrigation projects. (Draft Loan Agreement, Section 4.05).



- 56 -
(d) GOI will:
(i) Cause all facilities rehabilitated or constructed under the
project to be adequately operated and maintained, and would
ensure the efficiLent use of the water made available for
agricultural development and operations. (Draft Loan Agree-
ment, Section 5.04(a));
(ii) by August 15 in esach fiscal year provide liquid funds equal
to not less than half the amount budgetted for operation and
maintenance during the FY and the balance in equal quarterly
installments (Draft Loan Agreement, Section 5.04(b));
(iii) progressively increase the number of qualified operation
and maintenance staff until adequate staff levels, as
established in consultation with the Bank, have been
attained (Draft Loan Agreement, Section 5.04(b)); and
(iv) inform the Bank by May 1 of each year, of the approved
budgets for O&M of irrigation system; and by October 1,
of the staff provisions made. (Draft Loan Agreement,
Section 5.04(c)).
(e) EJIS, P2AT, PROSIDA and PIBD will:
(i) maintain records adequate to reflect operations, resources
and expenditures in respect of each part of the Project
including separate accounts and records for statements of
expenditure, and maintain such records until at least one
year after the closing date (Draft Loan Agreement,
Section 5.02);
(ii) have such accounts and financial statements, for each
fiscal year, and statements of expenditure audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank (Draft Loan
Agreement, Section 5.03(a)); and
(iii)  furnish to the Bank not later than nine months after the
end of each fiscal year: (a) certified copies of its
financial stateiments; and (bO audit reports of such scope
and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested. (Draft Loan Agreement, Sections 5.03(b) and (c)).
(f) GOI will:
(i) before the design phase for the construction of any
tertiary network, ensure that water-user associations
partici,pate in the planning of such tertiary networks;
and



- 57 -
(ii) during the design phase of any tertiary networks, the GOI
will exchange views with said water-user associations in
order to ensure that the members agree to the objectives and
operational procedures of the tertiary network and thereafter
operate and maintain the networks. (Draft Loan Agreement,
Section 5.05).
(g) GOI will:
(i) comprehensively consider the duties and responsibilities
of the extension services of the Ministry of Agriculture,
the Ministry of Home Affairs and its local administration,
DGWRD's Provincial Irrigation Services and any other agency
or agencies involved or concerned, for establishing,
training and assisting water-user associations, in order to
improve the operation and maintenance of tertiary systems for
which water-user associations are responsible;
(ii) not later than July 1, 1983, or such other date as the Bank
may agree, furnish to the Bank and the IFAD, for comments,
the findings and recommendations thereby obtained; and
(iii) promptly thereafter, cause the agency or agencies selected
on the basis of such review, to undertake the training
and support of the water-user associations taken into
account the comments made by the Bank and the IFAD. (Draft
Loan Agreement, Section 5.06).
(h) GOI will:
(i) cause EJIS to develop and adopt, not later than April 30,
1983, a detailed rehabilitation construction program based
on a priority evaluation system acceptable to the Bank,
and a manual of major technical design standards for reha-
bilitation acceptable to the Bank (Draft Loan Agreement,
Section 5.07); and
(ii) cause EJIS to employ, not later than March 31, 1983, and
thereafter maintain, at least 41 engineers for implementation
of the project. (Draft Loan Agreement, Section 5.08).
6.02      With the above assurances, the project would be suitable for a Bank
Loan of $70 million, with a 20-year maturity, including a grace period of
5 years.  The Borrower would be the Republic of Indonesia.



* 58 -
6.03      Conditions of Loan Effectiveness would be that:
(a) the IFAD Loan Agreement: has been duly authorized or ratified by
governmental action andl other conditions for effectiveness of the
IFAD Loan pursuant to the IFAD Loan Agreement have been duly
fulfilled; and the IFAI) has appointed the Bank as Cooperating
Institution to administer the IFAD Loan on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank (Draft Loan Agreement Section 7.01(a)); and
(b)  the consultant contract for the rehabilitation and O&M subprojects
(EJIS) has been negotiated and approved. (Draft Loan Agreement
Section 7.01(b).)



ANNEX 1
- 59 -                                  Table 1
INDONESIA
SEVENTEENTH IRRIGATION PROJECT
EAST JAVA PROVINCE
Cost Estimates
(US$ million)
Local          Foreign
currency        currency        Total
Rehabilitation Subproject
Civil works                                   17.17            9.69           26.86
Equipment and supplies                         0.39            2.32             2.71
Consultants                                    3.65            2.88             6.53
Mapping                                        0.14            0.26             0.40
Building and offices                           0.20            0.15            0.35
Administration                                 1.90            -                1.90
Land acquisition                               0.35            -               0.35
Subtotal                                   23.80           15.30           39.10
Upgrading for efficient O&M Subproject
Civil works                                    4.95            2.47            7.42
Equipment and supplies                         0.24            1.69             1.93
Consultants                                    0.51            1,51            2.02
Training                                       0.08            0.14            0.22
Buildings/offices                              0.16            0.07            0.23
Administration                                 0.63            -               0.63
Land acquisition                               0.10            -               0.10
Subtotal                                    6.67            5.88           12.55
Groundwater Subproject
Civil works                                    3.73            3.75            7.48
Drilling and installation                      1.70            2.56            4.26
Materials and equipment                        3.60           20.42           24.02
Consultants                                    1.32            3.42            4.74
Training                                       -               0.25            0.25
Administration                                 2.56            -               2.56
Subtotal                                   12.91           30.40           43.31
Studies and Design Subproject
Parigi Poso design and study                   3.26            3.55            6.81
Kali Progo study                               0.04            0.15            0.19
Polmas Sidrap study                            0.72            1.18            1.90
Administration                                 0.40            -               0.40
Subtotal                                    4.42            4.88            9.30
Total Base Cost                            47.80           56.46          104.26
Physical contingency                             4.79            5.60           10.39
Price contingency                               16.51           11.44           27.95
Grand Total (excluding taxes)              69.10           73.50          142.60
Grand Total (including taxes)              70.94           73.50          144.44



- 60 -                           ANNEX 1
Table 2
Page 1 of 4
INDONESIA
SEVENTEENTH IRRIGATION PROJECT:
EAST JAVA PROVINCE
Detailed Cost Estimates
Foreign   Base
Local   Foreign   Total  exchange  cost
---- (US$ million) ----    (x)        (x)
Rehabilitation
A. Civil Work
Canals
- Earthworks                           1.32     0.88        2.20     40
- Lining                               1.96      1.96       3.92     50
- Structural repairs                   2.24      0.75       2.99     25
- New structures of replacements    4.89         3.00       7.89     38
Drainage
- Earthworks and structures            0.53     0.43       0.96      45
Tertiary/on farms
- Canals, drains and structures        6.23     2.67       8.90      30
Subtotal                         17.17      9.69      26.86      36       68
B. Equipment & Supplies
- Vehicles                             0.30     0.40       0.70      60
- O&M                                  0.09      1.69       1.78     95
- Office                               -         0.07      0.07    100
- Survey                               -         0.16      0.16    100
Subtotal                          0.39      2.32       2.71      85        7
C. Consultants
- Foreign                              0.44      2.52      2.96      85
- Local                                3.21     0.36       3.57      10
Subtotal                          3.65      2.88       6.53      42       17
D. Mapping                                0.14      0.26       0.40     65        1
E. Buildings/offices
- Workshop/garage                      0.06     0.04       0.10      33
- Stores                               0.04     0.01       0.05      33
- Offices/housing                      0.10     0.10       0.20      33
Subtotal                          0.20      0.15       0.35      33        1
F. Administration                         1.90      -          1.90      -        5
G. Land Acquisition                       0.35      -          0.35      -        _
Base Cost                         23.80    15.30       39.10      39      100
Physical Contingencies                      2.38      1.53       3.91      39      10
Expected price increases                    9.30      3.75      13.05      29      33
Total (excluding taxes)           35.48    20.58       56.06      37      143
Taxes on civil works                        1.14      -          1.14
Total (including taxes)           36.62    20.58       57.20



61                               ANNEX 1
Table 2
Page 2 of 4
Foreign   Base
Local   Foreign   Total  exchange  cost
---- (US$ million) ----      ()       (%)
Upgrading for efficient O&M
A. Civil Works - Upgrading
- Earthworks                           2.26      0.54       2.80      20
- Structures                           1.43      0.77       2.20     35
- Canal lining                         0.96      0.96       1.92     50
- Embankments                          0.30      0.20       0.50     40
Subtotal                          4.95      2.47       7.42      33       56
B. Equipment & Supplies
- Vehicles                             0.14      0.20      0.34      60
- O&M                                  0.03      0.53       0.56     95
- Hydrometeorology                     -         0.09       0.09    100
- Office & drafting                    -         0.07       0.07    100
- Communications                       0.06      0.70       0.76     90
- Survey                               0.01      0.10      0.11      90
Subtotal                          0.24      1.69       1.93      87       16
C. Consultants
- Foreign                              0.26      1.48       1.74     85
- Local                                0.25      0.03      0.28      10
Subtotal                          0.51      1.51       2.02      83       17
D. Training
- Foreign                              -         0.14       0.14    100
- Local                                0.08      -          0.08      -
Subtotal                          0.08      0.14       0.22      63        2
E. Buildings
- Workshops                            0.04      0.01      0.05      30
- Stores                               0.02      0.01       0.03     33
- Offices/housing                      0.10      0.05       0.15     33
Subtotal                          0.16      0.07       0.23      30        2
F. Administration                         0.63      -          0.63       -        6
C. Land Acquisition                       0.10      -          0.10       -        1
Base Cost                           6.67     5.88      12.55      49      100
Physical contingencies                      0.67      0.58       1.25      46       10
Expected price increases                    2.23      1.26       3.49      36       27
Total (excluding taxes)             9.57      7.72     17.29      45      142
Taxes on civil works                        0.28      -          0.28
Total (including taxes)             9.85     7.72      17.57



-62-                             ANNEX 1
Table 2
Page 3 of 4
Foreign   Base
Local   Foreign   Total  exchange  cost
-- -  (US$ million) ----     ()       ()
Groundwater
A. Civil Works
- Pump houses                          0.54      0.54       1.08      50
- Access road                          0.48      0.48       0.96      50
- Canal lining                         2.53      2.55       5.08      50
- Workshop and stores                  0.18      0.18       0.36      50
Subtotal                           3.73     3.75       7.48       50      17
B. Drilling & Installation
- Drilling & installation              1.07      1.60       2.67      60
- Development &testing                 0.22      0.32       0.54      60
- Site Investigation                   0.41      0.64       1.05      60
Subtotal                          1.70      2.56       4.26      60       10
C. Materials & Equipment
- Casing & screens                     0.94      5.36       6.30      85
- Pump sets                            1.69      9.60      11.29      85
- Spare pump units                     0.13      0.73       0.86      85
- Transport                            0.10      0.55       0.65      85
- Mobile units                         0.27      1.50       1.77      85
- Hydrologic equipment                 0.06      0.32       0.38      85
- Workshop equipment                     07      0.37       0.44      85
- Drilling equipment                   '.15      0.82       0.97      85
- Pump & engine spares                 0.19      1.17       1.36      85
Subtotal                          3.60    20.42       24.02      85       55
D. Consultants
- Foreign                              0.60      3.34       3.94      85
- Local                                0.72      0.08       0.80      10
Subtotal                          1.32      3.42       4.74      72       11
E. Training
- Foreign                              -         0.25       0.25    100
Subtotal                          -         0.25       0.25    100         1
F. Administration/Overheads               2.56      -          2.56       -
Subtotal                          2.56      -          2.56       -        6
Base Cost                         12.91    30.40      43.31      70      100
Physical contingencies                       1.29     3.04       4.33      70       10
Expected price increases                    3.33      5.34       8.67      62       20
Total (excluding taxes)            17.53    38.78       56.31     69      130
Taxes on civil works                        0.42      -          0.42
Total (including taxes)            17.95    38.78      56.73



- 63 -                             ANNEX 1
Table 2
Page 4 of 4
Foreign   Base
Local   Foreign   Total  exchange  cost
---- (US$ million) ----    (%)        (%)
Studies and Design
Parigi Poso
Consulting Services
Foreign                           0.45       2.59      3.04     85
Local                             2.20       0.38      2.58      10
Contracted services                 0.26       0.39      0.65      60
Equipment                           -          0.15      0.15    100
Facilities                          0.35       0.04      0.39      10
Subtotal                       3.26       3.55     6.81      52       73
Kali Progo
Sermo Dam - Study
Consultants
Foreign                         0.01       0.08     0.09      90
Local                           0.03       0.01      0.04     25
Equipment                         -          0.06      0.06    100
Subtotal                       0.04       0.15     0.19      79        2
Polmas Sidrap Studies
Consultants
Foreign                           0.12       0.70      0.82     85
Local                             0.46       0.10      0.56      10
Contracted surveys and
investigations                    0.12       0.12      0.24     50
Equipment and supplies              0.02       0.26      0.28      95
Subtotal                       0.72       1.18     1.90      62       20
Administration                           0.40       -        0.40       -        5
Base Cost                          4.42       4.88      9.30      52     100
Physical contingencies                   0.45      0.45      0.90      52       10
Expected price increases                 1.64       1.09     2.74      40       29
Total (excluding taxes)            6.52       6.42    12.94       50     139
Total (including taxes)            6.52       6.42    12.94      50       -
Grand Total (excluding taxes)   69.10        73.50   142.60
Grand Total (including taxes)   70.94        73.50   144.44



INDONESIA
SEVENTEENTH IRRIGATION PROJECT:
EAST JAVA PROVINCE
Schedule of Expenditures for RehabilitatiOn Subproject
(IUSS million)
1981/82                 1982/83                  1983/84                  1984/85                  1985/86                  1986/87                   Total
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total
Civil Works                       -       -        -      1.80    1.60    3.40   2.02    2.38    4.40   5.40    2.40    7.80   7.95    3.31   11.26    -               -       -    17.17    9.69   26.86
Base cost                  -        -        -     1.80    1.60    3.40   2.02    2.38    4.40   5.40    2.40    7.80   7.95    3.31   11.26    -               -        -    17.17    9.69   26.86
Physical contingencies          -       -        -     0.18    0.16    0.34   0.20    0.24    0.44   0.54    0.24    0.78   0.80    0.33    1.13    -               -        -      1.72    0.97    2.69
E:pected price increasea        -       -        -     0.22    0.14    0.36   0.57    0.45    1.02   2.32    0.72    3.04   4.61    1.35    5.96    -                -       -      7.72    2.66   10.38
Subtotal                   -        -              2.20    1.90    4.10   2.79    3.07    5.86   8.26    3.36   11.62  13.36    4.99   18.35    -               -        -    26.61   13.32   39.93
Equipment and Supplies
Vehicles                        -       -        -     0.30    0.40    0.70    -          -       -       -        -       -       -       -        -       -       -        -      0.30    0.40    0.70
O6M                             -       -        -     0.09    1.69    1.78    -          -       -       -        -       -       -       -        -       -        -       -      0.09    1.69    1.78
Office                          -       -        -      -       0.07    0.07    -         -       -       -        -       -       -       -        -                                -       0.07    0.07
Survey                          -       -        -      -       0.16    0.16    -         -       -       -        -       -       -       -        -       -       -        -       -      0.16    0.16
Base cost                  -        _        -     0.39    2.32    2.71    -         -        -      _        _        -      -        -        _       -       -        -      0.39    2.32    2.71
Physical contingencies          -       -        -     0.04    0.23    0.27    -          -       -       -        -       -       -       -        -                               0.04    0.23    0.27
Expected price increases        -       -        -     0.06    0.20    0.26                   -           -        -       -       -       -        -                               0.06    0.20    0.26
Subtotal                   -        -       _      0,49      75    3         - _        _        _      _        _        _      _        _        _            -        - 3.4q    2775    3ML4
Consultants
Foreign                         -       -        -     0.09    0.51    0.60   0.11    0.64    0.75   0.11    0.64    0.75   0.13    0.73    0.86    -               -        -      O."      2.52    2.96
Local                           -       -        -     0.64    0.07    0.71   0.81    0.09    0.90   0.81    0.09    0.90   0.95    0.11    1.06    -               -        -      3.21    0.36    3.57
Base coat                  -        -        -     0.73    0.58    1.31   0.92    0.73    1.65   0.92    0.73    1.65   1.08    0.84    1.92    -               -        -      3.65    2.88    6.53
Physical contingencies          -       -        -     0.07    0.06    0.13   0.09    0.07    0.16   0.09    0.07    0.16   0.11    0.08    0.19    -                -       -      0.36    0.28    0.64
Expected price increases        -       -        -     0.09    0.05    0.14   0.26    0.22    0.48   0.40    0.31    0.71   0.63    0.39    1.02    -                -       -      1.38    0.97    2.35
Subtotal                   -        -       -      0.89    0.69    1.58   1.27    1.02    2.29   1.41    1.11    2.52   1.82    1.31    3.13    -               -        -      5.39    4.13    9.52
Other Costs
Mapping                         -       -        -     0.06    0.12    0.18   0.08    0.14    0.22    -            -       -       -        -       -       -        -       -      0.14    0.26    0.40
Buildingsloffices               -       -        -     0.20    0.15    0.35    -          -       -       -        -       -       -       -        -       -       -        -      0.20    0.15    0.35
Administration                  -       -        -     0.48      -      0.48   0.48       -      0.48   0.48       -      0.48   0.46      -       0.46    -         -       -      1.90      -      1.90
Land acquisition                -       -        -     0.20      -      0.20   0.15       -      0.15    -         -       -       -       -        -       -        -       -      0.35      -      0.35
Base cost                  -        -        -     0.94    0.27    1.21   0.71    0.14    0.85   0.48         -       0.48   0.46      -       0.46    -        _        _      2.59    0.41    3.00
Physical contingencies          -       -        -     0.09    0.02    0.11   0.07    0.01    0.08   0.05                 0.05   0.05      -       0.05    -         -       -      0.26    0.03    0.29
Expected price increases        -       -        -     0.04    0.02    0.06   0.02        -      0.02    -         -       -       -        -       -       -        -       -      0.06    0.02    0.08
Subtotal                   -        -        -     1.07    0.31    1.38   0.80    0.15    0.95   0.53         -       0.53   0.51      -       0.51    -        -        -      2.91    0.46    3.37
Total                      _        _        _     4.65    5.65   10.30   4.86    4.24    9.10  10.20    4.47   14.67  15.69    6.30   21.99    -               -        -    35.40   20.66   56.06
Taxes on civil works            -       -        -     0.10      -       0.10   0.23      -      0.23   0.26       -      0.26   0.55       -      0.55    -         -       -      1.14      -       1.14
TOTAL                                              4.75    565   10.40   5.09    4.24    9.33  10.46    4.47   14.93  16.24    6.30   2254                  -            -    3554   2066   5720



INDONESIA
SEVENTEENTH IRRIGATION PROJECT:
EAST JAVA PROVINCE
Schedule of Expenditures for Upgrading for Efficient OM Subpro-ect
(US$ million)
1981/82               1982/83                1983/84                1984/85                 1985/86                1986/87                 Total
Local Foreign  Total Local Foreign  Total Local Foreign  Total Local Foreign  Total  Local Foreign  Total Local Foreign  Total Local Foreign  Total
Civil Works                          -       -       -     0.53    0.13    0.66   1.59    0.39    1.98   1.38    1.00    2.38   1.45    0.95    2.40    -        -       -     4.95    2.47    7.42
Base cost                        -      -       -     0.53    0.13    0.66   1.59    0.39    1.98   1.38    1.00    2.38   1.45    0.95    2.40    -        -       -     4.95    2.47    7.42
Physical contingencies             -       -       -     0.05    0.01    0.06   0.16    0.04    0.20   0.14    0.10    0.24   0.14    0.10    0.24    -        -       -     0.49    0.25    0.74
Expected price increases            -      -       -     0.06    0.01    0.07   0.45    0.07    0.52   0.59    0.30    0.89   0.83    0.36    1.20             -       -     1.94    0.74    2.68
Subtotal                         -      -       -    0.64    0.15    0.79   2.20    0.50    2.70   2.11    1.40    3.51   2.43    1.41    3.84              -       _     7.38    3.46   10.8.4
Equipment
Vehicles                                    -       -    0.14    0.20    0.34   -       -       -       -       -       -      -       -       -               -       -     0.14    0.20    0.34
O&M and others                      -      -       -     0.10    1.49    1.59   -       -       -      -       -                                                 _  _        0.10    1.49    1.59
Base cost                        -      -       -    0.24    1.69    1.93      -        -                                                           -          _  _  _    0.24    1.69    1.93
Physical contingencies              -      -       -    0.02    0.17    0.19   -        -       -      -        -       -      -       -       -       -       -       -     0.02    0.17    0.19
Expected price increases            -      -       -    0.04    0.15    0.19   -        -       -      -        -       -      -       -       -       -       -       -     0.04    0.15    0.19
Subtotal                         -      -       -    0.30    2.01    2.31   -        - -            -       -               -       -       -       -               -     0.30    2.01    2.31
Consultants and Training
Consultants
Foreign                           -       -      -     0.03    0.49    0.52   0.03    0.49    0.52   0.10    0.25    0.35   0.10    0.25    0.35    -        -       -     0,26    1.48    1.74
Local                             -       -       -    0.08    -       0.08   0.08    -       0.08   0.06    -        0.06   0.06    -       0.06    -       -       -    0.25    0.03    0.28
Training
Foreign                           -       -      -    -        0.07    0.07   -       0.07    0.07   -        -       -      -       -       -       -       -       -     -       0.14    0.14&
Local                             -       -       -    0.02    -        0.02   0.04    -       0.04   0.02    -       0.02   -       -       -       -       -       -     0.08    -        0.08
Base cost                        -      -       -     0.13    0.56    0.69   0.15    0.56    0.71   0.18    0.25    0 43   0.16    0.25    0.41    -        -       -    0.59    1.65    2.24
Physical contingencies              -       -       -    0.01    0.06    0.07   0.01    0.06    0.07   0.02    0.02    0.04   0.01    0.03    0.04                     -     0.06    0.16    0.22
Expected price increases            -       -       -    0.02    0.05    0.07   0.04    0.11    0.15   0.08    0.08    0.16   0.09    0.11    0.20    -        _       -    0.23    0.35    0.58
Subtotal                         -      -       -    0.16    0.67    0.83   0.20    0.73    0.93   0.28    0.35    0.63   0.26    0.39    0.65    -         -       -    0.88    2.16    3.04
Building, Administration, Etc.
Buildings                           _       _       -    0.08    0.03    0.11   0.08    0.04    0.12   -        -       -      -       -           -       -           -     0.16    0.07    0.23
Administration                      -       -       -    0.20    -        0.20   0.20    -       0.20   0.13    -       0.13   0.10    -       0.10    -       _       _     0.63    -        0.63
Land acquisition                    -       -       -    0.05    -        0.05   0.05    -       0.05   -       -       -      -       -       -       -       _       _     0.10    -        0.10
Base cost                        -       -       -    0.33    0.03    0.36   0.33    0.04    0.37   0.13    -        0.13   0.10    -       0.10    -       -       -    0.89    0.07    0.n
Physical contingencies              -       -       -    0.04    -        0.04   0.03    0.01    0.04   0.01    -       0.01   0.01    -       0.01    -       -       -     0.09    0.01    0.10
Expected price increases            -       -       -    0.01    -        0.01   0.02    0.01    0.03   -       -       -      -       -       -               -       -     0.03    0.01    0.04
Subtotal                         -           -         0.38    0.03    0.41   0.38    0.06    0.44   0.14    -       0.14   0.11    -       0.11                    -     1.01    0.09    1.10
Total                                    -       -     1.48    2.86    4.34   2.78    1.29    4.07   2.53    1.75    4.28   2.80    1.80    4.60    -       -       _     9.57    7.72   17.29 l
Taxes on civil works                  -       -       -    0.02    -        0.02   0.07    -       0.07   0.09    -       0.09   0.10    -       0.10    -       _       _     0.28    -        0.28
TOTAL                            _       _       _     1.50    2.86    4.36   2.85    1.29    4.14   2.62    1.75    4.37   2.90    1.80    4.70    -       _       -    9.85    7.72   17.57



INDONESIA
SEVENTECNT IRRIGATION PROJECT'
EAST JAVA PROVINCE
Schedule of Expenditurea for Groundwater Subproject
(USS ofillion)
1981/82 /a             1982/83                1983/84                1984/85                1985186                 1986/87                 Total
Local  Foreign  Total Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Poreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total Local Foreign  Total
Civil Works
Eant Java                         -       -        -     0.14    0.14    0.28   0.22    0.23    0.45   0.26    0.25    0.51   0.12    0.13    0.25   0.20    0.19    0.39   0.94    0.95    1.89
Nadine                             -       -       -      0.17    0.17    0.34   0.33    0.34    0.67   0.08    0.08    0.16   0.22    0.21    0.43   0.21    0.22    0.43   1.01    1.02    2.03
Kediri-Nganjuk                     -       -       -      0.30   0.30    0.60   0.51    0.52    1.03   0.36    0.36    0.72   0.28    0.27    0.55   0.33    0.33    0.66   1.78    1.78    3.56
Base coat                       -       -       -      0.61    0.61    1.22   1.06    1.09    2.15   0.70    0.69    1 39   0.62    0.61    1.23   0.74    0.74    1.48   3.73    3.75    7.48
Physical contingencies             -       -       -     0.06    0.06    0.12   0.11    0.11    0.22   0.07    0.07    0.14   0.06    0.06    0.12   0.07    0.08    0.15   0.37    0.38    0.75
Expected price increases           -       -       -      0.07    0.05   0.12   0.30    0.34    0.64   0.30    0.21    0.51   0.36    0.26    0.62   0.56    0.34    0.90   1.59    1.20    2.79
Subtotal                        -      _        -      0.74    0.72    1.46   1.47    1.54    3.01   1.07    0.97    2.04   1.04    0.93    1.97   1.37    1.16    2.53   5.69    5.33   11.02
Drilling and Installation
East Java                          -               -      0.07    0.11    0.18   0.17    0.26    0.43   0.18    0.27    0.45   0.10    0.15    0.25   0.17    0.25    0.42   0.69    1.04    1.73
Mnadiun                            -       -       -      0.42    0.19    0.31   0.18    0.28    0.46   0.05    0.07    0.12   0.14    0.21    0.35   0.14    0.20    0.34   0.63    0.95    1.58
Kediri-Ng.njuk                     -       _       _      0.04    0.05    0.09   0.10    0.16    0.26   0.08    0.13    0.21   0.07    0.10    0.17   0.09    0.13    0.22   0.38    0.57    0.95
Base coat                      _        -      _       0.23    0.35    0.58   0.45    0.70    1.15   0.31    0.47    0.78   0.31    0.46    0.77   0.40    0.58    0.98   1.70    2.56    4.26
Physical contingenciea             -       _       -     0.02    0.04    0.06   0.05    0.07    0.12   0.03    0.05    0.08   0.03    0.05    0.08   0.04    0.06    0.10   0.17    0.26    0.43
Expected price increases           -       -       -     0.03    0.03    0.06   0.13    0.03    0.16   0.13    0.14    0.27   0.09    0.19    0.28   0.31    0.27    0.58   0.69    0.66    1.35
Subtotal                        -       -       -      0.28    0.42    0.70   0.63    0.80    1.43   0.47    0.66    1.13   0.43    0.70    1.13   0.75    0.91    1.66   2.56    3.48    6.04
Materiala And Eguipment
East Ja-a                          0.09    0.54    0.63   0.52    2.98    3.50   -      -        -      0.41    2.30    2.71   -       -       -      -       -       -      1.02    5.82    6.84
Madiun                             0.28    1.61    1.89   0.79    4.49    5.28   0.39    2.20    2.59   -       -       -      -       -       -      -       -       -       1.46    8.30    9.76
Kediri-EganJuk                    0.07    0.40    0.47   0.66    3.69    4.35   -       -        -      0.39    2.21    2.60   -       -       -      -       -       -       1.12    6.30    7.42
Base cost                       0.44    2.55    2.99   1.97   11.16   13.13   0.39    2.20    2.59   0.80    4.51    5.31   _       _-      _  -           -       -       3.60   20.42   24.02
Physical contingencies             -                     0.20    1.12    1.32   0.04    0.22    0.26   0.08    0.45    0.53   -        -       -      -       -              0.36    2.04    2.40
Expected price increases           -       -      -      0.24    1.00    1.24   0.11    0.40    0.51   0.34    1.35    1.59   -        -       -      -       -       -      0.69    2.75    3.44
Subtotal                        0.44    2.55    2.99   2.41  13.28   15.69   0.54    2.82    3.36   1.22    6.31    7.53   -        -       _         -    -       -       4.65   25.21   29.86
Con-ultants And Training
Consultants
Foreign                          -       -       -      0.20    1.10    1.30   0.20    1.10    1.30   0.20    1.14    1.34   -       -       -      -       -        -      0.60    3.34    3.94
Local                            -       -       -      0.25    0.03    0.28   0.25    0.03    0.28   0.22    0.02    0.24   -       -       -      -       -       -      0.72    0.08    0.80
Training                           -       -       -     -       0.05    0.05   -       0.10    0.10   -       0.10    0.10   --                       -                     -        0.25    0.25
Base cost                      _       _        -     0.45    1.18    1.63   0.45    1.23    1.68   0.42    1.26    1.68               -               -           -       1.32    3.67    4.99
Physical contingencies             -       -       -     0.04    0.12    0.16   0.05    0.12    0.17   0.04    0.13    0.17   -        -       -      -       -       -       0.13    0.37    0.50
Expected price increases           -       -       -     0.05    0.11    0.16   0.13    0.23    0.36   0.18    0.38    0.56   -        -       -      -       -       -       0.36    0.72    1.08
Subtotl                       _       _        -     0.54    1.41    1.95   0.63    1.58    2.21   0.64    1.77    2.41   -        -       -      -       -        -      1.81    4.76    6.57
Adsinistrntion And Overheads         -       -       -      0.51    -       0.51   0.51    -       0.51   0.51    -       0.51   0.51    -       0.51   0.51    -        0.51   2.56    -       2.56
E.Ae coat                       -       -       -      0.51    Z      0.51   0.51    -        0.51   0.51    -       0.51   0.51    -       0.51   0.51    _        0.51   2.56    -       2.56
Physical contingencien             -       -       -     0.05    -       0.05   0.05    -        0.05   0.05    -       0.05   0.05    -       0.05   0.05    -        0.05   0.26    -       0.26
Expected price increaes                       -       -       -      -           -       -      -       -       -      -       -       -      -        -      -           -       -           -
Subtotal                       -        -      _      0.56    Z       0.56   0.56    -        0.56   0.56    -       0.56   0.56    -       0.56   0.56    -        0.56   2.82    -       2.82
Total                           0 44    2.55    2.99   4.53   15.83   20.36   3.83    6.74   10.57   3.96    9.71   13.67   2.03    1.63    3.66   2.68    2.07    4.75  17.53   38.78   56.31
Taxe.  n cioil works                 -       -       -      0.05    -       0.05   0.11    -       0.11   0.08    -       0.08   0.08    -       0.08   0.10    -        0.10   0.42    -       0.42
TOTAL                           0.44    2.55    2.99   4.58   15.83   20.41   3.94    6.74   10.68   4.04    9.71   13.75   2.11    1.63    3.74   2.78    2.07    4.85  17.95   38.78   56.73
/s  To be procored onder Irrigation VIII Project (Loan 1434-IND).



ANNEX 1
- 67 -                                           Table 5b
INDONESIA
SEVENTEENTH IRRIGATION PROJECT:
EAST JAVA PROVINCE
Schedule of Expenditures - East Java Groundwater Component
Total Investment Costs
(US$'000 1981 prices)
/a                                                                    /b
Advance                                                     1987/88-  5-year
1981/82  1982/83  1983/84  1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  1988/89   totals
Materials & Equipment
Casings & screens             188        845         -       791        -         -          -      1,824
Pimp sets                      80      1,067         -    1,645         -         -          -      2,792
Spare pump units                -        190         -         -        -         -          -        190
Transport                       -          3         -         -        -         -          _           3
Mobile units                    -        621         -         -        -         -          -        621
Hydrologic equipment            -        173         -         -        -         -          -        173
Workshop equipment              -        250         -         -        -         -          -        250
Drilling equipment &
spare parts                252        298          -         -        -         -          -        550
Pump & engine parts           110          -         -       275        -         -          -        385
Subtotal                  630      3,447          -    2.711         -       -            -      6,788
Drilling & Installation
Drilling & installation         -        106       261       273      142       249        786      1,031
Development & testing           -         21        45        45       43        55        170        209
Site & miscellaneous            -         50       120       127       65       112        353        474
Subtotal                     -       177       426       445      250       416      1,309       1,714
Civil Works
Pump houses                     -         23        68        68       45        90        270        294
Access roads                    -         20        60        60       40        80        240        260
Channels & lining               -         90       326       385      163       217        900      1,181
Workshop & stores               -        150         -         -        -         -          -        150
Subtotal                    -        283       454       513      248       387      1,410       1,885
Engineering Services
P2AT overheads                  -        170       170       170      170       170        550        850
Consultants                     -        375       375       375        -         -          -      1,125
Training                        -         20        40        40        -         -          -        100
Subtotal                     -        565       585       585      170       170        550      2,075
Total                     630      4,472    1,465    4,254         668       973      3,269    12,462
/a  Advance procurement of materials and equipment in 1981/82 from balance of Loan 1434-IND (Irrigation
VIII).
/b Investment costs for the first five years including advance procurement.



- 68 -
ANNEX 1
Table 5c
INDONESIA
SEVENTEENTH IRRIGATION PROJECT:
EAST JAVA PROVINCE
Schedule of Expenditures - Kediri-Nganjuk Groundwater Component
Total Investment Costs
(US$-000 1981 prices)
/a                                                                  /b
Advance                                                    1987/88-  5-year
1981/82  1982/83  1983/84  1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  1988/89   totals
Materials & Equipment
Casings & screens            114        431         -       490       -          -         -      1,035
Pump sets                    160      2,274         -    1,940         -         -         -      4,374
Spare pump units               -        341         -         -       -          -         -        341
Transport                      -        340         -         -        -         -         -        340
Mobile units                   -        308         -         -        -         -         -        308
Hydrologic equipment           -        145         -         -       -          -         -        145
Workshop equipment             -        103         -         -        -          -        -        103
Drilling equipment &
spare parts                138         57         -         -       -          -         -        195
Pump & engine parts           55        347         -       174        -         -         -        576
Subtotal                  467     4,346          -    2,604        -          -         -      7,417
Drilling & Installation
Drilling & installation        -         55       136       114       85       118       214        508
Development & testing          -         13        41        34       28        35        66        151
Site & miscellaneous           -         19        80        66      52         69       128        286
Subtotal                    -         87       257      214      165        222       408        945
Civil Works
Pump houses                    -         23       135       108      104       113       230        483
Access roads                   -         20       120        96      92        100       204        428
Channels & lining              -        350       771       520     356        449    1,192       2,446
Workshop & stores              -        205         -         -        -          -        -        205
Subtotal                    -        598    1,026       724      552        662    1,626       3,562
Engineering Services
P2AT overheads                 -        170       170       170      170       170       550        850
Consultants                    -        375       375       375       -          -         -      1,125
Training                       -         10        20        20       -          -         -         50
Subtotal                    -        555       565      565      170        170       550     2,025
Total                     467      5,586    1,848    4,107       887      1,054    2,584    13,949
/a  Advance procurement of materials and equipment in 1981/82 from balance of Loan 1434-IND (Irrigation
VIII).
/b Investment costs including advance procurement.



- 69 -                                  ANNEX 1
Table 5d
INDONESIA
SEVENTEENTH IRRIGATION PROJECT:
EAST JAVA PROVINCE
Schedule of Expenditures - Madiun Groundwater Component
Total Investment Costs
(US$'000 1981 prices)
/a                                                                 /b
Advance                                                   1987/88-  5-year
1981/82  1982/83  1983/84  1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  1988/89   totals
Materials & Equipment
Casings & screens           1,262    2,137         -        -         -        -          -      3,399
Pump sets                     410    1,960    1,750         -         -        -          -      4,120
Spare pump units                -      331         -        -        -         -          -        331
Transport                       -       185      124        -         -        -          -        309
Mobile units                  115       286      440        -         -        -          -        841
Hydrologic equipment            -        61        -        -         -        -          -         61
Workshop equipment              -       85         -        -         -        -          -         85
Drilling equipment &
spare parts                  75       99        49        -        -         -          -       223
Pump & engine parts            26      133       226        -         -        -          -        385
Subtotal                1,888    5,277    2,589         -         -         -          -     9,754
Drilling & Installation
Drilling & installation         -      224       328       88      248       240        448     1,128
Development & testing           -        33       52       13        39       38         70        175
Site & miscellaneous            -       53        83       23       63        60        112        282
Subtotal                     -      310       463     124       350       338        630     1,585
Civil Works
Pump houses                     -       54        90       23       68        68        126        303
Access roads                    -        48       80       20        60       60        112        268
Chanaels & lining               -      240       500      119      300       300        580      1,459
Workshop & stores               -         -        -        -         -        -          -          -
Subtotal                     -      342       670      162      428       428        818     2,030
Engineering Services
P2AT overheads                  -       170      170      170       170      170        500        850
Consultants                     -      690       500      500         -        -          -      1,690
Training                        -       20        40       40         -        -          -        100
Suibtotal                    -      880       710      710      170       170        500     2,640
Total                   1,888    6,809    4,432        996      948       936      1,948    16,009
/a  Advance procurement of materials and equipment in 1981/82 from balance of Loan 1434-IND (Irrigation
VI]I).
/b Investment costs including advance procurement.



INDONESIA
SEVENTEENTH IRRIGATION PROJECT
EAST JAVA PROVINCE
Schedule of Expenditures for Studies and Design Subproject
(US $-000)
1982/83                  1983/84                  1984/85                  1985/86                   1986/87                    Total
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Forelgn  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign   Total
Parigi Poso
Consulting services
Foreign                     60      340       400    110      640      750    162      925   1,087    120        680     800      -        -        -       452   2,585    3,037
Local                      212       38       250    555       95      650    850      150   1,000    580        100     680      -        -        -    2,197       383    2,580
Contracted services           20       30        50    200      300      500      35       60      95       -        -        -     -        -        -       255      390       645
Equipment                      -       80        80       -      66       66       -        -       -       -        -        -     -        -        -         -      146       146
Facilities                    54        6        60    117       13      130    126        14     140      54        6       60     -        -        -       351       39       390
Subtotal                  346      494      840    982   1,'14   2,096  1,173   1,149   2,322    754           786   1,540       -        -        -    3.255   3.543    6,798
Kali Progo
Sermo Dam - Study
Consultants                                                                                                                                                                                     -4
Foreign                   13       75       88       -        -        -      -        -        -       -       -        -      -        -        -        13       75        88              1
Local                     34        4        38      -        -        -       -       -        -       -        -       -      -        -        -        34        4        38
Equipment                    -        -         -      -       55       55       -       -        -       -        -       -      -        -        -         -       55        55
Subtotal                   47       79      126       -       55       55      -        -        -       -       -        -      -        -        -        47      134       181
Polmas Sidrap Studies
Consultants
Foreign                      -        -         -     62      350      412     63      350      413       -        -       -      -        -        -       125      700       825
Local                        -        -         -    144       26      170    315       70      385       -        -       -      -        -        -       459       96       555
Contracted surveys and
investigations               -        -        -      40       40       80     80       80      160       -       -        -      -        -        -       120      120       240
Equipment and supplies         -        -         -       5      95      100      10      170     180       -        -        -     -        -        -        15      265       280
Subtotal                    -        -         -    251      511      762    468      670   1,138        -       -        -      -        -        -       719   1,181    1,900
Base subtotal             393      573      966  1,233   1,680   2,913  1,641   1,819   3,460    754           786   1,540    _          _        _      4,021   4,858    8,879
Administration                  48        -        48    146        -      146    173         -     173      33        -       33     -        -        -       400        -       400
Base cost                 441      573    1,014  1,379   1,680   3,059  1,814   1,819   3,633    787           786   1,573       -       _        _      4,421   4,858    9,279
Physical contingencies          44       57       101    138      168      306    181      182      363      79       79      158     -        -        -       442      458       900
Expected price increases        48       52       100    346      319      665    840      396   1,236    407        330     737      -        -        -    1,641   1,093    2,734
Total                     533     682    1,215  1,863   2,167   4,030  2,835   2,397   5,232  1,273   1,195   2,468    _                  -       _      6,504   6,409   12,913
mn4



ANNEX I
- 71 -                                 Table 7
INDONESIA
SEVENTEENTH IRRIGATION PROJECT:
EAST JAVA PROVINCE
Cost Estimates by Category of Works
(US$ million)
Total
project
Base               Physical    Expected        cost
foreign      Base    contin-        price       without
cost      cost    gencies       increases      taxes
Civil Works
Rehabilitation                9.99       26.86     2.69         10.38        39.93
O&M                           2.77        7.42     0.74          2.68        10.84
Groundwater                   3.75        7.48     0.75           2.79        11.02
Subtotal                 16.51       41.76      4.18         15.85        61.79
Drilling and Installation
Groundwater                   2.56        4.26     0.43           1.35        6.04
Subtotal                  2.56        4.26      0.43          1.35         6.04
Equipment and Supplies
Vehicles
Rehabilitation             0.40        0.70      0.07          0.07         0.84
o&M                         0.20       0.34      0.03          0.03         0.40
Groundwater                 -           -        -             -            -
Studies                    0.05        0.08      0.01          0.01         0.10
Subtotal                  0.65        1.12      0.11          0.11         1.34
Other Equipment and
Supplies
Rehabilitation              1.92       2.01      0.20          0.19         2.40
O&M                         1.49        1.59     0.16          0.16         1.91
Groundwater                20.42       24.02     2.40          3.44        29.86
Studies                     0.37       0.37      0.04          0.04         0.45
Subtotal                 24.20       27.99      2.80          3.83        34.62
Consultants
Rehabilitation                2.88        6.53     0.65          2.35         9.53
0&M                           1.51        2.02     0.20          0.55         2.77
Groundwater                   4.07        4.74     0.47           1.05        6.26
Studies                       3.65        8.00     0.80          2.36        11.16
Subtotal                 12.11       21.29      2.12          6.31        29.72
Training
Rehabilitation                -           -        -             -             -
O&M                           0.14        0.22     0.02          0.03         0.27
Groundwater                   0.25        0.25     0.03          0.03         0.31
Subtotal                   0.39       0.47      0.05          0.06         0.58
Administration & Overheads
Rehabilitation                0.41        3.00     0.30          0.08         3.38
O&M                           0.07        0.96     0.10          0.04          1.10
Groundwater                               2.56     0.26          -            2.82
Studies                       0.04        0.83     0.08          0.30         1.21
Subtotal                   0.52        7.35     0.74          0.42         8.51
Total                     56.94     104.24    10.43          27.93       142.60



- 72 -                              ANNEX I
Table 8
INDONESIA
SEVENTEENTH IRRIGATION PROJECT XVII
EAST JAVA PROVINCE
Proposed Allocation of Loan Proceeds
(US$ million)
Net base cost
and expected      Loan amount   Disbursement
price increases   Bank   Fund    percentage
Civil Works
Rehabilitation                             37.2          7.4    7.4           40
O&M                                        10.1          5.0    5.0          100
Groundwater                                10.3          2.2    2.2           40
Subtotal                                57.6         14.6   14.6           -
Drilling and Installation
Groundwater                                 5.6          1.1    1.1           40
Subtotal                                 5.6          1.1    1.1           -
Equipment and Supplies
Vehicles
Rehabilitation                            0.8          -      -
O&M                                       0.4          -      -
Groundwater                               -            -      -
Studies                                   0.1          0.1    -           100
Subtotal                                 1.3          0.1    -             -
Other Equipment and Supplies
Rehabilitation                            2.2        } 2.8  } 1.0         100
O&M                                       1.7        }
Groundwater                              27.5/a       18.4    6.1          100
Studies                                   0.4          0.4    -           100
Subtotal                                31.8         21.6    7.1         100
Consultants
Rehabilitation                              8.9       } 11.5  } -           .100
O&M                                         2.6       }        }
Groundwater                                 5.8          5.8    -            100
Studies                                    10.4         10.4    -            100
Subtotal                                27.7         27.7    -           100
Training
Rehabilitation                              -            -       -
O&M                                         0.3          -       0.3         100
Groundwater                                 0.2          -       0.2         100
Subtotal                                 0.5          -      0.5         100
Administration & Overheads
Rehabilitation
O&M                                  }      7.5          -       -
Groundwater
Studies
Subtotal                                 7.5
Unallocated/Physical Contingencies           10.6          4.9    1.7
Total (excluding taxes)                142.6         70.0   25.0
/a  Advanced procurement of $3.0 million is included.



-73 -                      ANNEX 1
Table 9
INDONESIA
SEVENTEENTH IRRIGATION PROJECT
EAST JAVA PROVINCE
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD fiscal                         Cumulative disbursement
year and semester                            (US$ million)
FY83
First                                       _
Second                                      1.0
FY84
First                                       4.5
Second                                      8.5
FY85
First                                      15.5
Second                                     23.5
FY86
First                                     32.5
Second                                     43.5
FY87
First                                      56.0
Second                                     66.5
FY88
First                                      68.5
Second                                     70.0



INDONESIA
SEVENTEENTH IRRIGATION PROJECT:
EAST JAVA PROVINCE
Rehabilitation Subproject
(a) Estimates of Unit Cost per Hectare (US$ end-1981)
Main system
Canals                                                                                    Subtotal
New and        Drains                Tertiary/on-farm system             (costs per ha)
Earth-           Structural  repair of   Earth-  Struc-       Canal/drain earthworks                    Main   On-farm   Grand total
works   Lining   repairs    structures  works   tures   Tertiary  Quaternary  Drains  Structures  system   works   (costs per ha)
Malang (14,200 ha)        55.0    125.0      84.0       116.0.       -       -         45         11.0      12.0      110.0      380.0   178.0          558.0
Kediri (12,100 ha)        25.0     73.0      73.0       185.0        -       -         45         i1.0      12.0      i1O.0       356.0   178.0         534.0
Jombang (13,900 ha)       45.0     44.0      46.0       221.0       15.0     6.0       45         11.0      12.0      110.0       377.0   178.0         555.0
Mojokerto (6,800 ha)      64.0     71.0      31.0       105.0       63.0     9.0       45         11.0      12.0      110.0       343.0   178.0         521.0          1
Madiun (3,000 ha)         19.0     56.0      21.0        74.0       44.0    14.0       45         11.0      12.0      110.0       228.0   178.0         406.0         4
(b) Estimates of Volumes of Work (Averages per Unit)
Main system
Canals
New and        Drains                Tertiary/on-farm system
Earth-           Structural  repair of   Earth-  Struc-       Canal/drain earthworks
Parameter                works   Lining _repairs    structures  works   tures   Tertiary  Quaternary  Drains  Structures
Length in meters per
ha                      10.0      -         n.a.        n.a.       n.a.    -        23.0        52.0      29.0        n.a.
Earthwork or lining in   60.0      1.0                              35.0                                                3.0
cu m per ha              to       to        6.0         9.0        to      n.a.    23.0         7.0        7.0         to
72.0     2.0                              50.0                                                5.0
Numbers of structures                                                                                                  30.0
per 1,000 ha             -        -         6.0         n.a.       n.a.    -         n.a.       n.a.       n.a.       to
50.0



ANNEX 1
- 75 -                                Table 11
Page 1 of 2
INDONESIA
SEVENTEENTH IRRIGATION PROJECT
EAST JAVA PROVINCE
Groundwater Subproject
Typical Well Operation Standards & Costs, 1981
(US$)
East Java     Kediri-Nganjuk       Madiun
------------ Project Area -----------
Discharge (l/s)                    60                60              90
Command area (ha)                  50                50             100
Operation (hrs/yr)              3,200             3,000          2,800
Invesl:ment Cost
WelL                        19,700            19,100          46,500
Pump                        13,800            13,800          19,300
EngiLne /a                  11,200            11,200          15,700
Pump house                   4,500             4,500           4,500
Roads                        4,000             4,000           4,000
Chanmels                    22,500            22,500          20,000
'otal                    75,700            75,100         110,000
E. Java            Kediri/Nganjuk            Madiun
Annual. Cost 1981          Economic  Financial  Economic  Financial  Economic   Financial
Fuel, lubricants            6,479       1,851      5,866      1,676       8,690       2,483
Parts labor                   900         900        900        900       1,000       1,000
Operator                      300         300        300        300         300         300
Civil works maintenance       260         260        260        260         480         480
Total                  7,939       3,311     9,262                 10470        4,263
(Rp mil)                  (5.0)       (2.1)     (5.8)       (2.0)       (6.5)      (2.7)
Annual, Cost 1990
Fuel                        8,615       2,443      7,802      2,212      11,558      3,278
Other                       1,460       1,460      1,460      1,460       1,780       1,780
Total                 10,075       3,903     9,262       3,672      13,338      5,055
(Rp mil)                  (6.3)       (2.4)     (5.8)       (2.3)       (8.3)      (3.2)
Useful life (years):       Well           25
Pump           12
Engine /a       8
Pump house    25
Roads          25
Channels      25
Cropping pattern: Rice-Rice-Palowijo
/a Includes right-angle gear drive.



ANNEX 1
- 76 -                             Table 11
Page 2 of 2
East Java     Kediri-Nganjuk      Madiun
------------ Project Area
Well
Mobilization & site          1,000             1,000           2,000
Drilling & installation      6,200             5,600          16,000
Casing & screen              9,500             9,500          24,000
Develop & test               1,500             1,500           2,500
Miscellaneous                1,500             1,500           2,000
Subtotal                 19,700            19,100         46,500
Pump & Engine                 25,000            25,000          35,000
Civil Works
Pump house                   4,500             4,500           4,500
Access roads                 4,000             4,000           4,000
Channels & lining           22,500            22,500          20,000
Subtotal                 31,000            31,000         28,500
Total                    75,700            75,700         110,000
Criteria
Well depth (m)                  80                80             200
Pump discharge (1/s)            60                60              90
Command area (ha)               50                50             100
Operation (hrs/year)         3,200             3,000           2,800



ANNEX 1
Table 12
- 77 -
INDONESIA
SEVENTEENTH IRRIGATION PROJECT
EAST JAVA PROVINCE
Groundwater Subproject
Phasing of Well Drilling
1982/83    1983/84    1984/85    1985/86    1986/87    Total
East Java
EH (no.)              15          40          45           -          20         120
OW (no.)              12          20          20          26          22         100
PW (no.)                5         15          15          10          20          65
CA (ha)              200         730         870         370         480       2,650
R'ediri-Nganjuk
EH (no.)               5           5           5           -           5          20
OW (no.)               5           5           5           -           5          20
PW (no.)               5          30          24          23          25         107
CA (ha)              310       1,190         840         570         690      3,600
Madiun-Solo
EH (no.)               -           -           -           -           -           -
OW (no.)               2           1           1           1           -           5
PW (no.)              12          20           5          15          16          68
CA (ha)            1,200       2,000         550       1,500       1,500      6,750
T'otal Project
EH (no.)              20          45          50           -          25         140
OW (no.)              19          26          26          27          27         125
PW (no.)              22          65          44          48          61         240
CA (ha)            1,710       3,920       2,260       2,440       2,670     13,000
Explanation:  EH = Exploratory hole, small diameter
OW = Observation hole (piezometer), and test wells
PW = Production well, equipped with pump
CA = Command area of production wells



ANNEX 1
- 78 -                              Table 13
INDONESIA
SEVENTEENIH IRRIGATION PROJECT
EAST JAVA PROJECT
Consulting Services - Cost Breakdown /a
(US$/man-month)
Expatriates               Local consultants
Foreign    Local    Total   Foreign    Local    Total
Item                        currency  currency   cost   currency  currency   cost
Billing Rate
Basic salary                3,160         -    3,160         -       830      830
Social benefits               850          -      850        -        190     190
Home office overhead        2,520          -    2,520       55        635     690
Overseas allowance /b         900          -      900        -        220     220
Net fee                       470          -      470        -        140     140
Subtotal                7,900          -    7,900        55     2,015   2,070
Reimbursable Expenses
Mobilization and travel         -          -        -        -          -       -
International travel          650          -      650        -
Relocation                    360          -      360        -          -       -
Subsistence en route           70          -       70        -         40      40
Miscellaneous                 140          -      140        -         20      20
Subtotal                1,220          -    1,220         -        60       60
Duty Station Expenses
Local duty travel             200         -       200       40         -       40
Per diem                        -       320       320        -         55      55
Field office overhead           -        500      500        -         55      55
Housing and utilities         480     1,060    1,540        30         65      95
Transport                     820          -      820      125          -     125
Subtotal                1,500      1,880    3,380       195       175      370
Total                  10,620      1,880   12,500/c   250       2,250   2,500/d
/a  Based on recent contracts, projected to end-1981 prices.
/b  Field allowance for local consultants.
7c  May vary between $9,900 and $14,000 depending on nationality and experience.
7W  Applies to engineers, senior agronomists, senior economists and senior sur-
veyors. Cost of draftsmen and technicians averages $1,000/man-month.



ANNEX 1
- 79 -                          Table 14
Page 1 of 2
INDONESIA
SEVENTEENTH IRRIGATION PROJECT:
EAST JAVA PROVINCE
List of Equipment and Supplies for Rehabilitation and O&M Subprojects
Quantity      Unit cost   Total cost
(numbers)    ----- (US$'000) ------
A. Rehabilitation & Upgrading Subproject
Vehicles /a
Jeeps (4 WD)                              18            12.5            225.0
Motorcycles (125 cc)                     108             2.0             216.0
Bicycles                                 272             0.2             54.4
Pickup truck (1/2 ton)                    14            10.5            147.0
Trucks                                     4            14.0             56.0
Subtotal                                                         698.4
Operations & Maintenance
Excavator (70 hp x 0.3 mm)                 8           100.0            800.0
Grader (70 hp)                             8           100.0            800.0
Tamping rammers                           24             3.0             72.0
Pumps (4" 0)                              12             3.0             36.0
Generator (5 kw)                           8             5.0             40.0
Gas welder                                 8             2.5             20.0
Hand tools                                68 set         0.2             13.6
Subtotal                                                       1,781.6
Office & Drafting
Electric typwriters                        4             2.5             10.0
Drafting machines                         20             2.5              50.0
Calculators                               20             0.3              6.0
Subtotal                                                          66.0
Survey
Theodolites (T-O)                          4             5.0             20.0
Levels (NA-1)                             22             2.0             44.0
Tapes                                     80             0.2              16.0
Compasses                                 80             0.3             24.0
Chain                                     20             0.3              6.0
Miscellaneous (rods etc.)                 12 lots        9.0             48.0
Subtotal                                                         158.0
Total                                                          2,703.0
/a Will be financed under government budget.



-80  -                           ANNEX I
Table 14
Page 2 of 2
Quantity      Unit cost   Total cost
(numbers)    ----- (US$'000) ------
B. Operations and Maintenance Subproject
Vehicles /a
Sedans                                      -             -
Jeeps (4 WD)                                6            12.5              75.0
Motorcycles (125 cc)                       21             2.0              42.0
Bicycles                                  211             0.2              42.2
Pickup truck (1/2 ton)                     15            10.5             157.5
Trucks (67)                                 2            14.0              28.0
Subtotal                                                          344.7
Construction
Excavator (70 hp x 0.3 mm)                  2           100.0             200.0
Grader (70 hp)                              2           100.0             200.0
Tamping rammers                            12             3.0              36.0
Pumps (4" 0)                                6             3.0              18.0
Generator (5 kw)                            4             5.0              20.0
Gas welder                                  4             2.5              10.0
Hand tools                                 40 sets        0.2              80.0
Subtotal                                                          564.0
Hydro-Meteorology
Rainfall gauges (manual)                   65             0.3              19.5
Rainfall recorders                          3             2.0               6.0
Meteorology stations                        7             5.0              35.0
Current meters                              4             5.0              20.0
Sediment samplers                           4             2.6              10.4
Subtotal                                                           90.9
Office of Drafting /a
Manual typwriters                          40             0.8              32.0
Electric typwriters                         3             2.5               7.5
Drafting machines                          11             2.5              27.5
Calculators                                11             0.3               3.0
Subtotal                                                           70.0
Communications
Radio telephones                            9            26.0             234.0
Telephones                                 40             0.3              12.0
Wassel board caps                           7             5.0              35.0
Transmission lines                        300 km          1.6             480.0
Subtotal                                                          761.0
Survey
Theodolites (T-0)                           2             5.0              10.0
Levels (NA-1)                              22             2.0              44.0
Tapes                                      11             0.2               2.2
Compasses                                  41             0.3               4.1
Chain                                      52             0.3              15.0
Miscellaneous (rods, sitaffs, etc.)         9 lots        4.0              36.0
Subtotal                                                          111.3
Total                                                           1,941.9
/a Will be financed under government budget.



TNDON1ESA
SEVENTEENTH IRRIGATION PROJECT
EAST JAVA PROVINCE
Groundwater Subproject
East Java Component
Procurement Schedule for Materials and Equipment
(Annual costs in US$'000)
Unit          Advance /a                                                                                 /b
cost    %      1981/82        1982/83       1983/84        1984/85       1985/86       1986/87     5-year total
Unit      ($)    F.C.  Qty.  Cost  Qty.    Cost  Qty.  Cost  Qty.          Cost  Qty.  Cost  Qty.  Cost  Qty.         Cost
Casing & Screens                               85
Casing - 12 in.            m           135           785   99  3,473    460   -          -   3,212    434   -         -    -       -   6,685    903
6 in.           m            65           318   21  1,409       92   -        -   1,303      85   -        -    -       -   2,712    177
2 in.           m            18         1,386   25  6,138    110   -          -   5,676    102   -         -    -       -  11,814    212
Screen -  6 in.            m          120            333   40  1,457    175   -          -   1,350    162   -         -    -       -   2,807    337
Reducer  12 x 6 in.       no.          140            20    3       54      8   -        -       56       8   -       -    -       -      110       15
Pumpsets                                        85
Turbine - 60 1/s          no.      25,000              -    -       35    875   -        -       53    325   -        -    -       -       88  2,200
45 l/s         no.      16,000              5   80       12    192   -        -       20    320   -        -    -       -       32    512
Spare Pump Units                               85
Diesel engines 36 hp    no.        11,000              -    -       14    154   -        -        -       -   -       -    -        -       14    154
Pump bowls - 10 in.       no.       2,200              -    -        7     15   -        -        -       -   -       -    -        -        7      15
Column & shaft           length        715             -    -       30      21   -       -        -       -   -       -    -        -       30      21
Transport                     $            -   85         -    -       -    338   -        -        -       -   -       -    -        _        -    338
Mobile units                  $            -   85         -    -       -    621   -        -        -       -   -       -    -        -        -    621
Hydrologic equipment          $            -   85         -    -       -    173   -        -        -       -   -       _    _                 -    173
Workshop equipment            $            -   85         -    -       -    250   -        -        -            -                    -        -    250
Drilling equipment &
spare parts                 $            -   85        -  252        -    298   -        -        -       -   -       -    -        -        -    298
Pump & engine parts           $            -   85         -  110           -       -       --    275   -                -    -        _        -    275
Total                                                  630           3,447            -           2,711                                      6,158
/a Advance procurement in 1981/82 from balance of Loan 1434-IND (Irrigation VIII).
75 Advance procurement is not included.
I-.0
1U, 



INDONESIA
SEVENTEENTH IRRIGATION PROJECT
EAST JAVA PROVINCE
Groundwater Subproject
Madiun Component
Procurement Schedule for Materials and Equipment
(Annual costs in US$'000)
Unit           Advance /a                                                                              /b
Cost    %       1981/82        1982/83       1983/84       1984/85      1985/86      1986/87    5-year total
Unit      ($)    F.C.  Qty.    Cost  Qty.    Cost  Qty.  Cost  Qty.  Cost  Qty.  Cost  Qty.  Cost  Qty.    Cost
Casing & Screens                             85
Casing - 16 in.          m           215         2,244    482  3,756    808    -         -   -       -    -       -    -        -   3,756    808
10 in.          m          122         4,449    543  7,551    921    -         -   -       -    -        -    -       -   7,551    921
3 in.         m            35           804      28 1,596       56    -       -   -             -       -    -       -   1,596       56
Screen - 10 in.          m           170         1,230    209  2,070    352    -         -   -       -    -       -    -        -   2,070    352
Pumpsets                                     85
Turbine   - 90 1/s      no.      35,000             10    350      50  1,750   50  1,750   -         -    -       -    -        -      100  3,500
150 1/s     no.      60,000              1     60       3    180    _        _-      -         -      -    -        -        3    180
Centrifugal 10 1/s      no.      15,000              -      -       2      30    -       -   -       -    -       -    -        -        2     30
Spare Pump Units                             85
Diesel engines 50 hp   no.       12,650              -      -      10    127    -        -   -       -    -       -    -        -       10    127
36 hp   no.      11,000              -      -      10    110    -        -   -       -    -       -    -        -      10    110
Pump bowls - 10 in.    no.        2,750              -      -      10      28    -       -   -       -    -       -    -        -       10     28
12 in.    no.       3,300              -      -      10      33    -       -   -       -    -       -    -        -       10     33
Column & shaft         length       660              -      -      50      33    -       -   -       -    -       -    -        -       50     33
Transport                   $            -   85        -       -      -    185    -    124   -         -    -        -    -       -        -    309
Mobile units                $            -   85        -    115       -    286    -    440   -         -    -        -    -       -        -    726
Hydrologic equipment        $            -   85        -       -      -      61    -       -   -       -    -        -    -       -        -      61
Workshop equipment          $            -   85        -       -      -      85    -       -   -       -    -        -    -       -        -      85
Drilling equipment &
spare parts              $            -   85         -     75       -      99    -      49   -       -    -       -    -        -        -    148
Pump & engine parts         $            -   85        -      26      -    133    -    226   -         -    -        -    -       -        -    359
Total                                                1,888          5,277        2,589            -            -             -           7,866
/a Advance procurement in 1981/82 from balance of Loan 1434-IND (Irrigation VIII).
79  Advance procurement is not included.
tD r



SEVENTEENTH IRRIGATION PROJECT
EAST JAVA PROVINCE
Groundwater Subproject
Kediri-Nganjuk Component
Procurement Schedule for Materials and Equipment
(Annual costs in US$-000)
Unit          Advance /a                                                                                 /b
cost    x      1981/82        1982/83       1983/84        1984/85       1985/86       1986/87    5-year total
Unit      ($)    F.C.  Qty.  Cost  Qty.    Cost  Qty.  Cost  Qty.          Cost  Qty.  Cost  Qty.  Cost  Qty.         Cost
(in)         (in)           (in)          (mn)            (mn)         (m)           (in)
Casing & Screens                               85
Casing - 12 in.            m          135         300      41    834    123   -         -   1,080    145   -          -    -       -   1,914    268
8 in.           m           90            -       -    600      54   -       -      540      48   -        -    -       -   1,140    102
6 in.           m           65          300     20    798       52   -       -   1,012       66   -        -    -       -   1,810    118
2 in.           m           18           60       1  1,530      28   -       -   1,060       19   -        -    -       -   2,590       47
PVC 6 in.            m           35           -       -    840      30   -        -      756      26   -       -    -        -   1,596       56
Screen -  6 in.            m          120         420      50    852    102   -         -   1,212    145   -          -    -       -   2,064    248
PVC 6 in.            m           40           -       -    962      38   -        -      864      35   -       -    -        -   1,826       73
Reducer  12 x 6 in.       no.         140           12       2     30       4   -       -       40       6   -        -    -       -       70      10
Pumpsets                                       85                                                                                                                    X
Turbine   - 90 1/s        no.      35,000            -      -       -       -   -       -        4    140   -         -    -       -        4    140
60 1/s       no.      25,000            -      -      42  1,050   -        -       36    900   -        -    -        -       78  1,950
45 1/s       no.      16,000           10    160      14    224   -        -        -       -   -        -    -       -       14    224
Centrifugal 30 1/s        no.      25,000            -      -      40  1,000   -        -       36    900   -         -    -       -       76  1,900
Spare Pump Units                               85
Diesel engines 36 hp    no.        11,000            -       -     15    165   -        -        -       -   -        -    -       -       15    165
24 hp    no.        9,350           -       -      12    112   -        -        -       -   -       -    -        -       12    112
Pump bowls -  8 in.       no.       1,650            -      -       2       3   -       -        -       -   -        -    -       -        2       3
10 in.      no.       2,200           -       -       8      18   -       -        -       -   -       -    -        -        8      18
Column & shaft           length       660            -      -      40      26   -       -        -       -   -        -    -       -       40      26
Centrifugal pumps         no.       3,300            -      -       5      17   -       -        -       -   -        -    -       -        5      17
Transport                    $             -   85      -       -       -    340   -        -        -       -   -       -    -        -        -    340
Mobile units                 $             -   85      -       -       -    308   -        -        -       -   -       -    -        -        -    308
Hydrologic equipment         $             -   85      -       -       -    145   -        -        -       -   -       -    -        -        -    145
Workshop equipment            $            -   85      -       -       -    103   -        -        -       -   -       -    -        -        -    103
Drilling equipment &
spare parts                $            -   85       -    138       -      57   -       -        -       -   -        -    -       -        -      57
Pump & engine parts           $            -   85      -      55       -    347   -        -        -    174   -        -    -        -        -    522
Total                                                  467           4,346           -            2,604            -            -            6,950
/a Advance procurement in 1981/82 from balance of Loan 1434-IND (Irrigation VIII).
75 Does not include advance procurement.
H H
Ln



ANNEX 1
- 84 -                                Table 16
INDONESIA
SEVENTEENTH IRRIGATION PROJECT:
EAST JAVA PROVINCE
Studies and Design Subproject
List of Equipment and Vehicles
Parigi Poso      Kali Progo    Polmas Sidrap
Quan-   Cost   Quan-   Cost   Quan-   Cost   Total
tity   $'000   tity   $'000   tity   $'000   $'000
Surveying Equipment
Theodolites                     2       20      1       10      5       50       80
Levels                          4       10      2        5       8      20       35
EDM                             1       10      1       10       2      20       40
Tapes                          50        5     50        5       -       -       10
Compasses                      20       10     10        5      -        -       15
Tacheometers                    -        -      -        -       2      15       15
Accessories                     -        -      -        -     LS        7        7
Office Equipment
Typewriters (electric)          3        6      2        4       3       6       16
Typewriters (manual)            4        4      2        2       3       3        9
Photocopiers                    2       10      1        5       2      10       25
Electronic calculators         20        6     10        3       -       -        9
Drafting equipment             LS       12     LS        6     LS       11       29
Plan printer                    1       15      -        -       1      15       30
Hydrologic Equipment
Sediment samplers               -        -      -        -     15       15       15
Gauges, spares                  -        -      -        -     20        2        2
Boats                           -        -      -        -       3      30       30
Climatological equipment        -        -      -        -      3       30       30
Vehicles
Land cruisers (long
wheel base)                   3       38      -        -      3       38       76
Total                            146               55             280     481



-8- S5-                               AM   2
INDONESIA
SEVENTEENTH IRIiGATION PROJECT:
ESAT JAVA PROVINCE
Co odlty Price Pro1ection
1981         1985        1990
Rice/Paddy
impart price, Thai 5T btrokn, f.o.b. bangkck             530          618          638
Qeality dicoast 1Oi /c                                   -53          -62          -64
Freight A ienBrance                                      +25          +25          +25
CIF Jakarta                                              502          582          599
Pert ha.dliig     strorge                                +10          +10          +10
Trenspcrt to eh1.eoalete centrel Java /b                 +49          +49          +49
Trae port mill tc  hc1oco-lers central Javo /b           -43          -43          -43
Price ex =ill preject ....                               518          597          615
Paddy eqcicalert:  637  conversien                       326          376          387
Mlilleg Ceret  aa. vole of byprcdaeto                    -6            -6          -6
Drying 4 cieaning                                         -3           -3           -3
Marketieg 6 haodlieg to ciii                             -10           -10         -10
F.a_gale price                                           307          357          368
'200  rpt/ton                                            192          223          230
(FiPancial price '000 rpc/too)                          (105)        (121)       (124)
moice
FOB Jakarta/Surhabay  /c                                 174          236          241
Pert hndlieg aed sttorge                                   5     -5                 -5
Whelcealera te pert /d                                   -17          -17          -17
Transpert, efra   to ohlcoolers.                          -8            -8          -8
Farag.te price                                           144          206          211
'000 rpa/ton                                              90          129          132
(Finacial price '000 rpo/ton)                          (100)        (150)       (137)
enpert price, f.o.b. U1.S. Golf pert /c                  328          591          466
Freight A Iocurnoee                                      +35          +35         +35
CIF Joklarto/ernbhya                                     363          426          501
Pert handling aed sierage                                 +5           +5           +5
Raggieg                                                  +10          +10         +10
Tranaprt te =helesalerF                                  +25          +25         +25
Troeepert, cerketkeg, farer  Co =helenale                -20          -20          -20
Fa-agaic  price                                          383          446          521
'000 rpt/ton                                             239          279          326
(Fie..c.ai prior '000 rpt/tcn)                          (3)00        (350)       (410)
G;roundnutF
Espert price,  t.o.b. Yigcria /f                         646          694          756
FOB Jckorto/ierhbayc 2                                   661          709          771
Pert handling A et-rair                                  -10          -10          -10
Whelesaler to pert                                       -IS          -15          -15
Marketleg and handlllg fa_ner to  helcsaler              -10          -10          -10
Fa:gate  price                                           626          674          736
'000 rpt/ton                                             391          421          460
(Fina-lal price '000 rp./ton)                          (400)        (430)        (471)
Urea
FOB Poleshabg /h                                         254          312          327
Baeging aed shipping to Ea-t Jaca                        +15          +15          +15
Hendlieg & diotribhtle t to retoil Ircel                 +25          +25         +25
Tracspert tc fare                                         +4           +4           +4
Faregate price j/ton                                     298          356          571
0ooO rpa/cee                                             186          223          232
(Financlal price '000 rpo/ecn)                          ( 70)        ( 80)        ( 90)
TSP
7OeB US (Florlda)                                        208          251          254
Freight 6 ineerance Ce Sora a6a +0                                    +60         +60
Pert haodling and diotribhtien to retail 1evel           +25          +25         +25
tr_esp"r, to fare                                         +4           +4           +4
FPreg.te price l.te.                                     297          340          343
'000 rps"ton                                             186          213          214
(Financial price '000 rp/tcon)                          C 70)        ( g0)        ( 90)
Insecticide
Faregate price                                         1,000        1,000        1,000
'900 rpt/ton                                           6,500        6 500       6,500
(Financial price '000 rps/i-c)                        (1 250)      (1,250)      (1,250)
PorchaBed Soed /i
Vice:        Foregate price LOS$/kg                      0.307         0.357       0.368
rps/kg                                        192          223          230
(Fincncial price rpa/kg)                     (210)        (250)        (250)
Matze:       Far,gate price 15/kg                       0.144        0.206        0.211
rpe/kg                                         90          129          132
(Financial price rpe/kg)                     (150)        (200)       (220)
S.ybheo:    Faregate price US$/kg                        0.363        0.446        0.521
rpn/kg                                        239          279          326
(Financiol price rpe/kg)                     (350)        (390)       (450)
Groundnuts: Par=gate  price "SS/kg                       0.626         0.674       0.736
rps/kg                                        391          421         460
(Financial price rps/kg)                     (450)        (480)       (525)
/a  Quality dincoet of (0%  reprvotnent  ipert potterne In rho post and eay be
rcnerrvarie fee the ftetre, since there is littie lea qudlity rice cn the
International coarker.
/b  Iecersol trantport rates. arc eastl..d tc he Sf.12/te/k.I.  Correct
BULOG rttes  are 50.08/ton   bue  the dc tescic price of fael is coder 50%
of ehe InteroaeIonal price.
/C  Indonesia is a             -argicol expotter of seice.  The FOB price qeoted in the
werld FOR price plus a 115 tranaport preieie for Aeian earkets.
/d  Avecage distarce port to whelesalec 200 km p1ut handling caste.
7;  Equol to standard price prejectiecs, ci.f. Rctterdoe,  inins $20/eon
insuranceand freight free Gulf port to Retterdom.
/f  Eqoal to tandard price projections, c.i.f. Etropc, aioes )30/t.n  iroor-
aoce and freight free Nigeria te Eurcpe.
L NigerLa price adj.aeed upeard $15/n to retflect transpcrt prealui fle
Atlan corkers.
/h  FOB Palemhcab  it FO  sarld price adjeoted for tranaport preatan  of 515.
7?  The ncnoni.c price co  ceed isequlvalent to the ecosnecic Veregate price of
the product, asueiing thateit  the project incre.eed areaard produetion
of seed ill bh at the cast of either importn or enportt of the relevant
productse.
Footnotes:  NB. AL1 pcice-  are Onpretsed in c-ntent e-d 1981 US dllars.  Thee
they cre slightly highee then current qeoted pricec tar mid-1981.
Exchange  rate:  rps 6251)1.   In the ahesene at altersative infnrea-
tion, finoncial price_   are ossoand to rise at thenam  rcteaa
ecoeaeic prices.



ANNEX 2
- 86 -                                    Table 2
INDONESIA
SEVEENTEEN'TH IRRIGATION PROJECT:
EAST JAVA PROVINCE
Summary of Commodity and Input Price Projections, 1981-90 /a
(1981 constant Rp)
1981                1985                 1990
Econ-    Finan-    Econ-    Finan-    Econ-    Finan-
omic       cial     omic       cial      omic       cial
Crops (Rp/kg)
Rice                         192       105        223      121        230       124
Maize                         90       100        129      150        132       137
Soybean                      239       300       279       350        326       410
Groundnut                    391       400        421      430        460       471
Seeds (Rp/kg)
Rice                         192       210        223      250        230       250
Maize                         90       150        129      200        132       220
Soybean                      239       350       279       390        326       450
Groundnut                    391       450       421       480        460       525
Inputs (Rp/kg)
Urea                         186        70       223        80        232        90
TSP                          186        70        213       80        214        90
Pesticide                  6,500    1,250      6,500    1,250       6,500    1,250
Farm Labor (Rp/day)
Animal                     1,500    1,500      1,500    1,500       1,500    1,500
Land preparation             350       700        350      700        350       700
Planting                     250       500        250      500        250       500
Crop management              350       700       350       700        350       700
Harvesting                   400       800        400      800        400       800
Post-harvest                 350       700       350       700        350       700
Average                      350       700       350       700        350       700
Diesel Fuel (Rp/liter)         187        53        215        60       248        70
/a Derived in Annex 2, Table 1.



ANNEX 2
- 87-                                                                          Table 3
INDONESIA
SEVENTEENTH IRRIGATION PROJECT:
EAST JAVA PROVINCE
Groundwater Subproject
Physical Inputs. Input Costs and Farm Revenues Per Crop Per Hectare La
With & Without the Project. 1981 and 1990
Wet season rice          Dry season rice                Soybean                     Maize                Groundauts
Cost                     Cost                      Cost                      Cost                      Cost
Inputs  (000 rps/ha)    Inputs  (000 rps/ha)    Inputs  (000 rps/ha)    Inputs  (000 rps/ha)    Inputs  (000 rps/ha)
/ha    Eco.      Fin.    /ba    Eco.       Fin.    /ha    Eco.      Fin.    /ha    Eco.       Fin.    /ha    Eco.       Fin.
PRESENT PATTERN 1981
Cash Inputs (kgs)
Urea                               200    37.2    14.0       150    27.9    10.5         -     -        -        150    27.9    10.5
TSP                                 50      9.3     3.5       50     9.3      3.5        -     -        -          -     -        -          -     -        -
Pesiticide                           2    13.0      2.5        2    13.0      2.5        -     -        -          1     6.5      1.2
Seed                                30      5.8     6.3       30     5.8      6.3       40     9.6    14.0        30     2.7      4.5     100    39.1    45.0
Subtotal                                65.3    26.3              56.0    22.8               9.6    14.0              37.1    16.2              39.1    45.0
Labor (nan-days)
Land preparation (team-days)        20    30.0    30.0        15    22.5    22.5         -     -        -          -     -        -          -     -        -
Lanld preparation (man-days)         -      -       -          -     -        -         10     3.5      7.0       10     3.5      7.7      10      3.5      7.0
Planting                            40    10.0    20.0        40    10.0    20.0        20     5.0    10.0        20     5.0    10.0       20      5.0    10.0
Cultivation                         55    19.0    38.5        55    19.0    38.5        40    14.0    28.0        20     7.0    14.0       40    14.0    28.0
Harvest                             40    16.0    32.0        40    16.0    32.0        30    12.0    24.0        10     4.0      8.0      40    16.0    32.0
Post harvest handling               15      5.0    10.0       15     5.0    10.0        15     5.0    10.0        25     9.0    18.0       20      7.0    14.0
170    80.0  (130.5)             72.5  (123.0)             39.5   (79.0)             28.5   (57.7)            45.5   (91.0)
Hlired Labor:  30% of Total                      39.0                      37.0                      24.0                      17.3                     27.3
Total Input Costs                      145.3    65.3             128.5    59.8              49.1    37.7              65.6    33.5              84.6    72.3
Tield and Gross revenues    (3,500) (672.0) (368.0) (3,000) (576.0) (315.0)   (700) (167.0) (210.0) (1,800) (162.0) (180.0)   (800) (313.0) (320.0)
(kgs/ha and rps/ha)
Niet Revenue per ha                   (526.7) (302.7)           (447.5) (255.2)           (117.9) (172.3)            (96.4) (146.5)           (228.4) (247.7)
PUTURE WITHOUT PROJECT 1990
Cash Inputs (kgs)
Urea                               200    46.4    18.0       150    34.8    13.5        50    11.6      4.5     200    46.4    18.0        25      5.8     2.2
TSP                                 50    10.7      4.5       50    10.7      4.5       50    10.7      4.5       -      -       -         50    10.7      4.5
Pesticide                            2    13.0      2.5        2    13.0      2.5        2    13.0      2.5       1      6.5     1.2        2    13.0      2.5
Seed                                30     6.9      7.5       30     6.9      7.5      30      9.7    12.3       25      3.2     5.5       80    36.8    42.0
Subtotal                                77.0    32.5              65.4    28.0              45.0    23.8              56.1    24.7             66.3    51.2
Labor (nan-days)
Lanid preparation (team-days)       20    30.0    30.0        15    22.5    22.5         -     -        -         -      -       -          -      -       -
Land preparation (nan-days)          -     -        -          -     -        -        10      3.5      7.0      10      3.5     7.0       10      3.5     7.0
Planting                            40    10.0    20.0        40    10.0    20.0       20      5.0    10.0       20      5.0    10.0       20      5.0    10.0
Cultivation                         55    19.0    38.5        55    19.0    38.5       40    14.0    28.0        20      7.0    14.0       40    14.0    28.0
Harvest                             40    16.0    32.0        40    16.0    32.0        30    12.0    24.0        10     4.0      8.0      40    16.0    32.0
Post harvest handling               15      5.0    10.0       15     5.0    10.0        15     5.0    10.0       25      9.0    18.0       20      7.0    14.0
80.0   130.5             72.5  (123.0)             39.5   (79.0)             28.5   (57.0)             45.5   (91.0)
ltired Labor:  30% of Total                      39.0                      37.0                      24.0                      17.0                     27.0
Total InPut Costs                      157.0    71.5             137.9    65.0              84.5    47.8              84.6    41.7             111.8    78.2
Yield and Gross revenues    (3,500) (805.0) (434.0) (3,000) (690.0) (372.0)   (800) (261.0) (328.0) (2.000) (264.0) (274.0)   (900) (414.0) (424.0)
Uet Revenue per ha                    (648.0) (362.5)           (552.1) (307.0)           (176.5) (280.2)           (179.4) (232.3)           (302.2) (345.8)
FUTURE WITH PROJECT 1990
Cash Inputs (kgs)
Urea                               250    58.0    22.5       250    58.0    22.5        50    11.6      4.5     200    46.4    18.0        25      5.8     2.2
TSP                                 75    16.0      6.8       75    16.0      6.8       50    10.7      4.5        -     -        -        50    10.7      4.5
Pesticide                            2    13.0      2.5        2    13.0      2.5        2    13.0      2.5        1     6.5      1.2       2    13.0      2.5
Seed                                25      5.8     6.2       25     5.8      6.2       30     9.7    12.3       25      3.2      5.5      80    36.8    42.0
Subtotal                                92.8    38.0              92.8    38.0              45.0    23.8              56.1    24.7             66.3    51.2
Labor (nan-days)
Land preparation (team-days)        20    30.0    30.0        15    22.5    22.5         -     -        -          -     -        -         -      -       -
Land preparation (nan-days)          -      -       -         -      -        -         15     5.2    10.4       15      5.2    10.4       15      5.2    10.4
Pla.ting                            40    10.0    20.0        40    10.0    20.0        20     5.0    10.0       20      5.0    10.0       20      5.0    10.0
Cultivation                         55    19.0    38.5        55    19.0    38.5       40    14.0    28.0        20      7.0    14.0       40    14.0    28.0
Harvest                             40    16.0    32.0        40    16.0    32.0        30    12.0    24.0       10      4.0     8.0       40    16.0    32.0
Post harvest handling               15      5.0    10.0       15     5.0    10.0        15     5.0    10.0       25      9.0    18.0       20      7.0    14.0
80.0  (130.5)            72.5  (123.0)             41.2   (82.4)             30.2   (60.4)             47.2    94.4
Hired Labor:  30% of Total                       39.0                      37.0              -      24.7                      18.1                      28.3
Iotal Input Costs                      172.8    77.0             165.3    75.0              86.2    48.5              86.3    42.8             113.5    79.5
Yield and Gross revenues    (4.000) (920.0) (496.0) (4,000) (920.0) (496.0)   (900) (293.0) (369.0) (2.300) (304.0) (315.0) (1.000) (460.0) (471.0)
(kgs/ha and rps/ha)
Net Revenue per ha                    (747.2) (419.0)           (754.7) (421.0)           (206.8) (320.5)           (217.7) (272.2)           (346.5) (391.5)
/a  All financial and economic estimates in 1981 currency values.  See Annex 2, Tables 1-2.



INDONESIA
SEVENTEENTH IRRIGATION PROJECT:
EAST JAVA PROVINCE
Groundwater Subproject
Cropping Pattern Changes and Revenue Increases per Hectare
With and Without the Project, 1990 /a
(1981 currency values)
1990 without project                                              1990 with project
Cropping              Revenue        Costs      Net revenue   Cropping                Revenue         Costs      Net revenue    Net revenue increase
pattern   Yield    Econ.  Fin.  Econ.  Fin.  Econ.  Fin.   pattern   Yield    Econ.  Fin.  Econ.  Fin.  Econ.  Fin.  Econ.  Fin.  Econ.  Fin.
(ha) /b (tons/ha)  ------------ (Rp'000/ha) ------------   (ha) /b (tons/ha)  ------------ (Rp'OOO/ha) ------------  (Rp'OOO/ha)  - ($/ha) --
Kediri-Nganjuk
Wet season      1.0 R      3.5       805   434   157    72        648   362    1.0 R       4.0      920    496   173    77    747    419
Dry season      0.5 M     2.0        132   137    42    21         90   116    1.0 R      4.0       920    496   165    75    755    421
0.5 S     0.8        130   164    42    24         88   140    0.5 M      2.3       152    157    43    21    109    136
0.5 S     0.9       147    185    44    24    103    161
Subtotal                        1,067   735   241   117       826   618                        2,139  1,334   425   197  1,714  1,137   888    519  1,421   830
East Java
Wet season      1.0 R      3.5       805   434   157    72        648   362    1.0 R       4.0      920    496   173    77    747    419
Dry season      0.5 G     0.9        2n7   212   106    39        101   173    1.0 R       4.0      920    496   165    75    755    421                                   1
0.5 S     0.8        130   164    42    24         88   140    0.5 G       1.0      230    235    57    40    173    195                                  m
0.5 S     0.9       147    185    44    24    103    161                                  0
Subtotal                        1,142   R10   305   135       837   675                        2,217  1,412   439   216  1,778  1,196   941    521  1,506   834
Madiun
Wet season      1.0 R      3.5       805   434   157    72        648   362    1.0 R       4.0      920    496   173    77    747    419
Dry season      0.5 R     3.0        345   186    69    33        276   153    1.0 R       4.0      920    496   165    75    755    421
0.5 S     0.8        130   164    42    24         88   140    1.0 S      0.9       293    369    87    49    206    320
Subtotal                   J   1,280   784   268   129   1,012   655                           2,133  1,361   425   201  1,708  1,160   696    505  1,113   808
Net revenue increase
per 0.4-ha farm
Kediri-Nganjuk  355    208    568   332
East Java        376    208    602   334
Madiun           278    202    445   323
la Crop budget data derived from Annex 2, Table 3.
/b  R - rice, M - maize, S - soybean, G - groundnut.



-89 -                                                        ANNEX 2
Table 5
INDONESIA
SEVENTEENTH IRRIGATION PROJECT
EAST JAVA PROVINCE
Groundwater Subproject
Cost and Benefit Streams
($'000) /a
Materials                   Consultants  P2AT    Total   Replacement  Opera-   Opera-                  Incre-
and     Drill-  Civil        and       over-  capital    and rig        ting    tional    Total   mental         Net
Year      equipment/b ing/b  works/b  training/b beads/b costs          rental /c  costs/d overheads  costs  benefits/f benefits
/e
1982/83      11,180/g    638   1,331       1,430       560    15,139           86       106        40    15,371         0    (15,371)
1983/84       1,790    1,265   2,375       1,480       560      7,470         143       515        80     8,208    1,040       (7,168)
1984/85       3,690       858   1,529      1,480       560      8,117         160    1,014        120     9,411    3,550       (5,861)
1985/36                   847   1,353                  560      8,760         183    1,514        160     4,617    6,160        1,543
1986/87                 1,078   1,628                  560      3,266         164    1,934        200     5,564   10,190        4,626
1987/88                                                 50                            2,207       220     2,477   13,420       10,943
1988/89                                                 50                            2,207       220     2,477   14,940       12,463
1989/90                                                 50                    237    2,207        220     2,714   16,630       13,916
1990/91                                                 50                    515    2,207       220      2,992   16,630       13,638
1991/92                                                 50                    630    2,207        220     3,157   16,630       13,473
1992/93                                                 50                    656    2,207        220     3,133   16,630       13,527
1993/94                                                 50                    884    2,207        220     3,361   16,630       13,269
1994/95                                                 50                    635    2,207        220     3,112   16,630       13,518
1995/96                                                 50                    642    2,207        220     3,119   16,630       13,511
1996/97                                                 50                    783    2,207       220      3,260   16,630       13,370
1997/98                                                 50                    966    2,207        220     3,443   16,630       13,187
1998/99                                                 50                    514    2,207       220      2,991   16,630       13,639
1999/2000                                                50                    680    2,207        220     3,151   16,630       13,474
2000/01                                                 50                    656    2,207        220     3,133   16,630       13,497
2001/02                                                 50                    884    2,207       220      3,361   16,630       13,269
2002/03                                                 50                    635    2,207       220      3,112   16,630       13,518
2003/04                                                 50                    642    2,207       220      3,119   16,630       13,511
2004/05                                                 50                    783    2,207        220     3,260   16,630       13,370
2005/06                                                 50                    966    2,207        220     3,443   16,630       13,187
2006/07                                                 50                    514    2,207        220     2,991   16,630       13,629
ERR = 24.1X
/a  1990 economic relative prices in 1981 constant USS.
7b  80% of values in Annex 1, Tables 5a, 5b, 5c and 5d as the consultants will be plan and design for an additional 7,000 ha
not incluided in project area.
/c  Incltudes replacement of engines every 8 years, pumps every 12 years and half of the workshop equipment every 10 years.
Also includes imputed opportunity costs of using rigs, at approximately US$2,000 per production well and US$1,000 per
exploratory well.
/d  Operating costs per well are given in Annex 1, Table 11.  Costs build up with phased installation of wells, given in
Annex 1, Table 12.  Costs do not include administration and overheads.
/e  10% of final operating costs.
77f  Incremental benefits derived from phasing of well development (Annex 1, Table 12), calculation of net benefits per ha
served (Annex 2, Table 4), and assumed achievement of zero, 50%, 50%, and 100% of full net benefits over the first four
years respectively of development of each well.
/g Includes imputed cost of USS750,000 for workshop and equipment, and procurement of pump sets, screens and casings under
Loani 1434-INT) (Irrigation VIII).



ANNEX 2
Table 6
- 90 -
INDONESIA
SEVENTEEN IRRIGATION PROJECT:
EAST JAVA PROVINCE
Rehabilitation Subproject - Tanggul Scheme
Supplementary Crop Budgets /a
(1990 relative prices in 1981 Rp)
Irrigated Maize             Rainfed Maize                   Cassava
Inputs       Cost          Inputs       Cost           Inputs       Cost
Cash Inputs              (ha)   ('O Rps/ha)       (ha)   (000 Rps/ha)        (ha)   ('000 Rps/ha)
Econ.    Fin.              Econ.    Fin.               Econ.    Fin.
Urea (kg)                     120    29.8    10.8          50    12.4      4.5         -        -        -
Pesticide (kg)                0.5      3.3      0.6         -        -       -         -        -        _
Seed (kg)                      25      3.2      5.5        25      3.2     5.5
Subtotal                         36.3    16.9                15.6    10.0          -       -        -
Labor (man-days)
Land preparation             10      3.5      7.7        10     3.5      7.7        10      3.5      7.7
Planting                     20      5.0    10.0         20     5.0    10.0         30      7.5    15.0
Cultivation                  20      7.0    14.0        20      7.0    14.0          5      1.8     3.5
Harvesting                   10      4.0      8.0        10     4.0      8.0        20      8.0    16.0
Post harvest handling        25      9.0    18.0         25     9.0    18.0         30    10.0    20.0
Subtotal                   85    28.5   (57.7)        85    28.5   (57.7)         95    30.8   (62.2)
Hired labor
(30% of total)                           17.3                       17.3                        n.a.
Total Input Costs                64.8    34.2                44.1    27.3               30.8       -
Yield and gross revenues
(kgs/ha and Rps/ha)       1,700   224.4   232.9    1,200   158.4   164.4    6,000   150.0   150.0
Net revenue per ha                   159.6   198.7              114.3   137.1               119.2   150.0
/a  Certain agricultural parameters differ substantially between the Tanggul scheme in the
mountainous region of East Java and the groundwater component areas for which crop budgets are
presented in Annex 2, Table 3. Specifically, subsistence cassava is an important crop in the
unirrigated portions of Tanggul, and yields and standards of husbandry of maize are lower.



- 91 -
ANNEX 2
Table 7
INDONESIA
SEVENTEENTH IRRIGATION PROJECT:
EAST JAVA PROVINCE
Rehabilitation Subproject - Tanggul Scheme /a
Cropping Patterns and Water Usage in the Early Dry Season
Total    Unit                 Land Use               Total crop
Total  water    water  Irrigated  Irrigated  Rainfed   irrigation             Field water
area   usage    usage    paddy    polowijo   polowijo  requirement              wastage
(ha)   (uls)   (1/s/ha)   (ha)         (ha) /b    (ha) /c   (1/s) /d    (l/s) /e  % /f
Present Situation
Ng block
Ng. 1                      13      50       3.8        13           -           -          18          32       64
Ng'. 2 & 3                 86    150        1.7        46          40           -          80          70       47
Subtotal                99    200        2.0        59          40          -          98          102       51
Ke block
Irrigated portions        300    300        1.0       105         195          -         225           75       25
Unirrigated portions       50       -        -          -           -          50           -           -        -
Subtotal               350    300        0.9       105         195         50         225           75       25
Ta block                      34     80       2.4        27            7          -          41          39       49
Gu block
Irrigated portions         60    100        1.7        24          36          -           48          52       52
Unirrigated portions    144         -        -          -           -        144            -           -        -
Subtotal               204    100        0.5        24          36        144          48           52      52
Total Scheme           687    680        1.0       215         278        194         412         268        39
Projected Future Situation Without Project
same us above except for:
Ng. 2 & 3                     86    150       1.7        26           60          -          60          90       60
Ke irrigated portions       300    300        1.0        50         250           -         170         130       43
Total Scheme           687    680        1.0       140         353        194         337          343       50
Projected Future Situation with Project
Ng block                      99    150       1.5        59           40          -          98          52       35
Ke block                     350    310       0.9       140          210          -         280          30       10
Ta block                      34     60       1.8        27            7          -          41          19       32
Gu block
Currently irrigated
portions                 60      70       1.2        30          30          -           54          16       23
Current:ly unirrigated
portions                144      90       0.6        22         122          -          80           10       11
Subtotal Gu block    204    160          0.8        52         152          -         134           26       16
Total Scheme           687    680        1.0       278         409          -         553          127       19
/a  Detailed map and schematic diagrams of Tanggul Scheme available in project file (Annex 4, Reference F).
7T  Consisting of 50% soybeans (0.9 tons/ha yield) and 50% maize (1.7 tons/ha yield).
7T Consisting of 50% cassava (6.0 tons/ha yield) and 50% maize (1.2 tons/ha yield).
7-  Basedl on diversion requirements (including conveyance losses) of 1.4 1/s/ha for paddy and 0.4 1/s/ha for
irrigated polowijo.
/e  Derived by subtracting seventh column from second column.
7T  Derived by dividing eighth column by second column.



ANNEX 2
92 -                                  Table 8
INDONESIA
SEVENT'EENTH IRRIGATION PROJECT:
EAST JAVA PROVINCE
Rehabilitation Subproject - Tanggul Scheme
Calculation of Net Benefits at Full Development
Land Use Category /a
Irrigated  Irrigated Polowijo  Rainfed Polowijo    Total
Paddy    Soybeans      Maize  Cassava    Maize
Present (ha)                         2L5         139         139       97       97       687
With project (ha)                    278         205         204        -        -       687
Without project (ha)                 140         177         176       97       97       687
Increment (ha)                      +138         +28         +28     -97       -97         0
Net economic return per ha
('000 Rp)                        754.7 /b   206.8 /b   159.6/c 119.2 /c 114.3 /c
Total incremental benefits /d
(million Rp)                   +104.15       +5.79       +4.47  -11.56   -11.09   +91.76
('000 US$)                      +166.6        +9.2       +7.2   -18.5    -17.7   +146.8
Agricultural yields (tons/ha)        4.0         0.9         1.7     6.0       1.2
Incremental agricultural
production (tons) /e              +552         +25        +48    -582       -116
(-68 net)
/a Land use projections based on Annex 2, Table 7.
/b Derived in Annex 2, Table 3.
/c Derived in Annex 2, Table 6.
/d Derived by multiplying incremental hectarage in each category by net revenue per ha
(the two rows above).
/e Derived by multiplying incremental hectarage in each category by agricultural yields.



ANNEX 2
- 93 -                                Table 9
INDONESIA
SEVENTEENTH IRRIGATION PROJECT:
EAST JAVA PROVINCE
Rehabilitation Subproject - Tanggul Scheme
Economic Rate of Return Calculation
Net
Costs      Benefits       Benefits
- (1981 US$  000) 
Year 1
Survey and design of main
system for rehabilitation la
(US$50/ha by 687 ha)                       -34                          -34
Year 2
Main system construction /b                 -273
Design of tertiary networks /a
(US$25/ha by 687 ha)                       -17                        -290
Year 3
Construetion of tertiary networks /c        -134
Achievement of 25% of full develop-
ment benefits /d                                         +37            -97
Year 4
Incremental O&M expenditures of
US$3/ha by 687 ha                           -2
Achievement of 75% of full develop-
ment benefits /d                                        +110           +108
Year 5
Incremental O&M expenditures of
US$5/ha by 687 ha                           -3
Achievement of 100% of full devel-
opment benefits Id                                      +147           +144
Years 6-17 /e
Similar to Year 5                                                        +144
ERR = 25%
/a  While this work is largely completed for this sample scheme, these costs
have been included for purposes of applicability to other schemes.
/b  Detailed costings given in Annex 4, Reference A, Vol. 2, pp. 4.31-4.33.
/c  Based on average per ha costs determined for project area in Annex 4,
Reference A, Vol. 2, Chapter 3.
/d  See Annex 2, Table 8.
/e  Assumed length of life of project works is 15 years.



ANNEX 2
Table 10
- 94 -
INDONESIA
SEVENTEENTH IRRIGATION PROJECT:
EAST JAVA PROVINCE
Grouindwater Subproject
Net Farm Incomes /a
(1981 US$)
Future      Future
without       with
Present      project     project      Increment
Component                            (1981)       (1990)       (1990)        $      %
Kediri-Nganjuk
Representative family income         296          396          728       332    84
(Per capita) lb                     54           72         132         60
East Java
Representative family income         328          432          765       333    77
(Per capita) /b                     60           79         139         60
Madiun
Representative family income         331          419          742       323    77
(Per capita) /b                     60           76         135         59
/a Based on representative 0.4 ha farms and financial crop budgets presented in
Annex 2, Table 3.
/b Assuming average family size of 5.5 people.



ANNEX 2
- 95 -                                 Table 11
INDONESIA
SEVENTEENTH IRRIGATION PROJECT:
EAST JAVA PROVINCE
Rehabilitation Subproject - Tanggul Scheme
Net Farm Incomes /a
Cropping patterns /b
Ri - PR   Rl - PI   Rl - R2   R1- R2 -PI   Total
Net farm income (US$) /c           360       435        538          704
Per capita income (US$) /d          65        79         98          128
Present frequency (%) /e            28        41         23            8          100
Future frequency without
project (%) /e                    28        52         16            4          100
Future frequency with
project (%) /e                     -        60         28           12         100
FeaLsible incremental farm
income
(US$)                       75-178/f    103/g      166/h          -/i
(%)                         (21-49)      (24)      (31)
/a  Assuming average farm size of 0.4 ha, and scenario outlined in Annex 2,
Table 7.
/b  Rl = wet-season rice; R2 = dry-season rice; PR = rainfed polowijo; PI =
irrigated polowijo.
/c Utilizing 1990 relative prices in 1981 currency values. Based on Annex 2,
Tables 3 and 6.
/d Assuming average family size of 5.5 people.
7e Based on Annex 2, Table 8. Frequency refers to land areas.
7T All farmers now in this category would benefit, moving up at least one cate-
gory and the remaining two categories.
j At least 22% of farmers now in this category would move up one category.
7h At least 17% of farmers in this category would be likely to move up one
category.
/i The project could provide no improvement for farmers now in this category.



ANNEX 3
-96 -                                Table 1
INDONESIA
SEVENT'EENTH IRRIGATION PROJECT
EAST JAVA PROVINCE
Required District Level Engineering Staff
for Rehabilitation Program
------- Districts
Mojokerto/
Malang  Kediri  Jombang    Madura          Total
Senior Resident Engineer        1         1       1           1             4
Design Engineer                 1         1       1           1             4
Assistant Engineer              1         1       1           1              4
Field Engineer                  1         1       1           1             4
Construction Engineer           1         1       1           1             4
Assistant Construction
Engineer                      1         1       1           -             3
Surveyors                       4         4       3           3            14
Draftsmen                       5         5       3           4             7
Inspectors                     20        16      12          14            62
Field Assistant                10         8       6           7            31



97                                  ANNEX 3
Table 2
INDONESIA
SEVENTEENTH IRRIGATION PROJECT
EAST JAVA PROVINCE
Available EJIS Staff Compared with Rehabilitation
Subproject Requirements
I. Staff Availability by Grades
Technicians
(draftsmen,
Civil Engineers   Civil Engineers   surveyors,
(Ir. Degrees)    (B.I.E. Degrees)  inspectors)
A. Present EJIS Staffing
1. East Java Design Unit,
Surabaya (engaged in
O&M, Rivers, and Hydro-
logy sections,
Waru-Turi and Sedang
Kecil projects, etc.)             25                30                51
2. Lodoyo Project                     7                  4               61
3. Pekalen-Sampean Project
(seconded to Jember
office of PROSIDA)                 4                 4                 -
4. Brantas Project                    I                  -                -
5. Irrigation District
Offices                          1                54               708
Total                       38                 92              820
B. Estimated Availability
of EJIS Staff for Rehabili-
tation, 1982-83
1. From present staffing:            12                 16               36
2. Recruitment in progress:           2                 11                -
Total                       14                 27                36
C. Estimated Availability of
EJIS staff for Rehabilitation,
1983-84
1. From present staffing:            15                 20               99
2. Recruitment in progress:           2                 11                -
3. Planned future recruitment:        -                  2                -
Total                       17                 33                99
II. Total Rehabilitation Staff Recruitments by Grades
Managerial    Senior    Assistant
Engineers    Engineers  Engineers   Technicians
1. Project Office                  3            7           7             17
2. District Offices                -            4          19            124
Total                     3           11          26             141
Source: Annex 4, Reference A, Vol. 1, pgs. 65-70.



ANNEX 3
- 98 -                                Table 3
INDONESIA
SEVENTEENTH IRRIGATION PROJECT:
EAST JAVA PROVINCE
Functional Responsibilities for Rehabilitation Engineering
Project           Foreign          Local
Task                      staff (EJIS)        consultant       consultant
Overall planning, program-
ming and budgeting                   100%               advice
Ranking studies (with project
counterparts)                     assistance            100% 
Survey and investigations
for the main systems              supervision            20%             80%
Tender designs for main
systems                           supervision            80%             20%
Tertiary surveys, mapping
and designs                       supervision           advice          100%
Working drawings and check-
ing of as-built drawings          supervision            20%             80%
Specification, bills of
quantities and costs              supervision            50%             50%
Tender documents, evaluation
and contracts                        100%               advice          advice
Setting-out of tertiary
system and checking               supervision            -              100%
Construction supervision               100%               advice
Preparation of DP Manuals
and O&M guidelines                supervision            80%             20%
Training of project staff
and local consultants
staff                             participation         100         participation
Source: Consultant Terms of Reference, Annex 4, Reference D.



ANNEX 3
99                                 Table 4
INDONESIA
SEVENTEENTH IRRIGATION PROJECT:
EAST JAVA PROVINCE
Ground Water Subproject
Full Project Staffing
No. of staff
Surabaya      Madiun
Project Administration
Project Manager                                1             1
Deputy Manager                                 1             -
Hydrogeology/Groundwater Engineering
Professionals                                  6             4
Technicians                                   12            8
Irrigation/Water Management
Professionals                                  5             4
Technicians                                   10             7
Agriculture/Economics
Professionals                                  3            2
Technicians                                    8            5
Drilling
Professionals                                  4            5
Technicians                                   40           20
Mechanical Engineering
Administrative                                 9             5
Technicians                                   73            20
Financial/Accounting
Administrative                                 4             4
Staff                                          6            6
Totals
Professionals                            33           25
Technicians                             149           66
Note: Excludes unskilled staff.



ANNEX 3
- 100 -
INDONESIA
SEVENTEENTH IRRIGATION PROJECT:
EAST JAVA PROVINCE
Operation and Maintenance Subproject
Output of Subsection Labor Gangs, Jember Section, 1980
Bank
sodding
Grass            Silt                           and
Month         cutting        excavation      Embankment      grassing
(000 sq m)        (cu m)          (cu m)        (cu m)
January           41              276              143            33
February          66              369              172            12
March             40              527              201            10
April             10               509             271
May               35              533              191
June              46              221               39
July              35              491               64
August            25              520               62
September         80              734              166
October           24              498            1,784            13
November          34              326              198           700
December          41              513              202
Total        477            5,517           3,493           768
Source: EJIS records.



- 101 -
ANNEX 4
INDONESIA
SEVENTEENTH IRRIGATION PROJECT:
EAST JAVA PROVINCE
Statements of Expenditure
1.        Statements of expenditure will be used for Bank and IFAD disburse-
ments against the following:
Item                                                      Loan amount
($ million)
Civil works contracts costing less than $320,000
equivalent under the rehabilitation subproject             10.2
Civil works, drilling and installation contracts
under the groundwater subproject                            3.3
Civil works for the upgrading of O&M subproject                5.0
Training (IFAD only)                                           0.5
2.        Civil works for rehabilitation, groundwater drilling and installa-
tion will be procured through a number of small contracts because of the
nature of the work. The contracts, and evidence of payment will be held by
EJIS (rehabilitation) and P2AT (groundwater). Disbursements will be made
against quarterly statements of expenditure submitted by DOI (on behalf of
EJIS) and P2AT summarizing progress payments made against such contracts,
accompanied by a certification by DOI and P2AT that the work has been pro-
perly carried out.
3.        Civil works for the upgrading of operation and maintenance will be
partly contracted, and partly performed under force account, by EJIS. Con-
tract and payment documentation will be held by EJIS. Quarterly statements
of expenditures will be submitted by DOI (on behalf of EJIS) which will also
certify that force account work has been properly done and charged.
4.        Although DOI has not previously been engaged in Bank operations,
it has close links with PROSIDA and PIBD which have extensive experience of
the Bank, and which will assist DOI during project implementation. All
statements of expenditure will be subject to auditing requirements established
for the project; and the supporting documentation will be checked from time
to time through routine Bank supervision activities.



- 102 -                               ANNEX 5
INDONESIA
SEVENTEENTH IRRIGATION PROJECT:
EAST JAVA PROVINCE
Project File References
A. East Java Irrigation Rehabilitation Study, Two Volumes, April 1981.
Prepared for East Java Irrigation Service by consultants Sir M.
Macdonald and Partners Asia and P.T. Indah Karya Cabang Surabaya.
B. Eksploitasi Irigasi Jawa Timur, Laporan Tahunan 1979/80, July 1980.
(Irrigation Operations in East Java, Annual Report 1979/80.)
Prepared by East Java Irrigation Service, Public Works Department,
East Java Province.
C.  East Java Irrigation Operation and Maintenance, Six Volumes, January
1981. Prepared for Directorate General of Water Resources
Development by Sir M. Macdonald and Partners.
D. Consultant Terms of Reference, Rehabilitation and Operation and
Maintenance Subproject.
E. Consultant Terms of Reference, Groundwater Subproject.
F. Irrigation Scheme Map (1:10,000 scale) and schematic diagrams, Tanggul
Scheme (Malang District, Kasri Section, Bangil Subsection), East
Java Irrigation Service.
G.  East Java Groundwater Surve:, Three Volumes, December 1979.  Prepared
for P2AT by Sir M. Macdonald and Partners and Hunting Technical
Services, Ltd. under assigwnent by British Overseas Development
Administration.
H. Report on Drilling Organization, July 1978. Prepared for P2AT by
Binnie and Partners in association with Howley, Mason and Partners
under assignment to British Ministry of Overseas Development.
I. Kediri Nganjuk Project Reports: Phase II Final Report, Three Volumes,
July 1977. Phase 3A Interim Report, March 1980. Phase 3A Main Report,
March 1981, supported by separate reports on groundwater (two volumes),
mechanical aspects, economics, and agricultural aspects (three volumes).
All prepared by Sir M. Macdonald and Partners in association with
Hunting Technical Services, Ltd. for DGWRD.
J. Extension of Madiun-Solo Groundwater Pilot Schemes Project, November
1979, supplemented by additional and interim final reports, April 1981.
Prepared by Electroconsult and Nippon-Koei Consultants for P2AT.
K. East Java Groundwater Project Presentation, and Monitoring of Dry
Season Polowijo Planting, November 1980. Prepared by P2AT.



INDONESIA
SEVENTEENTH IRRIGATION PROJECT:
EAST JAVA PROVINCE
Climatological Data
Project area/station/item   Jan   Feb   Mar   Apr   May   Jun   Jul   Aug   Sep   Oct   Nov   Dec   Year
East Java
Mojosari
Rainfall (mm)            307   243   301   151   123    21    10         1    34    41   153   258  1,643
Mean temperature (OC)  26.9  26.9  27.0  27.3  26.7  26.9  26.0  26.3  27.1  27.5  27.9  27.7   27.0
Evaporation (mm)          127   115   127   141   146   141   155   177   180   183   165   155  1,812
Kediri-Nganjuk
Kediri
Rainfall (mm)            321   278   311   200   161    46    41    22    21    67   134   250  1,831
Mean temperature (OC)  27.4  27.6  27.6  28.2  28.0  26.6  27.2  27.4  27.4  27.8  28.0  27.5   27.6
Evaporation (mm)          112   106   115   138   127   156   174   189   180   180   159   152  1,788
Madiun
Purwodadi
Rainfall (mm)            255   274   270   227   176    58    55    31    23    97   188   229  1,888
Iswahyudi
Mean temperature (OC)  26.9  27.0  27.2  27.9  28.1  28.1  27.7  28.2  29.0  29.5  28.7  27.5   28.0
Madiun
Evaporation (mm)          118   112   130   135   143   153   158   186   201   205   144   140  1,825
Source:  EJIS records.  These stations are representative of the major irrigated regions of East Java.
0"



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROEJCT XVII (EAST JAVA PROVINCE)
Organization of the Directorate General of Water Resources Development
MINISTER OF PUBLIC WORKS
ASSISTANTS TO
MINISTER OF                                DIRECTOR-GENERAL OF
PUBLICWORKS                                  WATER RESOURCES
FOR WATER RE-  I                               DEVELOPMENT
SOURCES DEVELOP-
MENT (2)
SECRETARIAT            DIVISION OF FOREIGN
LOAN ADMINISTRATION
DIRETORAE OF  DIRECTORATE OF
DIRECTORATE OF       DIRECTORATE       DIRECTORATE OF       DIRECTORATE        DIRRIRATI O           H     UL
PROGRAMMING          OF RIVERS            SWAMPS           OF IRRIGATI                TION         ENGINEERING
PROGRAMMING  ~~~[                                      jEQUIPMENT                       (DPMA)
PROJECT UNIT        PROVINCIAL
P2 AT                             FOR TIDAL SWAMP       IRRIGATION
RECLAMATION          SERVICES
GENERAL
MANAGER
PROSIDA/PIBD
PR[SIDA    PlOD
World Bank-23414



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT XVII (EAST JAVA PROVINCE)
EAST JAVA PROVINCE IRRIGATION SERVICE
CHIEF OF IRRIGATION SERVICE
PROVINCIAL OFFICE                                                                   HEAD
ADMINISTRATION]
HEAD PLANNING              HEAD OPERATION              HEAD IRRIGATION               HEAD RIVERS
AND DESIGN               AND MAINTENANCE               DEVELOPMENT                  AND SWAMPS                 HEAD LOGISTICS
........................................................ .............................  ............................................................................ ...............................^
DISTRICT OFFICE                             CHIEF OF DISTRICT (10)
IDAERAH)                                   (KEPALA DAERAH)
FADMINISTRATIONl
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE             IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT              HYDROLOGY/HYDROMETRY/WATER QUALITY
................ ............... ,...................             .................... .........................................................  
SECTION OFFICE                              CHIEF OF SECTION (36)
(SEKSI)                                    IKEPALA SEKSI)
g              -| ~~~ADMINISTFRATION 
OPERATION                         MAINTENANCE                    TERTIARY DEVELOPMENT
................................................  .................................................
SUB-SECTION OFFICE                        CHIEF OF SUB-SECTION (181)
(CABANG SEKSI)                                (PENGAMAT)
World Bank-23415



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT XVII (EAST JAVA PROVINCE)
Implementation Schedule
\                          G~~~~~~~~~~~Clendar Yeari  1982                        1983                         198                           1985                          1986
\ \  ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~11 314 15 6 7 1 819 10 01211 r 12   4 Jr,   7 181 1. Il2 01t             2 3T   151617!8 19| 0|1 1 4;121  2 3_  516 71 8 1910  |1    2 314151 7189l  1111; . 1 12 3 845161
A. rK tyndonesia FY                                            1924      I- I               '1 ;/8                        16                            195F                             98 7
1. Designsndpoeus
2. Pilot Trials~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~a                                             hai
MainSytenance
2r - j 5,000 0ha j  3O O O Ol | ,                   1 5,000 2a,000     ha_ 
Tertiary Systems                           l500  ha A                                                                             A                           IO _     __. .   ...    .         . .
3. Civil Workstci                                                                      7
1Mainst Jv  ell
| C.  GROUNDW ATER   W ELLCONSTRUCTION        |                                                   Wells 6|                     W  e|;s ha|               2 6    e0l0  4a
TExploratory andObservation                                 Wells                        60
I   Production                             | procedures,
|2. Kediri-Nganjuk |.t2 el     
DExploratory and Observation i                                     .i
0 & M Manuals                                                                                                            WI   WPAN~~10Wels  0 Wll
3. Mio radiunsol                                   2
Exploratory and Observation
I20  _ 
1. East Java Wells ~ ~ ~   ~      ~     ~     2 Wll
Production
-2 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~WrdBn-31



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT XVII (EAST JAVA PROVINCE)
DESIGNS AND STUDIES SCHEDULE
1982                      1983                       1984                       1985                       1986                       1987
\In dn     t121314l5l6l7l09l78 911 1211    4 516 7      1081101 11H  1 12 3     819102113H11213 4 516 7 89H l23l           1213 4 5 6  71819td                 8 941112
Fiscal Year               1982/83                    1983/84                    1984/85                    1985/86                    1986/87                 1987/88
Fiscal Year  1982                 1983                       1984                        1985                      1986                      1987                1988
Parigi Poso
Design (21 .000 ha)
F.S. (8,000 ha) + Design
Kali Progo
Sermo Dam
Polmas Sidrap (23,000 ha)
Feasibility Study and Design
World Bank - 23202






j   * .'7HA1LES     '          t o clIs1p,P..                           li2"                                                                      112a                                                                                                                   198 MARCH  1982
_                                                                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT XVII (EAST JAVA PROVINCE)
. ,         -   1/lc')Snr                                                                                             IRE !C\ ,:   - -  EATIONT AREAS                     I              PROJECT REHABILITATION AREAS
-S,4   -:  :          14                       . 2  :              .        I            jI DELTA BRANREAS                                                 IHRIGATION AREAS Wh-re Inlun rnhcbaInt,o-o-pl-nod,
cant)       .           j-.                                                                          FP                               N 1E SAMPEAN                                           OROUNDWATER CENTERS
{I'lld-1 O0IX. -..                                                                                                                 rlM75  .. } MADIUN                                            IRRCAT,nN DISTR        ICT OFFICES
II                                                                                        I W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VARU TURI                -ROADS
LODOY=                                                         RIVERS
LOWER SOLO BASIN                                     ,         MOUNTAINS
KLAMPIS                                          _    -        PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
I '            )    -1\                             X          ,  /  <           L    1 -                v                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M  A  D(U RA )        Emnp':.'.                      IP
I                     * S                      ,f$L .B?                                           X                            S - -          I SURABAYA           -
.-4'.t TRAIJ
I   -  '  n ~~~~~~~ H.3S               1                          I             X ' N        -!2g   S    ( I~~~~aR                           0/DO ' ~rI
]~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~q j     ,, :N60\.0t=                                                         ~          2      t;d  -..                              '    l
lan                           -              ->j         S              '7Q        I/rnKn                                       *                          >.l''i' o '     ;''
( ~ ~~~~~                                                                                                                                              ~~~~ t-         ,a41RJ/aSa
c,/                          ,        ,1    --'.-, nd
I/s/I  )/\I     ()  1   /    f   A,!                                                                                                 ,-r-                                                      -an~~~A,
7u
ThIn nroa nO unnncnnon peaE d b  e Wored ann, s nIff on'nna,culSyfnrltEsconvveos'rnc                   Kl LOMETERhS B       15    20    305     4  55         B0 --       B0S                                                    _      X        '    
KILOMELFiS      lo   ~O 3p    lI    5     n 6   -7D    8
nfrhu,aakerrf thrreen,,t,wslcRr,s~nacnna  Inn den-rn-,a-tnsnca- f dtne                                        MILES
bn-ada,na rhon nn ths-,naps- r do - Iply nhn   tn,,-n    W-rld n-k -d, on                                             0                    20         30        40         55
nfgrDatrs. nnc,cd7nnenr nn n a0Ble n1arct 0Pn moan/n 1r nor san,rendotymllor
accp.ne- f -eh b-ud--r' -    
111:                                                                     at                                                                        lan112'                                                                   114






BRD 16315
5. loo                             03' U                              lb                                 lor-                                112                              11502y                                1189                                  1210                                1240  MARCH "3982
S                5':                                            5        t -'-MALAYSIA C ti  '                                                  AL S!A                                                                                                                                                       A
p8tbo3   rtitLR0ii  C0>,      -('MALAYSIA-!
\   AButangadis  ,--    9             '<        NIGAPORE                                                 .- ? ---              Xz                      ?.                                        .o                                                                                                -     ,
Sna7To3r>5ualeM3tc- b rro'  'S', A03[ittn n1f                                                                                             'sSX -v.  C4                                                                                                                                                Io)\  ---i riny Stib-presn:rt 
8,00006                                           k                                                                                                                                                                                           j               >5'L, on2O'i 7TV >                  ._     _--------XO
<~ ~ ~~~2                                  'A                                                                                                                                                                                     -2 </<          %dPnoo   
Nob yc dy>3 9  Sung | Durect    .   9 '                                            s                K/A LK       I   M    A    N   T    A   N                                       --
'          ot,,,,,i,^R  t7xW                                                                                 tX               -t    2 0 ;                                            >                                                       <   ,-.n 0X 000, 0  \      .> .....;    .,01  N
Seg)            < O    hp.              -,tslSuvp5Soh                                                               |-.  ->--                     N                                                 bobooaYIO                                           7      iN--Ld,8:'  <11 ( i 
,f  4WvW,s12,0toroo/                                                                                                                                                   RE Nel      S          pdclr 0000        Kor&u                     7,
'-N ~      ~        ~        krsupe ic8usotm u9upoe 5                                                                                         4-~  V0oo  A5  A                        i-oolirr  A'             5400h 47/  _7 10            e                                                              _ _r,
N5  ~ ~ ,-                                            K            REITSNG                                                I        K5'5'is >ELITUN
-6'~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~>- Nn KriunSbn gnaoS   ptd1ndrlan   nikh  Poec  5A0h                                                                                                            1eoJ w,   _6
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ N200b DO ENA>r9                       --z   5er:ttai u  poet9   wh                 SodPotdrege 
-    EaklirtOta  S, IoStokt  N- '   -                                                               -                              /l                                                                           U      L       W       S
-I T  tROJEC            ha      7          -       StudyI CO  7,00 00000 ha                                                      2 j                                      N                          In 
r lFRhir ATlOtr,Ao 7,000hn                                                                      Clod
SlySysb5ntO,d -,ot   SlA                                                                                                                                     60p0 -o                    I                           Koodot
I  _  j SRRGATItNlrnyrooem-ni Pto/hrttOOOOO bntole                            tJ-.;                              ---;U                                 p     o          -G                                                                                               ntrtrceOtus6udz
\unotnoohioh-tiro2,0 120050  ho1.00                                                                                                         if            Sa  Flo   A'  .O ob                                                -5<
0= 500 | / ~~~~~~~~~~~~N                                                                               /9oso  S   )                                                                                                      f           tudV g 994c\y f tooet|cCat
D~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                          100Sty ho                  &                                                               2040300 ho  FtA >D l  <
100         103-                                    IObt                                 109                                  112'                                  115'                                 118' =~2400                                                  5'
Rend Oob-jnoijtn: 0600 .to /0.          60000.lit
INDONESIA                                                                            Sb-p,.j.,,t92'0'0 W    Ftn  Ptr  b-pTrr-oTt.r,0050 bha                                                                        ,edorby Sit
Ato Kttbot~ Sh-om,nootSJoto  ettoso Ororogo Jt/abutP-otooto20  000 p he t                              C  0,00h                                                                                                                   WddZk,                            it--iy .
OOOld'ttrto123,00 h0                                                             -'j,, 7,40o0oo   rh,e roec                                                                                                         onflRtrs tftoo.lyooy  tar
IRRIGATION        PROJECT   XV0 tOH I thotih It 0 ,tohy,d.
PROJECT AREAS                              ACibottostin ,                edrl,-bda                                                                              sttln-gt        -AOodat"ee ePynar on tyi P. oof
I R ~~~ I GAT] ON STL DY A P E AS--                                              5                                       MO7OA                      Inn      - -                                                                                   doer tot:y onkioSpat of t,
CdoSnotoyttea--1t-                                                                                             Lni-AA       ntn--t                                              lone               $   a               Wortddettkarod,.t,fafybot   any
R7 RIGATIIIN PROJECTS  -Xn1                            L.-r/5n5/p/Bt~ ;io<s F      o h,,   an          oo d                                                   motp- Bmr S.bitLiOfiC                                                                                           atbontryt  -tdotee..t..
RIVERS                                                                     4,200 h,l                                                                                                                                                           14CIFIC OCEAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2800 a    OMBWAtooto
O        o         200          200      AG       200                                                                                                                                                                                          LA~A~                             ---N>.'-                  A
0         loo      I 0     20L0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Ti00
1000                       ~~~~~~~~~03-                            105-                                 t09R                                 Il2                                   11001



