t Ir    LOAN NUMBER tI      IND
Loan Agreement
(Seventeenth Irrigation (East Java Province) Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTEIRNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                                , 1982


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1982, between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by extending the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B)  the Borrower has applied to the International Fund for
Agricultural Development (hereinafter called the Fund) for a loan
(hereinafter called the Fund Loan) in an amount equivalent to
twenty-one million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 21,800,000) to assist in financing the Project on the terms
and conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the
Fund Loan Agreement) between the Borrower and the Fund;
(C) .the Fund intends to appoint the Bank as Cooperating
Institution to administer the Fund Loan and the Bank is prepared
to accept such appointment; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms
and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions - of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan Agreements of the
Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:


﻿(a)  "Fund Loan Account" means the Loan account established
under the Fund Loan Agreement;
(b) "Special Drawing Right" and "SDR" mean a special draw-
ing right as valued from time to time by the International Mone-
tary Fund;
(c)    "DGWRD" means   the  Directorate   General  of  Water
Resources Development in the Borrower's Ministry of Public Works;
(d) "EJIS" means East Java Provincial Irrigation Service, a
service within the East Java Province Public Works Department;
(e)  "P2AT" means Groundwater Development Agency, a project
unit within DGWRD;
(f)   "PROSIDA" means Proyek Irigasi IDA, an executive body
within DGWRD;
(g)   "PIBD" means Badan Pelaksana Proyek Induk Irigasi
Dengan Bantuan Bank Dunia, an executive body within DGWRD;
(h) "DOI" means the Directorate of Irrigation within DGWRD;
and
(i)    "fiscal  year" means    the  Borrower's.. fiscal  year
beginning April 1 and ending March 31.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
seventy million dollars ($70,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article III
of this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1988 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿-3-
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eleven and three-fifths per cent (11-3/5%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Allocation and Withdrawal of Proceeds
of Loan and Fund Loan
Section 3.01. Subject to the rights of suspension and
cancellation set forth in the Loan Agreement and the Fund Loan
Agreement, the amount of the Loan and the amount of the Fund Loan
may be withdrawn from the Loan Account and the Fund Loan Account,
respectively, in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement
and with the allocation of the proceeds of the Loan and the Fund
Loan set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such
allocation may be modified from time to time pursuant to the
provisions of such Schedule or by further agreement between the
Borrower, the Bank and the Fund.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall be entitled to make with-
drawals from the Loan Account and from the Fund Loan Account for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank and the Fund shall so agree,
to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and the Fund Loan.
Section 3.03. (a) When the Borrower shall desire to withdraw
any amount of the Loan or the Fund Loan, the Borrower shall
deliver to the Bank a written application in such form and con-
taining such statements and agreements as the Bank or the Fund
shall reasonably request. Applications for withdrawal, with the


﻿-4-
necessary documentation as hereinafter provided shall, except as
the Borrower, the Bank and the Fund shall otherwise agree, be
made promptly in relation to expenditures for the Project.
(b)  The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank such documents
and other evidence in support of the application as the Bank or
the Fund shall reasonably request, whether before or after the
Bank shall have approved any withdrawal requested in the applica-
tion.
(c)   Each application and the accompanying documents and
other evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to
satisfy the Bank or the Fund that the Borrower is entitled to
withdraw from the Loan Account or the Fund Loan Account the
amount applied for and that such amount is to be used only for
the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. Each such application by the Borrower for
withdrawal shall be deemed to be a request to withdraw funds
from the Loan Account and the Fund Loan Account, as follows:
(a) if such application shall be made in respect of expend-
itures that shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
the Fund Loan under Categories (1), (2) or (3) of the table set
forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, such
application shall be apportioned by the Bank, as nearly as
practicable, between the Loan and the Fund Loan in the ratio of
1:1 for expenditures under Category (1) and (2) and 3:1 for
expenditures under Category (3), or in such other ratios as the
Bank and the Fund shall otherwise agree; provided, however, that
if such application shall be made in respect of expenditures that
shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or the Fund
Loan only., such application shall be deemed to be a request to
withdraw from the Loan Account or the Fund Loan Account only; and
(b) if such application shall be made in respect of expend-
itures under Category (4) or (5) of such table that shall only be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or the Fund Loan, such
application shall be deemed to be a request to withdraw funds
from the Loan Account or the Fund Loan Account, respectively.
Section 3.05. When the Bank shall have approved an
application by the Borrower for withdrawal, the Bank shall:


﻿-5-
(a)  pay the amount, if any, which the Borrower is entitled
to withdraw from the Loan Account to or on the order of the
Borrower in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement;
and
(b) promptly notify the Fund that it has received an appli-
cation for withdrawal from the Fund Loan Account in the aggregate
amount specified in such notice, that it has approved payment of
the portion, if any, to be withdrawn from the Loan Account in the
amount set forth in such notice, and that the amount to be with-
drawn from the Fund Loan Account as set forth in such notice is
eligible for payment by the Fund.
Section 3.06. If at any time the amount of the Loan or the
Fund L.an shall have been fully withdrawn or cancelled, applica-
tions by the Borrower for further withdrawals shall be deemed to
be requested for withdrawal of the full amount applied for from
the Loan Account or the Fund Loan Account only, and the provi-
sions of this Article III except for Section 3.04 hereof shall
continue to apply mutatis mutandis until the full amount credited
or to be credited to such Account shall have been withdrawn or
cancelled.
Section 3.07. Upon the Borrower's request and upon such
terms as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, the
Bank may, on behalf and for the account of the Fund, enter into
special commitments to pay amounts, out of the proceeds of the
Fund Loan, to the Borrower or others in respect of the cost of
goods required by the Project, subject to the provisions of this
Agreement concerning the allocation and apportionment of the
proceeds of the Fund Loan. The Fund has advised the Bank that any
such special commitment shall, once it has been notified to the
Fund, constitute an obligation on the part of the Fund to pay,
notwithstanding any subsequent or cancellation of the Fund Loan,
the amount to be disbursed out of the proceeds of the Fund Loan
in fulfillment of such special commitment.
Section 3.08. Except as the Bank and the Fund shall other-
wise agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or
the Fund Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4
to this Agreement.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE IV
Execution of the Project
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Project to be
carried out with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with   appropriate   agricultural,   engineering   and   financial
practices, as follows:
(i) EJIS shall carry out Part A of the Project through
DOI;
(ii) P2AT shall carry out-Part B of the Project;
(iii) PROSIDA shall carry out Parts C.1 (c) and C.2 of
the Project; and
(iv) PIBD shall carry out Parts C.1 (a) and (b) of the
Project.
(b)   The Borrower shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose of the Project.
(c) Without any limitation or restriction upon its obliga-
tions under paragraph (b) of this Section, the Borrower shall
ensure that sufficient liquid funds to cover the budgeted expend-
itures to be required by EJIS, P2AT, PROSIDA and PIBD for the
Project in each fiscal year shall be made available to EJIS,
P2AT, PROSIDA and PIBD not later than May 1 of each year.
Section 4.02. In order to assist EJIS, P2AT, PROSIDA and
PIBD in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall employ or
cause to be employed consultants whose selection, qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Bank in accordance with the principles and pro-
cedures described in the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers and the World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981, as follows:
(a) by August 1, 1982, or such later date as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, for Parts A, B.1 (b) through (d) and C of the
Project; and
(b)  by February 1, 1983, or such later date as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, for Part B.1 (a) of the Project.


﻿- 7 -
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or the Fund Loan against
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such in-
surance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b)  Except as the Bank and the Fund shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan or the Fund Loan to be used exclusively
for the Project.
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and the Fund Loan, and to disclose the_i,r use in the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's and the Fund's representa-
tives to visit the facilities and construction sites included in
the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Fund Loan and any relevant records and docu-
ments; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank and the Fund at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank or the Fund
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and,
where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the ex-
penditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the Fund Loan and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c)   Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name
and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and
the contract price.
(d)   Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower


﻿-8-
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
and the Fund a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and
to be derived from it, the performance by the BorrowEr and the
Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and
the Fund Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Loan and the Fund Loan.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire, in the year
preceding the construction of the facilities included in all
irrigation projects financed by the Bank, all such land and
rights in respect of land as shall be required for such construc-
tion and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after such acquisi-
tion, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land and rights
in respect of land are available.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at
no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public
assets satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿-9-
(b)  The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lie-r created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any administrative subdivision thereof
and of any entity owned or controlled by, or operating for the
account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such subdivision,
including gold and other foreign exchange assets held by any
institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause EJIS, P2AT,
PROSIDA and ,PIBD to maintain records adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices their operations and financial condition, including
without limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts reflecting
all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are requested
from the Loan Account or the Fund Loan Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure.
(b)  The Borrower shall cause EJIS, P2AT, PROSIDA and PIBD
to retain, until one year after the Closing Date, all records
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other docu-
ments) evidencing the expenditures on account of which with-
drawals are requested from the Loan Account or the Fund Loan on
the basis of statements of expenditure, and shall enable the
Bank's representatives to examine such records.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall cause EJIS, P2AT, PROSIDA
and PIBD to:
(a) have their respective accounts and financial statements
balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by indepen-
dent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(b)  furnish to the Bank and the Fund as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after the end of such
year, (i) certified copies of their financial statements for such


﻿- 10 -
year as so audited and (ii) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested; including without limitation to the fore-
going, separate opinions by said auditors: (A) on the separate
accounts referred to in Section 5.02 (a) of this Agreement; (B)
in respect of the expenditures and records referred to in Section
5.02 (b) of this Agreement, as to whether the proceeds of the
Loan or the Fund Loan made available to them and withdrawn from
the Loan Account and the Fund Loan on the basis of statements of
expenditure have been used for the purpose for which they were
provided; and
(c) furnish to the Bank and the Fund such other information
concerning said accounts, financial statements, records and ex-
penditures, as well as the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from
time to time reasonably request.
Section 5.04. (a) The Borrower shall cause all canals, tube-
wells, drains, structures, roads, equipment and other facilities
rehabilitated or constructed with the financial assistance of the
Bank and the Fund to be adequately operated and maintained, in
accordance with agricultural, engineering, financial and public
utility policies and practices, and shall cause such action to be
taken, as shall reasonably be required, to ensure the efficient
use of the water made available by such irrigation systems for
agricultural development and operations.
(b)  Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions
of paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall, at all
times, ensure that adequate staff are employed and funds allo-
cated and made available, as and when required, for the proper
operation and maintenance of the irrigation, drainage and road
systems referred to under said paragraph (a). To this end, the
Borrower shall: (i) by August 15 in each fiscal year, or such
other date as the Bank shall otherwise agree, make available to
the organizations or departments charged with maintenance of any
such system, an amount of liquid funds equal to not less than one
half of the amount budgeted for the operation and maintenance of
any such systems in such fiscal year and shall make the balance
available in equal quarterly installments until all budgeted
amounts have been made available; and (ii) take appropriate steps
to progressively increase the number of qualified operation and
maintenance staff employed by the organizations and departments
charged with operation and maintenance of the said systems until
adequate staff levels established by the Borrower in consultation


﻿- 11 -
with the Bank have been attained by such organizations and
departments.
(c) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall inform the Bank and the Fund: (i) by May 1 of each year, of
the approved cost per hectare for operation and maintenance
budgets for each such irrigation system; and (ii) by October 1 of
each year, of the staff provisions for each such irrigation
system.
Section 5.05. (a) Before the design phase for the construc-
tion of any tertiary network the Borrower shall ensure that
water-user associations participate in the planning of such
tertiary networks; and (b) during the design phase of any
tertiary networks, the Borrower shall exchange views with said
water-user associations in order to ensure that the members
thereof agree to the objectives and operational procedures of the
tertiary network and thereafter operate and maintain such works.
Section 5.06. Without limitation to the provisions of
Section 5.05 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall: (a) compre-
hensively consider the duties and responsibilities of the exten-
sion services of the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of
Home Affairs and its local administration, DGWRD's Provincial
Irrigation Services and any other agency or agencies involved or
concerned, for establishing, training and assisting water-user
associations, in order to improve the operation and maintenance
of tertiary systems for which water-user associations are
responsible; and (b) not later than July 1, 1983 or such other
date as the Bank may agree, furnish to the Bank and the Fund, for
comments, the findings and recommendations thereby obtained; and
(c) promptly thereafter, cause the agency or agencies selected on
the basis of such review, to undertake the training and support
of the water-user associations taking into account the comments
made by the Bank and the Fund.
Section 5.07. In orier to carry out Parts A.1 and A.2 of the
Project, the Borrower shall cause EJIS to develop and adopt, not
later than April 30, 1983, a detailed rehabilitation construction
program which shall be based on a priority evaluation system
acceptable to the Bank and a manual of major technical design
standards for rehabilitation acceptable to the Bank.
Section 5.08. The Borrower shall cause P2AT, EJIS, PROSIDA
and PIBD to be at all times adequately staffed with qualified and


﻿- 12 -
competent personnel to ensure the timely implementation of the
Project.   To that end, the Borrower shall assign to, or cause
EJIS to employ, not later than March 31, 1983, or such other date
as the Bank may agree, and thereafter maintain, at least 41
engineers.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. (a) For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof, namely, that subject to sub-
paragraph (b) of this Section:
(i) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of any loan (including the Fund Loan) made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project shall
have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in
whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
agreement providing therefor, or
(ii) any such loan shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(b) Paragraph (a) (i) and (ii) of this Section shall not
apply if: (i) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to
perform any of its obligations under such agreement; and (ii)
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from
other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) (i) of Section
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a
period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by
the Bank to the Borrower; and
(b)   the event specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of Section
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Condi-
tions:
(a)   that the execution and delivery on behalf of the
Borrower of the Fund Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by all necessary governmental action and all other con-
ditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Fund Loan pursuant
to the Fund Loan Agreement (other than the effectiveness of this
Agreement) have been duly fulfilled; and the Fund has appointed
the Bank as Cooperating Institution to administer the Fund Loan
on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank; and
(b)  that the contracts for consultants' services required
for Part A'of the Project shall have been negotiated'and approved
in accordance with the Borrower's procedures for engaging
consultants.
Section 7.02. The date A       -7,14 qe, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.03. If (i) the Fund Loan Agreement shall have come
into force and effect and the Loan Agreement shall have failed to
come into force and effect by the date specified in Section 7.02
of this Agreement or a later date established by the Bank for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions, or (ii) the
entire principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan
Account and all charges which shall have accrued on the Loan
shall have been paid before the Fund Loan Agreement shall have
terminated, then, notwithstanding the provisions of Section 12.04
and 12.05 of the General Conditions, the Loan Agreement shall be
deemed to be, or to remain, in force and effect but only to the
extent required for the purpose of implementing the Fund Loan
Agreement and of orderly settlement of matters of mutual interest
to the parties thereunder, subject to such modifications of the
Loan Agreement as shall be agreed between the Borrower, the Bank
and the Fund for such purposes.
Section 7.04. If (i) the Fund Loan Agreement shall terminate
in accordance with its terms before the Loan Agreement shall have


﻿- 14 -
terminated, or (ii) the Bank shall notify the Borrower that its
appointment as Cooperating Institution under the Fund Loan
Agreement has terminated, the provisions of this Agreement shall,
to the extent that they relate to the Fund Loan, forthwith
terminate; provided, however, that in the case described in the
foregoing clause (ii) such termination shall apply only to the
responsibilities of the Bank as such Cooperating Institution.
ARTICLE VIIT
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
c/o Director General for
International Monetary Affairs
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 4
Jakarta
Indonesia
Cable address:                   Telex:
MINISTRY FINANCE                 DJMLN  JKT 45799
Jakarta                          DITJMON JKT 46415
DEPKEU JKT 44319
For the Bank:
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 15 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Loan and the Fund Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the Fund Loan and
the allocation of amounts of the Loan and the Fund Loan to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category.
Amount of the    Amount of the
Loan Allocated    Fund Loan
(Fxpressed         Allocated          % of
in Dollar       (Expressed in     Expenditures
Category       Equivalent)      SDR Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Civil
works for:
(a) Part   7,400,000           6,450,000     40%
A.2
of
the
Proj-
ect
(b) Part   5,000,000           4,360,000     100%
A.3
of
the
Proj-
ect
(c) Part 2,200,000             1,830,000     40%
B.3
of
the
Proj-
ect


﻿- 17 -
Amount of the    Amount of the
Loan Allocated    Fund Loan
(Expressed        Allocated         % of
in Dollar       (Expressed in   Expenditures
Category       Equivalent)     SDR Equivalent)   to be Financed
(2) Drill-      1,100,000            960,000     40%
ing and
installa-
tion for
for Part
B.3 of the
Project
(3) Equip-                                    )
ment                                     )
and                                      )
supplies                                 )
for:                                     )
(a) Part 2,900,000              880,000  ) 100% of foreign
A of                                ) expenditures,
the                                 ) 100% of local
Proj-                               ) expenditures
ect                                 ) ex-factory
) and 65% of
) other local
) expenditures
) for locally
) procured items
) (off-the
) shelf)
(b) Part 18,400,000           5,320,000  )
B of                                )
the                                 )
Proj-                               )
ect                                 )
(c) Part     400,000             nil     )
C of                                )
the                                 )
Proj-                               )
ect                                 )


﻿- 18 -
Amount of the    Amount of the
Loan Allocated    Fund Loan
(Expressed        Allocated         % of
in Dollar       (Expressed in   Expenditures
Category       Equivalent)     SDR Equivalent)   to be Financed
(4) Consul-
tants?
services
(includ-
ing not
more than
eight
start-up
vehicles)
for:
(a) Part 11,500,000              nil      )
A of                                 )
the                                  )
Proj-                                )
ect                                  )
(b) Part 5,800,000               nil      ) 100%
B of                                 )
the                                  )
Proj-                                )
ect                                  )
(c) Part 10,400,000              nil      )
C of                                 )
the                                  )
Proj-                                )
ect                                  )
(5) Training      nil              450,000       100%
(6) Unallo-    4,900,000          1,550,000
cated
TOTAL     70,000,000        21,800,000


﻿- 19 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policies of the Bank and the Fund that no
proceeds of the Loan or the Fund Loan shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation, manu-
facture, procurement or supply thereof; to that end, if the
amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of any item to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or the Fund Loan
decreases 'or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policies of the Bank and the Fund.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement or the date of
the Fund Loan Agreement, whichever shall be the later.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the Fund Loan or the disbursement percentage set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 above, and without limitation upon the pro-
visions of Section 3.04 of this Agreement, if the Bank has rea-
sonably estimated that the amount of the Loan or the Fund Loan
then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance
the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category, the
Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Cate-
gory, to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall,
proceeds of the Loan or the Fund Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disburse-
ment percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order
that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until
all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿- 20 -
6.    If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expend-
itures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and the Fund Loan and the Bank may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Bank under the Loan Agreement or of the Fund under the Fund Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the
Loan and/or the Fund Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion,
represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise
have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan
and/or the Fund Loan.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:     Rehabilitation and Upgrading of Irrigation Systems
in East Java
1.     Surveys and engineering designs for rehabilitation and
upgrading of about 70,000 ha of irrigation systems within the
irrigation districts of Mojokerto, Malang, Kediri, Jombang .and
Madura.
2.   Rehabilitation and upgrading of about 40 gravity irrigation
systems serving about 50,000 ha within the said irrigation dis-
tricts through major works including, inter alia:
(a)   rehabilitation of headworks, intakes, canals, drains
and access 'roads; and
(b)   construction or rehabilitation of tertiary networks
following the rehabilitation or upgrading of such main systems.
3.   Upgrading of about 300 irrigation systems in the Mojokerto
and Bondowoso irrigation districts, serving about 140,000 ha pre-
viously rehabilitated to original design standards, in order to
permit more efficient operation and to lower maintenance require-
ments of such systems including, inter alia, development of
improved procedures for operation and maintenance and training of
staff, improved reporting systems, installation of communications
and hydrologic measurement facilities and provision of machinery
and equipment for emergency works.
Part B:   Groundwater Development in East Java
1.   Surveys, investigations and designs for groundwater develop-
ment of about 20,000 ha within the following areas: (a) Madiun,
(b) Kediri-Nganjuk, (c) Tuban and (d) Mojokerto.
2.   Exploration, testing, and mapping of acquifers and ground-
water potential in the areas mentioned in paragraph B.1 above.
3.    Construction of and equipment installation for about 240
production wells and distribution facilities to serve about
13,000 ha within the said areas.


﻿- 22 -
4.   Development or improvement of groundwater systems, including
operation and maintenance procedures and of cost recovery systems
based on intensive involvement of farmer groups.
Part C:   Studies and Designs
1.    Studies and designs for preparation of future irrigation
development for the following areas:
(a)  Parigi Poso (Central Sulawesi) - Detailed designs for
about 21,000 ha and feasibility studies and, if appropriate,
detail design for about 8,000 ha;
(b)  Kali Progo (Jog yakarta) - Collection and analysis of
hydrologic data for various locations in the catchment of the
proposed Sermo Dam; and
(c)   Polmas/Sidrap (South Sulawesi) - Feasibility studies
and, if appropriate, detailed designs for irrigation in the
Lanrae, Batubassi, Maloso, South Sadang and Mambu irrigation
schemes, covering a total area of about 23,000 ha.
2.    Studies for the institutional strengthening of the South
Sulawesi irrigation service.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1988.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 1 and December 1
Beginning December 1, 1987
through December 1, 2001                       2,335,000
On June 1, 2002                                 2,285,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿-24-
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                        Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                             1.75%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                             3.50%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                             6.40%
More than eleven years but not
more than sixteen years
before maturity                             9.30%
More than sixteen years but
more than eighteen years
before maturity                            10.45%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                            11.60%


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March
1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guide-
lines.
2.    For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not later than 60
days prior to the date of availability to the public of the first
tender or prequalification documents relating thereto, as the
case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of such
notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods in question. The
Borrower shall provide the necessary information to update such
notice annually so long as any goods remain to be procured on the
basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the sale and similar taxes
levied in connection with the sale and delivery, pursuant to the
bid, of goods shall not be taken into account in the evaluation
of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland freight and other
expenditures incidental to the delivery of the goods to the place
of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, excluding the goods


﻿- 26 -
referred to under Part C of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Indonesia may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.     All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group   A: bids offering    goods  manufactured   in
Indonesia if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Indonesia equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.    In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest
evaluated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as
a result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.    If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this
further comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it


﻿- 27 -
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.      Contracts for   specialized  equipment, instruments    and
materials required in small lots estimat-d to cost less than
$1,500,000  equivalent   in  the  aggregate  may  be  awarded   in
accordance with the Borrower's procurement procedures in effect
as of the date of this Agreement.
2.    Vehicles required for Project start-up activities may be
procured without resort to international competitive bidding
provided that: (a) such vehicles are procured in accordance with
the Borrower's procurement procedures as of the date of this
Agreement; and (b) the number of vehicles so procured does not
exceed 8.
3.    Contracts for civil works (including drilling works) shall
be awarded in accordance with the Borrower's procurement
procedures in effect as of the date of this Agreement. All such
contracts which extend for a period of more than one year shall
include appropriate price escalation clauses.
D.   Re.iew of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods to be procured in
accordance with the provisions of Part A (1) of this Schedule and
with respect to all contracts for civil works estimated to cost
the equivalent of $320,000 or more:
(a)  Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.


﻿- 28 -
(b)  After the bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, and such other information as
the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it deter-
mines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account or the Fund Loan Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
or the Fund Loan Account in respect of such.. contract, two
conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of
the respective bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall,
if it determines that the award of the contract was not consis-
tent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
3.    Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or issu-
ing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of        198 2.
FOR SECRETARY


