RESTRICTED
F!! F ('(WE y                               R@C 
Report No. P-446
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF PERU
FOR
LA OROYA-AGUAYTIA ROAD PROJECT
August 20, 1965



INTERNATIOiAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT ATD RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF PERU
FOR IA OROYA-AGUAYTIA ROAD PROJECT
1.     I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to $33 million to
the Peruvian Government for the construction of La Oroya-Aguaytia road
and consulting services.
PART I - INTRODUCTION
2.     The Government of Peru has asked the Bank to finance part of
the cost of the construction of La Oroya-Aguaytia road and of various
consulting services. Bank missions went to Peru to appraise the pro-
ject in August 1964 and in February and May 1965. The background of
the request and the history of the three previous Bank road loans are
described briefly in paragraphs 8 and 9 below.
3.     Negotiations for the loan took place in TWashington from June 21
through July 1, 1965. The Government was represented by Mr. Felipe
Vera La Rosa, Director of Highways at the Ministry of Public Works,
and Mr. Jorge Pflucker, Financial Coordinator of the Ministry of
Public Works. Mr. Pflucker was designated to represent the Peruvian
Ministry of Finance. Further discussions were held throughout July
with the Highway Department and their consultants to finalize the
project cost estimates.
4.     The proposed loan would increase the total of Bank lending to
Peru from $149.3 million to $182.3 million. The status of the previous
Bank loans as of July 31, 1965 is sumarized below:
$ million
Total loans, net of cancellations             149.3
of which repaid                                28.3
Balance outstanding                           121.0
Amount sold          13.3
of which repaid       8.0                   _  _3
Net amount held by the Bank                   115.7



_2-
A discussion of the loans for which there have been delays in
disbursements is contained in paragraph 5 of the "Report and Recom-
mendation of the President to the Executive Directors on a Proposed
Loan to the Republic of Peru for the San Lorenzo Irrigation Project",
which was sent to the Executive Directors on April 12, 1965 (P-h25).
The only change worth recording which has occurred since then is
that last June the Peruvian Corporation submitted to the Bank and
Eximbank a plan of financial reorganization. The document was accom-
panied by proposals for several specific measures to be taken by tlle
Peruvian Government to strengthen the financial position of the Cor-
poration. Discussions are now under way with the Peruvian Government
and the Corporation.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
6.     Borrower:                  Republic of Peru
Amount:                    $33 million equivalent
Purpose:                   To help finance:
a)  the construction and reconstruc-
tion of the 486 Km. La Oroya-
Aguaytia road;
b)  the employment of consultants to
continue to render advisory ser-
vices in the administration of
the Highway Department;
c)  the preparation of further road
studies.
Term and amortization:     25 years (including six years grace);
39 maturities beginning August 15,
1971 and ending August 15, 1990.
Interest rate:             5 1/2% per annum
Commitment charge:         3/8 of 1 per annum
PART III - THE PROJECT
7.     A detailed appraisal of the project is attached (TO-481a).



- 3 -
8.     The major portion of the proposed loan would be used for
construction and reconstruction work on the 486 Km. portion of the
Carretera Central which goes from La Oroya to Aguaytia. The northern-
most section of the Carretera Central, from Aguaytia to Pucallpa is
being built with part of the proceeds of the $5.5 million Bank Loan
of 1960 (271 PE).
9.     Besides the 1960 loan, the Bank made road loans to Peru in
1955 (127 PE) and 1961 (300 PE) for $5 million and $10 million res-
pectively. Both loans, which were intended primarily for the pur-
chase of equipment to strengthen the road maintenance system, have
been utilized effective'y by the Highway Department.  The second of
these loans was also used to finance an important group of road studies,
including the studies and final engineering for the present project,
and a general highway study which was carried out by consultants and
which  has indicated the main lines of the present National Higlway
Plan. In addition, in October 1964, the Bank agreed to provide Peru
with $300,000 as technical assistance to make feasibility studies for
four high priority roads in various parts of the country.
10.    The proposed highway La Oroya-Aguaytia will provide the missing
section in the all-weather road link between the Lima-Callao area and
Pucailpa on the Amazon river system.  The principal highway in Peru is
the 2,750 Km. north-south Panamerican Highway along the arid coastal
plains. Of the three planned major east-west penetration roads, the
Central Highway, to which the proposed road section La Oroya-Aguaytia
belongs, is by far the most important. From Lima, the capital and
the major industrial and commercial center of the country, the Central
Highway cli:bs the western slopes of the ^ndes and reaches its highest
point at 4,800 meters above sea level shortly before La Oroya, one of
the largest Peruvian copper mining centers. Then through high mountain
valleys, the road descends until it reaches Pucallpa on the Imazon
river.
11.    The project will sharply reduce transport costs on one of the
mosttravelled roads in Peru and will permit substantial increases of
traffic the year round. It would also open up new lands to farming
settlement, stock raising and lumber exploitation, thereby helping to
relieve some of the population pressure existing in the Andes.
12.    The proposed loan makes provision for the continuation of the
advisory services which have been given to the Highway Department
under the 1961 loan 300-PE. The consultants have oeen successful in
organizing the maintenance and equipment divisions as well as in assist-
ing in traffic engineering and planning. The terms of reference of the
consultants would now be broadened to include assistance to the Highway
Department in the execution of the large National Highway Plan for which
Peru is expected to seek substantial external financing.



13.    In addition, the proposed loan makes provision for feasibility
studies on and final engineering of various roads which will be selected
by mutual agreement. The final engineering program will include the
roads for which feasibility studies are being made with the proceeds
of Loan 300 PE and with the recent $300,000 Bank technical assistance
operation, as well as high priority roads to be selected according to
the recommendations of the National Highway Plan.
14.    Finally, the proposed loan would provide funds for a study and
evaluation of the Peruvian system of road users' charges with a view
to developing new sources of finance for Peru's highway investment
program and, by increasing the portion of road costs borne by the
users, aci-ieving a better balance in the competitive position of the
various modes of transportation and types of vehicles. The Peruvian
Government will complete this study within the next six months and
establish a timetable for implementation of the resulting recommienda-
tions.
Arrangements for financing
15.    The total cost of the project is $55.6 million equivalent of
which $51.5 million for road construction including contingencies and
engineering, and $4.1 million for advisory services to the Highway
Department and for road studies. The proposed Bank loan would provide
about 60% of the total cost a-nd Peru would supply the remaining 4W%.
The foreign exchange component is estimated at 45-50% of construction
costs and at about 60% of the cost of road studies.  In the light of
Peru's internal effort to finance its public investment program, the
proposed cost sharing arrangement appears reasonable.
Procurement
16.    Construction would be carried out by contractors under unit-
price contracts awarded on the basis of international comoetitive
bidding. It is envisaged that the project will be let in seven con-
tracts. Bidding documents will be prepared by consultants with the
assistance of the Ministry of Public Works.  Construction work will
be supervised by consultants, who will engage a number of Peruvian
engineers for training purposes.
PART IV - LEGAL IINSTRUM$ENTS AND AUTHORITY
17.    The Loan Agreement is being circulated separately.  In addition
to covenants normally included for road projects, the Loan Agreement
obliges Peru to continue the maintenance program initiated under pre-
vious loans (see Section 5.03) and to limit the dimensions and axle-



loads of vehicles using the highway system (see Section 5.10 and letter
re Implementation o.' Traffic Laws). The agreement concerning the
review of the system of road users' charges is contained in the letter
covering Local Funds and Road Users' Charges.  This letter and the
letter on the Implementation of Traffic Laws are being circulated sep-
arately.
18.    The report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Sec-
tion 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement is being circulated separately.
PART V - ECONOMIC SITUATION
19.    A report on the economic position and prospects of Peru was dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors on Harch 3, 1965 (WH-143a).  When
thOp loan to the Banco de Fomento Agropecuario was presented to the
Executive Directors on May 18, 1965, the statement was made that the
Peruvian authorities had taken measures to reduce bank liquidity in
order to counteract increasing inflationary pressures. There has been
no major change in the situation since then. The Bank mission wbi-ch
visited Peru in spring this year to review the Peruvian Public Invest-
ment Program is still preparing its report.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT OF THE BANK
20.    I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
21.    I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolutioln:
RESOLVED:
That the Bank shall grant a loan to the Republic of Peru,in an amount
in various currencies equivalent to thirty three aillion United States
dollars (US$33,000,000), to mature on and prior to August 15, 1990, to
bear interest at the rate of five and one-half per cent (5M0) per annum,
and to be upon such other terms and conditions as shall be substantially
in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in the form of
Loan Agreement (La Oroya_Aguaytia Road Project) between the Republic of
Peru and the Bank, which has been presented to this meeting.
George D. Woods
President
By J. Burke Knapp
Washington, D.C.
August 20, 196v



