Report No. PIC5210
Project Name                      West Bank and Gaza-Palestinian NGO Project
Region                            Middle East and North Africa
Sector                            Multisector
Project ID                        XOPA47067
Borrower                          Grant to a Non Governmental Organization
Implementing Agency               NGO
Environmental Category            C
Date PID Prepared                 22 April 1997
Appraisal Date                    18 March 1997
Project Board Date                12 June 1997
Country Manager                   Odin Knudsen, Resident Representative, MNCWG
Task Team Leader                  Nigel Roberts, Manager, MNCWG
Sector Background
1. The importance of NGOs to the economy of the West Bank and Gaza
is clearly recognised by the Palestinian Authority (PA) and by the
donor community. While data on NGOs is imprecise and fragmented, it
is not difficult to appreciate the scale of their contribution. The
World Bank has estimated that 1,200 Palestinian NGOs and 200
international NGOs are active. NGOs provide about 60t by value of
all primary health care services and up to one-half of secondary
and tertiary health-care. All disability and pre-school programs
are run by NGOs, as well as most agricultural services, low-cost
housing programs and micro-enterprise credit schemes.
2. Nonetheless, funding for NGO activities has declined steeply in
recent years. Bank estimates suggest that by the early 1990s
Palestinian NGOs were receiving somewhere between $140-$220 million
each year from outside sources. By 1994, this had shrunk to about
$90 million, and in 1995 funding contracted by perhaps one-third
again--a loss in external revenue of somewhere between a half and
three quarters during the last five years. The sharp contraction of
the NGO sector has led to real hardship among the poor and
disadvantaged in the sectors where NGOs are most active--and in
which the PA is correspondingly not. Since late 1993, many hospital
and outpatient clinic services have been cut, dozens of pre-schools
have been closed, several disability programs have been
discontinued and many experienced agricultural extension workers
have been laid off.
3. At the same time, the demand for the services that NGOs provide
is increasing, as the population of the West Bank and Gaza expands.
The PA has neither the fiscal nor the organisational capacity to
meet all of these needs; nor does it wish to supplant NGOs from
areas of their comparative advantage. There is a need for a new



source of funding for NGOs that will tap multilateral resources
hitherto unavailable for the sector.
Project Objectives
4. The project has three key objectives: first, to finance the
provision of services to the poor and disadvantaged through
Palestinian NGOs; second, to upgrade skills and capabilities and to
assist NGOs to adjust to a new configuration of public and private
services; and third, to help strengthen cooperative relations
between Palestinian NGOs and the Palestinian Authority (including
help with the development of an appropriate legal and regulatory
framework for the NGO sector).
Project Description
5. The project would be managed by an internationally-recruited NGO
Project Management Organization (PMO), which would be responsible
for announcing and advertising each round of grants; for selecting
grant recipients according to strict and transparent competitive
procedures; for signing with them grant contracts, and for
disbursing awards and supervising the use of grants by recipient
NGOs. As part of its job, the Manager would provide continuous
hands-on training to grant recipients.
6. Approximately $11.7 million of the initial contribution would be
earmarked for NGO development grants ($10 million) and for NGO
hardship grants ($1.7 million) for the benefit of the poor and the
marginalized in the West Bank and Gaza. Grants would be made for
varying periods of time up to 3 years, and could range in size
between about $5,000 and $1 million. Between 50 and 150 grants
could be awarded, in 5 rounds of $2-3 million, over the 1997-9 period.
7. Development grants would form the core of the Palestinian NGO
Project. Most of the service delivery grants are expected to be
given for direct project implementation. In addition, however, a
number of block grants are expected to be awarded which would be
made to experienced and professional NGOs, specifically for on-
granting to smaller or newer organisations. NGO hardship grants
would be made to service delivery NGOs that face significant
financial difficulties as a result of the loss of previous sources
of funding. All grants would support activities with a solid
community or neighbourhood basis of approval.
8. The Palestinian NGO Project is intended to help strengthen the
professional and technical capacities of the NGO sector in the West
Bank and Gaza. Approximately $1.5 m. would be set aside for
discrete capacity-building and research activities intended to
develop the competencies of NGOs in such skills as financial and
organisational management, strategic and project planning, and
fundraising, as well as for capacity-building assistance to the PMO.
9. The project is also intended to help the NGO community to
improve internal coordination and cooperation with the PA. This
would be achieved through a consultative process established by the
- 2 -



PMO, which would include NGOs and the PA, and would build on
existing sectoral coordinating structures.
10. The relationship between the PA and NGOs would be enhanced
through assistance in legal drafting. The Bank would continue to
work with the PA and the NGO community to prepare an NGO law which
supports the key role that NGOs play in consolidating economic
pluralism and the delivery of essential services.
Project Financing
11. The project is estimated to cost US$16.9 million. This would be
financed by: (a) an IDA grant (from the Trust Fund for Gaza and the
West Bank) of US$10 million; (b) grant cofinancing of US$2.5
million from the Government of Saudi Arabia and US$2 million from
the Government of Italy and a further US$1.8 million to be raised
from donors, NGOs and/or the private sector during project
implementation; and (c) local contributions of US$0.7 million from
communities and/or grant recipients.
Project Sustainability
12. Community involvement and support for projects would be a
requirement for all NGOs receiving funding, and the PMO would
encourage a contribution towards project costs to be provided
either by the community or the NGO. These requirements are
envisaged to increase ownership and sustainability. To address the
sustainability of the project as a whole, the Bank, along with the
PMO and project donors, would review options after two years of
implementation. In particular this review would look into the
feasibility of establishing an endowed foundation for Palestinian NGOs.
Program Objectives and Poverty Category
13. The project development objectives are linked to the Bank Group
Strategy for WBG, which emphasises developing social infrastructure
and alleviating poverty. The project is consistent with the
Palestinian Authority's development strategy which stresses the
importance of a pluralistic climate, in which the public sector
remains "lean and competent" and works in harmony with private
business and NGOs. The PA included the project in the "Palestinian
Public Investment Program 1997", presented to donors for funding at
the Paris Consultative Group Meeting on November 20th, 1996.
14. The project would contribute to the Palestinian effort to
alleviate poverty by providing social welfare and humanitarian
services to poor and marginalized Palestinians.
Environmental Aspects
15. Given their focus on service provision, sub-projects under the
proposed Palestinian NGO Project would not involve land
acquisition, result in involuntary resettlement, or affect any
known historical or archaeological sites. All sub-projects would be
subject to environmental reviews by the PMO. Since no negative
-3 -



impacts are expected through the implementation of sub-grants the
project has been assessed as a Category C.
Benefits
16. Poor and marginalized Palestinians throughout the West Bank and
Gaza would benefit from the project. Existing services would be
sustained, and new services provided. By encouraging cooperation
among NGOs and between NGOs and the PA, duplication would be
reduced and the quality of overall service made more efficient and
responsive to needs. Demonstrated community involvement in projects
would ensure that projects respond better to community priorities.
Certain NGOs providing vital services, but suffering from severe
financial difficulties, would be returned to a more viable
financial situation. Capacity-building assistance would provide
NGOs with the ability to plan, design and manage programs more
effectively, and to ensure that projects are better targeted
towards community priorities.
Risks
17. One key risk is a deterioration in the legal environment within
which Palestinian NGOs operate. There is a risk that a restrictive
NGO law might be passed, and would hinder NGOs' ability to function
effectively. The Bank has provided, and would continue to provide
technical assistance to the PA and the NGO community to facilitate
the legal drafting process, bringing to bear relevant examples from
other emerging democracies.
Contact Point:          Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 458-5454
Fax No.:   (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending May 30, 1997.
- 4 -



