              Document of
            The World Bank




                                             Report No: 26252

IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
 (TF-24110; TF-24111; TF-26047; TF-50275)

                  ON A

                 GRANT

  IN THE AMOUNT OF US$10.0 MILLION

                 TO THE

        WEST BANK AND GAZA

                 FOR A

      PALESTINIAN NGO PROJECT




               June 30, 2003

                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                (Exchange Rate Effective 2003)

                  Currency Unit = New Israeli Shekel (NIS)
                          INS 1 = US$ 0.22
                         US$ 1 = INS4.40

                        FISCAL YEAR
                  January 1     December 31

            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS



                 Vice President:   Jean-Louis Sarbib
      Country Manager/Director:    Nigel Roberts
       Sector Manager/Director:    Letitia A. Obeng
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:     Sima Kanaan

                                 WEST BANK AND GAZA
                            GZ: PALESTINIAN NGO PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                               Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                    1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                               9
6. Sustainability                                                                 10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                  11
8. Lessons Learned                                                                13
9. Partner Comments                                                               14
10. Additional Information                                                        17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                              18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                              20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                              22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                              23
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components              25
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                 26
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                             27
Annex 8. Assessment of the Views of Project Stakeholders: A Workshop Report       28
Annex 9. Borrower's Report                                                        40

Project ID: P047067                                                      Project Name: GZ: PALESTINIAN NGO PROJ
Team Leader: Sima W. Kanaan                                              TL Unit: MNSHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 30, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: GZ: PALESTINIAN NGO PROJ                                 L/C/TF Number: TF-24110; TF-24111;
                                                                                                     TF-26047; TF-50275
   Country/Department: WEST BANK AND GAZA                                                 Region: Middle East and North
                                                                                                     Africa Region

        Sector/subsector: Other social services (99%); Central government administration
                            (1%)
                  Theme: Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction (P); Civic
                            engagement, participation and community driven development (P);
                            Social risk mitigation (P); Social risk reduction (P); Law reform (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    11/16/1995                                        Effective: 01/01/1996              07/11/1997
   Appraisal:    06/19/1997                                            MTR: 01/01/2000                01/04/2000
    Approval:    07/10/1997                                         Closing: 06/30/2003               12/31/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          WELFARE ASSOCIATION /WELFARE ASSOCIATION CONSORTIUM
                      Other Partners:      Palestinian and International NGOs and the Palestinian Authority

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jean-Louis Sarbib                              Kemal Dervis
Country Director:               Nigel Roberts                                  Oden Knudsen
Sector Manager:                 Petros Aklilo
Team Leader at ICR:             Sima Kanaan                                    Nigel Roberts
ICR Primary Author:             Sima Kanaan


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:SU

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
As stated in the Project Appraisal Document, Palestinian NGO Project had three objectives: (a) to deliver
services to the poor and marginalized in the Palestinian Society, using NGOs as the delivery mechanisms;
(b) to improve the institutional capacities of the NGOs receiving grants under this project; and (c) to
support efforts by the Palestinian Authority (PA) and the Palestinian NGO sector to strengthen their
working relationship, including support for the development of a positive legal framework for the sector.

The rationale for the project was based on concerns over the deteriorating socioeconomic situation for
Palestinians and the PA's inability to assume fully an adequate role in the provision of social services, a
role that has been played largely by Palestinian NGOs. At the time of project initiation, donor funding was
shifting to support the emerging PA. The drop in international financing of the NGO sector was
undermining their role in service delivery, thereby raising the risk of further deterioration in social
conditions. At the same time, the project sought to address a difficult relationship between the NGO sector
and the PA as both were competing over limited resources to advance their respective roles in service
delivery. Discussions over the development of a Palestinian NGO Law at the time seemed like a good entry
point for influencing the shape of the future relationship between the PA and the NGOs. The NGO Law
was ratified by the Palestinian Legislative Council in January 2000.

The project's objectives were in line with the Bank's Strategy for Replenishing the Trust Fund for West
Bank and Gaza which stressed the need to enhance official and non-governmental poverty alleviation
programs, improve systems of education and health delivery and promote sound governance and support
PA partnerships with NGOs, local government and the private sector.

3.2 Revised Objective:
There was no revision in the project's objectives.

3.3 Original Components:

                                          Component                                              Cost (US$ m)
  Development Grants                                                                                   10.0
  Hardship Grants                                                                                      1.8
  Capacity Building Grants and Research                                                                1.5
  Development of Legislation and Enhancement of PA-NGO Coordination                                    0.2
  Project Management (including audits and evaluations)                                                3.5
  Total                                                                                                17

3.4 Revised Components:
Although the PAD's proposed budget was set at US$17 million, the project ultimately operated on a budget
of USD$14.5 million which came from four different funding sources. There was no formal revision of
the project's components. However, a number of changes were introduced which shifted slightly the
allocation of funds to the project's various components.

In 1998, the Bank and the Project Management Organization, the Welfare Association Consortium
(PMO/WAC), decided that the case for implementing hardship grants (which was intended for NGOs
facing serious financial difficulty) was weak due to the difficulty of prioritizing needs amongst the
numerous NGOs that fit this category. The Bank and the PMO, instead, decided to allocate US$3.5 million
for the financing of block grants, which were expected to provide funding for experienced NGOs for
on-granting to smaller NGOs. Although this scheme was foreseen in the original project design, it was not



                                                      - 2 -

identified as a separate component with a distinct financial allocation. The decision to expand the Block
Grant Scheme came to address the result of the first round of development grants which excluded small
NGOs as recipients due to their inability to meet approval criteria. Furthermore, the allocation to project
management had to be raised by US$0.7 million to finance an extension of the Implementing Agency's
contract until a new phase of the project (PNGO II) became effective. By the end of the project, the
allocation of project funds across the various components was as follows:
                              Component                                              Cost (US$)
  Development Grants                                                                      7.7
  Block Grants                                                                            3.5
  Capacity Building Grants and Research                                                   0.7
  Development of Legislation and Enhancement of PA-NGO                                    0.4
  Coordination
  Project Management Costs                                                                2.8
  Total                                                               15.1 (0.7 of which community
                                                                      contributions)


The reallocation between the project's components was agreed through the Bank's Aide Memoires and
reflected in the Project Status Reports (PSRs). Since reallocations between various grant types were all
within the expenditure category of "sub-grants", as defined in the Grant Agreement, there was no need for a
formal processing of these reallocations. The increase in the allocation towards project management was
done through a formal Amendment to the Grant Agreement on August 17, 2000.

In late 2000, and in response to the eruption of the intifada, there was a surge in unemployment levels.
PMO/WAC was requested by the Bank to implement an employment generation program that would
deliver emergency grants to NGOs. An additional US$1.1 million was allocated for this initiative in the
form of parallel financing to the project.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The Quality at entry of PNGO is rated as unsatisfactory on grounds of lack of readiness for
implementation. Firstly, the Operational Manual was not ready by Board submission. The Manual was to
have been completed by October 1997, i.e., after three months of the project's declared effectiveness. In
fact, it took 15 months to complete the Operational Manual. This meant that procedures governing; (a) the
application, review and awarding of grants; (b) monitoring and evaluation of sub-projects; and (c)
procurement, had to be developed during the course of project implementation resulting in considerable
initial delays. No prior needs assessment was conducted to determine the priority sectors to be targeted by
the project. A Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) system for the project was developed in July of 1999,
i.e., two years after project effectiveness. This meant that the PMO/WAC could not ensure that the design
of the grant receiving sub-projects included clear performance indicators which would have been necessary
for an adequate monitoring of sub-projects and a comprehensive evaluation of the project's impact. Finally,
the capacity of PMO/WAC in managing grant awarding schemes was over-estimated and the technical
capacity of staff at the time of project launching was not adequate to deal with effective project
implementation.

In its Aide Memoire of May 1-8, 1998, the Bank's supervision mission recognized that the project may
need to be put at risk and identified the following as one of three factors that contributed to the risky
situation the project was facing: "A lack of realism by the Bank and the Consortium alike in estimating
the time it would take to establish the PMO, complete the detailed design of the Palestinian NGO Project
and launch the first grant round (which, in retrospect, should have been planned from the outset as a
pilot round)".



                                                      - 3 -

Based on the foregoing, it is clear that, while the design of the project itself was not complex, it did require
having in place an elaborate system of procedures and processes; something that was not adequately
anticipated from the outset. It is worth commenting here, though, that through its very close supervision of
the project, the Bank was instrumental in promptly identifying, addressing and overcoming these problems.
By 1999, the PMO/WAC achieved the implementation targets agreed with the Bank and the project was
back on track. In fact, by the third year of the program, the project was running well ahead of its planned
disbursement schedule, disbursing US$8.5 million as compared to the projected US$3.7 million.

Finally, the "critical risks" identified in the PAD were relevant and the proposed measures for minimizing
them proved adequate. The project's environmental category was rightly categorized as "C".

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The achievement of the project's objective is rated as satisfactory, as noted in the following detailed
justification of this assessment:

A. To Deliver Services to the Poor and Marginalized in the Palestinian Society, Using NGOs as the
Delivery Mechanisms (Highly Satisfactory): The impact evaluation carried out under the project
confirmed that, as at December 2002, the project supported the implementation of 305 projects reaching a
total of 213,680 direct beneficiaries and an estimated further 200,000 indirect beneficiaries. These
represent over four times the target number of 50,000 beneficiaries estimated at appraisal, which means the
project in fact, exceeded its objectives. Based on a sample 79 projects, 41% of the grant-financed
sub-projects achieved their objectives and left positive impact on the beneficiaries; 55.1% partially
achieved their objectives and only 3.8% of the sub-projects failed or closed down, some of them leaving
negative effects on the beneficiaries. Main reasons identified for the failure of some sub-projects in
realizing their objectives related to poor sub-project design, weak capacity of implementing agencies (the
beneficiary NGOs), and lack of adequate monitoring on part of the PMO/WAC and/or block grant
managers. In terms of beneficiary satisfaction with the projects, 71% of beneficiaries indicated that they
were satisfied with the services (the satisfaction rate in Gaza seemed to be higher than that in the West
Bank); 27% of beneficiaries indicated that they were partially satisfied; and 1.3% indicated that they were
dissatisfied. Beneficiary dissatisfaction with services was linked to the short duration of projects, the
inability of some NGOs to meet their obligations towards the beneficiaries, and in some instances, the
inappropriateness of the services provided especially in areas of training and capacity building. The impact
evaluation also confirmed that, despite the political situation and limitations on mobility, beneficiaries of
65% of the sub-projects reported that the services delivered were always available and that they could use
them on a regular basis.

The sectoral distribution of projects was as follows: 48% in formal education, 14.7% in physical
rehabilitation, 10.6% in health and social services, and 9.6% in agriculture . Of the total number of
213,680 beneficiaries, 118,703 were females.

B. To Improve the Institutional Capacities of the NGOs Receiving Grants Under this Project
(Satisfactory): The project had a positive impact in transferring to beneficiary NGOs new concepts and
skills that were critical for upgrading their capacity. These skills included project proposal writing,
maintaining systems of financial accountability; and undertaking participatory needs assessment and
utilizing monitoring and evaluation techniques. For a large number of participating NGOs, the project
offered an opportunity for learning. For some, it was the first opportunity for engaging in a professional



                                                       - 4 -

donor-recipient relationship. Through the block grant scheme, the project offered an invaluable opportunity
for the transfer of expertise in managing umbrella grant awarding programs to a number of NGOs that play
a central and major role in service delivery in the West Bank and Gaza.

C. To Support Efforts by the Palestinian Authority and the Palestinian NGO Sector to Strengthen
their Working Relationship, Including Support for the Development of a Positive Legal Framework
for the Sector (Satisfactory): The project supported a momentum that was necessary to ensure the
successful passing of the NGO Law that now regulates PA/NGO relationships and, to a large extent,
guarantees NGOs the possibility of operating in a largely non-intrusive environment. By giving the PA a
limited oversight role and a chair on the Governance Board, the project provided a forum whereby PA and
NGO representatives could have joint discussions on the activities of the project and the sector at large.
This mechanism contributed to improving the knowledge of the PA of NGO activities. By giving the PA a
"No Objection" right on sub-projects being selected for financing, the project also provided a mechanism
for ensuring that the projects implemented supported the sectoral priorities of the Ministries and did not
duplicate their ongoing efforts. In conclusion, the project was successful at providing a framework through
which a conducive environment for improved PA/NGO relations was supported.


4.2 Outputs by components:
The achievement of the project's outputs by components is rated as satisfactory. Following is a more
detailed elaboration of this rating:

A. Development/Block Grants and Hardship Grants:

          Outputs                PAD Performance          Actual Achievements                Rating
                                     Indicators
Between 50 and 150 NGONumber of projects per            305 projects implemented Satisfactory
projects implemented over year                          at a total cost of US$11.2
the life of the project     Estimated disbursement of (US$7.7 million for
through both DevelopmentUS$3.7 million for NGO development grants and
and Block Grants            development and hardship US$3.5 million for block
                            grants after 3 years,       grants). 98% of grant
                            US$11.8 million over the funds were committed by
                            life of the project         the end of the third year
NGOs suffering financial Approximately ten major None - this                       Not Applicable as this
difficulties returned to    NGOs implement              sub-component of the       form of grants was
path of greater financial   financial recovery          project was dropped due dropped
sustainability              programs                    to the difficulty of
                                                        prioritizing amongst
                                                        NGOs that fit this
                                                        category




                                                     - 5 -

Following is an illustrative table of the types of outputs achieved in the various sectors based on the
surveyed sample of 79 projects (a full listing of sub-projects financed through the project is provided in
Annex 10):

Survey-Based Sample Illustration of Outputs Achieved

 Sector/Type of Service                                            Outputs
Health                      10 medical laboratories receiving medical equipment
                            4500 persons benefiting from laboratory tests
                            894 persons provided with medical check ups
Rehabilitation              2865 disabled persons rehabilitated/treated and another 325 persons diagnosed.
                            500 disabled children integrated in schools/kindergartens
                            147 mothers/relatives provided with awareness raising on treatment of disabled
Job Creation/Vocational     527 disabled persons obtained temporary jobs
Training                    132 long term and 527 temporary jobs created
                            707 females and 239 males participated in vocational training programs
Non-Formal Education        46,700 persons benefited from support to non-formal education projects (project
                            total)
Upgrading Facilities        82 community facilities were upgraded (schools, kindergartens and other
                            charitable institutions)
                            89 community facilities purchased new equipment (computer, indoor games,
                            sewing machines etc)
Agricultural Land           410 families and 195 individual farmers directly benefited from agricultural
Rehabilitation and          projects
Housing                     50 poor and underprivileged families benefited from one of the housing projects.

                            2403 square meters rehabilitated (agriculture) and 209 square meters
                            constructed

Although the outputs delivered under the project's components clearly met and even exceeded the
performance indicators identified at appraisal, it is relevant to point to some difficulties faced in achieving
them. The procedures developed by PMO/WAC for managing the grant-awarding process proved to be
lengthy and complex. This resulted in excluding weaker NGOs from the Development Grants Scheme as
those could not meet the qualifying conditions for grant approval. It also meant that considerable
PMO/WAC staff time focused on process management at the expense of closer monitoring of sub-project
implementation. These issues, however, were identified during project implementation and in subsequent
grant awarding rounds, more streamlined procedures were introduced. The exclusion of small and
community-based organizations from the Development Grants Scheme also prompted the PMO/WAC to
allocate more funding to the Block Grants Scheme. Under the Block Grants Scheme, it was possible to
extend technical assistance to smaller NGOs to assist them in preparing proposals for funding. After the
completion of the first two cycles of development grants, a gender mainstreaming assessment study was
conducted and resulted in the inclusion of gender-specific criteria in the assessment of projects. Therefore,
in many aspects, several of the shortcomings in the project design were promptly addressed and lessons
learnt were internalized and reflected in adaptations that ensured a satisfactory realization of the project's
outputs.




                                                       - 6 -

B. Capacity Building and Research Grants:

         Outputs                 PAD Performance             Actual Achievements               Rating
                                      Indicators
Indicators of                Estimated disbursement of A total of US$0.7 million Satisfactory
improvements in program US$0.9 million for NGO granted to implement
and financial management capacity building                 capacity building and
capacity of recipient        activities after three years, training
NGOs                         US$1.5 million over the
                             life of the project           688 NGO staff received
                                                           training in
                                                           one or more of the
                                                           following areas: project
                                                           identification and proposal
                                                           writing; strategic
                                                           planning; improved
                                                           financial management
                                                           systems and participatory
                                                           needs assessment

                                                           A detailed assessment of
                                                           institutional capacity
                                                           building needs of 8 NGOs
                                                           was conducted

Capacity building was offered through (a) formal training of beneficiary NGOs; (b) the transfer of
expertise through direct contact with PMO and Block Grant Managers; and (c) conducting research studies
that were intended to improve the understanding of the needs of Palestinian NGOs.

(a) As indicated in the above table, a total of 688 NGO staff received training in various aspects of project
management and implementation. Training to recipient NGOs was provided through 9 service providers, 7
NGOs and 2 private institutions. The positive impact that this training had on raising the recipient NGOs'
capacities in project design and implementation has already been cited and confirmed in the feedback of
NGOs surveyed in the impact assessment and the stakeholders' views.

(b) Although it is difficult to measure the impact of the interaction between the PMO and the NGOs as a
form of capacity building, NGOs confirmed (in the survey and in the stakeholders workshop) that the
learning obtained by participating in the project and by interacting with the PMO/WAC staff, was one of
the most important of the project's achievements. Building capacity of smaller NGOs through the Block
Grants Scheme seems to have had less impact than expected. An assessment of the Block Grants Scheme
confirmed that the capacity building activities of Community Based Organizations was extremely limited.
This was attributed to a number of factors amongst them: (a) the focus of Block Grant Managers on the
process of grant delivery and developing the necessary rules, policies, forms and procedures; (b) the lack of
any financial allocations in the grant budgets for capacity building activities;(c) the short duration of
projects which limited the possibility of real "accompaniment"; and (e) the absence of mechanisms for
experience sharing and cross fertilization among the Block Grant Managers.




                                                       - 7 -

(c) A number of research studies were completed as part of the Research/Technical Assistance Program.
These included: NGO Sector Mapping; Project Consultative Processes; The Role of NGOs in Building
Civil Society; Land Use in Rain-fed Areas; A detailed Participatory Needs Assessment Research project
for 3 Jerusalem Rural Areas; An Assessment of the Views of the Poor and Marginalized People of Projects
- 12 Case Studies; Feasibility Study for an NGO Resource Center; Mainstreaming Gender in the NGO
Project; Using Poverty Maps to Target the Poor in the West Bank and Gaza. The mentioned studies
contributed to enhancing the project's understanding of various aspects of NGO activity in WBG and, thus,
contributed to its adaptability to actual needs and improving its effectiveness in realizing its objectives.
More importantly, however, the studies informed a more advanced conception of capacity building in the
design of Phase II of the Palestinian NGO Project (PNGO II).

C. Development of Legislation and Enhancement of PA-NGO Coordination

         Outputs                 PAD Performance              Achievements                     Rating
                                     Indicators
PA/NGO mechanisms for Regular project-level             A Governance Committee Satisfactory
policy discussion           contact                     was established that
established and             between the PA and          served as a forum for
appropriate                 NGOs on sectoral and        regular exchange between
environment for NGO         project issues              the PA
activity created                                        and NGOs on sectoral and
                                                        project issues.

                                                        An International
                                                        Conference was
                                                        held on "Promoting
                                                        Cooperation between
                                                        NGOs and the PA"
TA provided to enhance      Estimated disbursement of An NGO Law, that was          Satisfactory
PA/NGO relations and for US$0.2 million in the first generally acceptable to
support to the              three years to assist with NGOs, was enacted
development of a suitable definition of legal           and ratified by the
legal framework             framework and to            Palestinian
                            establish mechanisms for Legislative Council in
                            enhanced technical          January 2000.
                            communication
                            and collaboration between
                            NGOs and the PA




                                                      - 8 -

As described in the previous section, given the difficulty encountered at the beginning of the project in
having the PA and Palestinian NGO representatives work together and reach an understanding on issues of
common interest, it was a remarkable achievement of the project to establish the Governance Committee as
a forum for PA/NGO exchange, also giving PA and NGO representatives an advisory and oversight role.
The establishment of the Governance Committee provided the basis for expanding the role of NGOs, in
PNGO II, to that of exercising direct authority over grants approval. Therefore, not only did the inclusion
of PA and NGOs in the governance structure contribute to enhancing relations between them, but it also
increased the sense of ownership, by both, of the project. Finally, the research contracted through the
project and the holding of an International Conference, whose proceedings were very widely disseminated,
exposed the PA and NGOs to a wide range of other countries' experiences in NGO/Government relations.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
No indicators were developed by PNGO to measure the efficiency of service delivery schemes funded under
by the project. In fact, to date, no study was attempted at assessing the level of efficiency of Palestinian
NGO delivery schemes at large. Moreover, the project did not develop the tools to track aggregate
expenditures at the sub-project level to define total spending on various expenditure categories (such as
works, services, goods, technical assistance etc). The high overhead cost of managing the grant-awarding
schemes implemented through PNGO (estimated at 20%) was noted by various reviewers and was amongst
the issues addressed in the design of PNGO II.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:
One of the major achievements of PNGO was its piloting, testing and institutionalizing of umbrella grant
management as a form of financial support to NGOs in the West Bank and Gaza. The PNGO "model" was
transferred to Block Grant Managers and subsequently replicated in other donor-financed projects. This
represents an important institutional impact of the project. PMO/WAC, established as a Project
Implementation Structure, was contracted for implementation of PNGO II and is likely to be sustained
through continued financing from the Welfare Association (a well-established Palestinian/International
NGO in the territories) beyond the completion of PNGO II. The likelihood of PMO/WAC's sustainability,
as an institution, is reinforced by its established good reputation for employing transparent and efficient
systems of grant management. This has already attracted other donors to contract PMO/WAC for
implementing projects that replicate PNGO in their objectives and design. Given the strong likelihood of its
sustainability beyond the completion of PNGO II, the establishment of the PMO represents an important
element of the project's institutional impact.

The Governance Committee established as one of the project's governance structures has been further
institutionalized in PNGO II in the form of a Supervisory Board that constitutes in its membership
representatives of the NGO networks, the Welfare, the PA and five independent members of civil society.
The Supervisory Board's mandate has been expanded over that of PNGO I's Governance Committee to
include approval authority of NGO sub-grants. The establishment of the Supervisory Board lays the
grounds for the possibility of creating a Palestinian NGO Foundation, which would constitute another
significant and sustainable contribution of the project. The passing of the NGO Law can also be indirectly
attributed to the project representing another important institutional impact.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:



                                                       - 9 -

The Intifada: The breakout of the intifada, in September 2000, and the increased intensity of closures and
curfews impacted on project implementation. The impact of the intifada was reflected mainly in delays in
the completion of sub-projects and, in the case of the Block Grants Scheme, difficulties in working closely
with their grantees. The level and quality of supervision of sub-projects also suffered from mobility
restrictions and the difficulty of accessing project sites. The potential risk that these factors placed on the
project's implementation was reflected in the rating of the project implementation as unsatisfactory in the
PSR of April 2002 when the intensity of closures and incursions was at its peak. The problem of
sub-project monitoring and supervision was mitigated by the PMO/WAC strengthening its sub-offices and
hiring short-term consultants to undertake field visits. These factors resulted in higher management costs,
both on the part of the PMO and the Block Grant Managers. Block Grant Managers were asked to allocate
remaining funds to sub-projects that provided emergency services. The PMO/WAC similarly targeted
additional funds received towards short-term projects that generated employment and supporting the
delivery of emergency services. This confirms that the project was able to adapt and sustain its activities,
albeit in an environment that became far more challenging and difficult than originally foreseen at
appraisal.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
As a result of the participatory and consultative process adopted by the Bank for ensuring wider buy-in to
the project, by the time PNGO was launched, the PA was fully on board and exercised their No Objection
right responsibly without undue delays or obstacles. When a new Ministry of NGO Affairs was
established, a new Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) was negotiated with them outlining their role in
the project. These efforts ultimately gave way to a fruitful relationship between the PA, the NGOs and the
Implementing Agency.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Beyond the initial period of implementation, when the Bank considered placing the PNGO at risk on
grounds of poor PMO/WAC performance, the overall performance of the Implementing Agency was
satisfactory. Having said that, there were a number of areas where PMO/WAC performance was weak.
These are summarized in the high attention placed by the PMO/WAC on process management which
impacted on the quality of the sub-projects (as referred to in Section 4); the focus of the project's
monitoring on the delivery of inputs, as opposed to outputs and impact; and, the limited role played by the
Agency in promoting cross-fertilization between the participating NGOs.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The inability to fully mobilize the project's budget as foreseen in the PAD did not have an impact on the
realization of the project's objectives. As mentioned in Section 3.2, there was a reallocation of funds
between various grant categories. However, as all forms of grants were categorized in the Grant Agreement
as "sub-grants" these reallocations did not require any formal approvals. The only problem encountered in
terms of financing was related to the need to extend the PMO's contract beyond the initial three years
budgeted for, which was done at the expense of funds being allocated towards capacity building and
research (pls refer to section 3.2).

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The overall sustainability rating for the project is assessed as likely. This is based on an assessment that the
project has contributed to building the capacity of beneficiary NGOs by transferring to them skills which
are critical to enhancing their ability to sustain their services based on improved systems of financial
management and an enhanced capacity to manage and implement projects. The project has also created in a
number of big NGOs the capacity to manage grant awarding schemes but, more importantly, to network



                                                       - 10 -

and partner with NGOs, creating an environment that is conducive to improved information exchange and a
general improvement in the quality and sustainability of NGO managed projects. Having said that, given
the crisis of the past two years and the impact it had in terms of further deterioration in the income levels of
the Palestinian population and the increase in the demand for basic services, it is unlikely that services
supported through the project will be sustained without a continued influx of donor resources. In this
context, however, the institutional impact that the project has had in terms of establishing an organizational
structure with the capacity to mobilize, manage and allocate funding for NGOs can be seen, in by itself, as
having contributed to the likelihood of the sustainability of the project's achievements (pls refer to section
4.2). Given the likelihood of a continued reliance by NGOs on external financing, it can also be argued that
the contribution of the project in establishing a Governance Committee is further evidence of the likelihood
of the sustainability of the project's achievements. The Governance Committee was later transformed into a
Supervisory Board that offers NGOs the opportunity of establishing their own Foundation.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
PNGO II was proposed and approved as a "transitional arrangement" that would provide for establishing a
more sustainable arrangement for maintaining and sustaining the services delivery role of NGOs. Although
the potential sustainability of the Bank's effort has been well advanced through the second phase, it is not
clear that the deterioration in the socioeconomic situation would afford an opportunity for sustainability
that would not depend on additional donor financing. This was reflected in the views of the project's
partners (pls refer to Annex 9) and in their recommendation that the Bank continues to provide seed money
which would be critical for mobilizing much needed funds for the NGO sector. As already stated, however,
this should not take away from the important contributions that the two projects have made in terms of
enhancing opportunities of self reliance and longer-term sustainability. In fact, the Bank is to be
commended for having drawn on the lessons learnt in PNGO I to incorporate in the design of PNGO II
many improved aspects of project design that have greatly advanced the likelihood of a longer-term impact
of the Bank's effort in supporting Palestinian NGOs and an improved professionalism in their role.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance under this category is rated satisfactory. This project was launched by the Bank as
a pioneering project piloting a form of umbrella grant management and a first in the West Bank and Gaza.
It is one of its kind in which the Bank is granting funds directly to NGOs and where the
borrower/implementing agency is an NGO. The project's objectives were clearly defined and relevant to the
developmental challenges facing Palestinians at the time. Its choice of supporting NGOs to channel basic
services to the poor was also sound given the limited resources that NGOs were receiving at the time. The
project idea was initially met with skepticism from the the PA as well as the NGO community. This
necessitated a process of consultation involving the PA and Civil Society representatives. Ultimately,
skepticism gave way to ownership and, until today, PNGO is cited as the only donor-financed project in
the West Bank and Gaza that works with the PA, the NGO networks and civil society, giving all a role in
implementation, oversight and governance. The shortcomings in the quality of the project design at entry
was discussed in Section 3.5. However, both, strong supervision on part of the Bank and the ability of the
Implementing Agency to address and overcome shortcomings in the design ultimately ensured the project's
successful realization of its objectives.

7.2 Supervision:
Bank's supervision of this project is rated as satisfactory. The Bank undertook formal supervision missions
of the project and produced Aide Memoires averaging twice a year. All Aide Memoires established clear
follow-up action plans which served as a basis for subsequent follow-up. The content of the Aide Memoires



                                                      - 11 -

was well reflected in the PSRs. PSRs were updated at least every six months. Between May and December
1998, when the Bank considered putting the project at risk, PSRs were updated on a three-monthly basis.
In April 2002, the Bank ranked the project's implementation progress as unsatisfactory, reflecting a
concern at the time that, due to problems of access and mobility, the project may not achieve its workplan
by the agreed closing date. The Bank employed a wide range of internal and external expertise to take part
in project reviews and supervision, providing the needed skill mix for various reviews necessitated. It
employed Country-Based consultants to maintain ongoing supervision throughout the project's
implementation. Despite the close supervision, oversight of the project's procurement practices was largely
neglected. Although close supervision by the Bank was merited, it placed a heavy reporting burden on the
project and resulted in extremely high supervision costs. At certain points, the Bank seemed to be too
closely engaged in project implementation, running the risk of exposing itself to conflicts of interest. Not
withstanding these areas of weaknesses, however, the Bank managed to maintain its neutrality, serving a
critical role in circumventing crises between the project's stakeholders. In summary, it is highly
questionable that this project would have succeeded without close Bank supervision.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Based on the foregoing, the overall performance of the Bank is rated as satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Bank's financing of PNGO was extended as a Grant whose recipient was an NGO, and not the PA.
The NGO was contracted on a competitive bidding process and, therefore, they had no involvement in the
project's preparation, before its approval by the Board. Although the PA was not the recipient, it
nevertheless cooperated fully with the Bank during preparation. Finally, the NGOs were highly engaged in
the consultative process of project preparation which was critical to generating a sense of ownership which
was important for the success of the project.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Pls refer to Section 7.4

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The overall performance of the PMO/WAC is rated as satisfactory. The PMO/WAC implemented the
project with a high degree of accountability and transparency of procedures. This was critical to ensuring
that there was no misappropriation of grants, the risk of which was rated as high in the PAD. The
PMO/WAC ensured prompt delivery of Audit Reports. The PMO/WAC also maintained a very high degree
of professionalism and neutrality. These were very necessary for ensuring against the politicization of the
grant awarding scheme which, in the overall context of West Bank and Gaza, poses a great challenge. The
PMO/WAC maintained work plans for the monitoring of their activities and they ensured periodic meetings
with their Steering Committee, thereby ensuring an adequate engagement of the Consortium partners. Most
importantly, however, the PMO/WAC was always receptive of Bank's feedback on its performance and
delivered promptly on recommendations of the Bank for improved project performance.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
As a Borrower (grant recipient), the Welfare Association's role in overseeing the implementation by
PMO/WAC of the PNGO has been satisfactory. When the Bank considered putting the project at risk, the
Welfare Association assigned an Executive Committee to oversee WAC's implementation. This was an
important step in ensuring the project's overall improved performance.

8. Lessons Learned



                                                    - 12 -

Following are among the most significant lessons learnt from PNGO:

A. Ownership: The engagement of a wide range of stakeholders in the project's conception, design and
implementation has created a sense of national ownership that was critical for its success and continues to
be an important factor based on which the sustainability of the project's impact is considered likely.

B. Bank's Role in Promoting Civic Engagement: The success of the project in promoting improved
dialogue between the NGOs and the PA is an evidence of the importance of the Bank's role in supporting an
environment for civic engagement.

C. Simplified and Streamlined Procedures: The complicated procedures employed by the project placed a
huge processing workload on the implementing agency. This was at the expense of placing sufficient focus
on quality and outputs. It also limited the opportunities for weak NGOs to benefit from the Program.
Although the competitive nature of the project had its benefits, providing incentives for NGOs to submit
sound proposals, it excluded weaker NGOs. These shortcomings were partly addressed by reducing the
number of grant awarding cycles (in PNGO II, the cycles were reduced to one per scheme), introducing a
shortlisting step in proposal submission, and reallocating more funds to the Block Grant Scheme.

D. Adequate Elaboration of Operational Procedures: To ensure efficient implementation, it is necessary
that all procedural aspects of the project be fully elaborated by the time of appraisal.

E. Quality of Sub-Project Design and Output-Based Monitoring: PNGO placed its emphasis on delivery
of inputs, in the form of financing to sub-projects, at the expense of defining clear output performance
indicators. This made it difficult to monitor the quality of sub-projects, in terms of their realization of
intended outputs, but it also meant that there was no basis for measuring the aggregate impact of the
project as a whole. Drawing on the recommendations of a study conducted on Monitoring and Evaluation,
PNGO II now employs a system of output-based monitoring the links the transfer of funds to NGOs to the
achievement of time-bound benchmarks. The project's MIS system was also further developed to include
indicators that allow for tracking of a wide range of project implementation aspects which should allow for
better tracking and a more comprehensive evaluation of the aggregate impact of the project.

F. Enhancing Potential for Longer-Term Impact and Sustainability: One of the important findings of
PNGO reviews pointed to the limitation imposed on the potential impact and sustainability of project
outcomes due to the dispersion of funds across a very wide range of projects whose duration was limited.
This was addressed in PNGO II by limiting the number grants to a smaller number of NGOs. PNGO I
experience also pointed to the need to maintain flexibility with respect to the amount of individual grants
and to determine grant amounts based on an assessment of the absorptive capacity of individual NGOs and
the nature of the service to be financed. The dispersion of funds across many sectors/locations also meant
that the impact realized through these projects in any one sector or location was limited and unlikely to be
sustained. Therefore, the adoption of a programmatic approach to grant awarding schemes is recommended
for such future projects.

G. Community Participation and Improved Targeting: Based on the experience of PNGO, it would be
useful to consider the provision of preparatory funds to NGOs to undertake participatory needs
assessments as a basis for developing their sub-projects. These funds could be awarded based on the
submission of concept papers that would be assessed to qualify NGOs for these types of preparatory
grants. It is believed that this approach would improve quality of design and ensure better targeting of
services based on an assessment of those most in need for them. In PNGO II, the Partnership Grant Scheme
provided such preparatory funds to all NGOs that qualified for receiving such grants.


                                                      - 13 -

H. Capacity Building Programs Constituting Distinct Components of Block Grant Schemes: Since the
lack of funding was noted as one of the limitations faced by Block Grant Managers in providing capacity
building to smaller NGOs, it is recommended that grants approved through schemes such as the Block
Grants include a special budget allocation for capacity building. The effectiveness of capacity building
would also be enhanced if it would be based on an assessment of the individual needs of beneficiary NGOs
and the development of individual capacity building plans with clear performance indicators.

I. A Holistic Approach to Institutional Strengthening of the NGO Sector: PNGO I adopted a formal
approach (classroom training) to capacity building the benefits of which were noted by the individual
NGOs. However, based on an assessment of the capacity building needs of Palestinian NGOs, the need to
adopt a more holistic approach to institutional building was underlined as a better suited approach to
enhancing the longer-term professional capacity of the NGO sector at large. This approach would place
more emphasis on improved information exchange, enhanced networking, design of service delivery quality
standards and building the capacity of representative NGO networks and coalitions. Building on these
lessons, PNGO II defines a whole component of support to the NGO sector.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
                                                                   28 June 2003
Via E-Mail: skanaan@worldbank.org
Ms. Sima Kanaan
World Bank Office
P.O. Box 54842
Jerusalem

        Re:     Implementation Completion Report for PNGO Phase I

Dear Sima:

It is our pleasure to comment on the Implementation Completion Report for PNGO Phase I
drafted by you for the World Bank and dated 17 June 2003. The report is professional,
comprehensive and objective.

First, we would like to share with you an opening observation. In our opinion, the overall ratings
for both the Bank and the WAC/PMO should be raised from "Satisfactory" to "Highly
Satisfactory" for the implementation of PNGO I. Our view is based on the following factors:
       the extreme complexity and volatility of the operating environment in the West Bank and
Gaza (even before the outbreak of the Intifada);
       the uniqueness of the project (nothing like it had ever been attempted before) and its
inherent structural complexity;
       the extremely high level of skill and intensive effort that were put into completing the
project  both by the World Bank and by the Welfare Association Consortium's Project
Management Organization.

Turning now to several specific points, we would like to make the following brief observations:



                                                    - 14 -

1.      3.4 "Revised Components"; Page 4,  2: The figure of "$1.1 million" is listed as the
amount of parallel financing given by the Bank for employment generation. According to our
records, the actual figure was $1 million.
2.      3.5 "Quality at Entry"; Page 4,  1: It is stated in the fourth sentence that "[i]n fact, it
took 15 months to complete the Operational Manual." According to our records, the first draft of
the Operational Manual was submitted to the Bank in December 1997. The Bank approved the
Operational Manual in March 1998, with conditions for further development of some parts of the
Manual which involved coordination between various stakeholders as well as their involvement in
the project. The requested coordination with the necessary stakeholders was achieved, and the
final version of the Operational Manual was approved in October 1998.
3.      3.5 "Quality at Entry"; Page 4,  1: It is stated mid-paragraph that "[n]o prior needs
assessment was conducted to determine the priority sectors to be targeted by the Project."
According to our records, one of the first tasks the PMO undertook was to conduct a complete
needs assessment analysis, which included broad participation of NGOs, public and governmental
stakeholders, and a literature review. This task was begun in August 1997 and was completed in
February 1998. The specific goal of this needs assessment analysis was to determine priorities for
sectors to be targeted by the Project.
4.      3.5 "Quality at Entry"; Page 4,  1: It is stated in the final sentence of the paragraph
that "the capacity of PMO/WAC in managing grant awarding schemes was over-estimated and the
technical capacity of staff at the time of the Project launching was not adequate to deal with
effective project implementation." According to our records, no key staff have been added to the
project since its inception. Yet the achievements of the project clearly exceeded expectations, as
is reflected in the Implementation Completion Report. These achievements were accomplished by
the very same staff whose capacity is evaluated a bit critically in this paragraph.

    In our view, there was a long "learning curve" for this project on the part of both the
    WAC/PMO and the Bank. This can be attributed to several factors, which indeed are
    acknowledged in the Implementation Completion Report:
       certain assumptions made in the planning stages were simply unrealistic;
       some parts of the project design were not fully developed, which created misconceptions
and bottlenecks;
       new regulations were added and introduced after the project had begun implementation
(e.g., addition of a Governance Committee);

    As the Implementation Completion Report itself notes, the fact that WAC/PMO staff and the
    Bank adapted to these changes and evaluated, modified and streamlined procedures
    throughout course of the project reflects quite favorably on the quality of all staff involved,
    and not the opposite.

5.      4.1(A) "Outcome/Achievement of Objective"; Page 5,  1: It is stated mid-paragraph
that "[m]ain reasons identified for the failure of some sub-projects in realizing their objectives
related to ... lack of adequate monitoring on part of the PMO/WAC...." According to our
records, the PMO monitored the Block Grants very closely and effectively.
6.      4.2(A) "Development/Block Grants and Hardship Grants"; Page 7,  1: It is stated in the
second sentence "[t]he procedures developed by WAC/PMO for managing the grant-awarding



                                                 - 15 -

process proved to be lengthy and complex." According to our records, these procedures were
adopted to comply with the project design requirements of the World Bank. As the
Implementation Completion Report goes on to note, over the course of the project, procedures
were simplified and streamlined, to make the process more inclusive.
7.      4.2(B) "Capacity Building Grants and Research Grants"; Page 8, Chart, Column 3: It is
stated that "688 NGOs received training in one or more of the following areas..." According to
our records, 688 NGO staff received training in the mentioned areas. (Note: This same error is
repeated in Annex 1, page 17, first chart, third column.)

In conclusion, in our view, the PNGO Phase I project was a unique project. Nothing like it had
ever been attempted in the West Bank and Gaza before. Neither the Bank, nor the PMO, nor the
stakeholders had ever had any prior experience with such a project. In addition, there were very
high risks associated with the project, due in large part to the perceived and felt initial
incompatibility of the stakeholders.

The steep learning curve and the inherent risks to the project were overcome through the
extensive amount of time and effort invested by WAC/PMO and the Bank together. The success
of the project is manifested in the partnership that has formed between the Bank, WAC/PMO, the
NGO networks and the community. This indeed looked like an impossible task at the beginning
of the project. The fact that the project succeeded should result in "Highly Satisfactory" ratings
both for the WAC/PMO, as implementing agency, and also the Bank, which stood by the
WAC/PMO every step of the way and ensured that the project would succeed. PNGO Phase I
was an excellent learning experience for both WAC/PMO and the Bank. The knowledge and
experience gained from the ongoing internal evaluation of the project throughout its lifetime are
reflected in the significant improvements in the design of PNGO Phase II, which was correctly
reflected in the report.

Thank you for soliciting our views on the Implementation Completion Report. We commend
you for the extensive effort in the preparation of the report and the high professional standards by
which it was prepared.

With warm regards.

                                       Sincerely,

                                       / S /

                                       Mohammed K. Shadid
                                       Director
                                       Project Management Organization

cc:     Dr. Rafiq Husseini
        Ms. Mira Rizek


(b) Cofinanciers:



                                                 - 16 -

Not available, although the Italians participated in the Stakeholders Workshop and provided inputs into the
discussion, findings and recommendations.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
In a Stakeholders workshop held on 26 May (Annex 8), project partners confirmed that PNGO was one of
the most successful large scale projects to have supported the NGO sector in the West Bank and Gaza.
They underlined its relevance and the timeliness of its implementation. They recommended that the Bank
advocates more widely the project's achievements and that it contributes additional funding to a Phase III as
seed money for mobilizing additional donor financing that was seen as critical for addressing the prevailing
situation of high poverty rates and a huge demand for basic services.

The partners pointed to the following elements as having positively contributed to the project's success: its
employment of consultative processes; its bringing together a wide range of stakeholders; its ability to
reach out to the smaller NGOs and community based organizations; and, the diversity of the sectors that it
supported. Among the project's weaknesses, the partners referred to the lack of cross-fertilization between
the recipient NGOs, the lack of emphasis on the advocacy role of NGOs in policy making, the lengthy
procedures of grant awarding process; the absence of clear monitoring indicators, and the little value added
by partner international NGOs.

The partners highlighted the critical role played by the Bank in improving the relationship between the PA
and the NGOs. They expressed their appreciation for the Bank's participatory approach and for the
expertise it brought to the local context. They criticized the high turnover of staff and the absence of clear
criteria for issuing No Objections. The partners thanked the PMO/WAC for its active cooperation with
NGOs and they praised the transparency of its processes. They also referred to the usefulness of the
Manuals that the PMO had helped develop.

10. Additional Information




                                                     - 17 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                  1
                Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate
1. (a) Project helps address the needs of     1. a) Project helps address the needs of      (a) The project has provided assistance to
approximately 50,000 poor and marginalized approximately 50,000 poor and marginalized 305 NGOs and delivered services to 213,680
Palestinians                                  Palestinians                                  beneficiaries
  ( b) Indicators of beneficiary satisfaction    b) Indicators of beneficiary satisfaction
with services provided                        with services provided                        (b) Based on a sample of 72 projects, 71% of
                                                                                            beneficiaries confirmed their satisfaction with
                                                                                            services provided by the sub-projects
2. (a) Indicators of improvements in the      2. a) Indicators of improvements in the       (a) 688 NGOs received training and 29% of a
program and financial management capacity program and financial management capacity sample of 72 interviewed confirmed that the
of recipient NGOs                             of recipient NGOs                             project was critical in building their capacity

(b) Estimated disbursements of $0.9 million    b) Estimated disbursements of $0.9 million (b) An estimated US$1.1 million was spent
for NGO capacity building activities after 3  for NGO capacity building activities after 3  on NGO capacity building activities, including
years and about $1.5 million over the life of years and about $1.5 million over the life of research, over the life of the project
the project                                   the project
3. (a) definition of legal framework          3. a) definition of legal framework           (a) In January 2000, the NGO Law was
   (b) passing the NGO law                       b) passing the NGO law                     passed and ratified by the Palestinian
                                                                                            Legislative Council. A Ministry of NGO
                                                                                            Relations was also established in the same
                                                                                            year.

                                                                                            (b) An International Conference on Promoting
                                                                                            Cooperation between the PA and the NGO
                                                                                            Sector was held


Note: Outcome Indicators had not been updated in the PSRs.
Output Indicators:
                                                                                  1
                Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate
Number of NGO projects per year/Estimated Not projected                                     305 projects implemented at a total cost of
disbursement of US$3.7 million for NGO                                                      US$11.3 million (US$7.7 million for
development and hardship grants after 3                                                     development grants and US$3.5 million
years, US$11.8 million over the life of the                                                 for block grants). 98% of grant funds were
project                                                                                     committed by the end of the third year
Approximately ten major NGOs implement        Not projected                                 This sub-component of the project was
financial recovery programs                                                                 dropped due to the difficulty of prioritizing
                                                                                            amongst NGOs that fit this category
Estimated disbursement of US$0.9 million for Not projected                                  A total of US$0.7 million granted to
NGO capacity building activities after 3                                                    implement capacity building and training
years, US$1.5 million over the life of the
project                                                                                     688 NGO staff received training in one or
                                                                                            more of the following areas: project
                                                                                            identification and proposal writing; strategic
                                                                                            planning; improved financial management
                                                                                            systems and participatory needs assessment

                                                                                            A detailed assessment of institutional
                                                                                            capacity building needs of 8 NGOs was
                                                                                            conducted
Regular project-level contact                 Not Projected                                 A Governance Committee was established
between the PA and NGOs on sectoral and                                                     that served as a forum for regular exchange
project issues                                                                              between the PA and NGOs on sectoral and
                                                                                            project issues

                                                                                            An International Conference was
                                                                                            held on "Promoting Cooperation between
                                                                                            NGOs and the PA"




                                                                  - 18 -

Estimated disbursement of US$0.2 million in                 An NGO Law, that was generally acceptable
the first 3 years to assist with definition of              to NGOs, was ratified by the Palestinian
legal framework and to establish                            Legislative Council (amount of financing
mechanisms for enhanced technical                           provided specifically for this cannot be
communication and collaboration between                     defined)
NGOs and the PA

1End of project




                                                  - 19 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                  Appraisal       Actual/Latest        Percentage of
                                                                   Estimate          Estimate             Appraisal
                           Component                              US$ million       US$ million
NGO Development Grants (including Block Grants)                      10.00               11.20                  120
Hardship Grants                                                       1.80                 0.00                   0
Capacity Building Grants                                              1.50                 0.70                  46
Project Management                                                    3.50                 2.80                  80
Legislation (revised to include technical assistance)                 0.20                 0.40                 200

Total Baseline Cost                                                  17.00               15.10
                             Total Project Costs                     17.00               15.10
                                Interest during construction
                      Total Financing Required                       17.00               15.10
Note: It is difficult to ascertain the exact amount spent on developing the legislation as the total indicated in
actual disbursements here includes technical assistance.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                             1
                                                      Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category                 ICB              NCB                  2           N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                         Other
1. Works                                 0.00             0.00            0.00              0.00              0.00
                                        (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)
2. Goods                                 0.00             0.00            0.00              0.00              0.00
                                        (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)
3. Services                              0.00             0.00            1.70              0.00              1.70
(Technical Assistance)                  (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous (Grants)                0.00             0.00           11.80              0.00             11.80
                                        (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous (project                0.00             0.00            3.50              0.00              3.50
management cost)                        (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                         0.00             0.00            0.00              0.00              0.00
                                        (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)
   Total                                 0.00             0.00           17.00              0.00             17.00
                                        (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)
The PAD did not include a detailed breakdown of total costs per procurement arrangement.




                                                      - 20 -

  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                   1
                                                         Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                               Other
  1. Works                                 0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  2. Goods                                 0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  3. Services                              0.00               0.00              1.10             0.00              1.10
  (Technical Assistance)                  (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.38)            (0.00)           (0.38)
  4. Miscellaneous (Grants)                0.00               0.00             11.20             0.00             11.20
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (8.05)            (0.00)           (8.05)
  5. Miscellaneous (project                0.00               0.00              2.80             0.00              2.80
  management cost)                        (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.57)            (0.00)           (1.57)
  6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                               0.00               0.00             15.10             0.00             15.10
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)           (10.00)            (0.00)           (10.00)
  For reasons provided earlier, it is not possible to ascertain expenditures as defined in the above table.
    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
NGO Development Grants         6.80         0.00         5.00        6.40                    4.80       94.1      0.0      96.0
Hardship Grants                0.00         0.00         1.80        0.00         0.00       0.00        0.0      0.0       0.0
Capacity Building              1.20         0.00         0.30        0.62                    0.00       51.7      0.0       0.0
Project                        1.80                      1.70        2.60                    0.25       144.4              14.7
Management/Technical
Assistance/Audit and
Evaluation
Support for drafting           0.20         0.00         0.00        0.40                               200.0     0.0       0.0
Legislation




                                                          - 21 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not Applicable given the nature of the project




                                                - 22 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)        Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                       Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              Identification            3    Team Leader (1), Consultants (2)     S               S

              Preparation               5    Team Leader (1)                      S               S
                                             Consultants/Experts (4).

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              Appraisal               15     Team Leader (1), Manager             S               S
                                             (1) , Consultants (4), Peer
                                             Reviewers (4), Procurement
                                             Specialists (3), Legal Experts
                                             (2)
              Negotiations              4    Team Leader (1), Deputy              S               S
                                             Resident Representative (1),
                                             Legal Experts (2)

 Supervision

              08/17/1997                2    COUNTRY OFFICER (1);                 S               S
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              11/05/1997                3    MANAGER (1); COUNTRY                 S               S
                                             OFFICER (1); CONSULTANT
                                             (1)
              02/25/1998                1    MANAGER                              S               S
              06/22/1998                2    MANAGER (1), NGO                     S               S
                                             SPECIALIST
              12/06/1998                4    TEAM LEADER (1);                     S               S
                                             INSTITUTIONAL SPECIALIST
                                             (2); TASK MANAGER (1)
              05/10/1999                4    TEAM LEADER (1);                     S               S
                                             INSTITUTIONAL SPECIALIST
                                             (2); TASK MANAGER (1)
              09/28/2000                3    NGO SPECIALIST/TASK                  S               S
                                             TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             INSTITUTIONAL SPECIALIST
                                             (1); NGO SPECIALIST (1)


 ICR
              06/10/2003                4     Team Leader (1),                    S               S
                                              Consultant (1), Borrower
                                              Focal Point (1), Assistant
                                              (1)



(b) Staff:




                                              - 23 -

    Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                              No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation
Appraisal/Negotiation
Supervision
ICR                                     2
Total




                                         - 24 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA
Improved access to social services




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU
As this was a grant to an NGO, the PA's implementation performance is not applicable. Similarly, since the
borrower was not involved in preparation, this category is also not applicable.




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Final Report - Preparatory Study for the Impact Evaluation of Phase I of the PNGO Project, WAC,
Prepared by Khalid Nabris and Nisreen Khalaf, December, 2002.
 2. Assessment Study for Identifying Capacity Building Needs for the NGO Sector in the West Bank and
Gaza, Field Report, WAC, Prepared by Khalid Nabris and Tom Lent, January 2001.
3. Feasibility Study for A NGO Resource Centre in the West Bank and Gaza, Final Report, July 23 -
August 5, 2000, Prepared by Tom Lent, October 2000.
4. Poverty and Marginality Indicators. A Report for the Department for International Development,
Prepared by Jeremy Holland, April 1999.
5. Final Version - The Development of a Monitorable Project Impact Assessment System. Report of a
Mission to the PNGO Project, Palestine, July 3-10th 2000, Prepared by Dr. N.P Chapman. Final Version
Submitted October 30, 2000.
6. The World Bank and the Palestinian NGO Project: From Service Delivery to Sustainable Development,
Executive Summary, Prepared by Denis J. Sullivan, May 2003.
7. Consultancy Report on the Governance Committee for the Palestinian Project Management
Organization (PMO), Submitted by Jalal Abdel-Latif, October 2000.
8. World Bank Supervisory Mission to the Palestine NGO Project (4-13 July 1999) - Consultancy Report,
Prepared by John Cameron, September 1999.
9. Supervision Mission Aide Memoires; March 1998, May 1998, December 1998, September 1999,
January 2000, February 2000.
10. Mid-Term Review Report - The Palestinian NGO Project, Submitted by the Mid-Term Review Team ,
John Cameron, Liza Tarazi, Denis Sullivan and Laurie Zivertz, January 2000.
11. An Assessment of the Views of Poor and Marginalized People of the Projects Funded During Cycle 1
and 2, 12 Case Studies, WAC, Prepared by Khalid Nabris and Nisreen Khalaf, January 2000.
12. The Palestinian NGO Project - A Case Study of NGOs Role in Poverty Alleviation, Prepared by PMO
Staff, March 1999.
13. PMO Management Audit Final Report, December 1998.
14. Terms of Reference - Assessment Study for Identifying Gaps in Capacity Building for the NGO Sector
in the West Bank and Gaza, November 2000.
15. Palestinian NGO Project - Assessment Study for Block Grants - Final Report, Prepared by Simon
Lawry-White, January 2001.
16. The Development of a Monitorable Project Impact Assessment System. Report of a Mission to the
PNGO Project, Palestine, July 3-10, 2000, Prepared by Dr. N.P Chapman. Final Version Submitted
October 30, 2000.
17. Review of Grant Application Procedures and Administration, Prepared by Simon Lawry-White, CAF,
October 2000.
18. Report on a Mission to Assist the PNGO Project to Prepare An Evaluation Study, Prepared by Gilroy
Coleman, July 2001.
19. Assessment of the Financial Management System for Project Management Organization, Prepared by
Ayman Abu Haija, July 1999.
20. Audits of Procurement in Palestine for the Palestinian Non-Governmental Organization Project, Audit
Report, Prepared by Hisham Labadi, April 2001.
21. The Welfare Association Consortium PMO's Management Audit for 2000, August, 2000.
22. Final Report - Engendering the World Bank Palestinian NGO Project, Prepared by Suheir Azzouni and
Dr. Nader Sa'id with the Assistance of Sophie Claudet, September 2000.
23. Using Poverty Maps to Target the Poor in West Bank and Gaza.
24. Mainstreaming Gender in the PNGO Project.




                                                   - 27 -

Additional Annex 8. Assessment of the Views of Project Stakeholders: A Workshop Report

1. Introduction
This workshop report summarizes the results of a one-day workshop, held on May 26, 2003, in
preparation for the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) of Phase I of PNGO Project. This
participative assessment aimed to draw on the views of project's stakeholders with respect to
their assessment of: project design, the extent to which the project had succeeded in realizing its
objectives, the effectiveness of the implementation process, the role of WAC, the role of the
Bank, lessons learned and recommendations for the future. See annex 1.

In addition to the facilitator, fifteen participants attended the workshop, including representatives
of 4 NGOs who received Development Grants, 3 Block Grant Managers, 3 members from the
Governance Committee, one representative of the Italian Cooperation (co-funder), 3 senior staff
members of the PMO and one representative from the Bank.              It is worth noting that 8 others
(including representatives of the Palestinian ministries) could not attend the workshop due to
Israeli closures of Palestinian areas.

2. Results

A.      Project Design and Implementation

Participants agreed that the PNGO project is the most successful large-scale project supported the
Palestinian NGO sector. They indicated that the project was relevant to local needs, addressed a
wide range of community priorities and was designed and implemented during a very difficult
period when:

(a) Poverty and marginality were increasing within the Palestinian society at a time when services
to the poor and marginalized were decreasing;
(b) NGOs were facing serious threats as a result of the shift of funding from NGOs to the PA. As
a result, some of the NGOs were at the verge of total collapse;
(c) Palestinian society was in a difficult situation: there was a lack of progress at the political level
and serious deterioration in the economic situation; and
(d) Relationship between Palestinian NGOs and the PA was tense.

Strengths

When asked to evaluate the design and implementation of the project, participants of the
workshop mentioned the following strengths:

1.      Project design and objectives were relevant to local needs. The three objectives of the
project "expanding services to the poor and marginalized, capacity building of NGOs and
supporting efforts to improve the working relationship between NGOs an the PA", were relevant
and addressed priority needs.

2.      The project enhanced the role of the Palestinian NGOs and contributed to building a base



                                                  - 28 -

for a healthy relationship between Palestinian NGOs and the PA.

3.      The project succeeded in bringing together various stakeholders (the PA, Palestinian
NGOs NGO networks, the Bank, the Consortium of the Welfare Association, independent local
and international consultants, etc.) to work together. Those bodies had limited previous
experience in cooperation and coordination. The process helped NGOs to communicate with each
other and to highlight their issues.

4.      The project was designed, developed and implemented through a consultative process and
participation of Palestinian NGOs. NGO involvement was enhanced through the participative
methods that the Bank used to assess needs.

5.      One of the important achievements of the project was the ability to reach small
organizations through a pioneering model of delivery of services that targeted isolated and
underprivileged communities. Through the Block Grant Scheme, the project provided large NGOs
and Community Based Organizations (CBOs) with the opportunity to cooperate together, thus
expanding the ability of individual projects to reach the largest number of locations and
beneficiaries.

6.      The management of the project proved to be both effective and efficient. Some of the
examples given include developing an effective process for field monitoring and support to
projects, establishing effective and accountable financial control procedures, showing
understanding of the difficult conditions that the NGOs were experiencing, etc.

7.      The project faced a number of serious challenges resulting from internal factors such as
tension between the PA and NGOs, overcoming the issue of conflict of interest among members
of the Governance Committee. External factors included the drastic change in the political and
socioeconomic conditions, or the risk of working in Jerusalem.

8.      The interaction between local and international experts during the NGO Conference was
successful, especially in analyzing challenges faced by Palestinian NGOs, issues which will be
discussed during the second conference.

9.      The project succeeded in building a transparent grant-awarding system including the
development of application forms, user manuals, workshops to guide NGOs on applying for
funding, etc. This has created high standards of professional ethics and increased project
credibility.

10.     The diversity of sectors supported increased the beneficiaries of project activities.

Weaknesses

When asked about the weaknesses of the project, participants mentioned the following:

1.      The involvement of international organizations in the Block Grant Scheme was not always



                                                - 29 -

successful and in some cases, their contribution was minimal.

2.      There was no coordination among Block Grant Managers on specific assignments, i.e, on
"who was doing what and where". More than one organization worked in the same geographical
region and in the same sectors without coordination, creating unnecessary overlaps and
competitive situations. In addition, no mechanism for cross fertilization of ideas and experience
among Block Grant Managers and their partners was established.

3.      The original objective of "eradicating poverty" confused the direction of the project.
Addressing such an unrealistic and ambitious objective was beyond the capacity of the project.
Further clarifications were needed regarding the role of the project in poverty eradication, i.e.
through expanding services to the poor and marginalized.

4.      No clear definition of poverty and marginality was established, discussed and agreed upon
among the various stakeholders. It was therefore difficult to know the percentage of the poor and
marginalized that the project served or to assess how they were served.

5.      The Governance Committee focused on project management issues and played a minor
role in advocating NGO issues and creating mechanisms for improving coordination and
cooperation between the PA and NGOs. It included representatives of NGO networks, Palestinian
Ministries, the Welfare Association Consortium. The Bank provided an opportunity and a forum
that could have been utilized to discuss issues such as deep-rooting the work of NGOs,
strengthening NGOs role in building a civil society, the relationship between NGOs and the PA
and their complementary roles, etc.

6.      While a strong, transparent grant awarding system was developed, its mechanism required
a long period of time and a complicated process before the grant was actually awarded. The
process included developing an application, a desk and field assessment of the application,
selection of projects by a Technical Appraisal Committee review, by the Governance Committee,
and obtaining "No Objection" from the Bank and the Ministry of Planning.

7.      Evaluation was not given sufficient attention at the beginning of the project and during its
implementation. There should have been good baseline data, indicators, means of verification
against which project impact is measured. This has been addressed during Phase II (Management
Information System, indicators, etc.)

Challenges

The PNGO project faced a number of challenges that affected its implementation, some of which
are as follows:

1.      Drastic changes in the political and socioeconomic situation resulting from confrontations
between the Palestinians and the Israelis. The project was designed with the assumption that the
peace process could result in a Palestinian State and that the political and socioeconomic situation
will improve. Stakeholders of the project failed to predict/forecast that the peace process would



                                               - 30 -

regress and be replaced by violence and a deterioration of the socioeconomic situation. Such a
development was a risk that was not adequately addressed and which ultimately has created
serious challenges to project implementation. However, the project adapted well to the situation
and built effective coping mechanisms.

2.     The selection of marginalized areas was based on a poverty report, which prioritized the
northern region of the West Bank and Gaza. With the significant changes that took place since the
beginning of the Intifada and the various Israeli repressive policies and measures, marginality and
poverty changed. Poverty has been spread throughout all Palestinian areas. Project assumptions
regarding the distribution of poverty may no longer be valid.

3.     CBOs are very weak. Some are not registered and do not have a Board or a track record.
No election of boards had been carried out since 1999 in the vast majority of CBOs and
supporting such organizations represented a challenge to the project. In addition, it was assumed
that NGOs would be able to carry out participative needs assessments and to engage beneficiaries
and local community in the process, but this was not the case. Most NGOs did not have the
capacity or technical skills to carry out such assessments nor to involve the local community in
decision making.

4.     Competitive bidding limited the ability of small organizations to compete with large or
well-established organizations. Therefore, the project had to make the assumption that large
organizations would be able to serve the poor through the Block Grant scheme.

B.     Objectives, Outputs and Outcomes

Overall Project Achievements

The PNGO project supported a thorough evaluation aimed at assessing project outputs and
outcomes through a beneficiary assessment. The following section summarizes perceptions and
impressions of the workshop participants:

(a)    Participants expressed their satisfaction with the overall performance and achievements of
the project, especially the performance of the development grants and block grants projects.

(b)    Cooperation between large NGOs and CBOs has expanded the scope of the project to
reach new geographical areas and target groups.

(c)    A large number of projects in various locations were supported.

(d)    Less satisfaction was reported at the level of the capacity building component (see below).

(e)    By giving more attention to the service delivery component, the project was influenced by
outputs rather than outcomes.




                                               - 31 -

Capacity building

Participants agreed that the capacity building component of the project was weak, poorly
designed and implemented. The following comments and observations were given:

1.      Capacity building was not fully integrated in the project plans. It suffered from the absence
of a clear and realistic design and lacked clear objectives, outputs, indicators and outcomes.

2.      Capacity building was limited to training and focussed on human resource development
and not institutional development. Training activities focused on how to enhance service delivery
rather than strengthening the institutional capacity of NGOs. Therefore, most training activities
focused on areas linked to project cycle. Strengthening the role of NGOs, especially CBOs,
should have gone hand in hand with the service delivery.

3.      Participants indicated that the results of the work carried out by various consultants
recruited by the PNGO Project were not circulated to, or discussed with NGOs and thus reduced
the learning process. Other participants reported that they believe that some of the studies were
not objective and rather than providing recommendations that promote cooperation and common
understanding, they gave biased opinions.

4.      Some of the international experts were excellent. However, there is a feeling that the
project focused more on utilizing the services of international consultants whereas utilizing the
services of local experts could have promoted local capacity building.

5.      The project built unique and rich experiences. Unfortunately, none of the stakeholders
documented such experiences and lessons learned and shared them with others.

Sustainability

1.      Participants indicated that the issue of sustainability was treated by the project as a
process; without a vision, mechanisms or plan. In addition, the focus on developing an effective
service delivery to the poor and marginalized communities reduced the potential sustainability at
the project and program levels. For example, many of the Block Grants were small, between
$5,000 and $15,000. The duration of the vast majority of projects was short, 6-9 months and as
such, their sustainability might be unrealistic. The following provides a summary of the views of
the workshop participants regarding the sustainability of the project:

(a)     The availability of project governance and management structures would increase the
manager .
(b)     Development of grants awarding mechanism and a rich professional and technical
experience.
(c)     Strong commitment to, and feelings of ownership of the project by NGO networks.
(d)     A consensus among NGOs that the project should continue. Participants of the workshop
indicted that the rationales for the continuation of the project are stronger and more pressing now
than when it was initiated. Following the political crisis during the last three years, NGOs are



                                                 - 32 -

weaker than before, the economic and political situation is worse, external support has not
expanded, poverty levels have reached alarming rates, community needs are greater, some donors
are focusing on capacity building and ignoring service delivery, others focus on relief services and
not on development projects, etc. According to some studies, even if funding were available, the
Palestinians might need 3-4 years to re-build what has recently been destroyed and hence place
them in a situation similar to that prior to the Intifada. USAID and the German projects will be
completed soon. This points to the need for expanding project duration beyond Phase II

2.      The technical assistance provided by the Bank was very important and should continue.
NGOs should request the Bank to seriously consider extending its support after Phase II is
completed.

3.      During Phase II, developing the institutional capacity of Palestinian NGOs should be
prioritized to promote sustainability.

4.      An effective advocacy plan should be developed to convince the PA of the need for
project continuity and the importance of establishing dialogue with NGOs representative in
various sectors.

5.      The project established a good reputation which encouraged more donors such as the
Department for International Development (DFID) and Agence Francaise de Developpement
(AFD) to channel their funding to NGOs through the project. Possibilities for attracting other
donors should be explored.

C.      The Role of the World Bank and the PMO

The Role of the World Bank

Participants indicated that the Bank has played a very positive role in supporting the project and
commented as follows:

(a)     The Bank introduced the project at a critical period of time. NGOs were in a bad need for
such a project.
(b)     The project was developed through a participative process and through consultation with
NGOs.
(c)     The Bank played an active role in supporting efforts aimed at improving the relationship
between the PA and NGOs.
(d)     The technical support and contribution of the Bank is highly appreciated.

Negative comments received regarding the Bank's role were:

(a)     The high turnover of Bank staff that followed up the project, reduced the stability in the
relationship with the Bank.
(b)     Criteria for granting the "No Objection" to projects were not clear. More than 4 projects
were rejected without clear justifications.



                                                - 33 -

(c)     It has been felt during the process of project development that the Bank has a design in
mind and was pushing NGOs towards that design.
(d)     The Bank was less receptive to the political needs of the Palestinian NGOs.
(e)     The Bank could have facilitated more investment in the project by encouraging more
donors to support the project.

The Role of the PMO

Participants indicated that they were satisfied with the role played by the PMO. The following
positive comments were given:

(a)     The PMO played an important role in the follow up and support to project activities.
(b)     Staff members were cooperative and sensitive to the needs of NGOs and understandable
of the challenges they face.
(c)     The PMO has maintained a high level of financial accountability.
(d)     The manuals forms and application process was very useful to NGOs. According to the
PMO staff, even NGOs that did not get funding contacted the PMO and indicated that they have
learned a great deal through the engagement in the application process.

The main negative comment given about the performance of the PMO is the slow processing of
applications.

D.      Lessons learned

Following is a summary of lessons as reported by workshop participants:

1.      The broad-based cooperation and dialogue among NGO networks and between NGOs and
the PA were very useful in improving the working relation. The continuous dialogue has enriched
the experience during Phase I and improved the design of Phase II.
2.      Project sustainability should have been given sufficient attention.
3.      The NGO conference was very useful. The interaction between local and international
experiences was very useful in enriching local knowledge. Palestinian NGOs should benefit more
from international experience.
4.      Capacity building should be highlighted and become an integral component of the PNGO
project.
5.      Needs assessment should be given sufficient attention in all supported projects. This will
help in developing sound project that address the real needs of the poor and marginalized.
6.      Realistic objectives and indicators should be formulated at the program and project levels.

E.      Phase II

Participants of the workshop were pleased that many of the weaknesses of Phase I were
addressed in design of Phase II. The following examples were given:

1.      Capacity building and sector support became a core component of the project. Scope and



                                               - 34 -

objectives became clearer. Implementation mechanisms are more effective. Capacity building will
focus on institution and sector support.
2.      More attention was given to develop stronger project design. Realistic objectives and
indicators were developed.
3.      Evaluation was given special attention, especially developing MIS, indicators, etc.
4.      The role of NGO networks in project design is stronger. Through the establishment of a
Supervisory Board, NGOs will be able to play a leading role in the design and implementation of
the PNGO Project.      In addition, the Board is responsible for advocating NGOs issues, creating
mechanisms for improving coordination and cooperation between the PA and NGOs and
strengthening dialogue between the two bodies.
5.      Mechanisms for coordination among Partnership Grant managers ware established at an
early stage. This should improve their performance and decrease duplication of work. All
Partnership Grant managers are Palestinian NGOs.
6.      Partnership Grant scheme was expanded in terms of scope and allocated funds. This
would enable the PNGO Project to reach more underprivileged communities and to support small
NGOs.

F.      Recommendations
The following section provides a summary of the recommendations provided by the participants
and those of the consultant:

1.      The political crisis and the deteriorated economic situation, which had dire social
consequences during the last three years, highlight the need to redefine "poverty", "marginality"
and "poor and underprivileged areas" through assessments and studies. Old project assumptions
are not valid anymore.
2.      There is a need to develop a learning environment within the project. Mechanisms for
sharing and generalizing successful experiences should be established. For example, horizontal
coordination and cooperation among Partnership Grant managers should be established.

In addition, special attention should be given to develop mechanisms for increasing the relevance,
impact, sustainability and ownership of programs through developing the capacity of NGOs to
positively interact with their communities and building effective ways to increase authentic
community participation in all phases of the program cycle:          diagnosis, concept, planning,
implementing, monitoring, evaluation, systematization and to document and share their
experiences. Creating such a environment for learning should be integrated in the project design
for Phase II.

3.      Organizations have unique visions, spirits and systems...each has its own power
relationships, patterns and forces that contribute to its good and bad health. So far, the Capacity
Building program of the PNGO project has focused mainly on the delivery of training
workshops/courses for NGOs that have received grants. Experience has shown a need for
expanding and deepening the concept, approaches, and mechanisms for capacity building. If it is
to become a meaningful component of the project, it has to go beyond just training and
enhancement of managerial capabilities. Capacity building should give more attention to develop
the concept of "institutional building". Effective plans with clear and specific objectives; outputs,



                                                - 35 -

   outcomes and indicators should be developed.

   It should not be defined through the instruments used, but through its goal to enhance the
   capability of people, communities and institutions in improving their competence, problem-solving
   skills, their efficient and effective use of existing potential and capacities, and the creation of new
   potential. It requires an enabling environment and nurturing conditions. It requires participatory
   approaches to program design and implementation, local ownership, decentralized management,
   flexible instruments and procedures, new performance and evaluation criteria, and specialized
   skills, etc

   4.       The project should give special attention to the evaluation component. Baseline data,
   specific outputs, outcomes and indicators should be established at the program level and at the
   project level.

   5.       NGOs will be asked to give more during the coming years: deliver more efficiently and
   effectively better services to more people in more places; provide relief services; contribute to the
   construction of a diverse, democratic and vibrant civil society; help form a political culture that
   respects and defends human rights and diversity while creating organizational cultures that do the
   same; contribute to policy reform; facilitate the empowerment of poor communities and the
   marginal populations without creating dependency; work in the macro without forgetting the
   micro; work in the micro without forgetting the macro. The PNGO project should develop
   effective plans to address such issues.

   6.       NGOs strongly recommend that the World Bank and the Welfare Association Consortium
   continue their support beyond Phase II. While it is recommended that the Bank and the Welfare
   Association Consortium seriously consider such a request, it is highly recommended that NGO
   networks come up with a concrete plan for institutionalizing the project beyond Phase II and to
   develop a sustainability plan that might encourage other donors to support the project.


   List Of Confirmed Participants to the ICR Workshop - May 26 , 2003
                           Organization            Position In                   In
    Name                                          Organization              Capacity Of
1.  Ms. Ola Diab     Patient's Friends         Projects Manager      DG Recipient
                     Society
                     Abu Rayya
                     Rehabilitation Centre
    2.      Ms.      The Arab Orthodox        Treasurer              DG Recipient
    Nadi Qar'a       Society: Four Homes of
                     Mercy
    3.      Asia     Early Childhood Resource Director               DG Recipient
    Habash           Centre                                          Consultative Committee for
                                                                     Phase I
    4.      Mr.      Union of Agriculture     Director               DG Recipient
    Khaled Hidmi     Woks Committees
    5.      Mr.      Catholic Relief Services Director of            BG Recipient



                                                      - 36 -

      Nabil Handal                           Operations          (CRS/WATC/PHG)
                                                                 Member of Consultative
                                                                 Committee for Phase II
      6.     Mr.   Ma'an                     General Director    BG Recipient
      Sami Khadder                                               (Ma'an / World Vision)
      7.     Ms.   PCMD                      Program Manager     BG Recipient
      Buthaina
      Sha'bani
      8.     Dr.   UPMRC                                         Member of Consultative
      Allam Jarrar                                               Committee PNGO II
9.    Dr. Suleiman Palestine National        President           Member of Governance
Khalil             Institute for NGOs                            Committee
10.   Dr. Fathi    One Voice                 Executive Director  Ex-official of MOPIC
Darwish
      11.    Mr.   Bisan Center for Research President           Member of GC
      Izzat Abdel  and Development /PNGO
      Hadi
12.   Ms. Arda     Italian Cooperation       Liaison Officer     Italian Government
Batarseh                                     Italian Cooperation
                                             /WA




                                                    - 37 -

Workshop Agenda

10:00-10:15             Welcoming remarks
                        Introduction to the workshop
                        Review of Agenda

10:15-11:30            Session 1: Review of Project Design and Implementation

11:30-11:45             Coffee Break

11:45-12:30            Session 2: Review of Project Outputs and Outcomes

12:30-13:30            Session 3: Lessons Learned and Recommendations for Future

13:30-14:30             Lunch



Guiding Questions

Session 1: Review of Project Design and Implementation Design

1.      How do you evaluate the PNGO project in terms of:

(a)     Its design (DG, BG, Capacity Building)
(b)     Implementation of each component (DG, BG, Capacity Building)

2.      What factors have positively affected the implementation of the project?

3.      What factors have negatively affected the implementation of the project?

4.      What are the obstacles that beneficiaries faced during the implementation of project
activities and what methods were used to overcome those obstacles?

5.      How do you evaluate the role and performance of the World Bank in terms of:

(a)     Responsiveness to issues related to project in a timely and effective manner.
(b)     Consultative approaches
(c)     Bringing international experience
(d)     Supervisory role

6.      How do you evaluate the role and performance of the PMO in terms of:

(a)     Selection of projects



                                               - 38 -

(b)    Project follow up and support
(c)    Responsiveness to concerns of NGOs
(d)    Other issues

   Session 2: Review of Project Outputs and Outcomes

1.     To what extent has the project been successful in meeting its objectives?

2.     To what extent has the project contributed to capacity building\strengthening of
beneficiary NGOs and the NGO sector in general?

3.     To what extent has the project design remained relevant after the major socio-political
changes that took place during the last three years?

Session 3: Lessons Learned and Recommendations for Future

1.     What are the lessons that can be learnt from Phase I PNGO project experience?

2.     What are the factors that might increase the potential sustainability of the project?

3.     To what extent has the design of Phase II benefited from Phase I experience and took into
account lessons learned?

4.     What recommendations can you make to improve the overall performance of the PNGO
project during Phase II?




                                               - 39 -

Additional Annex 9. Borrower's Report


               IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT

                       PALESTINIAN NGO PROJECT I

                              WEST BANK / GAZA




  PREPARED BY THE PROJECT MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION

                    SUBMITTED TO THE WORLD BANK

                                  11 JUNE 2003



                               TABLE OF CONTENTS




                                      - 40 -

1   Project Background
     1


2   Development Objectives as Outlined in the Project Appraisal Document of 1997
     2


3   Project Achievements as Compared to the Project Objectives and Outputs Outlined in the Logical
Framework                                                                                   2

  3.1    Project Achievements in Comparison to the Objectives Specified in the PAD of 1997
          4
  3.2    The Grants Program: Development and Block Grants
          5
  3.3    Capacity Building and Research Grants
          6
  3.4    Strengthening of PA/NGO Working Relationship, and the Legal Framework for the NGO Sector
          7

4   Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
     7

  4.1    The Expertise and Resources of the PMO (Consortium and PMO staff)
          7
  4.2    The Dichotomy Between Poverty Alleviation and Service Delivery
          8
  4.3    The Emphasis on Quantitative versus Qualitative Outputs and Processes
          8
  4.4    The Complexity of Project Procedures and Processes
          8
  4.5    The Demand-Driven and Competitive Nature of the Project
          9
  4.6    Limited Capacity of the Implementing Partners or NGOs
          9
  4.7    The Prevailing Political Situation
         11

5   Assessment of the World Bank Performance
    11


6   The Challenge of Integrating Lessons Learnt into PNGO II: Impact on the NGO Sector
    12

  6.1    Measuring Impact
         13
  6.2    The Broadened Concept of Capacity Building
         13
  6.3    Linking the Downstream Experiment with the Upstream Policy Framework
         14
  6.4    The Potential Future Legacy of the PNGO Project
         14



                                                 - 41 -

1.      Project Background

        In the early 1990s, funding for the NGO sector in the West Bank and Gaza declined
substantially, due to two main causes: the first is the Gulf War, which caused a loss of some Arab
sources of funding; and the establishment of the Palestinian National Authority (PNA), which
caused a shift of funding to the PNA by many donors who had previously been the primary
supporters of the NGO sector. The World Bank's Project Appraisal Document published in 1997
stated that "by 1994, the first full year of the Oslo process, external support contracted to perhaps
$90 million, and fell further to about $60 million in 1995 and 1996 - a loss in external revenue
between half and three quarters during a six-year period." World Bank, "Project Appraisal Document on
a Proposed Trust Fund Grant in an Amount of $10 Million to West Bank and Gaza for the PNGO Project," 19 June
1997.

        Nevertheless, despite the post-Oslo funding shift, which had been made in the expectation
that the PNA would take up much of the work previously performed by NGOs, the NGO sector
continued to find itself providing a large share of health care services, early childhood and special
education services, agricultural support services, low cost-housing programs and micro-enterprise
support services in the West Bank and Gaza. Since Oslo, the increasing stagnation of the
Palestinian economy, combined with the reduced funding available for the NGO sector, has led to
real hardship among the poor and disadvantaged sectors of the population where NGOs have
been most active.

        In response to this situation, the World Bank embarked upon a groundbreaking project to
support NGOs directly in 1997  the Palestinian NGO Project ("PNGO Project"). The project
was tendered for international bidding, and a consortium called the Welfare Association
Consortium
("WAC")  made up of the Welfare Association (lead agency), the British Council (partner
agency) and Charities Aid Foundation (partner agency)  won the bid for the management of the
project. An agreement between the Welfare Association, as lead agency of the WAC, and the
World Bank was signed on 11 July 1997 (Ref. #16696 GZ).

    The three partners formed a Project Management Organization ("PMO"), that was charged
with responsibility for planning and managing the project. On day-to-day issues, it was envisaged
that the PMO would be supervised by a Steering Committee made up of the three partners, which
would also manage inputs from the three partners. The PMO was also governed by a Supervisory
Board composed of representatives of the three partners, as well as NGO and civil society
representatives, and one donor. The representative from the Dutch Government in actuality only
attended one meeting and after departure, this position was never filled. The World Bank and
MOPIC, the counterpart for the PNA to the project, were also observers in the Supervisory
Board.

        The PNGO Project was designed as a six-year project. Upon the completion of the first



                                                   - 42 -

three-year phase ("PNGO I"), a Mid-Term Review was scheduled to assess the relevance,
performance and effectiveness of the project and the potential for extension. On the basis of the
Mid-Term Review, the first phase of the project was extended for one year during which the
design of Phase II was completed. Starting July 2001, the second phase of the project ("PNGO II
") was initiated.

2.     Development Objectives as Outlined in the Project Appraisal Document of
1997

    Although the proposed budget in the Project Appraisal Document ("PAD") developed for the
PNGO Project in 1997 was set at $17 million, with $.7 million anticipated to come from local
contributions, in actuality PNGO I ultimately operated on a budget of $16.36 million, which came
from four different funding sources, namely:

                                       Millions of $'s
       IDA                       11.00 (including additional $ I million as Emergency Grants)
       Italian Government         2.56 (including accrued interest)
       Saudi Fund                 2.50
       Welfare Association            0.30 (For Grants and PMO Development Plan)

The PNGO Project ties in with the World Bank's Country Assistance Strategy ("CAS")
objectives for the West Bank and Gaza, namely:

      Poverty alleviation: Provision of social services to poor and needy throughout the West
Bank (including Jerusalem) and Gaza; and
      Promotion of Good Governance: Facilitate passage of laws and implementation of
policies that promote transparent economic management and decentralization of responsibility for
economic development.

The Project Development Objectives as outlined in the PAD were:

a.     To deliver services to the poor and marginalized in Palestinian society, using the NGOs as
a delivery mechanism.
b.     To improve the institutional capabilities of NGOs receiving grants under the project.
c.     To support efforts by the PA and the Palestinian NGO sector to strengthen their working
relationship, including support for the development of a positive legal framework for the sector.

3.     Project Achievements as Compared to the Project Objectives and Outputs
Outlined in the Logical Framework

       On the operational level, the Project had five major components:

       Component 1: "Development Grants" vs. "Block Grants." Development Grants, which
       ranged from $25,000 to $200,000, were awarded directly to NGOs for direct
       implementation of their program work. In contrast, Block Grants were designed to be



                                               - 43 -

        awarded to more well-established NGOs, for sub-granting to smaller and more
        community-based organizations.

        Component 2: "Hardship Grants" were proposed in the PAD to be provided to selected
        NGOs that provided valuable services yet faced financial difficulties.

        Component 3: "Capacity Building Grants" and "Research Grants." Capacity Building
        Grants were designed to be awarded to qualified institutions or individuals conducting
        capacity building activities for NGOs related to project planning, management and
        monitoring. The Research Grants were designed to support research projects that would
        improve information and analysis of the NGO sector and/or benefit NGO relations with
        the PA.

        Component 4: Support for the development of NGO legislation and enhancement of
        PA-NGO Relations

        Component 5: Project management component, for costs to the PMO in undertaking its
        tasks, including hands-on technical assistance to NGOs receiving grants, project audits and
        evaluation studies.

   The table below summarizes the PNGO I funds committed to the different components as of
19 May 2003. All funding is committed except part of the Welfare Association's share in
Technical Assistance which is being carried forward for PNGO II ($143,180 committed out of
$200,000).

      ITEM            SAUDI FUND         ITALIAN            IDA              Welfare        GRAND
                                                                           Association      TOTAL
 Development               1,950,011         1,865,684       3,930,720         100,000          7,846,415
 Grants
Block Grants                  300,000           700,000      2,455,675                          3,455,675
Capacity Building                                              350,168                            350,168
Grants
Research Grants                                                269,008                            269,008
Emergency                                                    1,000,000                          1,000,000
Grants (Through
PECDAR)
Technical                                                      379,317         143,180            579,317
Assistance
(including NGO
Conference)
Project                       250,000                        2,556,206                          2,806,206
Management Fees
     TOTAL                 2,500,011         2,565,684      10,941,093         243,180         16,249,969

3.1     Project Achievements in Comparison to the Objectives Specified in the PAD of 1997




                                               - 44 -

        For the first three years, and as outlined in the PAD, PNGO I was managed by the PMO,
established by the Welfare Association Consortium. The PMO's responsibilities are:

               Overall project management and coordination.
               Managing the project's grant cycles.
               Disbursing grants.
               Supervising all grants and other activities.
               Providing training and hands-on technical assistance for recipient NGOs.

        On the operational level, the project achieved the following:

        a.      Production of an Operations Manual: This was the first task undertaken by the
        PMO. This document detailed PMO objectives, structure, and grant packages  including
        procedures, policies and reporting and evaluation formats. The document was developed
        through extensive consultations with the PA and the NGO sector, and ultimately received
        the approval of the World Bank. In hindsight, it is clear that the time and effort needed for
        performing this task was greatly under-estimated. Although the Operations Manual took
        roughly six months to draft, refine and revise, the process by which it was produced was
        highly commended as a model for a participatory process Unfortunately, the process
        caused a delay in the final production of the manual, which was the main reason why the
        World Bank initially put the PNGO project on a list of projects considered "at risk."

        b.      Management of Grant Cycles: The PMO advertised and successfully managed
        three cycles of Development Grants and one cycle of Block Grants. An extensive
        participatory (community-level) Needs Assessment study was completed by the PMO
        prior to advertising the first grant cycle. The Needs Assessment study was then updated
        on a regular basis through rapid re-assessments, and somewhat longer participatory
        re-assessments, in addition to specific sector research for Jerusalem and Gaza.

        c.      Facilitation of the Formation of the Governance Committee: A few months
        after the start of implementation of PNGO I, the World Bank promoted the idea of
        expanding WAC's Supervisory Board to include the NGO networks. Despite the conflict
        that existed between the PA and the networks at the time, and even amongst the networks
        themselves, the PMO succeeded in establishing the Governance Committee during the
        period of PNGO I, which became the basis for the formation of the Supervisory Board for
        PNGO II.

        d.      Provision of Technical Assistance to NGOs: The PMO recruited technical staff
        with extensive experience in NGO and community development work. The NGOs
        themselves assessed the PMO's technical assistance as being an indispensable and
        substantive component of the grants.

        e.      The International Conference on NGO- Governmental Relations: The idea of
        the conference was also developed and added to the tasks of the PMO. It was viewed as a



                                                 - 45 -

        success in terms of bringing the PA and the NGOs directly together to discuss policy
        issues that were both extremely relevant and urgent. The conference also managed to
        bring international and regional expertise to the NGO sector, which provided a platform
        for sharing experiences from other countries.

        f.       Ongoing Reporting: The PMO submitted regular financial and progress reports
        to the World Bank, the PA Ministry of Finance, and to donors. The PMO additionally
        facilitated the annual financial and management audits, as well as the Mid-Term Review
        and the Impact Assessment. Extensive preparations were done, and several concept
        papers were produced for these purposes. The role of the PMO has consistently been: to
        identify community-level needs; to produce Terms of Reference ("TORs") for projects to
        deliver services needed to address the identified needs; to procure consultants' services,
        when necessary, to assess needs and performance; to coordinate and facilitate consultants'
        work; and to facilitate stakeholders' inputs.

        In the Supervision Mission, carried out in July 1999 by a team of consultants recruited by
the Bank, and the Mid-term Review of January 2000, it was noted that to a large extent, although
not fully, the indicators set forth in the project as a measure of fulfillment of objectives had been
met. (Cameron, J., Consultant's Report, 1999).

        Nevertheless, in relation to the three development objectives specified in the PAD, the
achievements of PNGO I exceeded the expected or targeted outputs in the Grants and Capacity
Building components. Additionally, the activity implemented under the third component
contributed positively to the strengthening of the relationship between the PA and the NGO
sector, although it shifted from its original focus on the regulatory framework.

        More importantly, the project became a model for many donors to replicate. It is very
important to mention that subsequent to the PNGO's establishment, USAID created thee
"Tamkeen" project as a project of support for the NGO sector, and the German Government
funded Nauman Friedrich Foundation for an NGO trust fund, denoting that more donors
responded to the extensive needs of the NGO sector. More importantly, the PNGO project
became the model of replication for all these projects being the pioneering trust fund project for
the NGO sector in West Bank and Gaza.

3.2     The Grants Program: Development and Block Grants

        In the PAD, it was specified that between 50 and 150 NGO projects would be
implemented over the life of the project, i.e. the full six years. Yet, from July 1997 to July 2001,
305 NGOs were actually supported through the Development and Block Grants. Out of these,
186 were implemented in the West Bank (63%), 103 were implemented in the Gaza Strip (35%)
and four were implemented at a national level (1%). Two-thirds of the 305 projects were
supported through the Block Grants scheme, and 103 Projects were supported directly through
Development Grants.

        In the PAD, the expected output was to address the needs of 50,000 poor and



                                                 - 46 -

marginalized Palestinians. In the evaluation report for PNGO I, the project is estimated to have
reached 213,680 beneficiaries. However it is not clear exactly what percentage of these
beneficiaries comprise poor and marginalized members of Palestinian society, since the PAD never
included a clear definition of "poverty" or by what standards this status should be assessed.

        In relation to Recovery (originally called "Hardship") Grants, the expected output was
that NGOs suffering financial difficulties would achieve greater financial sustainability. Given that
this component was canceled, there were no tangible outcomes or outputs.

        According to the PAD, $6.6 million, or 56% of total allocation, was expected to be
disbursed in three years, and the full $11.8 million after six years,. The Project actually managed
to disburse $10.4 million, or 93% of the allocation, in the first three years alone. This prompted
the Bank to move quickly towards the end of Phase I to solicit new resources for the second
phase.

        In addition to Block Grants and Development Grants, a new sub-component  namely the
"Emergency Grants"  developed in the third year, which also were channeled through, and thus
managed directly by, the PMO. The additional funding came from the Holst Fund, managed by
PECDAR. The PMO designed the grant package  including proposal formats and appraisal
systems  and managed the granting cycle for this new component for no additional management
costs or charges.

        The table below summarizes the level of expenditures, number of grants supported and the
amounts disbursed of the total allocations for the Development and Block Grants only.


     Cycle            # of      Total Allocation       Disbursed            Balance
                    Projects           $                    $                   $
Development
Grants
Cycle 1                    39           1,828,690           1,816,526             12,164
Cycle 2                    35           3,320,198            3,189,926          130,272
Cycle 3                    35          2,639,223             2,394,465         244,758
Block Grants              196           3,453,750           3,415,960           37,790
TOTAL                    305          11,241,861           10,816,877          424,984




3.3     Capacity Building and Research Grants

    Initially, the capacity building ("CB") component was designed to target grant beneficiaries,
and thus the delivery of this component followed the granting cycle. To a large extent, the CB
component, by design, was confined to general training and specialized technical assistance. In
addition to the twelve training workshops carried out, two pre-investment programs were also
financed by the CB component. These comprised participatory rapid appraisals and research


                                                - 47 -

projects that were carried out by consultants to identify priority needs in both Jerusalem and
Gaza. It became obvious by the second cycle that most NGOs were not able to come up with
project proposals that clearly responded to community needs but were rather driven by the supply
of funds allocated for the regions or sectors.

    Under the CB component, 19 training workshops were conducted and nine research projects
supported. The total number of beneficiaries trained were 688 NGO staff in West Bank and Gaza.
They were trained in areas that were identified by the NGOs themselves as priority areas, as well
as fields that would improve directly the management of grants and projects by these NGOs.

    In the PAD, $1.0 million was allocated to the capacity building and research grants in the first
three years, and $1.5 million for the full six years. By the end of the second year, the PMO
developed a revised concept paper for the Capacity Building component in which a greatly
broadened scope, a diversified methodology and an innovative implementation strategy were
proposed. Unfortunately, the World Bank's approval of that concept paper was obtained as the
project was about to end. $350,168 was spent on capacity building and $269,008 spent on the
nine research projects  for a total of $620,637  from 11 July 1997 to July 2001. The remaining
balance of $665,379 was thus shifted from the capacity building component to financing the
management cost for the transitional extension period of the project, with the remaining $240,445
being allocated to grants.

3.4     Strengthening of PA/NGO Working Relationship, and the Legal Framework for the
NGO Sector

        Despite the fact that the PNGO Project allocated funds for the development of the
regulatory framework for NGOs, the funds ultimately were shifted to the NGO conference. This
shift came about due to the fact that the NGO networks were already carrying out this task and
were resourced to do it.

        The conference, titled "Palestinian Governmental / NGO Relations: Cooperation and
Partnership," was fully financed and managed under PNGO I. The PMO recruited specialized
staff for this event who facilitated the work of the Conference Committee.

4.      Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

        There were several positive and negative factors that affected the implementation and
outcomes of PNGO I. These are listed below, starting with the more positive factors.

4.1     The Expertise and Resources of the PMO (Consortium and PMO staff)

        One of the main strengths of the Welfare Association Consortium is that its PMO has been
staffed with qualified staff who possessed extensive NGO experience, quality technical expertise,
and commitment to be able to respond to different and/or changing needs. Thus, staff have been
able to shift between different roles, for example from being direct implementers to facilitating
implementation at the NGO level. Additionally, the resources allocated and/or identified by the



                                                 - 48 -

WAC partners were instrumental in defining the vision and formulating the implementation and
management strategy for Phase I. The members of the Steering Committee  including those
representing the British Council (Prof. Mike Hardy), and CAF (Ms. Christine Forrester and Mr.
Ian Bell) contributed substantially to the success of PNGO I.

4.2     The Dichotomy Between Poverty Alleviation and Service Delivery

        The Project has been classified as a "poverty alleviation" project. In effect, it is a service
delivery project targeted for the poor and marginalized sectors of Palestinian society, rather than a
project designed to address the root causes of poverty. The funds allocated for the project could
in no way have substantial impact on poverty, and the project was not resourced to tackle root
causes of poverty. Additionally, the logical framework for the project specified only the number of
community members to be targeted by the services i.e. quantitative outputs, rather than any
qualitative outputs denoting a process of participation and empowerment for the poor themselves.
Since the project did not offer a clear definition of who the poor are, it was difficult to assess
whether the project actually provided services to the poor themselves or not.


4.3     The Emphasis on Quantitative versus Qualitative Outputs and Processes

a.      The output indicators in the logical framework ("log-frame") of PNGO I were purely
quantitative and indicated only the levels of expenditures to be met within certain time-frames and
for the different components, as well as the numbers of beneficiaries to be reached. The expected
outcomes and processes were not listed. (See Annex A)
b.      This resulted in the under-estimation of the time and effort needed for certain tasks,
especially since "a consultative and participatory process" was stipulated for the Project. The
tension between "delivering the funds" and "engaging the NGO sector in a genuine participatory
process" leading to building its capacity continued to exist throughout the project, and was not
foreseen in the project design.

4.4     The Complexity of Project Procedures and Processes

        PNGO I had different implementation modalities for the different components.
Additionally, the grants were managed through granting cycles that were long and labor intensive.
On the other hand, and given the high profile nature of this project, the World Bank requested
that the process be both consultative and transparent, and as the Governance Committee evolved
it took a major role in project review prior to the submission of recommended Projects to the
Supervisory Board. All this has put an additional burden on the PMO staff, lengthened
substantially the approval process, and required extensive documentation of the process. (See
project Cycle in Annex B)

4.5     The Demand-Driven and Competitive Nature of the Project

        Regarding the PNGO Project itself, stimulating market forces was the dominant modality
in the PAD (WAC, Mid-Term Review Report, 2000). Thus grant cycles were advertised and



                                                - 49 -

proposals solicited and appraised on a competitive basis. The assessment was divided into two
parts, institutional and technical, the latter being related to the project itself.

        Out of 854 project proposals submitted, only 38.52% succeeded in terms of the
institutional assessment, and 13.11% got final approval. (See table, below.) This competitive
process resulted in the larger and stronger NGOs being able to access the funds, versus the
smaller, more needy and presumably more grass-roots and poverty-focused NGOs.

        The "public advertising" process also raised expectations within the NGO sector. More
than 850 NGOs submitted proposals and somehow expected that they would get funding. This
created additional pressure on the PMO which was sometimes difficult to manage given the
limited resources at the PMO, and forced the PMO to establish sophisticated but rational appraisal
techniques to be able to justify dropping a huge number of proposals due to budget limitations.
The appraisal process  which was supposed to take around 4 weeks  ended up consuming at
least 8 weeks of staff and committee time. The table below shows the number of proposals
received in every cycle and the approval rate.


     Cycle #            # of NGOs          # of Proposals       # of Qualified      # of Proposals
                        Submitted              Initially          Proposals           Approved
                        Proposals             Screened                                 (Final)
Cycle 1                     356                  202                  100                 39

Cycle 2                     239                  148                  122                 35

Cycle 3                     259                  119                  107                 38

      Totals                854                  469                  329                112

                                               54.9%               38.52%             13.11%



Notes:
1.      The proposals pass the initial screening stage if they comply with the criteria and
sector/geographic areas targeted in the specified cycle.
2.      The qualification process is based on an institutional assessment: i.e., the strengths of the
organization in project management.
3.      The approval rate in Gaza was lower than this (8%).
4.      The World Bank objected to a total of three projects, thus giving a total of 109 approved
grants.

4.6      Limited Capacity of the Implementing Partners or NGOs


There are two main explanations for the figures and findings in the table above:



                                                  - 50 -

a.      Only 38% of the projects were qualified, i.e. had the proven technical capacity and
experience to plan, implement, monitor and evaluate the proposed projects.
b.      In total, only 13% could be funded due to fund limitations: the need or "demand" was
much greater than the supply of funds, and thus the resources of the project were inadequate to
meet the total demands or needs of the poor.

A survey conducted by the PMO itself on the screening and rejection process revealed the
following:
       Many of the better-established NGOs were skilled in drafting project proposals and
formulating feasible project designs, yet their poverty strategies were weak. On the other hand,
many of the community-based NGOs that worked mostly in rural and poorer communities and
whose poverty targeting was already a priority could not meet the high proposal design standards
of the PMO, and thus failed on the institutional assessment.
       In the majority of proposals, the role of the community in project identification,
implementation, maintenance and fundraising was either inadequate or completely non-existent.
       Many NGOs were simply responding to a "call for proposals" by submitting pre-written,
off-the-shelf proposals that they had already wanted to finance, without paying attention to
whether these proposals actually fit the eligibility criteria or not. This was an ordinary "bad"
practice by NGOs, in pursuit of funding.
       Since the PMO did the needs assessment process itself mostly with the NGOs, the
community had little chance to participate in the process. Additionally it was difficult for the
NGOs to conduct a participatory needs assessment project because the time available for them for
project preparation and submission was inadequate: 4 weeks on the average. Also, by design, the
PMO itself conducted the needs assessment, thus making it unnecessary for NGOs to conduct this
process or to demonstrate that the project designed resulted as an outcome of such a process.
       Some NGOs had good project ideas, but it was clear that there were no plans or
mechanisms for sustaining the project beyond the financing period of the PNGO project.
       Many NGOs had a combination of several or all of these problems (WAC, CB Concept
Paper, 1999).

        If anything, a quick review of these findings demonstrates that most NGOs lacked the
capacity in project identification, formulation and design. They are also weak in project
management. The design of the PNGO project assumed that NGOs were strong on participatory
needs assessment approaches, and were skilled in conducting participatory assessments. The
actual findings showed that the assumption was incorrect or - to say the least  not totally correct.


4.7     The Prevailing Political Situation

        When PNGO I started, it was expected that the Oslo peace process would progress and
thus the PA would have more control over the West Bank and Gaza. This assumption did not
materialize. The peace process, to date, has not taken hold, and the level of tension, poverty and
unemployment has increased dramatically. This has led the Bank to allocate more resources to the
Emergency Program, which was not originally incorporated into the design of Phase I. Despite
the fact that this has made the PNGO project more responsive to community needs, and in



                                                 - 51 -

particular in addressing the rapidly increasing poverty rates, at the same time it has necessitated
that extensive effort, technical expertise and time be allocated to addressing the emergency needs
of the various sectors of the Palestinian community. This has also created pressure to fund
projects with a higher potential for sustainability, even at the expense of funding projects that
would more adequately address the emergency needs of the population and hence might be
viewed more as "relief" projects.

        Additionally, and almost two years after project implementation started, the second
Intifada broke out. The frequency of closures and curfews increased. Mobility of staff and
partners became more difficult, and the possibility of close monitoring and provision of technical
assistance became much harder.         If this situation continues, it will have serious negative
implications for the role of the NGO sector in development. In contrast, the overriding need for
relief will continue to jeopardize the longer-term development perspective and the roles of all
development actors. This tension between relief and development will continue to exist as long as
there is no breakthrough in the political process.

5.      Assessment of the World Bank Performance

        Due to the fact that this was a new initiative for the World Bank, our assessment is that
the Bank has given it special attention. Throughout Phase I, the task Manager, initially Mr. Nigel
Roberts, has been instrumental in operationalizing the vision for this project and providing the
necessary support. In addition to Mr. Roberts, other support staff have been assigned in the West
Bank / Gaza office specially for this project. Meetings with the Bank were held almost weekly for
the first two years, and then bi-monthly throughout the project. This has been extremely useful in
discussing issues, problems and challenges on a regular basis and in trying to come up with a
unified vision in most cases. The Bank was both extremely responsive to PMO needs and
supportive of the PMO's role. Despite Mr. Robert's move to Ethiopia as Country Representative,
he maintained his position as Task Leader for the PNGO Project which contributed positively to
the success of the project, given his commitment, vision and outstanding expertise.

        Having said this, the frequency of meetings has also put pressure on the PMO in terms of
time, preparation, follow-up and management.

        In the first two years, the frequent changes in the Bank team members created periodic
gaps in vision, management and information between the PMO and the Bank staff. Each new
Bank representative had their own interpretation of the project, its priorities and strategies. The
PMO, in turn, had to respond to these changes. It was also noted that authorities and
responsibilities of Bank staff assigned to the project were not always clear, and thus decisions
have been either quick or delayed, depending on the number of people engaged in any given
decision. In Phase II, the Team leader assigned to the project is extremely capable and
empowered to make prompt decisions as well as facilitate technical support from other
departments within the World Bank as needed. In addition, Mr. Roberts who used to be task
Manager in Phase I has occupied the position of Country Representative of West Bank and Gaza,
thus giving more support to the Project as needed.




                                                 - 52 -

       Regarding the "no-objections" that had to be issued by the World Bank for all approved
grants, the time-frame of ten working days has not always been met. Decisions on other issues
were sometimes delayed. The approval on the Capacity Building concept paper developed by the
PMO required a few months until final approval was obtained. By that time, it was not feasible to
implement it.      Nevertheless, many of the concepts developed in that concept paper were
incorporated into the design for Phase II.


6.     The Challenge of Integrating Lessons Learnt into PNGO II: Impact on the
NGO Sector

       Before the initiation of Phase II, several studies were commissioned by WAC and the
Bank to inform the design of Phase II. Additionally, a Consultative Group was formed, made up
of grant recipients, members of the Governance Committee, all NGO networks, and
representatives of the PA, the World Bank and PMO staff. Some members of the group were
tasked with drafting concept papers on each of the major components of the project, which was
done in consultation with all stakeholders. Through this process, the vision, experience and
accumulated knowledge of all partners was incorporated into the new design. The Bank and the
project will still have to assess whether the problems faced in Phase I due to design gaps have all
been addressed or not.

       The studies that had important implications for design were:

               "The World Bank and the Palestinian NGO Project: From Service Delivery to
       Sustainable Development," by Denis Sullivan dated August 2001.
               "An Assessment Study for Block Grants," by Simon Lawry dated January 2001
               "A Review of Grant Application Procedures and Administration," by Simon Lawry
       dated October 2000
               "A Report on the Governance Committee for the PNGO Project," by Jalal Abdel
       Latif dated October 2000.
               "Assessment Study for Identifying Capacity Building Gaps for the NGO Sector in
       WB/GS," by Tom Lent and Khaled Nabris dated January 2001.
               "The NGO Resource Centre: A Feasibility Study," by Tom Lent dated October
       2000
               "The Development of a Monitorable Project Impact Assessment System," by Nick
       Chapman dated July 2000

       Additionally, several concept papers were prepared by the PMO in preparation for the
Mid-Term Review. Many of the issues addressed in these papers were also addressed in the
design of Phase II.

6.1    Measuring Impact

       Despite the fact that many of these issues have been addressed in designing PNGO II,
there still is a great challenge for addressing many other issues, especially in relation to the
sustainability of the NGO sector in West Bank and Gaza, which is a major objective of Phase II.


                                                - 53 -

        The main issues addressed in Phase II are related to impact, quality and sustainability of
the services. For example, Development Grants in Phase II were granted to recipients of Phase I
that had potential for increasing the sustainability, as well as impact, of the services created under
Phase I. PNGO II also addresses these issues at the level of project design. Each NGO funded
under Phase II had to endorse the log-frame approach, and thus activities are only funded to the
extent that they address the specified objectives and outputs are listed in relation to clear and
measurable milestones. This was a serious point of concern in Phase I, brought to the attention of
the Bank and the PMO by many of its consultants. Theoretically and ideally, the NGOs and
subsequently the PMO should be able to measure the extent to which every project funded under
PNGO II will improve the quality, sustainability or impact of the services for the designated target
group.

6.2            The Broadened Concept of Capacity Building

        In Phase II, Partnership Grant recipients were also provided with funds in the shape of
pre-investment funds to conduct participatory needs assessment studies at the community level.
This is expected to improve the needs assessment process by providing the platform for the
communities themselves (and the poor themselves) to express and prioritize their needs, versus
the service providers who often tend to have a conflict of interest in this matter. The inclusion of a
pre-investment program in Phase II reshapes the project into a real demand-driven scheme
accompanied with a capacity building program that allows NGOs to better respond to the
needs/demands of the poor and marginalized, versus responding to a "supply-driven" process
driven by the availability of funds, with the intention of gearing the funds to sectors of interest.

        The design of the capacity building program in Phase II is also more strategic. More
resources have been designated for this activity at the level of grant recipients. More importantly,
the Sector Support Program  which emerged as a result of the recommendations from Phase I 
will respond more substantially to the broader needs of the NGO sector.

        In our view, capacity building is a long and complex process requiring a concerted and
integrated effort to enhance the capacities of both individuals and institutions. This will require a
longer-term commitment by the Bank for the NGO sector than the project presently allows. While
one task of capacity building is to increase the effectiveness of the individual organizations,
another more strategic role is to increase the effectiveness of coalitions, networks and strategic
alliances in addressing the broader macro issues of policy reform, political culture, civil society
and political economy. The Sector Support Program comes on board of Phase II specifically to
address the broadened concept of capacity building and to ensure longer term sustainability of the
NGO sector. Nevertheless, the time frame allocated for this component is limited.

6.3     Linking the Downstream Experiment with the Upstream Policy Framework

        By design, Phase II has greater potential for linking the downstream experiment, i.e., the
grants program, with the more macro, or upstream, policy environment for the NGO sector. This
has been accomplished by deliberately creating the partnership grants, development grants and



                                                 - 54 -

other fora, and then using these fora to address the issues that concern the respective sectors the
most. Unless these processes and mechanism are prioritized and given special attention and
financial and technical resources, the process will fail. The Bank and the PMO have to put greater
effort into finding practical and effective ways of managing these processes, versus managing
funds and grants. Only then will PNGO II become a broad capacity-building program addressed at
increasing the sustainability of, and impact on, the NGO sector in the West Bank and Gaza.


6.4     The Potential Future Legacy of the PNGO Project

        The major challenge now for the PMO and the World Bank is to decide what the legacy
should be for the PNGO Project, Phases I and II. In our opinion, the project will have a
significant lasting impact on the NGO sector if:

       a legacy of enhanced professional standards in NGO practice, rooted in the program grant
recipients, is developed, enhanced and replicated on a larger scale through manuals and a
voluntary codes of NGO ethics, to be endorsed by all relevant parties.

       a self-sustained mechanism of coordination within the NGO sector (and sub-sectors) is
created and strengthened to respond to the strategic needs of the sector(s) in policy formulation,
funding and advocacy.

       an environment is created within the NGO sector(s) that supports cooperation and
learning and creates competition amongst NGOs in terms of adherence to best practice standards
rather than competition for delivering services and accessing donor funding.

       a spirit of ownership by the NGO sector(s) and a governance structure that can sustain the
achievements of the PNGO project for longer term is created. The nature and constituency of that
body needs to be re-assessed by all parties.

        Additionally, the idea of establishing an NGO Resource Centre is worth re-considering or
re-visiting given the extensive need for the continuity for support for this very vital sector. This
proposed centre could strengthen the existing training and capacity building centres, build on their
expertise and resources, and fill in the gaps as identified by the feasibility study that has been
prepared by the Project in October 2000. More importantly, and given the recognized important
role of the NGO sector in the proposed Reform for the Palestinian Authority, it will be necessary
for the Bank to continue to support all partners in this Reform process especially civil society
organizations and communities, as well as the enhancement of a positive planning, regulatory and
service provision framework for the NGO sector which will inevitably contribute to a more
positive working relationship between the NGO sector and the Palestinian National Authority.




                                                - 55 -

- 56 -

