Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20292-MD
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR7.6 MILLION
(US$10 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
FOR A
HEALTH INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
July 24, 2000
Human Development Sector Unit (ECSHD)
Czech Republic, Hungary, Moldova, Slovak Republic and Slovenia Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 5/25/00)
Currency Unit = Lei
L 1.00 = US$ .079
US$ 1.00 = L 12.665
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIDS     Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome            NIS        Newly Independent State
AIHIA    American International Health Alliance        NPV        Net Present Value
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy                   OP         Operational Procedure
CPAR    Country Procurement Assessment Review          PCU        Project Coordination Unit
CVD      Cardiovascular Diseases                       PHC        Public Health Care
DALY    Disability Adjusted Life Years                 PHRD       Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
ECA      Europe and Central Asia                       PIP        Project Implementation Plan
EMP      Environmental Management Plan                 PMR        Project Management Report
EU       European Union                                PO         Procurement Officer
FAO      Financial Administrative Officer              POM        Project Operational Manual
FMS      Financial Management System                   PPF        Project Preparation Facility
FRR      Financial Rate of Return                      PPL        Public Procurement Law
GDP      Gross Domestic Product                        PSRC       Public Sector Reform Credit
GOM      Government of Moldova                         QCBC       Quality and Cost Based Selection
GP       General Practitioner                          SA         Special Account
HIA      Health Investment Agreement                   SAC        Structural Adjustment Credit
HIF      Health Investment Fund                        SAL        Structural Adjustment Loan
HIV      Human Immnunodeficiency Virus                 Sida       Swedish Intemational Development Agency
ICB      Intemational Competitive Bidding              SIF        Social Investment Fund
IDA      International Development Association         SPP        Strategic Planning Process
IMCI    Integrated Management of Childhood Illnesses   STls       Sexually-transmitted Infections
IMF      Intemational Monetary Fund                    TB         Tuberculosis
IMR      Infant Mortality Rate                         TBD        To be determined
IRR      Intemal Rate of Return                        TOR        Terms of Reference
LC       Least-cost                                    UN         United Nations
MDRTB  Multi-drug Resistance Tuberculosis              UNAIDS  United Nations AIDS Programme
MIS      Management Information System                 UNDP       United Nations Development Programme
MOE      Ministry of Economy                           UNICEF   United Nations International Children's Fund
MOF      Ministry of Finance                           USAID    United States Agency for International Development
MOH      Ministry of Health                            WDR        World Development Report
NCB      National Competitive Bidding                  WHO        World Health Organization
NGO      Non-govemmental Organization
Vice President:    Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:      Roger W. Grawe
Sector Director:     Annette Dixon
Sector Manager:       Anyin H. Fidler
Task Team Leader:    Joana Godinho



MOLDOVA
HEALTH INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                      2
2. Key performance indicators                                                         2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project     2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                         3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 8
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                10
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                     19
3. Benefits and target population                                                    22
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                     22
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                         24
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies        25
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                          28
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                  29
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                       30
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                          31
2. Financial                                                                         31
3. Technical                                                                         32
4. Institutional                                                                     33
5. Environmental                                                                     36
6. Social                                                                            37
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                41
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                    41
2. Critical risks                                                                    41
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                    42



G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                          43
2. Other                                                                            43
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                        46
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                       46
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                        47
Annex 2: Project Description Moldova - Health Investment Fund                          51
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                       53
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                 55
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                             61
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement ArrangementsMoldova - Health Investment Fund     62
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                   72
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                 73
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                74
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                          76
MAP(S)



MOLDOVA
Health Investment Fund Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSHD
Date: July 24, 2000                               Team Leader: Joana Godinho
Country Manager/Director: Roger W. Grawe          Sector Manager/Director: Armin H. Fidler
Project ID: P051174                               Sector(s): HB - Basic Health, HT - Targeted Health
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Health/Nutrition/Population
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Project Financing Data
O Loan         N Credit        El Grant        O Guarantee     El Other (Specify)
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): SDR7.6 million (US$10 million equivalent)
Proposed Terms: Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                              Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.50                                  Service charge: 0.75%
Financitng Plan:   Source                                   Local         Forein          Total
GOVERNMENT                                                     0.40           1.20           1.60
IDA                                                            2.70           7.30          10.00
GOVERNMENT OF THE NETHERLANDS                                  3.50           4.90          8.40
Total:                                                         6.60           13.40        20.00
Borrower: REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF HEALTH
Address: 1 Vasile Alecsandri Str.
Ministry of Health, Rm 519
Chisinau, Moldova
Contact Person: Victor Vovolei
Tel: (373 2) 72-95-71               Fax: (373 2) 72-95-71              Email:
volovei@vicmar.mldnet.com
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):
FY          2001        2002         2003        2004        2005
Annual     1.0           1.8         2.7         3.6         0.9
Cumulative     1.0          2.8          5.5        9.1        10.0
Project implementation period: FY01-06
Expected effectiveness date: 11/18/2000  Expected closing date:  11/30/2005
OCS PAD Foer Rev Maoh 20O



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
1.    The proposed Health Investment Fund (HIF) Project aims to improve the health status of the
Moldovan population, and to increase the quality and efficiency of the public health sector, by improving
access to essential services for the poor. The project would also include support to strategic work aiming
at controlling the TB and H1V/AIDS epidemics. Specific project objectives are the following:
(i)    Guarantee access to a minimum package of health services
(ii)    Modernize emergency services and primary health care
(iii)   Reduce excess capacity in the health sector
(iv)   Strengthen health sector institutional capacity
(v)    Support the development of TB and HIV/AIDS Strategies
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
2.    The following are the key indicators that will measure project performance:
(i)    At least 75 percent of the funds disbursed as follows: from the first tranche by December
2001; from the second tranche by December 2003; and from the third tranche by
December 2005;
(ii)    At least 75 percent of general practice centers (270) operating in the country and
providing the basic package of PHC by the end of the project;
(iii)   Approval by Government of health sector restructuring plan by December 2001, and
timely execution according to timebound action plan;
(iv)   Health services capacity limited to I general practitioner/1,500 population;
(v)    At least 750 physicians and 1,500 nurses initiate training in general practice by the end of
the project;
(vi)   At least 20 senior staff from the Ministry of Health and Judet Health Authorities are
trained in health management by the end of the project;
(vii)   Clinical protocols for perinatal and obstetric care, integrated management of childhood
illnesses (IMCI), STIs, TB, diabetes, hypertension, and breast and cervical cancer,
developed and in use by training programs and general practice centers, by December
2001;
(viii)  Increased access of population, especially youth, to upgraded services, as compared with
baseline results;
(ix)   Improved user satisfaction at those facilities supported by the project, as compared with
baseline results; and
(x)    Approval by the Government of updated TB and HIV/Strategies developed with project
support, and in close cooperation with WHO and UNAIDS, by December 2001.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: R99-56; IDA/R99-56; IFC/R99-48         Date of latest CAS discussion: 05/06/99
3.    CAS. In the Country-Assistance Strategy (CAS) of January 1999, the Bank and the Borrower
identified the critical need to reverse the ongoing decline in health indicators, and gives high priority to
health reform. The Govermnent and the Bank have been working to agree on a comprehensive program of
health sector reform. Much of the policy content of this health reform program would be pursued under a
- 2 -



Public Sector Reform adjustment operation (PSRC) that would go to the Board in parallel with the health
investment project. However, the entire adjustment program in Moldova is delayed due to the changes in
Government, and to the fact that the Government has not yet complied with the conditions for a current
Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC) second tranche release, and that the IMF program is stalled. Given
the severe circumstances of the health sector, however, the Bank continued working with the Government
on the design of the proposed project, and has decided to:
(i)  fast-track this investment operation, which is expected to tackle some critical public health
issues and set the stage for an ambitious reform program;
(ii) seek co-financing so that the total project amount increases, and the entire country can be
covered by primary health care and emergency health care; and
(iii) maintain strong links between the public sector reform credit and the health sector reform
project, using both operations as leverage for the most critical actions that the Govermment of
Moldova has to take to restructure the health care system.
4.     PSRC. The proposed PSRC would provide budgetary support for the Moldovan Government to
carry out a comprehensive reform of the public sector in three phases (PSRC 1, II and III), and would
follow up on reforms initiated under SALII\SAC. The PSRC aims at reorienting the State from a universal
care-taker role, to a role that is consistent with the limited resources available to the State budget, and the
desirable intervention of the public sector in a market economy. This budgetary support would be
conditional to certain critical measures in different areas, namely to public health sector reforms. The
PSRC would finance capacity building - training of health staff in management, and retraining of staff to
be dismissed - and severance payments for health sector staff to be dismissed. Specifically, the PSRC
would be expected to contribute to the following health sector reforms:
(i)  Assuring that downsizing and other efficiency improvement measures undertaken by MoH
will not result in reduction of health sector budget;
(ii) Gradually increasing health spending, as public spending allows;
(iii) Implementing staff reductions and making severance payments;
(iv) MoH proposing to the Department of Privatization a complete list of assets to be
sold/privatized (empty facilities, land, etc);
(v) Using proceeds from sale/privatization to fund arrears in health sector and to invest in
emergency and primary health care services under the proposed health project;
(vi) Approving and implementing new guidelines for financing health services based on
performance contracts, replacing historical budget based on the number of beds;
(vii) Ensuring adequate financing, and foreign exchange for public goods, including vaccines, TB
and STIs control, and other essential pharmaceuticals; and
(viii) Finalizing downsizing of remaining unnecessary facilities.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Main Sector Issues
5.     Poor health status. Moldova's health status has markedly declined since 1990. Life expectancy
has decreased , while mortality rates (by diseases of the digestive tract, stroke, cardiovascular diseases) and
incidence of infectious diseases (hepatitis, tuberculosis, sexually-transmitted infections) have increased.
Life expectancy in Moldova is 66.6 years, as compared with 70.4 in Hungary and 76.9 in the UK. Infant
mortality rate is 18.5/1,000 live births, as compared with 10.9 in Hungary and 6.2 in the UK. Moldova
has the highest rates amongst countries of the Former Soviet Union of mortality by diseases of the digestive
tract and stroke. In the late 1990s, the incidence of TB in Moldova increased dramatically, especially in
- 3 -



prisons (more than 300 new cases/year), and MDRTB has also been on the rise, as it has happened all over
the region. Although the number of cases of HIV/AIDS is still low in Moldova (408 cases in 1998), it
increased tenfold in just two years. Due to the relation between both diseases, an AIDS epidemic will make
control of TB much more difficult, so it is essential that early action is taken. This poor health status is
due to the deterioration of the economic situation, and the consequent deterioration of the social and
physical environment; to lifestyles characterized by poor diet, and high consumption of alcohol and
smoking, as well as by changing mores; and to the deterioration of the health services. For those members
of the population that cannot pay for health services, both at the primary care level and for hospital
services, the deterioration of the health system has resulted in deepening poverty and substantial decline in
the quality of life. Household surveys carried out by UNICEF showed that the need to pay for health
services led over 50 percent of poor people experiencing ill health to avoid going to the doctor; in many of
these cases, the health condition subsequently worsened and the cost was catastrophic for the family.
6.     Insufficient resources. The level of financial resources allocated to health in Moldova is
comparable to health spending in low-income countries. The economic crisis that Moldova is facing has
had a marked impact on the availability of resources for the health sector and has exacerbated the
inefficiencies in the health system. The already weak macroeconomic situation of the country was
exacerbated by the world financial crisis. Since 1990, GDP declined about 60 percent, which led the
Government to require a drastic reduction in public expenditures. Consequently, since 1993, health
expenditures declined about 62 percent. In 1999 alone, the health budget was reduced by 35 percent. Over
the past four years, budgetary resources available for health care declined to about US$ 10 per capita per
year. Out-of-pocket spending complements the low level of public resources, raising total health spending
to around US$20 per person per year, or the equivalent of 4.6 percent of GDP. This compares with public
spending on health per capita of US$233 in Hungary, US$522 in Portugal, and US$2,377 in Germany.
Countries in Central Europe spend on average 6 percent of GDP on health, while Western European
countries allocate about 8 percent.
7.     Excessive health services capacity. Moldova has the most extensive network of health facilities
and health staff in Europe, including Western Europe and countries of the former Soviet Union. In spite of
the very low level of resources, Moldova inherited and attempted to maintain an excessive infrastructure
that is unique even compared to NIS countries. In comparison to the U.K., Moldova has only 0.5 percent
of the resources available for health, yet attempted to maintain 3 times as many hospitals and hospital beds.
In 1998, there were 260 hospitals, 1,300 ambulatory care centers and health posts and over 52,430 doctors
and nurses in Moldova. This resulted in about 7 hospitals, 700 hospital beds and about 1,379 health
professionals per 100,000 population. However, the Government initiated downsizing in 1999, and the
number of hospitals has officially decreased to 90, while about 12,000 doctors and nurses are said to have
left the sector. Still, about 12,000 doctors and 28,430 nurses remain in the system, which results in about
316 physicians and 737 nurses per 100,000 population. Furthermore, the distribution of resources in the
Moldovan health system is highly skewed towards the 15 large tertiary level hospitals and the 40 district
level hospitals, which were recently renamed regional hospitals (11) , and sectoral hospitals (26).
Together, these groups of facilities consume over 70 percent of all health spending.
8.     Health resources spent on utilities and arrears. Of the US$ 10 dollars per capita that the public
sector spends on health, more than half is spent on the utilities bill. The very low level of public
expenditures, coupled with the enormous and unnecessary infrastructure, results in a situation where most
resources are spent on utilities (electricity, heating), arrears and some salaries. Furthermore, there is no
money available for emergency care, essential preventive care such as immunizations, essential curative
services such as those provided by general practitioners, and essential pharmaceuticals such as insulin or
antituberculosis drugs.
-4 -



9.     Poor quality of care. The health system offers poor quality services because of limited resources
and out-dated practices. The Soviet Union had place emphasis on specialized and hospital care, while
essential services such as public health services, emergency care, primary health care and general practice
were neglected. Modem protocols of care for such problems as tuberculosis, sexually-transmitted diseases,
AIDS, hypertension, diabetes, and mental diseases are not in use. Even if those protocols were in use, in
most cases pharmaceuticals would be missing or would be too expensive for patients to be able to afford
them. Tuberculosis is a good example of combined out-dated practices and excessive capacity. An
extensive network of dispensaries for provision of in-patient care was made irrelevant by the directly
observed short-course therapy, which should be carried out on an out-patient basis at much lesser cost for
the public budget and for the patient.
The Government Strategy
10.    Health Sector Strategy. The need to drastically cut up 35 percent of the health budget in 1999
has increased the sense of urgency to implement structural changes in the health system, and presents an
important window of opportunity to carry out health sector reforms in Moldova. To obtain essential
resources, the Government of Moldova has been discussing and agreeing with the Bank and other partners
(UNICEF, EU-TACIS, WHO, Sida/Sweden, Soros Foundation) on a comprehensive health sector reform
strategy aiming at obtaining better health outcomes for each dollar invested in the system, and requested
technical and financial support from the Bank to carry out some of those reforms. The health sector
reform strategy lies on five basic pillars:
(i)    strengthening the primary health care network so that it can meet most of the population's
health needs and improve the quality of services provided;
(ii)   improving the allocation of resources to ensure a more effective and efficient orientation of
health care resources for a better utilization of finances and to appropriately meet the
health needs of the population;
(iii)  restructuring the medical services provider network with a consolidation of the existing
infrastructure and a reorientation of resources from the curative tertiary level care towards
the basic primary care;
(iv)   developing capacity at the national and regional level to implement the purchaser-provider
split; and
(v)    strengthening institutional capacity through training physicians and staff in modem
protocols of care and management to improve value for money in the health care system.
11.   Under the proposed project, the Government proposed that the more difficult restructuring
measures be considered as conditions for disbursements rather than as ex ante conditionality. The project
team expressed their support for this mechanism, given the difficult political situation and the need to
provide the population with a viable service alternative before wide-scale closures are implemented. In
light of this request, the project focus the investments in primary care services, to develop a viable service
alternative to the hospital services, linked to the achievement of initial steps for restructuring. Future
investments would all be linked to facilities closures and restructuring, as previously agreed. The proposed
Health Investment Fund would support implementation of the agreed strategy, in close coordination with
the Public Sector Reforms Credit (PSRC). The proposed project and the PSRC would be mutually
reinforcing, as both deal with imbalances in public expenditures and over capacity. By the time the PSRC
project becomes effective, the health project would have demonstrated initial results in strengthening
primary care, building institutional capacity at the national and regional levels to deal with restructuring,
thereby increasing the probability of successfully implementing difficult restructuring measures under the
-5 -



PSRC.
12.    Strengthening the Primary Care Network. To meet the health needs of population, the increased
emphasis on the development of primary care will play a critical role in strengthening the health sector. A
good primary sector, consisting of small ambulatory centers staffed with properly trained and equipped
family doctors and nurses, would be able to deal with more than 80 percent of the population's health
needs. The Government will begin investments in the primary care system by December 31, 2000, and
expects to have provided significant investments in the sector by June 31, 2002. By December 31, 2004 at
least 70 percent of the programmed general practice centers should be refurbished. To strengthen the
primary care sector, the Government program focuses on:
*   Ensuring an adequate and increasing financing of the public health sector basic services
from the public budget;
*   Reallocating medical staff from hospital to primary care after they have been accordingly
retrained to fit the required activity;
*   Providing the primary care sector with an adequate level of funding for an appropriate
provision with essential drugs and necessary equipment;
*   Improving and updating treatrnent protocols in line with intemational norms;
*   Strengthening emergency services along as a key element of improving the primary
healthcare.
13.   Improving the Allocation of Resources. Given the current economic crisis facing the country, the
budgetary resources allocated to healthcare system have been reduced to a minimum. However, social
sector expenditures are a priority. To this end, the Government will protect the limited budget for health
that was programmed for year 2000 of 455 million lei. The Government also aims to increase spending at
the primary level, focusing on providing an equitable distribution of resources, using a population-based
approach, to reverse inequalities in the health system. The Government's intention is to ensure that the
majority of these funds are allocated to guarantee access to a minimum package of essential services and
pharmaceuticals. The minimum package will include a range of services ranging from hospital treatment
for selected specialties through primary care and public health to be managed by the family medicine
centers. The Government intends to develop a health care system that will ensure free access to these
services for the entire population. At the hospital level, the Government intends to shift the allocation of
resources from the historical budgeting process that is plagued by an inefficient and inequitable distribution
of resources to an activity and population-based system that attempts to better cover the population's health
needs and to stimulate productivity at the hospital level. These resource allocation measures are currently
under design and the Government expects to introduce them by January 1, 2001. To use rationally the
limited budgetary resources available for the health system, the Government will undertake the following
specific measures:
*      change the allocation of resources from the budget to a capitation basis to improve equity
in the health system;
*      adjust essential minimum health services to the resources available;
*      allocate more than 35 percent of the health budget resources to cover the essential services,
focused on primary care and public health;
*      analyze and explore alternative sources of financing health care including the introduction
of community-based funding, user charges and health insurance; and
*      test a hospital health care sector financing scheme based on the number of patients
discharged.
-6 -



14.   Introducing Organizational Reforms. The territorial reforms introduced in 1999 developed a
decentralized framework for the management of the healthcare delivery system. As part of the
implementation process associated with the decentralization, the Government will separate the health care
providers and financing functions (purchaser-provider split) to optimize the medical care and to increase
the accountability at the local level. At the same time, changes will be required at the central level to
improve the policy making and regulatory capacity of the central level Ministry of Health. By July 31,
2000, the Government expects to have prepared the draft legal framework that will be required to create
self-financing entities from the existing public hospitals. This will promote more efficiency in the sector
and would facilitate the downsizing that is required to continue to reduce the number of hospitals and staff.
The development of these policies will ensure that:
*          publicly funded healthcare services will be purchased from accredited medical facilities on
a contract basis between health authorities (the purchaser) and health facilities (the
provider);
*          over the next several years, all health care providers will become autonomous entities and
will no longer be financed from the Government budget;
*          the Ministry of Health will strengthen its policy making and regulatory capacity to improve
oversight in the system and to develop the strategic vision required to guide the sector
through the difficult reform process;
*          health service providers will be restructured in a way to allow them to be financially and
managerially autonomous and run by professional managers; and
*          the Government will revise its drug purchasing policy to allow wholesale procurement
through a competitive tender mechanism.
15.    Strengthening Institutional Capacity. The implementation of the above-mentioned program will
require increased capacity of health care professionals. The development of primary care and improving
efficiency at the hospital level will require the development of new skills, retraining of physicians and
professional staff, and improvements in management capacity. Under the proposed project, between 700
and 1,000 physicians, and 1,500 nurses, would be trained. At least 20 senior staff from the Ministry of
Health and the Judet Health Authorities would also be trained. Specifically, the training program is aimed
at:
*          re-training physicians in family medicine to allow the healthcare system to resolve the
majority of the health problems at the primary care level;
*          training staff in healthcare reforms, management and health policy at the central level and
the Judet health authorities to improve value-for-money; and
*          training staff on evidence-based protocols of care aiming at improving quality and user
satisfaction.
16.    Reform steps taken. Many of these changes are already in progress. The Government already
approved legislation to introduce a basic health package, and to normalize user charges. In addition, the
GoM has approved a health insurance scheme, but this was not yet implemented as it would increase the
tax burden on the population and potentially lead to disincentives to increase participation in the formal
labor market. The Judet Health Authorities were created in 1999 with the objective of creating greater
accountability in the system, reducing administrative expenses incurred by managing health expenditures
and delivery at the rayon level, and stronger decision making regarding restructuring and consolidation in
the sector. The training program for general practice has been designed with support from the University
of Moldova, the European Union and other donors. At present, nearly 200 general practitioners were
trained. The Government has closed down 80 percent of rural hospitals and initiated the closure or
- 7-



consolidation of several other institutions, but lacks funds to further restructure the system, and to invest in
essential health care. Due to the importance of the TB and AIDS epidemics, and the negative impact on
health and the economy that both can have, the Government has also engaged in developing strategies for
control of these epidemics. The World Health Organization (WHO) has been assisting the Government to
evaluate the TB situation and to improve the implementation of the DOTS strategy. The UNAIDS
Secretariat supports the Moldova UN Theme Group on HIV/AIDS to raise awareness and develop an
information campaign implemented by NGOs, and to develop the national strategic planning process
(SPP), implemented by the technical multisectoral team under the leadership of the Ministry of Health.
17.    Communication Strategy. The sequencing of the reform design offers new opportunities to forge
alliances and public support for the health sector reform. Therefore, it is essential that the communication
effort is intensified as soon as possible. In particular, special emphasis should be placed on stressing the
positive changes that are to be implemented in the short term and on building the capacity of the Ministry
and the Judet authorities to communicate. The following five steps are being carried out as part of project
preparation: (i) recruitment of a media coordinator and strategic communication consultant; (ii)
organization of media training for the representatives of second and third levels of MoH and for heads of
Judet Health Authorities; (iii) organization of seminars for journalists covering social sectors; (iv) launch of
stakeholder analysis to measure perception of the reform and the population's response to proposed
changes; and (v) preparation of a nation-wide, media-based public awareness program to be carried under
the project. The communication strategy would include activities to ensure stakeholders consultation and
participation in the project and in the reform process.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
18.    Improving health status. The proposed Health Investment Fund would contribute to improve the
health status of the population by improving the quality and efficiency of the public health sector. The
health status of the poor would be particularly improved as the project establishes a basic package that
guarantees free access to an integrated package of services ranging from primary health care services
through the most essential hospital care. Lowering the economic barriers for the poorest members of the
country by providing access to free services would allow the Judet Health Authorities to better target
services. The proposed project would also support the development of strategies to tackle the TB and
HIV/AIDS epidemics, and contribute to change lifestyles, although this is not the main focus of the project.
Further investments are necessary in the area of changing lifestyles, which has high returns on investment,
as well as to implement the TB and AIDS strategies to be developed with the proposed project financial and
technical support.
19.   Improving use of limited resources. The proposed project would increase the resources available
to the health sector, and would allow the Government to make investments on essential care, and to finance
costs of restructuring (e.g., severance payments). In the medium-termn, the project would be expected to
generate efficiency savings, which the Ministry of Health should be authorized to keep. Downsizing the
health system would allow the Ministry of Health to radically cut on the utilities bill, and free some
resources to procure pharmaceuticals and basic equipment, as well as to provide training to health
professionals, and to pay arrears and severance payments. In the medium-term, the project would also be
expected to generate additional income through sales of facilities and/or land, which should be partly used
to further invest on emergency and primary health care, as well as to implement the TB and AIDS
strategies.
20.    Public expenditures should be targeted to deliver the most cost-effective health care services. The
budgetary cuts that have been carried out by the GoM underscore the need to protect public spending for
- 8 -



the delivery of basic health interventions, such as vaccinations, maternal and child care services, family
planning, prevention of HIV/AIDS and sexually-transmited infections (STIs), and diagnosis and treatment
of tuberculosis. The project would ensure that targeted budgetary allocations agreed between the MoF and
MoH finance the provision of these interventions. Also, the project would ensure that at least 35 percent of
the resources in the system are allocated to primary health care, which should solve more than 80 percent
of the health problems of the population in a more cost-effective way than the traditional specialty- and
hospital-based care.
21.    Resources should be allocated to the health needs of the population rather than the number of beds.
The Government has designed a number of resource allocation instruments that would distribute resources
on a per capita basis, rather than according to the number of beds. The introduction of this mechanism
would increase equity and provide better access for the poorest populations living in urban and rural areas.
This change in the financing system would also introduce appropriate financial incentives in the system to
motivate local governments to restructure and consolidate the provider network. The approval of the
territorial reforms allows the MOH to introduce regional capitation payments, thus changing the
inputs-driven budget allocation formula to a product, or outcomes based budgetary framework.
22.    Downsizing excessive health services capacity. The project would bring health services capacity
in line with real public health needs and available resources. The project would make funds available for
investments in emergency, primary and essential secondary health care conditional to downsizing health
care services, especially the large Republican Hospitals that provide tertiary care. Moldova may need less
than 5,000 physicians (it has now 12,300), including general practitioners and specialists; and less than
10,000 nurses for primary and secondary health care. The 1,500 ambulatory care centers and health posts
would be reduced by at least half. Of the existing hospitals, the Government already started closing all
rural hospitals and agreed to close some district hospitals. Closure of other unnecessary hospitals and
other health facilities, would be a condition for investments and disbursements under the project Health
Investment Fund. The Health Investment Fund would mainly finance regional (Judet) restructuring
proposals that include investments in essential emergency and primary health care, and reduction of excess
capacity. A small part of the HIF funds would also be made available on a competitive basis for hospital
restructuring that includes downsizing, consolidation and/or implementation of new provider payment
mechanisms.
23.   Improving quality of care. The mere downsizing of the system would contribute to improve
quality, as more resources would be available to provide essential public and clinical health care services,
and the risks associated with having too many providers would decrease. In addition, improved emergency
care is expected to save lives by improving response time, as well as appropriate skills and equipment to
deal with emergencies. Emphasis on provision of a basic package of health services, and the shift from the
specialty and hospital-based care to primary health care would also contribute to improve the level of
service provided to patients. The project would assist the Ministry of Health updating protocols of care
and training physicians and nurses to provide care according to those protocols, and would provide
essential medical equipment. All these factors would contribute to an improved quality of care. All
necessary changes in medical and nursing curriculum would not be undertaken by the project, which would
focus on training on essential care included in the basic package. However, the Bank has been working in
cooperation with other partners (Soros Foundation, AIHA) involved in the reorientation of medical training
to a evidence-based paradigm, and will continue to do so during project implementation.
-9-



C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
24.  In the context of the public sector reform, the Government of Moldova (GoM) would implement a
project - the Health Investmnent Fund - to invest US$20 million on upgrading emergency and primary health
care, downsizing and consolidating excessive capacity, and developing institutional capacity and policies.
The project would be co-financed by the Government of Moldova (US$1.6 million), by a grant from the
Government of Netherlands (US$8.4 million), and an IDA credit from the Bank (US$ 10 million). About
US$25 million would be necessary to cover the entire country with primary health care and emergency
health services. As the Government contribution, and the Bank Credit amounted to about US$1 million,
co-financing was sought. The Dutch grant would finance the communication campaigns, and most of the
training, technical assistance, and operating costs; and, through the HIF, it would contribute to cover an
important part of the civil works and medical equipment costs. The IDA credit would finance civil works
and medical equipment through the HIF, and a minor part of training, technical assistance and operating
costs. Project activities are grouped into the following components:
I.    Policy Development and Institutional Strengthening of the Ministry of Health (MoH)
(US$1.67 million). This component would finance the development of health reform strategy, key policies
and respective legislation, a public communication campaign and other communication activities, and a
management and technical training program. The component would finance goods (office, educational and
clinical equipment and supplies), local and foreign training, study tours, and local and foreign technical
assistance. The component would have the following subcomponents:
v  Health Policy Development. This subcomponent would support the development of the legal
framework for health sector reforms, including on: (i) health care financing (sources and resource
allocation); (ii) basic package of health care services; (iii) provider-payer split; (iv) user charges;
(v) human resources; and (vi) TB and AIDS Strategies.
* Communication of Health Sector Reform. This would finance public communication campaigns
to inforrn stakeholders about the sector reforms, and media expertise to be provided to the Ministry
of Health.
*  Management and Technical Training Program. The following training programs would be
financed under this subcomponent:
(i) General Practice Program. Training of physicians, nurses and other staff associated with the
provision of the basic package of health care. The component would train existing GPs and retrain
specialists to become primary care physicians; and it would train nurses to provide care at the
primary and secondary health care level.
(ii) Management Program. Training of managers at Central, Judet and health care facility levels.
The component would train health services managers and administrators, and would provide them
with the necessary business skills to run an autonomous hospitals.
- 10 -



II.   Health Investment Fund (HIF) (US$17.72 million). This component would establish the HIF,
which primary aim would be to sponsor change through demonstration of improvements in access, quality
and efficiency of health care services at all levels of the system. The proposed Fund would create a
competitive mechanism to allocate resources among the Municipality of Chisinau and Judet Health
Authorities and, to a lesser extent, hospitals. The Fund would mainly finance regional (Judet)
restructuring proposals that include development of emergency care services; and development of primary
health care based on general practitioners (physicians and nurses). A set of criteria was developed for
subproject selection, including indicators to promote greater equity, effective implementation of sectoral
restructuring at the regional level, and acceptable progress in managing financial resources and developing
training programs. A part of the HIF funds would be made available on a competitive basis for hospital
restructuring that includes downsizing, consolidation and/or implementation of new provider payment
mechanisms. The Project Coordination Unit would manage the HIF funds, naming a technical committee
to evaluate proposals and respecting the guidelines established by the Steering Committee, until the legal
creation of the HIF (described below). Technical assistance would be provided by local and foreign
consultants to assist the beneficiaries with the preparation and presentation of proposals to the Fund.
Investments would be made in small civil works for rehabilitation of health services; information systems;
medical equipment and supplies; pharmaceuticals; and ambulances. This component would have two
subcomponents:
3   Emergency and Primary Health Care. Funds would be made available to the Municipality of
Chisinau and Judets on a competitive basis, for primary health care and emergency services. The
Fund would be replenished in three phases, depending on compliance with a restructuring plan.
3   Hospital Refurbishment. The Fund would also make limited investments on key hospital
refurbishments up to US$300,000 per facility. This could be one or more investment proposals
submitted by one hospital, for example, to make key investments on essential services, such as
emergency care, surgery or obstetric wards; or to prepare the hospital for autonomization, by
developing a business plan, establishing a financial management system, etc. These proposals
would be funded provided that the hospital would consolidate or close unnecessary services.
III.   Project Management and Evaluation (US$0.61 million). This would finance project
management, including procurement and financial management, and project evaluation. This component
would have the following subcomponents:
*  Project Management. A small unit would be financed to provide project management,
coordination and monitoring of the health sector reform program, and to manage the project. This
subcomponent would finance local and foreign technical assistance in project management,
procurement, and financial management.
*  Project Evaluation. This would include epidemiological, social, institutional and economic
assessments of the project to be carried out in the beginning of project implementation; by
mid-term; and at project end. The subcomponent would finance the studies, and local and technical
assistance.
25.   Phasing of the Health Investment Fund. The project team identified the need to establish an
investment fund, based on a competitive mechanism to allocate funds among Judets, to link policy changes
and structural reforms with the Project's investment. The PCU would manage the funds allocated to this
component until the legal creation of the HIF, and would prepare a proposal for the HIF. By September
- 11 -



30, 2001, the Government should prepare and furnish to the Association for review, a proposal for the
establishment and operation of the HIF, including inter alia: (i) a description of objectives and areas of
operation of the HIF; (ii) the proposed managerial and administrative structure of the HIF; (iii) the
proposed funding sources of the HIF; and (iv) the proposed arrangement for incorporation of the operations
and staff of the PCU into the HIF. By December 31, 2001, the Government should review this proposal
with the Association, and enact no later than July 31, 2002 the necessary instrument for the operation of the
HIF. The HIF offers an important opportunity to establish a transparent financing vehicle that would
potentially be transformed into an autonomous entity that assumes responsibility for financing healthcare in
Moldova, along the lines of a National Health Fund; after the project ends in 5 years, it is possible that the
HIF could be an appropriate means to operationalize the implementation of health insurance.
26.    The HIF would disburse in three phases. The first phase will finance primary care equipment and
basic supplies for a limited number of general practice centers in the Municipality of Chisinau and the
Central Judet. This round will be financed under the Project Preparation Facility (PPF) that is under
execution. The second phase would begin upon Board presentation and would be subject to the
Government's submission of a signed Letter of Policy, initial steps towards closure and consolidation, and
development of a framework for autonomous hospitals. The third phase of the Fund would make the
closure and consolidation of facilities a precondition for investments. The proposed competitive instrument
identifies two sets of criteria as the 'triggers' to enable the disbursement of funds to the investment fund. To
obtain 40 percent of the HIF fund, all of the following criteria should be fulfilled: (i) Policy Letter outlining
Government Restructuring Plan; (ii) presentation to the Government of draft legislation acceptable to the
Bank on self-financed facilities; (iii) closure of at least 100 ancillary buildings on hospital complexes (all
Judets); and (iv) consolidation of Municipal Narcological and Dermato-Venerealogical Dispensaries. For
the remaining 60 percent of HIF funds to be made available, the following criteria apply: (i) maintain health
sector budget at no less than 450 million lei; (ii) mechanisms in place to guarantee a minimum of 35
percent of budget to PHC; (iii) approval by Government of detailed health restructuring plan; (iv) approval
by MOF and MoH of per capita allocation formula for distribution of resources to Judets and of the use of
new provider reimbursement mechanisms; and (v) approval by MoH of new protocols of care for perinatal
and obstetric care, integrated management of childhood illnesses, STIs, TB, diabetes and hypertension, and
breast and cervical cancer. Additional points would be awarded for progress implementing the
Government's Restructuring Plan.
27.    Additional criteria have been established to evaluate the specific subprojects that would be
proposed by the Judets. These criteria take into account the following: (i) equity as reflected by the
deviation from the average per capita allocation; (ii) judet performance in terms of budget execution and
training in family medicine; (iii) the specific Judet's compliance with the restructuring program of closures;
and (iv) compliance with basic elements of subproject proposal submission, including the presentation of a
business plan, economic impact of the project, sustainability of restructuring and proposed investrnent and
training plan. Competing proposals from Judets would be evaluated using these criteria and allocations
from the Fund would be made according to the highest points received. A technical committee would
review and select proposals for investment, and the project Steering Committee would ratify the selection.
The detailed description of the selection process of sub-projects is included in the Project Operational
Manual (POM).
28.    Project proceeds would be allocated for the implementation of subprojects including consultants'
services, training, and goods for subprojects under the Health Investment Fund. The MoH would sign two
types of agreements: (i) for restructuring in Judets, agreements would be signed between the Borrower
(represented by the MoH) and the participating Judets (represented by Judet Health Authorities) selected by
the MoH to participate in the project according to criteria and procedures described in the POM; (ii) for
- 12 -



restructuring institutions, agreements would be signed between the MoH and institutions such as the
Republican Hospitals, for the execution of a subproject selected and approved in accordance with criteria
and procedures detailed in the POM. Project funds would not be transferred to the participating Judets.
All procurement of goods, works and consultants' services financed under the project would be centralized
and carried out by the Project Coordination Unit. Participating Judets would receive goods, works and
services financed under the project as non-reimbursable contributions. Figures and tables below give
further information on the Fund.
May 2000 to October 2000        October 2000 to December 2001         December 2001 to November 2005
PPF 
Available for         Rel~eased at oadRlased agans
a e    ~ ~ ~ orPrimary adEmrec                               fate adaces i
frHClestn                   Care Investmentretu
ffi6-mn. * __| *-13



E   i       /           \                             vFu~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ilifihl 2d. Phas
E   :           :              _/~~~~~~~Fuifill Pm-Board/   Restruotwring 
.    \Conditions?  /\                              Conditions     r
\   /                          \(~~~~~~~~~~~Policy Matrix)V
Health Investment Comrittee
N                                                                    Ye
Yes
Health Investment Fund                                                                                MakeRelative _  o
(US$17.7 million)                   Release First Tranche of Fund                               Second Tranche of Fund
(US$6.8 million)                                      Avallable for Investmeint
(Max: US$10.3
Judet's and Municipality of Chisinau 
_ Present Inv. Prpoa for PHC u                         es
X% of Points
Obtained
-14-



Potential Distribution of HIF among Judets
1, Fund distribution
HIF TOWBd                                           17720,00
PPF 8 ld~ w PHAOSEi                                   600,000
GoveriirWt Co.frbgtuon                               1,527,000
Lubtotal                                            11,573,000
Abvev i Fund PHASE h                 40%             6,848,000
AvaW4e Fund PHASE In                 60%            10.272,000
2.- Pre-Allocation and actual needs
Judets                     Populaion    Pro-AJlocation for the  HIF PPF (first    HF second phaso  HIF third phase
whole Project (US$)   phase) Umit (US$) limit (U$)    litit (U$)
Chisinau Municipality            780,826             3,855,176       394,746.66     1,384,171.61     2,076,257.41
Gagauzia                         161,151              714,182                        285,672.66        428,508.99
Center                           406,000             2,004,546       205,253.34      719,716.91       1,079,575.36
Balti                            506,330             2,243,930                       897,572.07       1,346,358.11
Cahul                            237,369             1,051,961                       420,784.44        631,176.66
Edinet                           287,085             1,272,290                       508,916.08        763,374.12
Lapusna                          282,139             1,250,371                       500,148.30        750,222.44
Orhei                            304,023             1,347,355                       538,942.10        808,413.15
Soroca                           279,483             1,238,600                       495,440.00        743,160.00
Tighina                          313,084             1,387,511                       555,004.55        832,506.83
Taraclia                          46,400              205,633                          82,253.36       123,380.04
Ungheni                          259,140             1,148,445                       459,377.93        689,066.89
TOTAL                          31863,030            17,720JOW        600,000.00     6_848,000.00    10272,000.00
Note: Total Resources Allocated to Each Judet can exceed the estimated amount shown above if the performance
of some Judets is less than 100%. Unallocated funds will be returned to the general fund to allow successful
Judets to increase their total allocations, in accordance with their performance.
- 15-



Health Investment Fund
Resource Allocation Criteria for First Phase Investment
US$ ALLOCATION
tpliance wtht 1;0F0Ba0Cd*n0000 00jAS:0070: ::000 of0000 Boyd00 onditions04l f0 40%                        * 00     :: 0: 6.8480OO
() Policy Letter Outining Govemment FRructuring Ran
(b) Resertaon to Govemment of Legidaton on sEf-financed healhh
facilities
(c) Closre of at least 100 ancillary buildings on hospital complexes (ad
udeto
(d) Conslideion of Municipa Narcological and Dermato Venireological
Notes full compliance with these criteria is required for Board
- 16 -



Health Investment Fund
Resource Allocation Criteria for Second Phase Investment
US ALLOCATION
HIF Available for Progre  With Restructuring Progran                                   60%           10,272,000
Potentil Point Awa_=ed         Points Obtane
25.00
Maintain health sedor budget for 2000 at not lessthen 405 million LB                 10.00
Mechanism in Pbce to guarantee 35 % of Budget to PHC                                 10.00
Approval by Govemment of detailed Health Sector REructuring Ran                       5.00
Addkioioa poiats wYO be awadd for pwrgisln knpbomwKng the
Gowernmenss uckridrtPL. ProgwIsfw be valkiabeit
tenws of t!aln 1*w center off the tate or loca bkidgt..throg
ether comreron to a ff4kncsd ent, do*" or privPton.                                  300
FDints wi1 be awarded in the following manner.
One Pint will be awarded for the closure of each facility within the
fiollowing groups upto to the maximum indicated. Facilities a all levels of
the Wstem qualify.
CcnsDlidation of Saritorium                                                     2.00
Consolidetion of Fblyclinics                                                    5.00
Consolidation of monoprofile facilities                                         8.00
Consolidetion of Republican and Municipal Hospitals                            15.00
Additional closures                                                             5.00
TOTAL POINTSOBTAINED IN.
MOND PIASE OF FWD
Note: This Phase of the Fund will not require full compliance but rather will allocate funds to the
HIF in proportion to the relative performance in terms of the above criteria.
- 17 -



Sub-Project Selection  Criteria                             TotalPoints Alocated
% Deviation in Per Capita Expenditure (@ Judet Level)
> 50 % over average                                         -15
>20 % and <50 %                                             -10
>0 and -=20%                                                  -5
'= AVG                                                        0
<0 and > -20%                                                 5
-20% and > -50%                                              10
> -50%                                                       15
Judt Performanco                                                                    30
% Budget Execution Previous Year
<50%                                                          0
>50% and <= 60 %                                              5
>60 and <=85%                                                10
>85and <=100%                                                15
% of all general practitioners trained in family medicine
< 50 %                                                        0
>50% and <= 60 %                                              5
>60 and <=85%                                                10
>85and <=100%                                                15
Execution off Reorm Program                                                          3$;
(a) Proposal to Restructure Judet Health Facilities (hosp +
polyclinics)                                                                            2
(b) Closure of ancillary buildings                                                      3
(c) Closure of circumbscribing hospitals                                                5
(d) Closure of all Raion Hospitals                                                      5
(e) Closure of Polyclinics                                                              5
(f) Consolidation into one Judet Hospitals                                              5
(g) Implementation of Hospital Payment Mechanisms                                       5
(h) Number of facilities operating as State Enterprises: (0 min, 5
max)                                                                                    5
Inetment ropof00sal       -   d     SAd         d 0; b 0d0 0ff0000g2U2S:jt0  0;SX00920d
(a)Investment Plan Presented                                                            1
(b) Business Plan for Judet Hospital                                                    2
(c) Environmental impact of investment evaluated                                        2
(d) Economic Impact of Project Evaluated                                                5
(e) Sustainability of Recurrent Costs Demonstrated                                      5
(f) Training Plan Presented for Managers and all medical/ non-
medical Staff                                                                           5
- 18-



ndicstive     d       Bank-      % Of
Componant                   Sector         costs     % of    financing   Bank-
(US$M)    Totai      (US$M)   nancing
I. Policy Development and                                1.67       8.4       0.18       1.8
Institutional Strengthening of the
MoH
II. Health Investment Fund                             17.72       88.6       9.47      94.7
III. Project Management and                             0.61        3.0       0.35       3.5
Evaluation
Total Project Costs                    20.00      100.0      10.00     100.0
Total Financing Required                    20.00       100.0     10.00      100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
29.   The project would support the:
(i)    updating of policies, laws and regulations related with health care financing, resource
allocation, basic package of services, user fees, management of health staff, and would
support the development of TB and AIDS Strategies;
(ii)    modemizing and downsizing of the health sector; and
(iii)   development of institutional capacity in the health sector.
30.   Definition of a Minimum Benefit Package. Budgetary support for health care has to be limited to
the financing of a basic package of essential services. This package needs to be defined realistically in
terms of the available resources and the health needs of the population, taking into account the need to
protect the population from catastrophic risk, at the primary and hospital levels, and to ensure adequate
provision of basic public health services. The public sector allocates US$ 10 per capita to the health sector,
while patients participate out-of-pocket with another US$10. The limited budgetary resources will not
allow inclusion of more than the basic primary care that is required to protect the population from
ill-health. On the one hand, the package would guarantee access to public health services with high
positive externalities such as immunizations, limited maternal and child care, treatment of communicable
diseases (e.g. TB, diarrheal diseases, acute-respiratory problems, sexually transmitted diseases), emergency
care and health promotion and disease prevention (e.g., HIV/AIDS). At the same time, the package should
include some essential hospital services. The free package of services will be provided in specially
designated general practice centers and Judet hospitals, which will be strengthened by the HIF. These
centers will offer these services free of charge. The basic package will need to be reviewed on a regular
basis to assure that services included can be fully funded, and that the overall package fits within the
available resource envelope. Many of these concepts have been developed by the project team through
close collaboration with UNICEF, based on their basic package that allocates about US$3/capita to PHC
and about US$5 to hospital care. UNICEF has been pilot testing the basic package for primary care. The
project will use the HIF to sponsor expansion of the small scale UNICEF project and to develop the
package for hospital services.
- 19 -



31.    Review sources of health sector financing and improve resource allocation. Sources of
financing include taxes, insurance schemes (including public, private and community schemes), and user
fees. The project would review sources of financing and provide the Government with recommendations on
future changes in the source of financing, i.e. the introduction of insurance. During preparation the project
team assisted the Government with the design of alternative budget programming mechanisms and the
introduction of alternative provider reimbursement systems. This would continue during project
implementation culminating in the introduction of changes in budgeting and financing starting in 2001. As
mentioned before, the GOM has approved, but has not yet implemented, a health insurance scheme. The
Bank and other donors have been advising against further developing this scheme in the short-term, as this
would increase the tax burden on the population, and increase administrative costs. However, UNICEF,
the Bank and other partners are exploring with the Government the development of community-based
insurance funds to generate additional resources for the sector. Furthermore, the reduction of the health
services capacity will result in a substantial amount of resources being freed up. To ensure that the health
status of Moldova's population will not further deteriorate, resources that will be released as a result of
sectoral restructuring must stay in the health sector. The 2000 Budget Law approves the full retention of
those resources freed-up from the sale of health sector infrastructure.
32.    Controlling user charges. The limited budgetary resources available for health care have forced
health services and practitioners to charge user fees. However, consumers have little protection against
price setting, and little oversight over quality of service. The project would prepare recommendations for
the Government on how to better link the user fee schedule with those services not included in the basic
package, and to protect consumers from abuses.
33.    Restructuring the provider network. Modem protocols of care (e.g., for TB, STIs), the size and
distribution of Moldova's population, and the road network between district capitals allow to substantially
downsize and consolidate the health infrastructure in the new Judets and in the city of Chisinau.
Polyclinics staffed by specialists would be replaced by health care centers staffed by general practitioners
and nurses. One hospital per Judet may be sufficient to serve the population of each region, if the primary
health care system is substantially strengthened. The goal of hospital sector restructuring at the Judet level
should thus be to keep only one hospital per Judet and to strengthen this hospital as necessary.
Furthermore, the existing hospital infrastructure in Chisinau (republican and municipal hospitals) would
be further reviewed to substantially reduce capacity and improve the efficiency of these facilities.
34.    Strengthening emergency and primary health care services. To stem the continuous
deterioration of health standards in Moldova and effectively meet the health needs of the population, the
reduction in the polyclinic and hospital sector needs to be paralleled with a substantial strengthening of the
emergency and primary health care system. The primary health care system should be able to meet more
than 80 percent of the population's health needs. Effective strengthening of primary health care requires the
following:
(i)    providing increased allocation of resources to assure availability of essential drugs,
equipment and supplies;
(ii)   safeguarding basic public health interventions through budgetary funding;
(iii)   reallocating medical staff from hospital to primary care and providing them with the
necessary training to effectively function as general practitioners; and
(iv)    updating protocols of care for key diseases.
- 20 -



35.    Human resources reform. The reduction in health services capacity will also bring about a need
to reduce the large pool of medical and non-medical staff employed in the health sector. Some of the staff
released from polyclinics and hospitals can be retrained to provide primary care as general practitioners.
However, a detailed analysis of the current health staff in one Judet suggests that at least 25 percent of
doctors, 30 percent of other clinical staff and 45 percent of non-clinical staff could be released without
affecting the quality of health services provided to the population, if the sector were more efficiently
organized. This redundant staff would be retrained to move to other sectors, would retire earlier for those
close to retirement age, or would be dismissed with a severance payment paid by the PSRC.
36.    Organizational reforms. In general terms, Moldova has already taken the first steps toward the
implementation of a purchaser-provider split, as the Judet Health Authorities were basically established as
regional purchasing entities. There is no orientation on how to allocate the US$10 per capita available in
the public sector to funding public health activities and the most essential care, and there is limited
know-how on purchasing services. This is best obtained through a system where a health authority
purchases health services from accredited providers in line with the available resources and health needs of
the population. At present, payment mechanisms for Moldovan hospitals are based on a centralized
planning mechanism that estimates the yearly budget based on the number of beds, staff, other input factors
and inflation. This mechanism is not linked to the hospital's production, the quality of care or the efficiency
with which the hospitals manage their beds and other resources. In order to create the appropriate
incentives to consolidate services, increase efficiency in the utilization of hospital resources and provide
incentives to reduce hospital over-capacity, it is necessary to develop and implement the purchaser-provider
split and performance based payment mechanism that aligns the incentives for hospital directors and staff.
The project would support further development of these changes. The purchaser provider split has three
fundamental implications for the health care system in Moldova:
(i)    all health care providers would gradually become financially autonomous entities and no
longer receive any direct support from the budget;
(ii)    new provider reimbursement systems would introduce a performance based payment
mechanism focused on prenegotiated volumes of services, targets for user satisfaction,
organizational change and clinical quality, among others. The new system would help to
align the incentives for hospital directors and staff; and
(ii)   publicly funded health care services are purchased from accredited health care providers
through contractual arrangements between the health authority (the purchaser) and the
health facility (the provider).
37.    The existence of overcapacity and under utilization of existing providers is one of the key factors
limiting the sector's performance. While many Judets and the Municipality of Chisinau have taken the
initial steps to close ancillary buildings and facilities that were under utilized, increases in performance and
further restructuring will require the implementation of a new legal and operational framework to create
self-financing, autonomous hospitals that operate under contract with the MOH and the Judet Health
Authorities. To support the implementation of hospital autonomy, the project required as a Board
condition the submission of a draft legal framework for autonomous hospitals. During the project,
technical assistance would be provided to support the purchaser-provider split, and a provider
reimbursement mechanism that is consistent with the development of autonomous hospitals.
- 21 -



3. Benefits and target population:
38.   In the present situation of total economic collapse, those who cannot pay for treatment out of
pocket risk not having access to health care in Moldova. The project would have an impact on the entire
population of Moldova. However, the poor, women and the children, are expected to particularly benefit
from the increased access to the basic package of care, and from the adoption of new quality standards in
emergency care, and primary and secondary health care. The basic package would include the most
cost-effective health interventions, such as health promotion, and disease prevention (e.g., STIs and
HIV/AIDS), immunizations, maternal and child care, and emergency care, which mainly benefit the poor,
women and children. The main benefits of the project would be:
(i)    Guaranteeing a minimum benefit package for everyone would increase access to essential
health services;
(ii)   Investing in and shifting resources to primary health care would bring cost-effective health
services closer to the population. International experience shows that the majority of cases
can be effectively treated at the primary care level;
(iii)   Adoption of modem clinical practices and treatment protocols would increase quality of
care;
(iv)   Investments in emergency care would also contribute to increase access and quality of
health services;
(v)    Downsizing of the extensive and underutilized physical infrastructure would contribute to
a more sustainable health system; and
(vi)   Support to the development of TB and HIV/AIDS strategies would contribute to an early
control of these epidemics.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
39.    Executing Agency. A Project Steering Committee integrating representatives from the Ministries
of Health, Finance and Economy, and Medical Trade Union Federation, has been assisting the MoH to
prepare the project, and will oversee project implementation. The executing agency of this Project is the
Ministry of Health (MoH), and Project management activities would be carried out by the Project
Coordination Unit (PCU) that has been already established. The MoH would be responsible for overall
project implementation and administration, and would coordinate the implementation of all project activities
carried out by private firms, local and international consultants, universities and non-governmental
organizations (NGOs) accredited by the MoH.
40.    Project Coordination Unit. The Project Coordination Unit now includes a Project Director, a
Procurernent Officer, a Financial Manager, and two Communication Specialists. The PCU has been
assisted by a foreign expert in project management, procurement and financial management. The PCU
would be responsible for all project implementation activities. The MoH would appoint (using public
recruitment processes) and maintain during the execution of the project, core technical personnel in
adequate numbers and with functions, responsibilities, qualifications and experience as may be required for
the proper implementation of the project. In addition to the staff already hired, the PCU would include a
technical coordinator for each Project component and an administrative assistant who will act as a
secretary, receptionist and cashier. The Project Coordinator is responsible for the interaction with the
- 22 -



MoH, the Municipality of Chisinau and all Judets. Terms of Reference for each managerial position are
included in the Operational Manual.
41.   The PCU will manage the two main components of the project, namely the 'Policy Development
and Training' and the 'Health Investment Fund'. To this end, the PCU would: (i) promote the project in
Judets and the municipality of Chisinau; (ii) ensure coordination between the project, MoH, and health
authorities; (iii) coordinate the activities of different donors in order to increase the efficient use of
resources (iv) maintain project records and prepare regular implementation reports; (v) prepare terms of
reference (ToRs) for consultants who would assist project implementation, and supervise their work; (vi)
coordinate processing (identification, preparation, appraisal, approval and supervision) of subprojects
submitted by the Judets to the Health Investment Fund (HIF), ensuring compliance with the Operational
Manual; (vii) ensure that bidders comply with Bank procurement guidelines; (viii) undertake the financial
management of the project; (ix) operate a management information system (MIS) to track project
processing; (x) ensure the auditing of project accounts and other audits required by the Bank; (xi)
coordinate Bank supervision missions, and carry out the mid-term review of the project; (xii) organize the
evaluation of the project's impact using monitoring indicators, analysis and other appropriate methodology;
(xiii) accredit, hire, and manage universities, and non-governmental organizations (NGOs) to carry out
special studies and activities; and (xiv) procure and manage independent firmns (providers, constructors,
consultants) to carry out project activities.
42.   Project Implementation Plan and Operational Manual. The PCU has been preparing the
Implementation Plan (PIP) and Operational Manual (POM). This document includes a brief description of
the project and its components, PCU organizational structure and terms of reference of its staff, involved
institutions and organizations, procurement methods, financial arrangements and methodologies, detailed
project implementation plan, operation procedures using technical and financial computerized tools, criteria
for the HIF, project budget, Terms of Reference for Implementation, and other key chapters.
43.   Financial Arrangements. A financial management assessment was carried out by a Bank
financial management specialist, and his report is attached to the POM. A financial management system
that is capable of producing project management reports (PMRs) as required by the Bank has been
established. The system was tested by the Bank FMS and a 4-B certification has been issued. The FMS
also reviewed the project auditing arrangements to ensure compliance with Bank requirements. The TOR
for the audit was agreed with the PCU. Disbursements of funds will commence utilizing traditional
disbursement methods and the PCU will have the option to switch to PMR based disbursements once the
PCU has had experience in producing quarterly PMRs, acceptable to the Bank.
44.   To facilitate the disbursement of funds, the GOM has opened a Special Account (SA) in a local
bank under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. Replenishment of the SA will follow Bank
procedures. The PCU will submit replenishment applications on a monthly basis. A Bank statement of the
SA and a reconciliation of the SA against the Bank's records will support the replenishment applications.
Eventually, Project Management reports would support the replenishment applications. The minimum
amount for application for direct payment and for special commitment would be 20 percent of the
authorized allocation to the SA.
45.   A PHRD grant (about US$0.5 million) and a PPF (US$0.97 million) are being used to finance
project preparation, and also to carry out the first project implementation activities within the Municipality
of Chisinau and Central Judet. Consultants provided technical assistance to the Municipality of Chisinau
and to the Central Judet Health Authority to prepare detailed implementation plans for health sector
restructuring in those two regions. These plans will be initially implemented under the PPF, but resources
- 23 -



from the HIF would be necessary to finish ongoing work.
46.    Project Audits. The project would be audited annually, including a review of procurement by an
independent auditing agency acceptable to the Bank. An independent agency or specialized consultants'
services would be procured, and the procurement and financial audit would be carried out by June 30 of
each year. An audit opinion is required on the project financial statements in accordance with
internationally accepted auditing standards; an opinion is also required on statement of expenditure
procedure and use of the special account. A management letter will be produced as part of the audit so as
to identify any potential weaknesses that may exist and suggested remedial action.
47.    Procurement. Procurement activities would be carried out by one full time procurement proficient
PCU staff member - already hired, and trained by a Consultant and by the project manager and
procurement officer of the Social Investment Fund (SIF). The Bank Procurement Specialist carried out an
assessment of this unit's capacity to implement project procurement processes, which was reviewed by the
RPA (Annex 6).
48.    Monitoring. The PCU would be responsible for project monitoring and evaluation. It would use
the performance indicators included in Annex I and in the POM. Progress reports, including monitoring
indicators, would be sent by the PCU to the Bank periodically. The MoH, supported by the PCU staff and
consultants, would carry out technical supervision of HIF subprojects.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
49.    The following altematives were considered and rejected after careful consideration:
(i) Pilot Project. This option was abandoned because of the collapse of the existing health care
system, which prompted the Government and the Bank to accelerate the pace and scale-up health
sector reforms. Originally, the MoH wanted to test restructuring in one selected region, Aneni Noi,
which is a former district in the outskirts of Chisinau. This approach was rejected for the following
additional reasons:
*   The administrative reform that integrated the 38 districts into 11 regions made the development
of a district-based system irrelevant.;
*   The experience that could have been gained from the consolidation of health services in a pilot
region, where there are no tertiary facilities, would have been very limited in terms of nation wide
replicability; and
*   This option would have left the Chisinau health infrastructure intact. In the Moldovan health
system, Chisinau is the main resource drain: 15 republican hospitals, 12 municipal hospitals, 3
city hospitals and 22 polyclinics are located in Chisinau. Altogether, there are 13,000 hospital
beds in the capital (174 beds/ 10,000), accounting for 40 percent of the country's public
expenditures on health. Therefore, it became evident that failing to address the real problem -
Chisinau - would cause unnecessary delays in reforning the health system.
(ii) Downsizing without Investing in Emergency Services and Primary Health Care. This option
was rejected because it would have a negative impact on the health status of the population, and would
-24 -



be politically indefensible. Furthermore, this would fail to address the issue of misapplication of
funds within the sector. Initial discussions were focused on the overcapacity issue as the main
problem in a country with very limited resources. Encouraging consolidation through investments in
the remaining facilities could accelerate the restructuring process and guarantee increased quality of
care. The hospital sector consumes over 70 percent of health resources, while almost no resources are
spent on emergency services and primary health care. International evidence shows that emergency
services and primary health care provide some of the most cost-effective services. Primary health care
should be able to solve about 80 per cent of the patient's problems, with less than 20 percent of cases
having to be referred to higher - and more expensive - levels of care. However, to do so, more than 35
percent of resources should be allocated to PHC.
(iii) Investments in Emergency Services and Primary Care without Downsizing. Moldova cannot
afford this option, neither this is desirable from the point of view of quality. Some counterparts have
been proposing that investments in emergency services and primary health care take absolute priority,
and that downsizing is left for a second phase - this would ensure full access to health services even
during the transition from a polyclinic/hospital-based system to a general practice/primary health
care-based system. In addition, it has been argued that political opposition to downsizing might be so
great that significant time is lost in political fights and reforms might not achieve the desired results.
While this is certainly a danger, the project may have found a balance between the above mentioned
objectives. Investing in emergency services and primary health care without downsizing would
increase the costs of the system to a level that is not affordable. Also, the size of the system is one of
the reasons that explains the poor quality of care.
(iv) No Project. This option is possible due to political instability. On technical grounds, this option
was rejected because of the rapidly deteriorating health status of the population and the economic
costs associated with the lack of reforms.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
. .                                  . Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                       Project                    (PSR) Ratings
.___ ___ ___ ____ ___ ___ ___  .____.__ __ . (Bank-financed  pwojects only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                       Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Structural Adjustment -             SAL L3815                           S              S
Macroeconomic stabilization, growth,
enterprise privatization, reforms in
agricultural, social and energy sectors.
Pension reform, land privatization and  SAL L4229, C2988                S              S
farm restructuring, unbundling the
energy enterprises and starting the
process of privatization, and enterprise
privatization.
- 25 -



Continuing the privatization process in SAC C3256                  S            U
agriculture, energy and the enterprise
sector.
Public Sector - Public sector    Rehabilitation Loan 3653          S             S
management including economic
reform, financing of critical imports
(energy, health, agriculture), financial
discipline.
Public Sector Reform             PSRC I: In preparation
Board Presentation on 9/28/00.
Social Sector development, including   Social Investment Fund      S             S
improved delivery of basic services for Credit 31700
rural population, strengthened
children's social development, and
capacity building.
Social Protection                Social Protection                 S             S
Credit 32610
Education: modernize and improve  General Education                S            U
quality of primary and lower secondary Credit 41510, 30030
education.
Other development agencies
IMF                               Agreement (postponed)
EU-TACIS                          Technical Assistance
UNICEF                            Primary Health Care
WHO                               Health Policy
SIDA/Sweden                       TBD
SOROS Foundation                  Family Practice
Italian Government                Health Management
French Government                 Health Management
US Government                     Medical Equipment
Japanese Government               Project Preparation
Dutch Government                  Project Implementation
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
50.   Bilateral and multilateral support to the GoM for the health sector is estimated at more than $16
million over 3 years (1999-2001), including project preparation resources. There is the need to improve
coordination among the donors and to ensure that these resources are directed to achieving results. The
Ministry of Health has established a Task Force for Health Sector Reform to coordinate activities between
donors. This is an important first step to ensure that all efforts are focused on achieving greater
value-for-money in the health sector. Donors will establish a web page to share information about
activities in the country.
- 26 -



*  Dutch Government (US$10 million) would co-finance the proposed project with a grant. Costs of
upgrading primary health care and emergency care throughout the country were estimated at about
US$25 million. However, project financing from the Government contribution and the Bank Credit
amounted to about US$11 million. Therefore, the Bank assisted the Government of Moldova to
identify additional co-financing.
*  US Government (US$10 million) will provide medical equipment (used by the US Army) and
supplies this year. The provision of equipment is being coordinated with the project team. The
PCU provided the US team with the list of equipment and supplies that the project would procure,
as well as a list of facilities that will remain open. It is estimated that this donation may increase
by US$3 million the amount of funding available in the HIF to cover Judets with primary health
care.
*  JAPANESE GOVERNMENT (US$0.5 million) provided a PHRD grant for project preparation,
including the development of the Project Coordination Unit and of communication activities.
*  EU-TACIS (US$1 million) will finance technical assistance in the following areas: 1) policy
advice on legislative health sector framework, especially regarding privatization of health facilities;
2) policy on pharmaceuticals; and 3) health administration capacity building.
I USAID (US$0.5 million) will finance over the next three years the creation of primary care centers
, through the partnership program implemented by the American Intemational Health Alliance.
The main areas of activity will be community health, disease prevention and family practice. The
US partners will provide the centers with educational resources for staff and patient education.
*  WHO (US$0.5 million) increased the allocation to Moldova from $0.1 million in 1998-99 to
almost $0.5 million in 2000-2001. The funds will be used to provide technical assistance for the
development of health policy, health care reform, health of women and children, communicable
diseases, especially TB, non-communicable diseases and the promotion of better health,
environment and health and monitoring and evaluation.
*   UNICEF (US$3.5 million) supports immunization, management of childhood illnesses, nutrition,
and the reform process through a pilot project on health sector rehabilitation, which aims at
strengthening primary health care. The project concept is based on two key principles: (i)
decentralization of out-patient medical care (primary health care); and (ii) centralization of
in-patient care to make qualified health assistance more accessible to rural populations. UNICEF
prepared and submitted for review a paper on Health Reforms in Moldova, which aims at setting a
general framework for the reforms and improving donor coordination. This paper was discussed
at a donors meeting during project appraisal.
*  UNAIDS supports the Moldova UN Theme Group on HIV/AIDS financially, through the Strategic
Planning and Development funds; and also technically to develop the national strategic planning
process (SPP ), implemented by the technical multisectoral team under the leadership of the
Ministry of Health, and an awareness raising/information campaign implemented by NGOs.
*   Soros Foundation will finance the project baseline studies, which will be carried out before project
effectiveness. Also, the Soros Foundation has been co-financing with the Bank seminars for
journalists. The Foundation is financing training programs in family medicine implemented by the
- 27 -



State Medical and Pharmaceutical University. The objectives of the project are: (ii) training of
trainers; (ii) elaboration and implementation of a curriculum for three years residential training; 3)
partnerships for improvement of the curriculum (USA, Finland, Russia); (iv) creation of
certification and accreditation system for the specialty; and 5) creation of three offices to serve as
training centers. The Foundation will also finance training in Public Health.
*   Sida/Sweden (TBD) is identifying areas for additional financial and technical assistance, and is
considering health policy, and public health (public health services, health promotion).
*   Other Donors (a French NGO and an Italian local governnent) are assisting the implementation
of programs aimed at strengthening the management capacity of health care administrators through
training, study tours and pilot projects to demonstrate modem management tools.
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
51.    Lessons learned from ECA countries.  Limited resources and excess capacity is a general
feature of the health sector in all former socialist countries. In the case of Moldova, however, this is even
more pronounced, since it is one of the poorest countries in the region, with the most remarkable
overcapacity. In addition, all ECA countries have health sector systems heavily focused on specialized
and inpatient care. Therefore, restructuring and downsizing are on the agenda of all these transition
economies. The following lessons can be learned from the ECA experience:
*   Restructuring and downsizing are extremely politicized processes. It is impossible to carry through
without strong political will and leadership. Furthermore, the MOH alone cannot reform the health
system in any country. The reform must be a concerted effort of major stakeholders, including MOH,
MOF, municipalities, professional chambers, trade unions, patients, general public, etc. The
Parliament, Prime-Minister and Govermment, the Medical Trade Unions, and donors have been actively
involved in project preparation. A Project Steering Committee including representatives of major
stakeholders, has been advising the Ministry of Health on health sector reforms and project design.
*   Information, consultation and education of the general public and other stakeholders are key
elements of a successful reform strategy. The Bank team integrates a communication specialist, and
local and foreign consultants (press officer, communication strategy specialist, and media trainers) are
being hired by the PCU to provide TA on communication strategy and activities. Training of
journalists has been carried out under preparation in collaboration with the Soros Foundation. The
communication strategy will be an important subcomponent of the project.
* Health sector restructuring must be conducted from the top, centrally. However, creation of both
negative and positive incentives for downsizing is indispensable. The proposed Health Investment
Fund would provide incentives to restructuring and downsizing. The Fund would make the closure and
consolidation of facilities a precondition for investments.
*   Institutional capacity building is of crucial importance. The project would include a component for
institutional strengthening of the central and regional levels. Training would be provided to MoH staff,
regional health authorities staff, hospital managers, and physicians and nurses.
*   The existence of illegal, under-the-table payments, constitutes an obstacle to reform. It distorts
incentive structures both for the patients and for the doctors. To combat illegal under-the-table
- 28 -



payments, the Bank has suggested normalization of user charges, which was adopted by the
Governnent. However, user charges alone will not change the gray economy of health care provision.
Transparent relations in health care (e.g. paid salaries), a clearly defined benefit package, control and
supervision brought about by the project would all contribute to mitigate illegal payments.
*   Emergency services and primary health care are underdeveloped in ECA countries, although
international evidence shows that most cost-effective services are provided by emergency services, and
at the primary health care level. Aggressive development of emergency services and primary care
would be pursed by the proposed project: investments in physical infrastructure, training and
re-training of GPs, and procurement of necessary equipment.
*   TB and HIV/AIDS epidemics have to be controlled in the context of underfunded health services,
operating under out-dated protocols of care, and which are initiating or are already engaged in major
structural and organizational reforms. In close cooperation with WHO and UNAIDS, the proposed
project would provide support to the ongoing development of strategies to be implemented under other
financing.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
52.   Agreements reached so far concerning health sector reforms and project design have shown
Government commitment. However, Presidential elections are scheduled for September 2000, and therefore
the new Government will be in functions just for 9 months, which increases political instability and project
risks. The indications of commitment to and ownership of health sector reforms and the project were the
following:
e   The former Prime Minister sent a letter to the Vice-President of the Bank requesting assistance for
health sector reforms;
*   The project Steering Committee reviewed and agreed on a draft Letter of Policy for the Government to
send to the Association. The letter, signed by the Ministers of Finance and Health, was submitted
before Negotiations; and signed by the Prime-Minister, was submitted as a condition for Board.
*   The Moldovan Parliament, the Prime Minister, the Ministries of Finance, Social Affairs, Economy and
Reforms and Judet authorities have been following-up project preparation closely. The new Minister
of Health has been closely involved in project preparation;
*   The former Minister of Health created the inter-ministerial Project Steering Committee, and on April 6,
2000, the new Government approved the composition of the Committee, which includes the Ministries
of Health, Finances and Economy, and the Medical Trade Union Association;
*   On April 6, 2000, the Government approved the legal creation of the Project Coordination Unit, and of
a special account for the PPF funds;
*   The Municipality of Chisinau and the Central Judet Health Authority requested the Bank for technical
assistance to prepare detailed implementation plans to restructure the respective health systems with
funds from the PPF;
*   Downsizing in the Municipality of Chisinau is well advanced. Municipal stomatology services are
- 29 -



autonomous since January 1, 2000;
* Around 80 percent of rural hospitals have been closed or transformned in primary health care centers;
* The Churchi psychiatric hospital is in preparation for closure;
* The initial consolidation of ancillary buildings at district hospitals has started. In most Judets, at least
two buildings have been closed and in some areas nearly half of all buildings have been consolidated.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
53.    The Republic of Moldova would benefit from the financial and technical assistance that the Bank
can provide in reformning the health care system, as follows:
* Financial Support. The proposed IDA credit would finance a project that enables the Govemrnment to
reform the health care system, addressing the key issues of deteriorating health status and financial
collapse of the system. The Bank is also in a position to assist the Government arranging for grants
and/or co-financing to prepare and implement the project. The Bank assisted the Government to
identify co-financing that would increase HIF financing to US$17.7 million, and therefore would enable
the project to cover most of the country with primary health care and emergency health care. The Bank
and other international organizations have provided significant support to the Government and the
Ministry of Health to initiate and develop the health care sector reforms.
* Cross-Country experience. The Bank has more experience that any other international or bilateral
organization in assisting governments preparing and implementing health sector reforms. In this
respect the Bank's experience and activities in the former Socialists countries is significant.
o National Reach. Many international agencies are active in the country, but usually their activities are
focused on a pilot region (UNICEF-Primary health care model) or on a narrow field (training,
procurement of pharmaceuticals, etc.). The Bank is the only organization with the capacity to assist
the Government with the implementation of a nation wide project, focusing on the most important
sector issues.
* Analytical Capacity. The Bank has carried out a significant amount of analytic research in the areas
of health reform and hospital corporatization. These studies allow the Bank to make recommendations
on different strategies for health sector reform.
* Know-how in Project Design and Implementation. The Bank has significant experience in: (i)
project management; (ii) provision of technical assistance to project preparation, implementation and
supervision; (iii) assistance in the competitive selection of firms and individuals from the public,
private and NGO sectors; and (iv) assistance in management of competitive funds, especially in the
social sector.
*   Commitment to Credit Agreement The Credit Agreement, as an international legal agreement,
would increase political commitment for health sector reform.
* Stakeholder Coordination. The Bank is in a privileged position to assist the coordination of all
internal and external stakeholders. Internal coordination is necessary among the Parliament, MOF,
MOH, Ministry of Economy and Reforms, trade unions, medical chamber, regional authorities,
- 30 -



municipalities, private sector and NGOs. Externally, the project requires coordination among UN
Agencies (WHO, UNICEF, UNAIDS), bilateral organizations (Dutch, USAID, Sida/Sweden), EU
(Tacis) and other intemational donors and NGOs (e.g. Soros, Red Cross, US Congress, etc.). The
Bank has already assumed this role by facilitating and participating in the work of the Steering
Committee, participating in the Task Force of intemational partners, and organizing regularly donors
meetings.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=US$9.9 million; ERR = 39 % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
54.   The Moldovan Health Investment Fund would produce substantial savings for the sector. These
savings would be spent on the maintenance of the investments done in primary care and emergency care
through the project and on pharmaceuticals, medical supply and increased salaries to improve healthcare
quality. The restructuring process, and the subsequent improvement in allocative and technical efficiency
in the sector, would yield significant net benefits for the sector and improve value for money.
55.   Benefits outnumber investments. As shown in Annex 4, benefits outnumber investments nearly
two to one. Over ten years, the net present value of the project would yield benefits of US$9.9 million.
However, this analysis regarded the US$10 million grant from the Dutch government as investment, not as
an additional benefit. Hence the actual costs of the project are systematically overestimated from the point
of view of the Moldovan govermment. With the exception of the first and third years, the project is
expected to generate annual savings to the system that outnumber the investment cost, thereby paying for
them. Sensitivity analysis was performed on the above results to test the robustness of the results in terms
of delays in project implementation and benefit yields below those originally estimated. The sensitivity
analysis shows that, overall, the project would remain justifiable even assuming a 2 year delay in project
benefits or a 20 percent reduction in the benefits received, assuming the traditional parameters which
dictate that annual rate of return earned should be greater than or equal to the discount rate of the project,
to maintain an efficient allocation of Bank resources. The sizable IRR also underscores the cost-effective
nature of the program. It is estimated that the project would reduce the burden of disease by approximately
120,000 discounted life years during the 10 years examined. The average cost per discounted life year for
the selected project interventions is in a range acceptable under the standards established in the 1993 WDR.
The overall average cost per discounted life year saved is US$265. This is in line with other projects that
promote primary care interventions.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
NPV=US$ 26.4 million; FRR   % (see Annex 4)
56.    Annex 4 includes the results of the financial analysis. The financial analysis shows the budgetary
impact of the costs and benefits, including recurrent costs and financing costs of the IDA credit. For the
active years of the project, the impact of project costs on the health budget is between 1.0 and 4.8 percent
of the consolidated health budget, which can be financed from the Dutch government grant. After the end
of the project, the burden of recurrent costs on the budget decreases to 2.3-2.9 percent per year. Given that
the direct savings generated by the project are estimated at US$3.7 million per year (around 8 percent of
the health budget), the savings will outweigh recurrent costs three to one. Under the worst case scenario, in
which direct savings are reduced to near zero, the total impact of recurrent costs on the MOH budget would
- 31 -



be considerably high in the existing budgetary framework. Success of the project, and the ability to
manage recurrent expenditure will be contingent on the savings generated by the restructuring process
(US$2.5 million annually). The design of the HIF will prevent any additional investments without
additional savings, thereby mitigating the risk to the budget. It is also important to point out that these
savings would be achieved without introducing user fees, as it is the main objective of the project to
improve access for a well defined circle of essential services in a financially sustainable manner.
Fiscal Impact:
57.   From a fiscal point view, the project does not require any additional revenues. The central budget
will be better of as a result of the project as (i) future government liability in the formn of pensions and
salaries for dismissed health personnel (who are public servants) would be reduced; and (ii) future
government revenues (as a result of better productivity, reduced premature morbidity and mortality) would
be increased.
3. Technical:
58.    Downsizing, and the transition from the specialist, hospital-based system to a general practitioner,
primary-health care based system have to be smoothly managed, so as to avoid social, political and
professional turmoil. Therefore, a balance has to be created between investments on upgrading emergency
services and primary health care services, and downsizing of polyclinics and hospitals. The present design
of the HIF should enable the Government to accomplish this goal. Management of the HIF is key for
project success. A component coordinator will manage the HIF with support from the PCU. The
outstanding technical issues are the following:
*   Definition of a minimum package of health care benefits. The Government already approved a
basic package, but it is so comprehensive that it is not in line with available resources. Budgetary
support for health care has to be limited to the financing of a basic package of essential services.
This package needs to be defined realistically in terms of the available resources and the health
needs of the population, taking into account the need to protect the population from catastrophic
risk, and to ensure adequate provision of basic public health services. The public sector allocates
US$10 per capita to the health sector, while patients participate out-of-pocket with another US$10.
The limited budgetary resources will not allow to include more than basic primary and hospital
care that is required to protect the population from ill-health. The package would guarantee access
to services with high positive externalities such as immunizations, limited maternal and child care,
treatment of communicable diseases (e.g. TB, diarrheal diseases, acute-respiratory problems,
sexually transmitted diseases), emergency care and health promotion. The free package of services
would be provided in specially designated general practice centers and Judet hospitals, which
would be strengthened by the HIF. These centers would offer these services free of charge. The
basic package needs to be reviewed on a regular basis to assure that services included can be fully
funded, and that the overall package fits within the available resource envelope. Many of these
concepts have been developed in close collaboration with UNICEF, based on their basic package
that allocates about US$3/capita to PHC and about US$5 to hospital care. UNICEF has been
pilot testing the basic package for primary care. The project would use the HIF to sponsor
expansion of the small scale UNICEF project and to develop the package for hospital services.
*   Human resources plan. Staff downsizing will occur as a result of restructuring, and the
Government should be prepared to minimize the negative impact of the refonns on human
- 32 -



resources. The Government should develop a human resources plan including training, and
re-training of staff for reallocation within the health sector and outside the sector; early retirement;
and dismissal with severance payments. The PSCR project would include severance payments for
dismissed staff.
*   Communication of health sector reform. The different stakeholders (general public, patients,
politicians, professionals) need to be fully informed about the health sector reforrn process, and
participate in it as much as possible. Some communication activities, such as training in
communication of health authorities and media training seminars, have been developed during
project preparation, but the reform and the project are to be accompanied by a public awareness
campaign. Communication activities would also be implemented under the project in order to
strengthen the communications capacity of the MoH and the relevant agencies at the Judet level.
*   Project Evaluation. The baseline studies, which will be carried out before effectiveness, will
include: (i) epidemiological studies focusing on key health problems to be addressed by the project
through the basic package, training in general practice, and as a condition for HIF investments
(perinatal and obstetric care, management of childhood illnesses, sexually-transmited diseases, TB,
diabetes, hypertension, breast and cervical cancer); (ii) studies on access and utilization of health
services, including equity on use of services and health resources; and (iii) social studies, including
stakeholder analysis, and user and provider satisfaction studies.
4. Institutional:
59.    The Institutional Assessment carried out in June 1999 identified several issues (see below), which
led the MoH and project team to launch several training and communication activities during preparation,
and to include the communication campaign in project design. In the meantime, the Municipality of
Chisinau and the Central Judet Health Authority took the lead of the regional sector reforms, and other
Judets are expected to follow their example. Finally, project design was changed to satisfy stakeholder
appeals for a more gradual approach in restructuring the system. The baseline studies will include a
stakeholder analysis, which will allow checking for further progress in adhesion to the health sector
reforms, as compared to the description below.
60.    Many institutions and professional organizations within the health system lack a distinctive culture,
internal consistency, values, or interests. Extremely limited budgets eliminate any substantial research
projects, training programs, development work, professional gatherings, exchange and communication.
The civil society is not able to integrate the medical profession, public-oriented groups, and citizens for
public debate, cooperation, and joint production of ideas and programs. The stakeholders still converge
around the Government as the core societal pillar. The reform is seen as a threat to the existing order.
Independent action is usually a defensive strategy to protect some set of benefits or programs, but it lacks a
vision that transcends and offers new and alternative ideas. It is quite clear that the majority of physicians,
and also many middle and high ranked health officials, are reluctant supporters or outright opponents of the
health reform proposal. Health officials and staff appeal for a more gradual approach. International
agencies are the driving force behind the health reform, which makes local institutions even more reluctant
to take part since they are only the technical executors of projects that are supposedly their own. The
institutional assessment shows that the lower echelons of central health administration and some local chief
doctors have only second-hand knowledge about the health reform proposal. The medical profession has
not autonomously participated in public debate in regard to the health reform or been organizationally
incorporated in preparations of the key health reform materials. The MoH has been a solo domestic actor
in these activities, and communication has been one-way. Mass media, local officials, and local agencies
- 33 -



have been the main technical executors so far. The health reform task force seems to be in its formative
stage. Although it is filled with top professionals and public officials, the monitoring of the health reform
outcomes and consequences is not its high priority. The feedback from local communities, local
administration, and professional agencies seems to be only incidental.
61.    The health reform can only be successful if it is part of a wider and deeper project to modemize
society. A flexible, differentiated, but territorially and functionally integrated system would provide a
variety of options for social actors, channel their interest articulation and interest aggregation, enable their
self-regulation, and provide transparency, stability, and predictability in social life. For Moldova this
means a radical reform of the entire public sector and integration of the country and its economy into
supranational networks, programs, and exchange. Thus, the health reform may succeed if it is implemented
along with other major social reforms. The most important political and institutional issues identified so
far are the following:
*   Political instability. Presidential elections will take place in September 2000. Therefore, the
present Government that was approved by Parliament in January 2000, will stay in power for
about nine months.
*   Limited institutional capacity to implement the reform  This is one of the key issues in
Moldova, and not only in the health sector. The proposed Project Steering Committee and the PCU
are in an initial stage of development. They need political and legislative support, TA, and to
carry out a well designed public communication strategy on health sector reforms.
*   Barter economy. The increasing barter economy (including in the health sector) makes taxes
almost meaningless and drastically reduces public funds. The inability to tax and fund public
services makes the Government very fragile in its regulative role and may lead to a loss of
legitimacy.
3   Informal payments. Patients pay legal and illegal fees for service. The Government legalized
some user fees, and funds are supposed to revert to health services to allow them to make staff
payments and basic investments. However, patients continue to pay illegal fees, and are not
protected against abuses.
*   Decentralization. Devolution is taking place from a heavy centralized system to a decentralized
one. The main goal is a new configuration for the control of funds, a reallocation of power and
formal authority, and creation of new local institutional networks. Since devolution has just
started, it is difficult to predict further development. A key challenge will be a real division of
labor between the central health administration and the new judet health authorities. The budget
allocation is the first test. Shared responsibility in designing and implementing health reform is
another one. Decentralization also brings a problem of local administrative and managerial
capacity in planning and running the hospitals, or in coordinating and designing the new primary
care network. Development of local expertise and creation of the health mix - a new configuration
of public, private, and NGO networks - will take time.
*   Privatization and Regulation. Although the reform is aimed at building the health market
economy, much of the privatization process is not designed; it is hardly regulated at all, it is neither
transparent nor supported by legal systems, nor is stable and predictable. The massive informal
payments are the best indicator. The supply and distribution of drugs has created monopolies,
- 34 -



inflated prices for medicines, and increased feelings of helplessness among patients. A patronage
system of sellers, doctors, and (probably) public officials is emerging around groups of
international pharmaceutical companies.
4.1 Executing agencies:
62.    Building institutional capacity to implement the reforms. This is the first Bank-financed project
in the health sector in Moldova. During project preparation, investments were made on strengthening
institutional capacity - e.g., designation of an intersectoral project Steering Committee, communication
training of MoH senior staff, media training, and training of the PCU in management, procurement and
financial management. However, weak institutional capacity is one of the key issues in Moldova, and
therefore during project implementation further investments would be made to strengthen the MoH (see
Component 1).
4.2 Project management:
63.    The PCU, which has been in charge of project preparation since the beginning, was set up in April
2000 as an independent legal entity within the Ministry of Health (MOH). The PCU can obtain legal,
financial and professional advise from the relevant department of the MOH. A Financial Management
System has been established. At present, the PCU consists of a director, a procurement officer and a
financial officer. The PCU staff is of good quality, and has been receiving training in project management,
fmancial management and procurement both from the SIF and from a foreign consultant. Two local
consultants in communication are assisting the Ministry of Health and the PCU. In addition to the staff
already hired, the PCU would include a technical Coordinator for each Project component who is
responsible for the interaction with the MoH, the Municipality of Chisinau and all Judets. Technical
assistance will be provided to the PCU staff by a foreign consultant employed under the project for four to
six month, and the PCU staff would be further trained under the project.
4.3 Procurement issues:
64.    Procurement Assessment. A Procurement Capacity Assessment was carried out in July 25,
1999, and updated in May 2000. The procurement capacity review was based on the country's general
procurement environment, the Public Procurement Law, other laws and regulations and internal
procurement practice. The main findings are the following:
(i)    The Country Procurement Assessment review (CPAR) was not yet prepared by the Bank.
The public procurement system is based on the Public Procurement Law (PPL) passed by
the Parliament in 1997. The law provides for cases when standards of international treaty
or agreement is applicable;
(ii)    The main strength of the law is that it gives a legal framework for execution of the
procurement of goods, works and services financed by public funds. It also stipulates the
rights and responsibilities of the National Procurement Agency, the working groups
dealing with procurement and the suppliers. Under the PPL open procedures (ICB or
NCB) are the most preferable method in procurement and the participation of foreign
suppliers is restricted only in exceptional cases; and
- 35-



(iii)   The main weakness is that there are no implementation guidelines or standard bidding
documents to ensure the consistent application of the law. There is also some
contradiction in the evaluation of the tenders. The contract is concluded by the buyer's
procurement unit, but the Procurement Agency of the Government should approve it before
contracting and, in some cases, additional approval of a superior body is also needed.
65.   Project Procurement Implementation Arrangements. Project procurement activities have being
carried out by the procurement staff from the PCU, trained by a consultant and by SIF. Preparation of
bidding documents for procurement under the PPF is well advanced. Although there was a significant
improvement in the procurement implementation arrangements since last year, the project rating of high
risk for implementation capacity does not change. Therefore, the suggested thresholds for prior review are
the following:
(i)    For goods, equal or above US$ 100,000
(ii)   For works, equal or above US$ 200,000.
(iii)   For consulting firms, above US$ 50,000 and all individual consultants above US$ 30,000.
(iv)   For NCB (works) and International Shopping the first two contracts are subject to prior
review.
66.   The recommended frequency of procurement supervision missions is one in 3-4 months at the start
of the project implementation, and intensive external and internal training is recommended for the PCU
staff.
4.4 Financial management issues:
67.   Financial Assessment. A Country Financial Accountability Assessment has been carried out, and
its recommendations were taken into account in the overall assessment of the PCU and its financial
arrangements carried out in May 2000. The Borrower has been compliant with audit covenants in other
Bank projects. The TOR for the auditor has been agreed with the Borrower and the auditor is expected to
be selected by October, 2000. The PCU has a qualified accountant. This accountant has no prior
experience in working on Bank projects. In order to mitigate any risks, the accountant will attend a Bank
sponsored Financial Management and Disbursement seminar.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Sunmmarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
68.   Following a review meeting, the project was classified as Category C, and therefore does not
require a formal environmental assessment. However, an environmental management plan has been
prepared and the borrower is responsible to ensure that the plan is carried out.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Not Applicable
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
- 36 -



Date of receipt of final draft: Not Applicable
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Not Applicable
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
See environmental plan attached.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
69.   The Social Assessment included a brief social development and poverty review and two studies, a
media analysis and a study of informal payments. The Social Development and Poverty Review
indicated a dramatic pauperization trend since 1997. UNDP (1998) estimates that 76.8 percent of surveyed
inhabitants live bellow the official minimum subsistence level. Economic trends (1998) indicate that
approximately 60 percent of Moldovans had an income of less than US$20 per month in the Spring of
1998. The value of average monthly pensions, for example, was around 90 lei or slightly more then US$10
by the end of 1998, only a quarter of its real level in 1990. Furthermore, 60 percent of Moldovans spend
around 80 percent of their income on food. This accelerated pauperization has shaped a drastic
demographic shift and the emergence of the 'new poor.' First, key demographic indicators (infant
mortality, life expectancy, fertility and morbidity rates) reflect the sharp decline in economic and social
conditions. The major outcome is that natural growth became negative in 1998: the population started
declining. Second, migration has become a new and massive survival strategy for dealing with economic
and social hardships. According to recent official estimates, more than 600,000 citizens of Moldova are
illegally working abroad. The population of the Republic is over 3.5 million, and this means that one
Moldovan in three is working abroad. And, finally, the new poor include patients in need of intensive and
expensive medical treatments, such as insulin-dependent patients, people with cancer, and terminally ill
people. These new poor are the outcome of the increasing poverty and of the collapse of the public health
system.
70.   The Media Analysis showed that the Moldovan mass media are fragmented, divided by language
and foreign media penetration, and under-funded. The average circulation of the biggest dailies is between
5,000 and 15,000 copies. The electronic media are devastated by power cuts of 8 to 10 hours a day. The
major, state controlled TV station reduced its daily broadcasting to four hours from June through the end of
August 1999. In this constrained context, the media deal with problems of nation-building and the recent
economic and institutional crisis. The assessment of mass media coverage of health issues is based on an
analysis of 420 articles published in 15 daily newspapers and magazines between September 1, 1998 and
July 1, 1999. Brief news items make up two-thirds of all coverage. These are one or two paragraphs of
official releases, public announcements, and press conferences. In spite of the difficulties, the mass media
have addressed some of the most important issues of the health system, as follows:
*  The profound crisis of the health system (empty hospitals, growing numbers of deaths and births occur
at home, informal payments).
- 37 -



*   The controversy of health care privatization (high fees, inappropriate use of public facilities, scandals
and frauds). The Government was criticized for its reluctance to accelerate privatization and its 'heavy
hand' in controlling, licensing, and constraining the private sector.
*   The differences among public officials with regard to the scope and content of health reform. The
central health administration may be a hindrance to any radical reform, but it is the ultimate provider
and implementer of the entire health system.
*   Potential resistance to the health reform (medical profession, part of the central administration, tensions
with international agencies, trade unions, local communities). Gradualism versus a radical approach in
health reform implementation.
* There are no specialized journalists with substantial knowledge and experience in the domain of health
systems. Journalists need to know the specifics, evolution, and context of the health sector reforms,
and to have a variety of approaches and methods.
71.   Informal Payment for Health Services. The practice of informal and direct payment indicates
how the major stakeholders - patients and medical staff - accommodate to the health crisis. The assessment
is based on the survey of 390 physicians, nurses, and patients done in June and July of 1999. The survey
has confirmed that informal payments are widespread and profound in its scope. The main findings are the
following:
*   Our first observation is a drastic decrease in the number of patients in all studied hospitals, with the
number of occupied beds reduced by one-third to half, according to physicians' estimates. In many
interviews, patients informed the survey team that 'many people had to stop hospital treatment due to
lack of money.' Furthermore, our data demonstrate that patients' medical costs regularly exceed their
official salaries and other incomes.
*   Physicians confirmed that up to 70 percent of them were informally paid by their patients. Patients,
however, claimed that 91.5 percent of them had paid their doctors informally.
*   Cash is the key form of informal payment according to the doctors. Patients claim that cash and
in-kind payments are equally important and given simultaneously. In-kind payments indicate that
barter and the subsistence economy prevailed in the summer of 1999.
*   Physicians' salaries ranged from US$300-$600 a year in early 1999 (monthly salaries were 270 to 600
lei). However, physicians' income from informal payments is much higher than their monthly salaries
for regular hospital work. The ratio informal payments/salary varies according to specialty: 3.0 times
higher for pediatricians, 4.6 for internal medicine, 4.9 for surgeons, and 8.2 for gynecologists. In
Chisinau, the average monthly informal income was around 1,900 lei for anesthesiologists, 1,440 lei
for surgeons, 840 lei for internists, and 600 lei for pediatricians. The in-kind cash equivalents for
surgeons were 200 lei, 260 lei for internists, 277 lei for gynecologists, and around 360 lei for
pediatricians.
*   Informal payment for hospital work is only a part of physicians' income. Most physicians act as
family doctors to 15 to 20 private patients. Several of them estimated that this private income might be
two to three times higher than the informal income earned in hospitals. Furthermore, many physicians
have special arrangements with local pharmacies, which pay them around 5 percent of the
pharmaceuticals cost if they prescribe the pharmacies' products.
- 38 -



* Patients indicated that it is a real financial challenge to pay the formal fees introduced in January 1999,
and the informal payments. The total costs of hospitalization varied between 990 lei at internal
medicine units, 1,037 lei at pediatric units, and 1,231 lei in gynecology/obstetrics units. Given that the
patients' average monthly salary was 274 lei in the period May-July of 1999, it is not surprising that
three-quarters of them see these costs as unbearable.
* The introduction of official fees has substantially reduced but not eliminated informal paymetits, which
were 6 percent of the total cost of hospitalization in internal medicine units and 31 percent in surgical
units. Patients made informal payments of 68 lei in internal medicine units, 153 lei in pediatric units,
381 lei in gynecology/obstetrics units, and 600 lei in surgical units. Almost all patients gave the same
reason for the informal payments: to get better service.
* Medicines make up 26 to 49 percent of the total costs paid by patients, the largest single cost. On
average, the patients paid for pharmaceuticals around 275 lei in pediatric units, 342 lei in gynecology
units, 493 lei in therapeutic units, and 965 lei in surgical units.
* The patients' ability to pay for medical services needs more research. Many patients were reluctant to
disclose their sources of income, and many of their answers were not precise or direct. Combined
family income was a source of funding for 35 percent of patients; parents, children, and relatives were
a key source for additional 31 percent. A shadow economy and selling cattle were supplementary
resources used to cover the costs of hospitalization.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
72.    A participatory approach is being pursued with beneficiaries and other stakeholders. Consultation
of patients, professionals, health organizations, other sectors, and local and international organizations has
taken place. Partnerships are being developed with the Municipality of Chisinau and the Central Judet
Health Authority. The public communication campaign will inform the general public about health sector
reforms, while more specific communication activities will be carried out to involve health professionals,
trade unions and politicians.
Stakeholders Participation      Information              Consultation           Partnerships
Patients          Social Assessment         Social Assessment
Public Communication     Baseline studies
Campaign & other
communication activities
General Public       Public Communication      Baseline studies
Campaign
Municipality of Chisinau   Meetings, Aide-Memoires   Baseline studies       Preparation and
Judet Health Authorities   Project Documents       Meetings                 implementation plans
Chief Doctors of      Institutional Assessment    Institutional Assessment  for health sector
Republican Hospitals    Public Communication                              reform
Campaign & other
communication activities
- 39 -



Parliament/Government  Meetings, Aide-Memoires   Baseline studies        Project preparation &
Project Documents        Meetings                implementation
Institutional Assessment    Institutional Assessment   activities
Public Communication
Campaign & other
communication activities
Local Organizations    Meetings, Aide-Memoires   Baseline studies       Project preparation &
Project Documents        Meetings                 implementation
Public Communication                              activities
Campaign & other
communication activities
International      Meetings, Aide-Memoires   Meetings                Project
Organizations      Project Documents         Technical Assistance    preparation &
Institutional Assessment    Projects             implementation
Public Communication                             activities
Campaign
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
73.    Stakeholder analysis will be carried out as part of the project baseline studies, and in preparation
for the public communication campaign. When the institutional and social assessments were carried out, a
large group of local NGOs was identified, and many of them were interviewed and partially evaluated.
Some of them will be selected to participate in coming consultations, monitoring, and evaluation of the
health sector reforms, especially at the local level. A group ofjoumalists, newspapers and TV shows were
identified for cooperation on public communication of the health sector reforms. The MoH and the PCU
have been carrying out media seminars in cooperation with the Soros Foundation.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
74.   The project would institute a demand-driven scheme - the Health Investment Fund - that gives the
lead of the restructuring process to regional health authorities. The PCU has been canying out regular
meetings with stakeholders, including regional health authorities, chief doctors, and professors of medical
schools. The PCU also contracted two communication specialists, one a specialist in communications
strategy, who is preparing the communication campaign, and another a press officer, who is assisting the
MoH in its relation with the media. Finally, the stakeholder analysis will allow for the identification of
issues that can be tackled by the communication activities.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
75.    The project will measure changes in health status, and patients and providers satisfaction with
health sector reforms. Stakeholder analysis would also be carried out as part of project evaluation by
mid-term and end-of-project.
- 40 -



7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
________ ________ ________ ________ ________ _APP .   licabilitY
3 Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01. BP 4.01. GP 4.01)            El Yes E No
1 Natural habitats (OP 4.04. BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                    L Yes M No
1 Forestry (OP 4.36. GP 4.36)                                     L Yes Z No
1 Pest Management IOP 4.09)                                        l Yes 1 No
E Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                    l Yes Z No
Z Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                    _ Yes Z No
Z Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.301                              L Yes Z No
Z Safety of Dams (OP 4.37. BP 4.37)                               _ Yes Z No
E Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50. BP 7.50GP 7.50)         Yes 1 No
1 Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60. BP 7.60. GP 7.60)          L Yes 1 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Not applicable
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
76.   The implementation of new financing and organizational arrangements, during the execution of the
project, will develop a sustainable framework for the implementation of health sector reforms and the
proposed project in Moldova, as indicated in the financial analysis (Annex 4). It is estimated that savings
would outweigh recurrent costs three to one.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating           Risk Minirmiation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Political instability. The project was      H         Policy dialogue, Policy Letter and Credit
mostly prepared under the previous                    Agreement. The establishment of intense policy
Government, it will be submitted to the               dialogue with the new Government will increase
Board during the transition period before             project ownership. The previous Government
Presidential elections in September 2000,             sent a Policy Letter on health sector reforms to
and it will be implemented by the new                 the Association, and an updated Policy Letter
Government coming out of the elections.               was submitted to as a condition for Board.
Finally, the Credit Agreement includes remedies
for no-compliance.
Declining public health budget. From        S         The Association is requiring that the budget is
1990 to 1999, the health sector budget                maintained at no less than 450 million lei, as a
declined 60 percent. In 2000, the budget              condition for replenishment of the Health
slightly increased (47 million lei, about             Investment Fund.
US$3.8 million).
-41 -



Opposition to health sector reforms, and     S        The MoH, PCU and project team have been
downsizing the health care system. There              carrying out advocacy activities, and developing
is almost general understanding of the                partnerships with stakeholders and donors for
need to downsize the system, but also                 the development of health sector reformns
significant opposition to doing so from
some politicians, chief doctors and media             The MoH senior staff was trained on
communication, and media training has been
carried out (two seminars with journalists from
national and regional press).
A Public Communication Campaign was
prepared, and will be launched as soon as grant
funding is identified, or under the credit
From Components to Outputs
Lack of Institutional Capacity. This         S         The Bank has been providing assistance to train
remains a substantial risk for project                MoH staff, including the Minister and Deputy
implementation - for instance, the                    Ministers, in communication skills; and the PCU
Government and MoH do not have any                    staff has been trained in project management,
experience of dealing with dismissal of               financial management and procurement
staff and severance payments.
Under the credit, at least 750 general
practitioners, 1,500 nurses, and 20 managers are
expected to be trained
M
Lack of co-financing. The Dutch                       The Association continues to assist the
Government is expected to make the final              Government of Moldova to arrange the
decision on the project co-financing                  co-financing. The GoM was requested to send a
before effectiveness. In the event that               letter to the Association recognizing the need to
co-fmancing would not be arranged,                    reallocate funds if co-financing is not arranged
project development objectives would not               by effectiveness.
be affected, but credit funds would have
to be reallocated to cover TA and project
management costs.
Overall Risk Rating                          S        Lengthy project preparation
Intensive supervision
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
77.    The project involves some potentially controversial issues, as follows:
(i) Downsizing of health system. Some stakeholders perceive the health system that Moldova had in the
past as good, and therefore are reluctant to change. Also, stakeholders interests most times collide with
health sector reform objectives and processes. Therefore, the Bank has been accused of advising the
Govermnent to close health services. The Government was advised to carry out the public communication
campaign about the health sector reforms, and the project restructuring still includes closures of
- 42 -



unnecessary health services, but as a condition for investments on primary health care and emergency
services.
(ii) Dismissal of health staff. This is probably the most controversial aspect of the health sector reforms.
The project would include re-training for reallocation of health staff within the health sector. The regional
restructuring plans may include severance payments. Under the PSCR, re-training for reallocation to other
sectors would take place, and a mechanism would be established for severance payments in the health
sector.
(iii) Change of medical paradigm. The change of medical paradigm, from a specialist, hospital-based care
system, to a general practitioner, primary health care, evidence-based system is also controversial. This
may be minimized by stakeholder participation (e.g., involvement of medical and nursing school in
development of training in general practice), and by training health staff in new protocols of care.
(iv) Technical Assistance, Training, Operating costs. Members of Parliament would be reluctant to
approve the proposed project if a significant part of the credit was allocated to technical assistance, training
and operating costs. Therefore, the project team reduced these costs as much as possible without
compromising project quality. Furthermore, most of these costs would be financed by the Dutch grant.
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
Condition of Negotiations
* The Borrower submitted a Letter of Policy signed by the Ministers of Finance and Health outlining the
Government's conmmitment to the health sector restructuring prograrn and the strengthening of primary
health care as included in the project.
Conditions of Board
The Borrower complied with Board conditions by submitting:
- the Letter of Policy signed by the Prime Minister;
* draft legislation on self-financed health facilities acceptable to the Association;
* evidence of closure of at least 100 ancillary building on hospital complexes (all Judets);
* evidence of consolidation of Municipal Narcological and of transformation of the Municipal
Dermato-Venerealogical Dispensary into a self-financed facility.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Conditions of effectiveness
The conditions of effectiveness are the following:
-43-



* The Borrower has opened in Lei the Project Account in the National Bank of Moldova or in a
commercial bank acceptable to the Association; and
*   The Borrower has deposited into the Project Account an initial amount equivalent to US$75,000
Credit Covenants
*   The Borrower shall maintain the Project Account, and shall replenish the Account promptly before
each month with sufficient funds to enable the Borrower to meet its obligations;
*   The Borrower shall use the amount in the Project Account for financing the Borrower's contribution to
project expenditures;
*   The Borrower shall ensure that sufficient annual allocations will be made in the Borrower's budget for
the counterpart contribution to the costs of the project;
*   The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, including records and accounts, and
prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the
operations, resource and expenditures for and in connection with the carrying out of the Project;
*   The Borrower shall have the project records, accounts and financial statements and the records and
accounts for the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards
acceptable to the Association consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
v  The Borrower shall furnish to the Association as soon as possible, but in any case not later than six (6)
months after the end of each year: (a) certified copies of the project financial statements for such year
as so audited; and (b) an opinion on such financial statements, records, and accounts and a report of
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested;
* The Borrower shall furnish to the Association such other information concerning such records and
accounts and the audit thereof, and conceming said auditors, as the Association may from time to time
reasonable request;
*   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the
basis of Project Management Reports or statements of expenditures, the Borrower shall: (i) maintain or
cause to be maintained records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
*   The Borrower shall retain, until at least one year after the Association has received the audit report for
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts,
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures.
*   The Borrower shall enable the Association's representatives to examine such records;
*   The Borrower shall ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during each fiscal year, together with the procedures and intemal controls
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals;
-44-



*   The Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Association for the
strengthening of the financial management system in order to enable the Borrower to, not later than
December 31, 2001, to prepare quarterly PMRs acceptable to the Association;
*   The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in
the Project Implementation Plan (PIP) and the Project Operational Manual (POM);
*   The Borrower shall maintain the PSC until completion of the Project with composition and terms of
reference satisfactory to the Association;
*   The Borrower shall maintain the PCU, until completion of the Project, with composition, resources,
and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association and assign to it responsibility for overall Project
implementation and coordination;
*   The Borrower shall by September 30, 2001, prepare and furnish to the Association for its review, a
proposal for the establishment and operation of the HIF including inter alia: 9i) a description of the
objective and areas of operations of the HIF; (ii) the proposed managerial and administrative structure
of the HIF: (iii) the proposed funding sources of the HIF; and (iv) the proposed arrangement for
incorporation of the operations and staff of the PCU into the HIF; review such proposal with the
Association by December 31, 2001; and based on such review enact no later than July 31, 2002, or
such later date as the Association may otherwise agree, the necessary instrument for the operation of
the HIF;
*   The Borrower shall provide financing for approved Health Investments on the basis of a Health
Investment Agreement (HIA), to be entered into between MoH and a Beneficiary;
*   The Borrower shall obtain the Association's prior approval of the first three Health Investments
proposed by Beneficiaries and the first three HIAs for said Investments;
*   The Borrower shall (a) ensure that all measures for the carrying out of the Environmental Management
Plan shall be taken in a timely manner and (b) include adequate information on the carrying out of
such measures in the progress reports;
*   The Borrower shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on
an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Association, the carrying out of the
Project and of measures included in the Program and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
*   The Borrower shall prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish to the
Association, on or about February 28, 2003, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in
the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the
objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
*   The Borrower shall review with the Association, by May 31, 2003, or such later date as the Bank shall
request, the report referred to above, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient
completion of the Project, and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and
recommendations of the said report and the Association's views on the matter.
- 45 -



H. Readiness for Implementation
] 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
L 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
Li 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
78.    The proposed project would select proposals for investments on emergency care and primary health
care, including civil works, on a competitive basis. Regions and health services that submit winning
proposals would be required to submit detailed implementation plans, including engineering design
documents and procurement documents. The beneficiaries would be provided with technical assistance to
carry out these detailed implementation plans. The Municipality of Chisinau and the Central Judet are
fairly advanced in the preparation of detailed implementation plans, and therefore will be initially financed
under the PPF. Other regions would prepare implementation plans after being selected for funding under
the Health Investment Fund.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Li 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Jciana Godinho                    A  in H. Fidler                    Roger W. Grawe
FTam Leader                       S ctor Manager/Director           Country Manager/Director
- 46 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
MOLDOVA: Health Investment Fund Project
. . ' ~~Key- .P.---,n.- - -e
#.Qbipbendspr 1____________  ______._-i -_'
Sector-related CAS Goal:    Sector Indicators:             Sector/ country reports:      (from Goal to Bank Mission)
*Create sustainable                                        *National statistics          *Govemment remains committed
macrofinancing framework                                  * Project M&E                  to public sector reform and to
through reducing the size of the                          * PSRC M&E                     health sector reforms
public sector in Moldova
*Give high priority to health  * Share of health expenditures as * SAL Il/SAC M&E        * Conditions of SAL Il/SAC are
reform                       a percentage of GDP does not                                fulfilled.
decline further
* Reverse ongoing decline in    *Life expectancy stabilizes  *National statistics        *Benchmarks for PSRC are met.
health indicators           * IMR decreases by 20% percent
in 10 years
Project Development          Outcome I Impact              Project reports:              (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                   Indicators:
The proposed Health Investment
Fund (HIF) aims to increase the
health status of the population,
and the quality and efficiency of
the public health sector through
the following specific objectives:
* Guarantee universal access to a * About 35% of all public health Project Reports       Health care budget does not
minimum package of health    expenditures should be                                     decline as percentage of GDP
services                     allocated to primary care, and   Project Evaluation studies
eModernize emergency services   the total budget should never be                         Government remains committed
and primary health care      less than 450 million lei;                                to health sector reform
*Reduce excess capacity in the   *Legislation defining a minimum
health sector                package of health services                                 Political consensus is reached
*Strengthen institutional capacity *Health care providers receive                        among different stakeholders
public funds on contractual                               regarding health reforms
basis to provide services
included in the basic package                             Parliament accepts changes in
*Patients do not pay fees for                              existing legislation
services included in the basic
health package                                            Public communication campaigns
*New population-based                                      are successful in informing the
resource-allocation mechanism                             general public about objectives of
implemented by December 2001                              health sector reforms
Institutional capacity is sufficient
to initiate reforms
* Approval by Government of
health sector restructuring plan
and timely execution according
to timebound action plan;
* At least 75% of funds disbursed
as follows: from the first tranche
by December 2001; from the
second tranche by December
2003; and from the third tranche
by December 2005;
-47 -



*At least 75% of general
practice centers (270) operating
providing the basic package of
PHC by the end of the project;
925% decrease in fatality rate in
emergency cases since the
beginning of the project
*Referrals to secondary and
tertiary care limited to 20%
* Increased access of population,
especially youth, to upgraded
services;
* Improved user satisfaction at
those facilities supported by the
project;
*Health services capacity limited
to I general practitioner/1,500
population;
* At least 750 physicians and
1,500 nurses initiate training in
by the end of the project;
* At least 20 senior staff from
MOH and Judet Health
Authorities are trained in health
management;
*At least 2 students obtain public
health and health care
management training abroad
* Clinical protocols for perinatal
and obstetric care, integrated
management of childhood
illnesses (IMCI), STIs, TB,
diabetes, hypertension, and
breast and cervical cancer,
developed and in use by training
programs, by December 2001.
Support the development of TB    Approval by the Govemment of
and AIDS Strategies           updated TB and AIDS Strategies
by December 2001
-48 -



Key Pe*wmmn
Hierarchy of Ob2 tfis                                        n                           Criical Assumptions
Output from each             Output Indicators:            Project reports:              (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
* New population-based       Project Reports               Health care budget does not
1. Health Policy Development    resource-allocation mechanism                            decline as a percentage of GDP
and Institutional Strengthening  approved and implemented  Project Evaluation studies
of the MoH. A health reform  * Legislation defining an
strategy is developed including  acceptable minimum package of                           Media campaign is successful in
key policies on:               health services,                                          informing health authorities about
e User charges are normalized,                             objectives of health reforms
*health care financing         but patients do not pay fees for
*basic package of health care  services included in the basic                            Health decision-makers and
services;                    health package                                             professionals willing to carry out
*provider-payer split        *Health care providers become                               health sector reforms
* user charges                financially autonomous entities
* staff downsizing             according to agreed plan
*TB and AIDS strategies      *Government approves TB/AIDS
strategies
Communication campaign on    * Positive changes in perceptions                           Communication of good quality
health sector reforms is launched   of the reforms amongst                               launched early during
stakeholders                                              implementation
* Acceptance of health sector
reforms by majority of
population, patients, providers
and politicians
Institutional capacities (such as                                                        Trained staff have positions
planning, regulating, financing    * 80% of senior staff from the                        where acquired knowledge can be
and purchasing of services,    Ministry of Health and Judet                              used
evaluating, technical assistance,   Health Authorities are trained
and internal management ) at the  in health management
central level and Judet level are
strengthened
Nurses, GPs and hospital
managers obtain modern                                                                    Specialists are willing to be
knowledge, attitudes and skills in *At least 750 physicians and                          retrained to GPs.
their respective fields        1,500 nurses are trained in
family practice.
* At least 2 students obtain public
health and health care
management related training
abroad, and are employed in
the Moldovan public health care
sector upon their return
11. Health Investment Fund    *Percentage of expected      Project Reports               HIF Management is of good
(HIF). Investments are made on   proposals and implementation                            quality and independent from
emergency services, primary    plans:                      Project Evaluation studies    political pressures
health care, and cost-effective    - submitted
secondary health care.             - approved
Downsizing of facilities and staff  - implemented
takes place simultaneously
-49 -



III. Project Management and   * Satisfactory project                                     PCU is of good quality and
Evaluation. Project           implementation                                             independent from political
implementation and evaluation   *Project evaluation, including                           pressures
are carried out                baseline studies, mid-term
studies and end of project
studies, carried out satisfactorily
Project Components I         Inputs: (budget for each      Project reports:              (from Components to
Sub-components:              component)                                                  Outputs)
1. Policy Development and    US $1 .67m                    Project Reports               Satisfactory project
Institutional Strengthening of                                                           implementation
the MoH                                                    Project Evaluation studies
II. Health Investment Fund   US $17.72 m
III. Project Management and   US $0.61m
Evaluation
- 50 -



Annex 2: Project Description
MOLDOVA: Health Investment Fund Project
By Component:
Project Component I - US$1.67 million
I.     Policy Development and Institutional Strengthening of the Moll. This component would
finance the development of health reform strategy, key policies and respective legislation, a public
communication campaign and other communication activities, and a management and technical training
program. The component would finance goods (office, educational and clinical equipment and supplies),
local and foreign training, study tours, and local and foreign technical assistance. The component would
have the following subcomponents:
*   Health Policy Development. This subcomponent would support the development of the legal
framework for health sector reforms, including on: (i) health care financing (sources and resource
allocation); (ii) basic package of health care services; (iii) provider-payer split; (iv) user charges;
(v) human resources; and (vi) TB and AIDS Strategies.
*   Communication of Health Sector Reform. This subcomponent would finance public
communication campaigns to inform stakeholders about the sector reforns, and media expertise to
be provided to the Ministry of Health.
*   Management and Technical Training Program. The following training programs would be
financed under this subcomponent:
(i) General Practice Program. Training of physicians, nurses and other staff associated with the
provision of the basic package of health care. The component would train existing GPs and retrain
specialists to become primary care physicians; and it would train nurses to provide care at the
primary and secondary health care level.
(ii) Management Program. Training of managers at Central, Judet and health care facility levels.
The component would train health services managers and administrators, and would provide them
with the necessary business skills to run an autonomous hospitals.
Project Component 2 - US$17.72 million
II.   Health Investment Fund (HIF). The primary aim of the Fund would be to sponsor change
through demonstration of improvements in access, quality and efficiency of health care services at all
levels of the system. The Project Coordination Unit will manage the HIF, naming a technical committee to
evaluate proposals and respecting the guidelines established by the Steering Committee. The proposed
Fund would create a competitive mechanism to allocate resources among the Municipality of Chisinau and
Judet Health Authorities and, to a lesser extent, hospitals. The Fund would mainly finance regional
(Judet) restructuring proposals that include development of emergency care services; and development of
primary health care based on general practitioners (physicians and nurses). A set of criteria was
developed for subproject selection, including indicators to promote greater equity, effective
implementation of sectoral restructuring at the regional level, and acceptable progress in managing
financial resources and developing training programs. A part of the HIF funds would be made available
on a competitive basis for hospital restructuring that includes downsizing, consolidation and/or
- 51 -



implementation of new provider payment mechanisms. Technical assistance would be provided by local
and foreign consultants to assist the beneficiaries with the preparation and presentation of proposals to the
Fund. Investments would be made in small civil works for rehabilitation of health services; information
systems; medical equipment and supplies; pharmaceuticals; and ambulances. This component would have
two subcomponents:
*   Emergency and Primary Health Care. Funds would be made available to the Municipality of
Chisinau and Judets on a competitive basis, for primary health care and emergency services. The
Fund would be replenished in three phases, depending on compliance with a restructuring plan.
*  Hospital Refurbishment. The Fund would also make limited investments on key hospital
refurbishments up to US$300,000 per facility. This could be one or more investment proposals
submitted by one hospital, for example, to make key investments on essential services, such as
emergency care, surgery or obstetric wards; or to prepare the hospital for autonomization, by
developing a business plan, establishing a financial management system, etc. These proposals
would be funded provided that the hospital would consolidate or close unnecessary services.
Project Component 3 - US$ 0.61 million
III.   Project Management and Evaluation. This would finance project management, including
procurement and financial management, and project evaluation. This component would have the following
subcomponents:
*  Project Management. A small unit would be financed to provide project management,
coordination and monitoring of the health sector reform program, and to manage the project. This
subcomponent would finance local and foreign technical assistance in project management,
procurement, and financial management.
*   Project Evaluation. This would include epidemiological, social, institutional and economic
assessments of the project to be carried out in the beginning of project implementation; by
mid-term; and at project end. The subcomponent would finance the studies, and local and technical
assistance.
- 52 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
MOLDOVA: Health Investment Fund Project
Local       Foreign       Total
Priet Cost By Comonet"                   US $rniltion   US $imlion   US $mfIlion
Policy Development and Institutional Strengthening of MoH  1.17         0.44         1.61
Health Investnient Fund                                   4.60         12.52        17.12
Project Management and Evaluation                         0.37          0.20         0.57
Total Baseline Cost                                       6.14         13.16        19.30
Physical Contingencies                                   0.00          0.00         0.00
Price Contingencies                                      0.45          0.25         0.70
Total Project Costs              6.59         13.41        20.00
Total Financing Required               6.59        13.41        20.00
Local       Foreign       Total
Project Cost BY Category                US $million   US $million   US $million
Civil Works                                                 3.03          0.15          3.18
Services and Training                                       2.15          0.53         2.68
Goods                                                       0.96         12.36         13.32
Operating Costs                                             0.00          0.12          0.12
Contingencies                                               0.45          0.25          0.70
Total Project Costs     6.59          13.41        20.00
Total Financing Required      6.59         13.41        20.00
- 53-



Civil Works               Training Centers                         73,600       23,500                 50,000
Goods                     MOH Informabon Technology               250,000                             250,000
Training Equipment                      124,800          800               124,000
Total Goods                                                       374,800         800          -      374,000
Services and Training     Basic Packaae                            25,000       25,000
Law on State Enterprises*                25,000       25,000
TB/AIDS Strategies                      100,000                            100,000
PR Campaign                             800,000                            800,000
Training of Trainers - FP                60,000       60,000
Training of Trainers - Mgmt              50,000       50,000
Training of MOH & Study Tours (from 3)  100,000                            100,000
Total Services and Train                                         1,160,000     160,000              I 1000 000
Civil Works               Judets Primary Health Care and Hospitals  3,104,400    2,564,745    389,655  150,000
Goods                     Central Judet & Chisinau                933,000      637,860     90,000     205,140
Equipment& Supplies Judets            11,986,300    5,907,495    905,595   5,173,210
Total Goods                                                     12,919,300    6,545,355    995,595   5,378,350
Services and Training     Central Judet - local contribution       50,000                  50,000
Chisinau - local contribution            50,000                  50,000
HIF TA & Communicabon                   245,000       125000               120,000
Training FP Judets                      350,000                            350,000
Training in Mgmt Outside the Country    200,000                            200,000
Training in Mgmt Inside the Country     205,500                            205,500
Total Services and Training                                      1,100,500     125,000    100,000     875,500
-Other                    Severance Pa ments                                                          200000
Civil Works
Goods                     Office Equipment                         25,000       25,000
Services and Training     Local Consultants                       264,000      230,400                  33600
Project Evaluabon                        75,000                  21,000     54,000
Consultants
Audits                                   80,000                             80,000
Total Services and Training                                       419,000      230,400     21,000     167,600
Other          '          Incremental 0 eratin Costs              123,500       75.200     48,300
Other                     Severance Payments                      200,000                              200000
Unallocated                                                       500,000       250000      45450      204550
Total Unallocated                                                 700,000      250,000     45,450     404,550
-54 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
MOLDOVA: Health Investment Fund Project
1.     This annex presents the summary results of the cost-benefit analysis of the Moldova Health Sector
Reform Project, based upon the program's costs and the measurable economic benefits flowing from the
successful implementation of the proposed program. The project will potentially save nearly 20,000 lives
through improvements in the healthcare system and reductions in disability and mortality will contribute
over 120,000 productive life years (DALYs) to the economy. In addition to the project costs of US$20
million, the analysis includes capital costs and recurrent expenditure related to improving access to primary
health care services, strengthening emergency services, and restructuring the hospital network. It is
important to note that this analysis regarded the US$10 million Dutch Government grant as an investment,
not as an additional benefit. Hence the actual costs of the project are systematically overestimated from the
point of view of the Moldovan Government. In summary, the project would yield a present value of net
benefits, after investment and recurrent costs, of almost $ 10 million and produce an internal rate of return
(IRR) of 39 percent. If only the Bank credit is considered in the analysis, the respective figures would be
US$18 million and 130 percent.
[For projects with benefits that are measured in monetary terms]
Present Value of Flows                       Fiscal tmpact
Economic    Firanchl Anaiys.
4naiysis                               Taxes          Subsidies
Benefits:                31,611,166        39,411,109
Costs:                   21,629,751        12,922,908
Net Benefits:             9,981,425        26,488,201
IRR:                     39 percent
FRR
If the difference between the present value of financial and economic flows is large and cannot be explained by
taxes and subsidies, a brief explanation of the difference is warranted, e.g. "The value of financial benefits is less
than that of economic benefits because of controls on electricity tariffs."
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
2.     The cost-benefit analysis distributes the benefits over a time horizon of 10 years into two major
groups: direct and indirect benefits. The direct benefits are the expected tangible benefits accruable to the
project from the reduced hospital stays, eliminating unnecessary discharges, reducing consultation and from
the restructuring and downsizing of hospital facilities. Indirect benefits are related to the potential life years
saved by the project and the economic and financial value of increasing productivity. The cost-benefit
analysis assumes that the strengthening and changes in the health care system will be targeted to 2.6 million
people, equivalent to 70 percent Moldova's population and that a ten year period is required to reflect the
flow of costs and benefits. The financial analysis shows the budgetary impact of the costs and benefits,
including recurrent costs and financing costs of the IDA credit.
- 55 -



3.    The project will shift healthcare provision from expensive hospitals to more efficient and higher
quality primary care centers. This shift will save over 5 million unnecessary bed days over 10 years, and
produce a yearly savings in monetary terns of above US$1 million.  The restructuring that will
subsequently follow the strengthening of the primary health care system will allow the Ministry of Health
and Judet Health Authorities to consolidate hospitals and polyclinics, thereby saving an additional $2.5
million per year. These assumptions are conservative, if the restructuring program is executed as planned.
4.    In terms of indirect benefits, it is estimated that the project will potentially save nearly 20,000 lives
as a result of applying the aforementioned assumptions to the pattern of mortality in the country. The
reduction in mortality is taken as the base line assumption to calculate the indirect benefits of the project.
The estimates of reduced mortality are based on conservative estimates based on historical trends in
Moldova, international literature on cost-effectiveness, and expert's opinion. To calculate the indirect
benefits, the discounted life years saved attributable to these reductions are then converted to monetary
terms by using estimates of the discounted life time earnings lost from each death, as reflected by the use of
average wage levels, adjusted for labor market participation, and the number of years of life lost for each
death. The following tables summarize the results of the analysis for each of the two scenarios.
Table 1: Summary of Estimated Costs and Benefits
Year        Investment               Direct      Indirect Benefits    Total        Net Benefits
Benefits                        Benefits
1              2,647,484              106,006               0          106,006      (2,541,478)
2              3,220,000            2,945,432        1,138,584       4,084,016       864,016
3              8,550,000            3,163,664        2,085,224       5,248,887      (3,301,113)
4              6,430,000            3,384,754        2,825,476       6,210,230      (219,770)
5              3,980,000            3,535,034        3,034,258       6,569,292      2,589,292
6              1,391,381            3,686,066       3,045,543        6,731,609      5,340,228
7              1,391,381            3,693,968       3,052,523        6,746,491      5,355,110
8              1,391,381            3,702,020        3,053,773       6,755,793      5,364,412
9              1,391,381            3,710,143        3,040,628       6,750,771      5,359,390
10             1,391,381            3,718,315       3,022,531        6,740,846      5,349,465
TOTALS        31,784,390           31,645,403      24,298,540       55,943,943     24,159,553
Net          $21,629,751          $18,124,661     $13,486,516      $31,611,176     $9,981,425
( 10%*e)
IRR            39%
- 56-



5.     As shown in the table, benefits outnumber investments nearly two to one. Over ten years, the net
present value of the project would yield benefits of US$ 9.9 million. With the exception of the first and
third years, the project is expected to generate annual savings to the system that outnumber the investment
cost, thereby paying for them. The internal rate of return (IRR) for the project is estimated at 39 percent,
reflecting sizable benefits relative to project costs. This ratio can be used to demonstrate the value of this
project relative to other projects in other sectors; any number lower than the discount rate (10 percent)
would imply that the project should not be carried out.
6.     In terms of the costs of implementation, the analysis considers two basic elements: (i) the
investment costs of the Bank-financed project coupled with the Dutch Grant; and (ii) the recurrent costs,
estimated at 11 percent of annual investment (financed from the credit) plus previous years recurrent costs
during the project (financed by the Government). After the project ends, recurrent costs are equal to the
total amount invested in supplies plus a 4% charge to cover depreciation, maintenance and replacement, to
be incurred by the Government as a result of extended coverage of a basic package of services through
improvements in the primary care network and emergency services.
Main Assumptions:
7.     The following parameters are considered relevant in estimating the economic benefits of the
proposed project: the length of the project horizon and the time to have an impact on the health of the
population, the size of the target population, the existing patterns of morbidity and mortality, the number of
years of productive life added as a result of the percentage decrease in mortality, and the existing cost
structure in the health sector. Given the medium-to-long-term effect of the changes, the estimates presented
in terms of reduced morbidity, which assume a project horizon of only 10 years, are very conservative.
The additional costs of increasing the maternal and child health care services are reflected in the investment
costs. The analysis of the Moldova Health Reform Project uses the following assumptions to measure the
direct and indirect benefits:
(i)     maternal mortality would be reduced by 20 percent;
(ii)    infant mortality would be reduced by 20 percent;
(iii)   mortality from respiratory diseases would be reduced by 15 percent;
(iv)    mortality from CVD would be reduced by 10 percent;
(v)     mortality from infectious diseases would be reduced by 20 percent over the 10 year
spectrum of this analysis.
(vi)    a 30 percent reduction over time in hospital discharges for infectious diseases;
(vii)    a 20 percent reduction in cardiovascular discharges;
(viii)    a 40 percent reduction in pediatric discharges;
(ix)    mortality rate in emergency care will decrease by 25 percent; and
(x)     discount rate of 10 percent.
8.     In the following sections, these assumptions will be used to evaluate the benefits of the project and
to assess, from an economic perspective, the impact of the project on public finances.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
9.     While the results of the economic analysis are conservative, it is itnportant to test the robustness of
the results with regard to potential delays or reductions in benefits. This is done through the use of
sensitivity analysis assuming delays of 2 and 3 years, as well as a reduction in benefits of 20 percent and
40 percent. Additional simulations were carried out using a discount rate of 8 percent and 12 percent and
the results remain positive. The following table ummarizes the results of the sensitivity analysis.
- 57 -



Table 2: Summary of Sensitivity Analysis
Type of Sensitivity Analysis                     NPV                IRR
(US$ million)       (percent)
Base Case                                         9.9                39
2-year delay                                      1.2                 15
3-year delay                                     (0.6)                7
20% reduction in benefits                         3.6                20
40% reduction in benefits                        (4.9)               (4)
10.    The previous table shows the effect of delays and lower than expected benefits on the NPV and
IRR. Overall, the project would remain justifiable even assuming a 2 year delay in project benefits or a 20
percent reduction in the benefits received, assuming the traditional parameters which dictate that annual
rate of return earned should be greater than or equal to the discount rate of the project, to maintain an
efficient allocation of resources. The solid IRR also underscores the cost-effective nature of the program.
If, however, the project is delayed by 3 years or more and expected benefits are 40 percent lower than
originally envisaged, the project should be reconsidered from a purely business point of view. On the other
hand, if we do not consider the contribution of the Dutch Government as additional cost, the project would
still yield high IRRs even in these extreme cases (60 percent and 29 percent respectively).
Cost-Effectiveness
11.    The total discounted life years potentially saved through the project interventions are based on
rough estimates of the potential reduction in infant and maternal mortality, and the discounted number of
life years lost per death. While there are no detailed cost-effectiveness studies for Moldova that estimate
the burden of disease or the number of disability adjusted life years lost, calculations were made using the
mortality levels and coefficients on the ratio of DALYs per death taken from the Global Burden of Disease
study. While this is not an exact figure, it provides a guide for policymakers to estimate the project's
benefits. Using this methodology it is estimated that the project would reduce the burden of disease by
approximately 120,000 discounted life years over the 10 years. The average cost per discounted life year
for the selected project interventions is in a range acceptable under the standards established in the 1993
WDR.  The overall average cost per discounted life year saved is US$265. This is in line with other
project's that promote primary care interventions.
Fiscal Impact and Sustainability
12.    The economic analysis has demonstrated that hospital consolidation would free up substantial
resources from the Ministry of Health budget that can be spent on primary care and emergency care. The
impact on hospital restructuring is based on the following assumptions: (i) closure of all rural hospitals (4
percent of the budget); (ii) closure of 50% of all district hospitals (13 percent of the budget); (iii) closure of
most monoprofile republican hospitals (TB, STD, Infectious Diseases, Neurology) and (iv) closure of
sanatoria. According to the calculations based on the above assumptions, the total savings over the 10 year
period is almost US$ 13 million.
13.    The impact of increasing spending on primary care and emergency services would also produce
substantial additional direct and indirect benefits for Moldova. The sector's reorganization would also
allow for the improvement in the quality of care at the hospital level. However, the recurrent costs
- 58 -



associated with sustaining the investments, providing adequate supplies and increasing salaries of
physicians, nurses and other staff to guarantee the effective implementation can only be financed through
restructuring. A failure, or delay, to restructure would potentially have negative effects on the budget of
the MOH and the Judets as the investments would have been made and the savings would not be present.
To avoid this risk, the project has designed the HIF to disburse funds against restructuring and real
closures. A failure to restructure will withhold additional investments by the HIF thereby minimizing the
additional burden of recurrent costs. Once the restructuring is made, and the savings are produced, then the
HIF will disburse additional funds for investment.
14.   It is also important to note, that the project is not expected to contribute to an overall decrease in
the health budget due to the recommendation that savings made through the project should remain in the
health sector. In essence, savings made through restructuring hospitals will be reallocated to the primary
level. Despite the fact that no budget reductions are expected as a result of the project, the economic and
financial analysis reveals that the project is likely to be neutral from a fiscal standpoint. It is also important
to point out that these savings would be achieved without introducing user fees, as it is the main objective
of the project to improve access for a well defined circle of essential services in a financially sustainable
manner.
15.    The project will improve overall allocative efficiency so that future spending will improve value for
money in the sector. At the same time, the project will be potentially fiscally positive as restructuring will
reduce future government liability in the form of pensions and salaries for dismissed health personnel (who
are public servants) and improve future government tax revenues as a result of better productivity, reduced
premature morbidity and mortality.
16.    In terms of the project's sustainability, all indications point to a relatively low burden of recurrent
spending on the MOH and central government budget, assuming restructuring. A simple projection model
was developed to project the overall burden of recurrent costs and financing costs on public spending. The
assumptions used in the model are: (i) recurrent expenditures are 11 percent of annual investment plus
previous year's recurrent cost during the project (but the credit covers recurrent cost of investments for that
year when the investment is made) and after project finishes, recurrent cost is equal to the total amount
invested in supplies plus a 4 percent charge to cover depreciation, maintenance and replacement; (ii) for
financing, the usual IDA credit terms apply (commitment fee plus repayment); (iii) MOH spending grows
in line with GDP per annum; (iv) direct savings are estimated based on hospital closures and reduced
numbers of hospital stays as a result of the strengthened PHC; and (v) in the financial analysis, the Dutch
co-financing is calculated as a benefit, as it has a direct positive impact on the budget. The results of the
model are shown in the following table.
17.    For the active years of the project, the impact of project costs on the health budget is between 1
and 4.8 percent of the consolidated health budget, which can be financed from the proceeds of the Dutch
grant. After the end of the project, the burden of recurrent costs on the budget decreases to 2.3-2.9 percent
per year. Given that the direct savings generated by the project are estimated at US$3.7 million per year
(around 8 percent of the health budget), the savings will outweigh recurrent costs three to one. Under the
worst case scenario where direct savings are reduced to near zero, the total impact of recurrent costs on the
MOH budget would be considerably high in the existing budgetary framework. Success of the project, and
the ability to manage recurrent expenditure will be contingent on the savings generated by the restructuring
process (US$2.5 million annually). The design of the HIF will prevent any additional investments without
additional savings, thereby mitigating the risk to the budget.
- 59 -



Table 3: Financial Impact of Project Costs on the Budget
Year     Recurrent    Financing   Total Costs  Costs as a %     Dutch        Direct      Direct    Net Impact
Costs +       Costs*                  of Health   Co-Financing   Savings    Benefits as    on the
Government                             Expenditures                           % of Total    Health
Contribution                                                                    Health       Budget
._______                                                  Expenditures
1        647,484       112,500     759,984       2.0%        1,000,000     106,006      3.0%        346,022
2        220,000       93,750      313,750        0.8%       1,500,000    2,945,432     11.8%      4,131,682
3        550,000       43,750      593,750        1.5%       4,000,000    3,163,664     18.5%      6,569,914
4       1,430,000      12,500      1,442,500      3.6%       2,500,000    3,384,754     14.7%      4,442,254
5       1,980,000         0        1,980,000      4.8%       1,000,000    3,535,034     10.9%      2,555,034
6       1,391,381         0  _     1,391,381      3.2%                    3,686,066     8.4%       2,294,685
7       1,391,381         0        1,391,381      3.0%                    3,693,968     8.1%       2,302,587
8       1,391,381         0        1,391,381      2.9%                    3,702,020     7.7%       2,310,639
9       1,391,381         0        1,391,381      2.8%                    3,710,143     7.3%       2,318,762
10       1,391,381        0        1,391,381      2.6%                    3,718,315      7.0%       2,326,934
15       1,391,381     200,000     1,591,381      2.3%                    3,761,272      5.5%       2,169,891
21       1,391,381     400,000     1,791,381      2.0%                    3,813,477      4.2%       2,022,096
30       1,391,381     400,000     1,791,381      1.3%                    3,893,147      2.8%       2,101,765
40       1,391,381     400,000     1,791,381      0.8%                    3,983,621      1.7%       2,192,240
Total    53,525,823    10,262,500   63,788,323                             147,261,439              93,473,116
NPV      11,721,754     1,201,154   12,922,908                             31,928,634               26,488,201
10%
NPV 5%    21,870,032     3,067,099   24,937,131                              59,691,493               43,362,920
*IDA Credit terms apply
Note: We have assumed that the share of health expenditures in GDP will remain constant over the next ten
years.
18.    According to this table, the contribution to public debt would be extremely limited as the present
value of the projected repayment of principal -- without interest payments - would be just over US$1.2
million. This implies that over US$8.5 million of the Bank credit is essentially a grant as well, as the
repayments in present value terms (after reducing for inflation) reduce future payments to near zero. From
a purely fiscal and financial perspective, the credit is an excellent financing vehicle for the Government of
Moldova.
19.    In summary, the Moldovan health sector reform project will produce substantial savings for the
sector. These savings will be spent on the maintenance of the investrnents done in primary care and
emergency care through the project and on pharmaceuticals, medical supply and increased salaries to
improve the quality of the system. The restructuring process, and the subsequent improvement in allocative
and technical efficiency in the sector, will yield significant net benefits for the sector and improve value for
money.
Jamison D et al (1993). Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries. New York: Oxford Medical
Publications.
- 60 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
MOLDOVA: Health Investment Fund Project
Years Ending
| Year 1  | Year 2  | Year 3  | Year 4  | Year 5         Year 6  | Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs            2.1        4.2        6.0        5.0        2.7        0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs                                                                    0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs           2.1        4.2        6.0        5.0        2.7        0.0       0.0
Total Financing               2.1        4.2        6.0        5.0        2.7        0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                   1.0        1.8        2.7        3.6        0.9                  0.0
Government                 0.2        0.3        0.5        0.5        0.1                  0.0
Central                                                  0.0        0.0                  0.0
Provincial              0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers              0.9        2.1        2.8        0.9        1.7                  0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries    0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                     0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing      2.1        4.2        6.0        5.0        2.7       0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
- 61 -






Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
MOLDOVA: Health Investment Fund Project
Procurement
1.    All Procurement Guidelines of the Bank are applicable to the entire Project, mainly to procurement
activities and investments financed by the Bank. The PCU will maintain permanent contact with the
procurement specialists at the Bank Headquarters through its Procurement Officer (PO) . The following
Bank regulations will be applied:
(a)    The procurement of goods and civil works will be made in accordance with the provisions of
Section I of the Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits published by the Bank in
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the
Guidelines). The Bank's standard bidding and contracting documents for the procurement of goods will be
used for International Competitive Bidding (ICB), and National Competitive Bidding (NCB).
(b)    Consultants hired for training and technical assistance will be employed in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines on Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers published by
the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines).
Primary responsibility for overseeing implementation of procurement procedures lies with the PCU PO.
1.1.   Request for Procurement. Requests for procurement will be initiated by each Component
Coordinator and in coordination with the PCU Executive Director. Those requests will be reviewed by PO
and FAO in order to control figures established in the PIP and to perform adjustments if it is necessary.
When this has been done and a request has been confirmed to be in conformity with PIP budgets and plans,
the request will be processed by the PCU Procurement Officer. Critical information related to any
procurement process should be registered in the PCU computerized information system. Hardcopies and
backups will be also generated.
1.2.   Procurement Methods
Goods. Goods for a total amount of US$13.32 million (US$6.57 million from the Credit) consisting of
medical equipment and supplies for general practice (GP) centers, GP kits, cars, ambulances, training
equipment, and office equipment/supplies will be grouped to the extent possible and in packages that will
encourage competitive bidding.
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures will be used for contracts equivalent or
above US$100,000. These goods will consist of medical equipment, supplies and ambulances.
International Shopping (IS) procedures will be used for readily available off-the-shelf goods
(including equipment) of standard specifications estimated to cost below US$100,000 equivalent per
contract up to an aggregate amount US$0.25 million equivalent. These procedures will require quotations
from at least (3) three suppliers from two different countries. Cars, and office equipment will be procured
under this category. As an alternative to Shopping, procurement from IAPSO would be acceptable, and GP
kits can be procured from UNICEF.
National Shopping (NS) procedures will be used for contracts valued under US$50,000 up to an
aggregate amount of US$100,000 equivalent consisting of goods ordinarily available in the country.
- 62 -



Comparison of price quotations obtained from at least (3) three suppliers to assure competitive prices will
be required.
Works
Works will be carried out under a competitive Fund mechanism during five years. Regional and
institutional subprojects would include civil works following a demand-driven approach. Works consisting
of rehabilitation of medical facilities, especially general practice centers, will be procured under this
category. In order to repair and adapt general practice centers in all Judets, works will be organized in
packages of US$50,000 to US$200,000 to be bid as NCB. NCB procedures will be used for contracts
value below US$200,000 up to an aggregate amount of US$3.05 million (US$2.49 million from the
Credit). Contracts below US$50,000, will be procured on the basis of "Three quotations" obtained from
three or more qualified domestic contractors, and using the Bank's fixed price or unit rate sample contract.
Consultants Services
Consultant services and training (US$2.68 million) will be financed by the Government contribution
($USO.12 million), Credit (US$0.52 million), and grant from the Government of Netherlands (US$2.04
million), which will follow Bank procurement guidelines.
Selection of Firms
Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) procedures will be used for consultant services for
technical assistance on all three Components of the Project. Of the US$0.97 million allocated, US$0.06
million will be financed from the Credit and the remaining from the Dutch grant.
For small assignments below US$100,000 up to an aggregated amount of US$0.07 million
Selection Based on Consultants Qualification will be used.
Least-Cost (LC) procedures will be used for audit services of the Project (i. e. the annual audits of
the PCU). The US$0.08 million allocated will be financed by the Dutch grant.
Selection of Individual Consultants
Individual Consultants will be selected based on Qualification procedures up to an aggregate
amount of US$0.59 million (US$0.39 million from the Credit), by advertising and comparing at least three
CV's from potential candidates.
Single Source Selection under Part A of the project may be applied for contracts in accordance
with the provision of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines up to an aggregated
amount not to exceed US$350.000. This contract will be financed by the Dutch grant, and will cover costs
of training in general practice carried out by the University, which is the only institution providing this kind
of training in the local language.
Other Training to be financed by the Credit and by the Dutch grant shall be procured in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank, based on quotations from training providers, for
agreed program content, cost and participant selection.
- 63 -



1.3.   Procurement Plan
The PCU has prepared a Procurement Plan as part of the Project Operational Manual.
1.4.   Procurement Reporting
Per LACI PMRs from the start of the project, i. e., the four Procurement Management Reports (2A, 2B,
3A and 3B). The use of the Procurement Management Reports will facilitate the implementation of high
procurement standards. Those reports will be generated by the PCU information system. Reports will be
sent to the Bank quarterly.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Categ             ic            NCS                        N..F.      Tot Cost
1. Works                          0.00          3.05          0.13          0.00          3.18
(0.00)        (2.49)        (0.10)        (0.00)       (2.59)
2. Goods                          12.84         0.00          0.48           0.00        13.32
(6.22)        (0.00)        (0.35)        (0.00)       (6.57)
3. Services                       0.00          0.00          2.56          0.12          2.68
and Training                     (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.52)        (0.00)       (0.52)
4. Incremental Operating Cost     0.00          0.00          0.07           0.05         0.12
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.07)        (0.00)       (0.07)
5. Unallocated                    0.00          0.00          0.65          0.05          0.70
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.25)        (0.00)       (0.25)
Total                          12.84          3.05          3.89          0.22        20.00
_________________________   (6.22)  (2.49)      (1.29)        (0.00)       (10.00)
' Figures in parenthesis are the arnounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies
D Includes minor civil works and goods to be procured through international and national shopping,
consulting services, training, and operating costs related to managing the project
-64 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
A. Firms           0.97      0.00      0.00      0.08      0.07      0.85      0.12      2.09'
(0.06)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.07)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.13)
B. Individuals     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.59      0.00      0.59
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.39)    (0.00)    (0.39)
Total   0.97     0.00      0.00      0.08      0.07       1.44      0.12      2.68
(0.06)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.07)    (0.39)    (0.00)    (0.52)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), and
training
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
-65 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract Value                               Contracts Subject to
Threshold             Procurement              Prior Review
Expenditure Category     (US$ tousands)              Method                ($  n
1. Works                        >200                    ICB                  All contracts
>50,000<200                NCB                 First 2 contracts
<50               Three quotations       None (Post Review)
2. Goods                        >100                    ICB                      All
>50<100           International Shopping     First 2 contracts
<50               National Shopping      None (Post Review)
3. Services
Firms                         >50                    QCBS                      All
<50               Selection Based on         TOR only
Consultants Qualifications
Individuals                   >30              Selection of Individual    All (TOR, contract, CV)
Consultant
Single Source Selection         All
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  85%
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 4 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
- 66 -



Procurement Capacity Assessment
Asses ment                                       Risk Assessment
Item Assessed                               Satis-     Major                                    Actions            Proposed
Null  Poor  Fair   factory   Weaknesses    Low    Ave.   High    Proposed                    Completion
._ate
(a) Legal Aspects                       X                 The law is in                    X        Preparation of
force since                              Guidelines and
1997 only                                Sample bidding
_____   ____ _  ________ __________ __   ______docum ents
(i)  Laws &                        X                                          X
Reeulations
(ii) NCB                           X                                                   X
Procedures
(iii) Internal codes   X                                                               X
and manuals
(b) Proc. Cycle Mgmt.            X                         Limited                         X                           On the job
experience in                                               training for
Word Bank                                                   the PIU by a
procedure                                                   procurement
specialist
experienced
in Bank
(i)  General   -                                   -  -  .        X                          procurement
(i)  General                X                                                          X
handling_
(ii) Procurement                   X                                          X
olannine                        __   _
(iii) Preparation of        X                                                          X
documents
(iv) Management                    X                                                   X
of process                     __   _
(v) Bid evaluation          X                                                          X
(vi) Contract               X                                                          X
award
(vii) Preparation                  X                                          X
and signing of
contracts       _              X_                              _          X
(viii) Contract                    X                                          X
manasement
(c) Organization and             X                                                         X
Functions
(i)  Organization           X                                                          X
of unit and
functions
(ii) Internal               X                         No internal                      X       Use of Annex F    Prepare
manuals and                                      manuals                                   of POM as          internal
instructions                                                                               internal manual    manuals
(d) Support and                  X                                                         x
Control Systems
(i)  Auditing               X                         No special                       X
procurement
_______  _  _             audit
(ii) Legal                         X                                          X
assistance
(iii) Technical and                X                                          X
administrative
controls
(iv) Code of ethics   X                               No code of                       X
.______________________  ______ ethics      ___            _
- 67 -



Asses;ment       ._._Risk A isessmen,t
Item Assessed                            Satis-    Major                                Actions          Proposed
Null  Poor  Fair  factory   Weaknesses   Low    Ave.   High   Proposed               Completion
Date
(v) Anticorruption        X                                                    X
initiatives
(e) Record keeninE                   X                                      X
(i) Public notices              X                                       X
(ii) Bidding              X                                                    X       WB Standard
documents                                                                          Bidding
Documents will
_ _ _____  ____________    _____                be  used
(iii) Bid opening               X                                       X
information                                             _
(iv) Bid evaluation       X                                                     X
reports
(v) Formal                X                                                    X
appeals and
outcomes                                                                                  _        _
(vi) Signed               X                                             X
contract
documents     .            .                                                 _
(vii) Claims and                  X                                       X
dispute
resolution
records
(viii)                    X                                                    X
Comprehensive
disbursement
data   _        ____                           _
(f) Staffing                  X                       Procurement                   X                        PIU will hire
experts                                                a
needed in the                                          procurement
Agency and                                             expert
I_in the PIU
(g) General                   X                                                     X
Procurement
Environment _           _
(i) Promoting a           X                                                     X
culture of
accountability  _                                             _
(ii) Reputation of              X                                       X
procurement
corDs
(iii) Salary                    X                                       X
structure
(iv) Freedom from               X                                               X
political
interference
(v) Existence of          X                                                     X
experienced
and capable
staff
(vi) Clear written        X                                                     X
standards and
delegation of
authority
(vii) Sound               X                                                     X
budget/financi
al systems
- 68 -



Assessment                 l              Risk Asessment
Item Assessed                          Satis-    Major                              Actions         Proposed
Null  Poor Fair  factory   Weaknesses   Low   Ave.  High   Proposed              Completion
_______________________                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Date
(h) Private Sector                 X                                    X
Assessment
(i) General                    X                                    X
efficiency and
predictability  _         .
(ii) Transvarency       X                                         _         X            _
(iii) Quality of        X                                                   X
contract m2mt.                       _                                 _
(iv) General                   X                                    X
reputation            _
Prior Review Thresholds Proposed                                               Overall Risk Assessment
Goods US$ 100,000 (equivalent)                                                          HighX
Works US$ 200,000 (equivalent)                                                         Average
Consulting US$ 50,000 (equivalent)                                                       Low
Post Review Ratio: One in 5 contracts
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One        Form prepared by:
every 4 months (includes special procurement supervision for       Eszter Kovacs      v
post-review/audits)                                                (Procurement Specialist/Accredited staff assigned
to the project)
Comments: Because of the general procurement environment and       Signature:-signed: E. Kovacs
lack of experience of the procurement person, intensive internal and   Date: May 11, 2000
external training will be necessary, including on the job training
provided by foreign consultant employed by the PMU.
- 69 -



Financial Management Assessment
A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) has been established. The Project Coordination Unit now includes a
Project Director, a procurement Officer and a Financial Manager. The PCU will be responsible for all
project preparation activities. The PCU has been assisted by a foreign expert in project management,
procurement and financial management. A Project Implementation Plan and an Operational Manual
(POM), as well as draft procurement documents are under preparation.
A financial management assessment was carried out by a Bank financial management specialist. His report
is attached to the POM. A financial management system that is capable of producing project management
reports (PMRs) as required by the Bank has been established. The system was tested by the Bank FMS
and a 4-B certification has been issued. The FMS also reviewed the project auditing arrangements to ensure
compliance with Bank requirements. The TOR for the audit was agreed with the PCU. Disbursements of
funds will conimence utilizing traditional disbursement methods and the PCU will have the option to switch
to PMR based disbursements once the PCU has had experience in producing quarterly PMRs, acceptable
to the Bank. To facilitate the Disbursement of funds, the GOM has opened a Special Account (SA) in a
local bank under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
Audit Arrangements:
The FMS reviewed the project auditing arrangements to be established to ensure compliance with Bank
requirements. The TOR for the audit was agreed with the Borrower. It is expected that the auditor will be
selected by using the Least Cost Method, among a short list of firms approved by the Bank. The cost of
the audit would be financed from the Project. The date of the selection of the auditor is expected to be
October, 2000.
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 70 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
A Project Preparation Facility (PPF) in the amount of US$ 0.97 million has been requested and granted.
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
07                           Amount0304 inu7    i U$ilon   Financioing Percntag
Civil Works                                 2.29                       85 percent
Goods                                       6.14          100 percent of foreign expenditures, 100
percent of local expenditures (ex-factory
cost), and 80 percent of local
expenditures for other items procured
locally
Services and Training                       0.27                      100% percent
Incremental Operating Costs                 0.08                      100 percent
Contingencies                               0.25
PPF                                         0.97
Total Project Costs                        10.00                      _                __
Total                                      10.00
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Disbursement Arrangements:
While acceptable disbursement mechanisms based on PMRs are not in place, disbursements will use the
traditional disbursement mechanism. All disbursements will be made on the basis of full documentation for
(a) contracts for works costing more than US$200,000 equivalent each; (b) contracts for goods costing
more than US$100,000 equivalent each; and (c) services under contracts of more than US$50,000
equivalent for each consulting firm and more than US$30,000 equivalent each for individual consultants.
Disbursements below these thresholds, as well as for training, study tours and for PCU operating costs,
will be made against certified Statement of Expenditure (SOEs). This documentation will be made
available for the required audit as well as to the Bank supervision mission, and will be retained by the PMU
for at least one year after receipt by the Bank of the audit report for the year which the last disbursement
was made. The processing, disbursement and monitoring of the allocations of the proceeds of the Credit
and Borrower counterpart financing would be managed by the PCU in coordination and consultation with
the Ministry of Finance.
Special account:
The authorized allocation of the Special Account (SA) would be of US$700,000. Replenishment of the SA
would follow Bank procedures. The PCU would submit replenishment applications on a monthly basis, or
when about 33 percent of the initial deposit has been utilized, whichever occurs first. A bank statement of
the SA and a reconciliation of the SA against the Bank's records would support the replenishment
applications. The minimum amount for application for direct payment and for special commitment would
be 20 percent of the authorized allocation to the SA.
- 71 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
MOLDOVA: Health Investment Fund Project
Project $chl ule            .             .                             .    :- 
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      18
First Bank mission (identification)             09/30/98                     10/28/98
Appraisal mission departure                     04/24/2000                   05/02/2000
Negotiations                                    06/26/2000                   06/26/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   11/18/2000
Prepared by:
Joana Godinho, Task Team Leader, ECSHD
Preparation assistance:
Dutch Trust Fund (TF026061)
PHRD Grant - TF025545
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Speciality
Armin Fidler                      Sector Manager, Program Team Leader
Joana Godinho                     Task Team Leader
Zoe Kolovou                       Lawyer
Jan Pakulski                      Communication Specialist
Slavian Gutu                      Communications Officer
hInre Hollo                       Economist
Eszter Kovacs                     Procurement Officer
Hiran Herat                       Financial Management Specialist
Rose-May Brea Colon               Budget Officer
Diana Calugher                    Administrative Officer
Judith de Costa                  Operations Analyst
Hong Chen                        Operations Analyst
Ala Pinzari                      Operations Analyst
Jennifer Manghinang              Program Assistant
Gabriel Francis                  Team Assistant
Viorica Strah                    Visiting Missions Coordinator
-External Consultants
James Cercone                     Health Economist
Monika Huppi                      Economist
Christian Hurtado                 Project Management
Liviu Vedrasco                    Health Specialist
Ariane Zand                       Health Planning
KPMG                              Health Planning
Silviu Ceban                      Local consultant
- 72 -






Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
MOLDOVA: Health Investment Fund Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Project Implementation Plan
Project Operational Manual
B. Bank Staff Assessments
*   Mission TORs, Aide-Memoires, BTOs, Consultant Reports
*   Electronic database with epidemiological data and data on health services
*  Economic and Financial Analysis (Imre Hollo, James Cercone)
*   Social and Institutional Assessment (Miroslav Ruzica)
*  Environmental Assessment (Christian Hurtado, Hong Chen)
*   Procurement Assessment (Eszter Kovacs)
*   Financial Assessment (Hiran Herat)
Other Bank reports
v  Country Assistance Strategy (1999) (Report No. 18896-MD)
*   Structural Adjustment Credit (1999) (Report No. P-7317-MD)
*   Poverty Assessment (1999)
*   Poverty Assessment Technical Papers, 10/99 (Report No. 19846-MD), ECA PREM
v  Country Economic Memorandum, 9/16/93 (Report No. 11356-MD)
v Economic Review of the Transnistria Region (1998) (Report No. 17886-MD)
C. Other
Project Reports
*   KPMG (1999). Moldova Health Sector Reform Project
*   Zand & Associates (2000). Implementation Plans for the Municipality of Chisinau and the Central
Judet
Other Reports
*   IMF (1998) Recent Economic Developments (IMF Report No. 98/58)
*   CSPSPMS. (1999). Sanatatea Publica in Moldova (existing official health statistics)
*   IMF (1999) Moldova - Staff Report for the 1999 Article IV Consultation and Fourth Review Under
the Extended Arrangement
*   IMF (1999). Moldova: Recent Economic Developments (IMF Staff Report No. 99/110)
*   IMF (1999). Draft Briefing Paper for the Fifth Review under the Extended Arrangement and
Initiation of ESAF Discussions
*   Italian Moldova Health Reform Project Report (1999)
*Including electronic files
- 73 -






Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
MOLDOVA: Health Investment Fund Project
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions           disbursements
Project ID     FY   Borrower                       Purpose                                        IBRD      IDA       Cancel.   Undisb.        Orig   Frm Rev'd
P008556        1996 Moldova                    AGRICULTURE I                                       10.00       0.00       0.00       0.76        0.52      0.00
P008555        1996 Moldova                    ENERGY                                              10.00       0.00       0.00        1.86       1.26      0.00
P035771        1998 Moldova                    FIRST CADASTRE                                       0.00      15.90       0.00       12.04       2.61      0.00
P008558        1997 Moldova                    GENERAL EDUCATION                                   16.80       5.00       5.00       14.06       6.29       2.99
P008561        1996 Moldova                    PRIV. SECT. DEV. I                                  35.00       0.00       0.00       6.08        8.58      -0.32
P035811        1997 Moldova                    PSD II                                               0.00       9.00       0.00       7.08        4.16      0.00
P035781        1998 Moldova                    RURAL FINANCE                                        0.00       5.00       0.00        1.97       0.53       0.00
P061496        1999 Moldova                    SAC                                                  0.00      40.00       0.00       19.90      19.83       0.00
P044840        1999 Moldova                    SOCIAL INV. FUND                                     0.00      15.00       0.00       13.29       0.30      0.00
P051173        1999 Moldova                    SOCIAL PROTECTION                                    0.00      11.10       0.00       10.83      -0.16       0.00
Total:       71.80      101.00         5.00       87.87     43.92       2.67
- 74-



MOLDOVA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                          Disbursed
IFC                               IFC
FY Approval         Company                         Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic
1997                INCON                            4.22    2.00     0.00     0.00     4.22     2.00    0.00     0.00
1999                VoxTel                          10.00     1.32    5.00    25.00     6.57     1.32     5.00    16.43
Total Portfolio:         14.22     3.32     5.00    25.00    10.79    3.32     5.00    16.43
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval         Company                            Loan    Equity      Quasi      Partic
2000                Voxtel II                          0.00       0.00     73.00       0.00
Total Pending Commitment:          0.00       0.00     73.00       0.00
- 75 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
MOLDOVA: Health Investment Fund Project
Europa &
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             Ceontrat    Low-
610d4va       Asaa   incrme       Development diamond
19S
Population, mid-year (rlltlons)                         4.3       473      3.515                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (At/os method, USS)                      410      2.190       520
GNP (AfIas method. J$S billions)                        18       1.039     1,844
Average annual growth, 1992-9411
PoULation MO                                           -0.2        0.1       1.7
Labor force (%)                                         01        0o6        1 9      GNP   I                          Gross
Most recent estImate (latest year available. 1992-90l                                 capita                      penrollment
Poverty (% of popil8tion bbeow netional DoveftV lone)
Urboan pooulation (% of total popaultion)                54        6a         31
Life exoectancy at birth vyears)                         67        69         63
Intant mortahtv (per 1,000 live brths)                   20        23         69
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                -          -         -                Access to safe water
Access to safe water 1X of population)                   56                   74
Illiteracy (% o population age 15+)                       2         4         32
Gross orimarv enrollment % of school-age population)     97        100       108              -     oldova
Male                                                   98       101       113                   Low-income group
Female                                                 97        99        103
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TER1 TRENDS
1977     1987       1997      199S
Economic ratlos'
GOP (USS billions)                              ..       ..        2.1       1.6
Gross domestic investmentlGDP                                     23.8      26,0                     Trade
Exports of goods and services/GOP                                 531       46                        T
Gross domestic savings/GDP                                         2.7      -2,8
Gross national savints/DP                                         10.0       5.6
Current account btannc/GDP                                       .12,5     -20.5     Domestlc
Interest pavments/GDP                                              1.8       3.2           sInvestment
Total deWbGDP                                                     479       62.6      Savings
Totel debt serv3cetfxsrt5                        .        *        5.9      13.0
Ptesent valve of debtGOIP                                         43.8
Present value of debiports,                                       80.S
Indebtedness
577-87  1St9684     1157       1508   109.03
(evera#e annual growth)
GOP                                  3.2    -12.0       1.3       -.6          .-                   oldovs
GNP per capIta                       2.5      -83       2.2       4.2                               Low-income group
Exwortd of goods and services                  72       7.0        3 3
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987       1997      11998     Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                           100
Agriculture                                                       30.2      28.9
Industry                                                          28.8      313 s
Manufacturing                                                   21.3      23.5   o                                 1 '  _
Services                                                          41.0      39.8     .50       r                    57   98
Private consumption                                               78.8      84.4    .100-
General government consumotion                                    18.5      18.4                     GDI    _      GDP
Imports of aoods and services                                     74.1      75.3
1977-87  1988-98      1997       1998     Growth rates of exports and Imports 1%)
(average annual growth)
Agricutture                                            -7.0       10.7     -11.0    so .
Industrv                                              -12.4       -7.0      -4.3    30
Manufacturing                                 ..
Services                                              -17.2       -4.6     -14.0      o         9
Private consumption                                     9.0       21.3     -20.5    30 0    99r
General government consumption                         -7.0      -14.5      .8.4
Gross domestic investment                             -19.2        0.8      -0.4    so
Imports of goods and services                          10.3       20.3     -10.2             -Exports   -Imports
Gross national product                         3.4     -8.5        1.9      -9.5 
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the countrv (in bold) compared with its income-group averaae. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incoMplete.
- 76-



Moldova
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domesdc prices                              1977    1987        1997      1998     Inflation (X)
(9Y chanqe)                                                                        1.000
Consumer prices                                 ..      ..       11.8      7.7      750
Implicit GDP deflator                          ..       ,.       12.9      8.0      so 
Govemment finance                                                                   250
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                   o
Current revenue                                ..       ..       38.5     38.9               93   94   95   96   97    9
Current budget balance                         ..       ..       -7.5     -1.6                    GDP deflator      CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                        ..       ,.       -7.7     -3.4
TRADE
(US$ millions)                              1977    1987        1997      1998     Export and Import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)
Live animals and animal products             ,.       ,,         77       35
Vegetable products                                               77       73      1,200
Manufactures                                 ..       .,         59       72
Total imports (cif)                            ..       ..    1,235      1,043      Boo
Food                                                             6         5       4
Fuel and energy                                         '      337       245
Capital goods                                                   130      106        o  _          __                  _
92  93  94  95  96  97   9
Export price index (1995=100)                  ..       ..        98        82
Import price index (1995=100)                  ,,       ,,        93       104               U Exports     U Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      ..       ..       105        79
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                              1977    1987        1997      1998      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                  ..       ..    1,024        763        o
Imports of goods and services                   ..      ..    1,431      1,235          9                       l
Resource balance                                         ..     -407      -471      -
Net income                                      ..      ..        63        41    -10
Net current transfers                                   ..        76        98    -15"
Current account balance                        ..       ..      -267      -333
Financing items (net)                          ..       ..       318       174
Changes in net reserves                                 ..       -51       159    -25
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)         ..       ..       366       143
Conversion rate (DEC, locaUUS$)                ..       ..        4.2      5.4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977    1987       1997      1998
(US$ millions)                                                                      Compositlon of total debt, 1998 (USS mililons)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed            ..      ..    1,023      1,018
IBRD                                          ..      ..       135       169                     G:42
IDA                                                    ..       35        38                               A: 169
Totaldebtservice                               ..       ..        89       116
IBRD                                         ..       ..         9        10         F: 276
IDA                                                   ..         0         0
Composition of net resource flows                                                                 EJ
Official grants                              ..       ..        42        35                                     C: 177
Official creditors                           ..       ..        48        48
Private creditors                            ..       .,       204       -22
Foreign direct investment                    ..       ..        71        86 819                      0-
Portfolio equity                             ..       ..       237       -55                            D: 126
Worid Bank program                                                                  A - IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Commitments                                           ..        81       126     8-IDA      D-Othermultilateral   F-Private
Disbursements                                ..       ..        40        29     C - IMF                       G - Short-terml
Principal repayments                         ..       ..         0         1
Net flows                                    ..       ..        40        28
Interest payments                            *-       *,         9         9
Net transfers                                ..       ..        31        19
Development Economics                                                                                                9/21/99
- 77 -



MAP SECTION






IBRD 24285R3
28-
.D-estrJ X sBi=To Nemirov                                                             M  O  L D O  V A
MogMv-           U  K  R  A   I N   E
'skiy      T. g i z  < < >   TVin,itsew                         SELEC TED   C ITIES
tk>2*!    NATIONAL CAPITAL
oroc                          <                            _> RIVERS
.48                                                                                     48'-                    RAILROADS
Floresti                  >                                 ROADS
i ;3                          t bn  *  INTERNATIONAL
a                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~BOUNDARIES
<  / t             \           0)\     /                        b~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~y the Map Desin Unt
[}Orhei                \                      Dubasarl aube
>\s,@~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t. -fti h icet-1 
o <       2                                    To Bohuv  /,4 eso
}~~~~         ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ nad B-ecdrr.A                            p
0 ~      ~        > 25m                                        Blra 
MILES                                                                                             b-,ri
APRIL 19



