Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3408 MD
Development Credit Agreement
(Health Investment Fund Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated October 6, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3408 MD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 6, 2000, between REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower a 
letter, dated July 21, 2000, describing a program of actions, objectives 
and policies designed to improve performance in the Borrower’s health 
sector (hereinafter called the Program), and declaring the Borrower’s 
commitment to the implementation of the Program; 
(B)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility 
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
has requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(C)
the Borrower intends to obtain, with the assistance of the 
Association, from the Government of the Netherlands (the Netherlands) a 
grant in an amount equivalent to $10,000,000 (the Netherlands Grant) to 
assist in financing the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of 
Page  2
the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development 
Credit Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, as amended 
through October 6, 1999, with the modifications set forth below (the 
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set 
forth below, and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said 
Section are accordingly renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
“12. 
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the 
Association determines 
meets the requirements set forth in 
Section 10 of Resolution No. 183 of the Board of 
Governors of 
the Association, adopted on June 26, 1996; and ‘Participating Countries’ 
means, 
collectively, all such countries.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise 
agree, no withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of 
expenditures in the territories of any country which is not 
a 
Participating Country or for goods produced in, or services supplied 
from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a 
decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII 
of the Charter of 
the United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Beneficiary” means a hospital or a local self-government 
entity, namely a Municipality or Judet as defined in the Borrower’s local 
government legislation, eligible for assistance under Part B of the 
Project;
(b)
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1), (2) (3) and (4) 
set forth in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(c)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, 
works and services referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement;
(d)
“Environmental Management Plan” means the environmental 
mitigation plan for the Project, satisfactory to the Association, 
prepared and adopted by the Borrower; 
(e)
“Health Investment Agreement” means the agreement to be 
concluded between the Borrower and a Beneficiary pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
Page  3
Health Investment Agreement;
(f)
“HIF” means the Health Investment Fund to be established as 
an autonomous agency of the Borrower in order to improve the quality and 
efficiency of health care services in the Republic of Moldova;
(g)
“Health Investment” means the activities under Part B.2 of 
the Project to be carried out by a Beneficiary under a Health Investment 
Agreement;
(h)
“HIV/AIDS” means the human immunodeficiency virus and 
acquired immune deficiency syndrome, respectively;
(i)
“Lei” means the lawful currency of the Borrower;
(j)
“PSC” means the Project Steering Committee established by 
the Borrower to provide policy guidance and oversight with respect to 
Project implementation;
(k)
“MOH” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Health;
(l)
“Operational Manual” means the manual for the carrying out 
of the Health Investments under the Project prepared and adopted by the 
Borrower, as the same may be amended from time to time with the agreement 
of the Association;
(m)
“PCU” means the Project Coordination Unit established by the 
Borrower within the MOH for purposes of Project management;
(n)
“PIP” means the manual for the carrying out of the Project 
prepared and adopted by the Borrower, as the same may be amended from 
time to time with the agreement of the Association;
(o)
“Project Account” means the Account to be opened by the 
Borrower, for purposes of making available its counterpart contribution 
to the financing of the Project, in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement; 
(p)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation 
advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an 
exchange of letters dated April 1, 1999 and May 5, 1999 between the 
Borrower and the Association; 
(q)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; and
(r)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development 
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to seven 
million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 7,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from 
Page  4
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so 
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit.
(b)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to 
itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project 
Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay 
all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized 
amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be November 30, 2005, or such 
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall 
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a 
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn 
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of 
each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty 
(60) days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the 
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from 
the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 
30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may 
be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date 
in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as 
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of 
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in 
the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to 
the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time 
to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be 
payable semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the 
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual 
installments payable on each April 1 and October 1 commencing October 1, 
2010 and ending April 1, 2040. Each installment to and including the 
installment payable on April 1, 2020 shall be one percent (1%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent 
(2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national 
product (GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for 
three (3) consecutive years the level established annually by the 
Association for determining eligibility to access the Association's 
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval 
thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
Page  5
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, 
modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment 
not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the 
principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more after 
the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events 
set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that 
there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five (5) years on such 
repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise 
the modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu 
of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the 
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to 
time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision 
shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to 
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s 
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, 
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through the MOH with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial,  
administrative, and health sector practices, and shall provide, promptly 
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required 
for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance 
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit allocated 
from time to time for Part B of the Project, available to Beneficiaries 
under a Health Investment Agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and each Beneficiary, under terms and conditions which shall 
have been approved by the Association, including those set forth in Part 
B of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under any Health 
Investment Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the 
Credit, and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive, any Health 
Page  6
Investment Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Without limitation upon any of its obligations under 
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall: (a) maintain the 
Project Account referred to in Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement, and 
shall replenish said account promptly before each month with sufficient 
funds to enable the Borrower to meet its obligations under Section 3.01 
of this Agreement for such period; (b) use the amount in said Project 
Account for financing the Borrower’s contribution to Project 
expenditures; and (c) ensure that sufficient annual allocations will be 
made in the Borrower’s budget for the Borrower’s counterpart contribution 
to the costs of the Project.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods, works and services required for the Project and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months 
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare 
financial statements in a format acceptable to the Association, adequate 
to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures for and in 
connection with the carrying out the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements 
referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section and the 
records and accounts for the Special Account for 
each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to 
the Association consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to 
the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but 
in any case not later 
than six (6) months after 
the end of each such year: (A) certified copies of 
the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for 
such 
year as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such 
financial statements, records 
and accounts and a report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning such records and 
accounts and the audit 
thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the 
Association may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports 
Page  7
or statements of expenditures, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance 
with paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and 
separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one (1) year after the 
Association has received the 
audit report for the 
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine 
such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements 
of 
expenditure submitted during each fiscal year, 
together with the procedures 
and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 
4.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action 
plan acceptable to the Association for the strengthening of the financial 
management system referred to in paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in 
order to enable the Borrower, not later than December 31, 2001, or such 
later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project 
Management Reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of 
funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the 
period covered by said report, and projected sources 
and 
applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following 
the period covered by said report; and (B) shows 
separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the 
Credit during the six-month period 
following the period covered by said 
report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project 
implementation, both cumulatively 
and for the period 
covered by said report; and (B) explains variances between 
the actual and previously forecast implementation targets; and
(iii)  sets forth the status of procurement under the 
Project and expenditures under 
contracts financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance 
with guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the 
Association not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter 
a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General 
Page  8
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)
a situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the Program or a significant part thereof, will be carried out;
(b)
The arrangements providing the Borrower with the Netherlands 
Grant shall have failed to become effective by November 30, 2000 or such 
later date as the Association may agree; provided, however, that the 
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Association that adequate funds for the 
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this 
Agreement.
(c)
(i)
Subject to paragraph (ii) of this paragraph: the 
right of the Borrower to 
withdraw the proceeds of 
the Netherlands Grant shall have been suspended, 
canceled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms 
of the 
arrangements related thereto.
 
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if 
the Borrower establishes 
to the satisfaction of the 
Association that: (A) such suspension, cancellation 
or 
termination is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any 
of 
its obligations under such arrangements; and (B) 
adequate funds for the 
Project are available to 
the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this 
Agreement.
(d)
the Operational Manual or the PIP shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated or waived without the Association’s prior consent; 
and
(e)
the Borrower or a Beneficiary shall have failed to perform 
any of their respective obligations under a Health Investment Agreement.
Section 5.02. (a) Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional events are specified: 
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of that paragraph;
(b)
the event specified in paragraph (c) (i) of Section 5.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (c) (ii) 
of that Section; and
(c)
the events specified in paragraphs (d) and (e) of Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional 
condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within 
the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions, namely, that 
the Borrower has opened in Lei the Project Account in the National Bank 
of Moldova or in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association, and has 
Page  9
deposited into said account an initial amount equivalent to $20,000.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the 
General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Cosmonaut Street, 7
277005 Chisinau
Republic of Moldova
Telex:
Facsimile:
(3732) 22810
(3732) 
24-0055
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 
477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
By /s/ Dumitru Braghis
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  10
By /s/ Shigeo Katsu
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so 
to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works
   1,740,000
85%
(2)
Goods
   4,660,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost),
and 80% of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally
(3)
Consultants’ services,
    200,000
100%
training and study tours
(4)
PCU’s Operating Costs
     60,000
100%
(5)
Refunding of Project
    760,000
Amount due 
pursuant 
Preparation Advance
to Section 2.02 (b) 
of
this Agreement
(6)
Unallocated
    180,000
TOTAL
  7,600,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of 
the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “PCU’s Operating Costs” means expenditures incurred 
Page  11
by the PCU on account of management of Project implementation for 
salaries, but excluding salaries of civil servants, communications, local 
travel, utilities, printing and publications, office supplies,  office 
maintenance, and such other expenditures as may be agreed upon by the 
Association.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the 
date of this Agreement. 
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to 
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: 
(a) contracts for works costing less than $200,000 equivalent each; (b) 
contracts for goods costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (c) all 
contracts for training and study tours; (d) PCU’s operating costs; and 
(e) services under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each 
for consulting firms and $30,000 equivalent each for individual 
consultants, all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit 
account, in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that 
the Special Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account 
of amounts to be deposited into the Special Account shall be made as 
follows:
(a)
until the Association shall have received: (i) the first 
Project Management Report referred to in Section 4.02(b) of this 
Agreement; and (ii) a request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the 
basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management 
Report pursuant to Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a 
request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project 
Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures. For each payment made by the Borrower out of the 
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association 
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and 
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the 
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project 
Management Report does not adequately provide the information required 
pursuant to Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit 
Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the 
Association within the period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of 
Page  12
this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of (A) the 
records and accounts for the Special Account or (B) the records and 
accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were 
made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into 
the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this 
Schedule if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the 
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to Section 
6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the Association 
shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into 
the Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed 
for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its 
determination.
6.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an 
Eligible Expenditure, or was not justified by the evidence furnished to 
the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, provide such additional evidence as the Association may 
request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover payments 
for Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following such 
determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to 
the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special 
Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph 
(a), (b) or (c) of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit 
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with 
the provisions of the Credit Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Not 
Made  On the Basis of Project Management Reports 
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
(a)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent 
to $700,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, 
however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$200,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit 
Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall equal or exceed the equivalent of SDR 2,500,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals 
to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into 
the Special Account of an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not 
Page  13
exceed the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Association shall specify. Prior to or at the 
time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association 
the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower 
shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible 
Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of 
the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into 
the Special Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit 
minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of 
the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such 
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining 
on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the 
Borrower, all withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by 
the Association into the Special Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such deposit into the 
Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit 
Account under one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit 
into the Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management 
Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the 
Credit, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account an amount equal 
to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the amount which 
the Association has determined, based on the Project Management Report 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to 
finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the 
date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, 
when added to the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to 
be remaining in the Special Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of 
$2,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to improve the health status of 
the Moldovan population and to increase the quality and efficiency of the 
Page  14
public health sector by: (a) guaranteeing universal access to a minimum 
package of health services; (b) modernizing emergency services and 
primary health care; (c) reducing excess capacity in the health sector; 
(d) strengthening health sector institutional capacity; and (e) 
supporting the development of tuberculosis and HIV/AIDS strategies.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon 
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Policy Development and Institutional Strengthening
1. 
Health Policy Development
Development of a health reform strategy, key policies and pertinent 
legal framework for health sector reform, including arrangements for: (i) 
health care financing (sources and resource allocation); (ii) basic 
package of health care services; (iii) user charges; (iv) human 
resources; and (v) tuberculosis and HIV/AIDS strategies.
2.
Communication of Health Sector Reform
Development of a public information campaign and other 
communication activities to inform shareholders about the sector reforms.
3.
Management and Technical Training Program
Management and technical training programs, including:
(a)
General Practice Program:
(i)
Training of general practitioners and retraining of 
specialists on primary 
health care; and
(ii)
training of nurses at the primary and secondary 
health care level. 
(b)
Management Program
Training of health services managers and administrators at central, 
judet and health care facility levels to provide them with the necessary 
business skills to manage health services.
Part B:
Health Investment Fund
1.
Establishment of the HIF to provide a competitive mechanism for 
allocation of resources for the carrying out of Health Investments in 
accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual in the health 
sector.
2.
Selection by the PCU (and thereafter by the HIF upon its 
establishment) and carrying out by Beneficiaries in accordance with the 
criteria and principles set forth in the Operational Manual of 
investments in primary health care, emergency services and key hospital 
refurbishments. 
Part C:
Project Management and Evaluation
Page  15
1.
Provision of technical assistance, equipment and operating costs to 
the PCU for purposes of management of Project implementation.
2.
Provision of technical assistance for the carrying out of 
epidemiological, social, institutional and economic assessments of the 
Project.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by May 31, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement 
Section I. 
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the 
provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised 
in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999, subject to 
the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the 
Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this 
Section I. 
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to 
“Bank member countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be 
references, respectively, to “Participating Countries” and “Participating 
Country”.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for medical equipment shall be 
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more 
each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and 
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of 
the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
Page  16
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,490,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
Readily available off-the-shelf goods of standard specifications 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $250,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
3.
Procurement from UN Agencies
As an alternative to International Shopping procedures, readily 
available off-the-shelf goods of standard specifications may be procured 
from the Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office of UNDP, and standard 
medical kits may be procured from UNICEF, all in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
4.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of 
the Guidelines.
5.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of 
quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in 
response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed 
description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, 
and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the 
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, 
and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract 
successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the 
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of 
all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with 
the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
Page  17
(a)
With respect to: (i) each contract for goods procured in 
accordance with the procedures referred to in Part B above; and (ii) the 
first two contracts for works procured in accordance with the procedures 
referred to in Part C.1 above, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 
and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first two contracts for goods procured 
in accordance with the procedures referred to in Part C.2 above, the 
following procedures shall apply:
(A)
prior to the execution of any contract under shopping 
procedures, the Borrower 
shall provide to the Association 
a report on the comparison and evaluation of 
quotations 
received;
(B)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under 
shopping procedures, the 
Borrower shall provide to the 
Association a copy of the specifications and the 
draft 
contract; and
(C)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 
3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: 
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” 
published by the Association in January 1997 and revised in September 
1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in 
paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to 
“Bank member countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be 
references, respectively, to “Participating Countries” and “Participating 
Country”.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
Page  18
contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, 
the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project 
shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or 
more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for 
its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after 
the said approval shall have been given.
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
Part A:
Project Management
1.
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in the PIP and the Operational 
Manual.
2.
The Borrower shall maintain the PSC until completion of the Project 
with staff and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association.
3.
The Borrower shall maintain the PCU until completion of the 
Project, with staff, resources and terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association and assign to it responsibility for overall Project 
management and coordination including:
Page  19
(a) 
preparation and submission to the Association, by November 
30 in each year, for its review and concurrence, of an annual work 
program for the Project;
(b)
maintenance of Project financial records and accounts, 
including maintenance of the Special Account, and arranging for the audit 
thereof;
(c) 
preparation of applications for withdrawal of the proceeds 
of the Credit;
(d) 
preparation of bidding and contract documents and management 
of procurement procedures under the Project;
(e) 
supervision of implementation of work programs under the 
Project, including supervision of progress of each Health Investment; 
(f)
verification of satisfaction of criteria and principles set 
forth in the Operational Manual for the selection of Health Investments; 
and 
(g)
preparation and submission to the Borrower and the 
Association, starting in November 30, 2000, of quarterly reports on the 
progress of Project implementation.
4.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
by September 30, 2001, prepare, through the PCU, and furnish 
to the Association for its review, a proposal for the establishment and 
operation of the HIF including inter alia: (i) a description of the 
objective and areas of operations of the HIF; (ii) the proposed 
managerial and administrative structure of the HIF; (iii) the proposed 
funding sources of the HIF; and (iv) the proposed arrangement for 
incorporation of the operations and staff of the PCU into the HIF;
(b)
review such proposal with the Association by December 31, 
2001; and 
(c)
based on such review enact no later than July 31, 2002, or 
such later date as the Association may otherwise agree, the necessary 
instrument for the operation of the HIF.
Part B:
Funding of Health Investments
1.
The Borrower shall provide financing for approved Health 
Investments on the basis of a Health Investment Agreement to be entered 
into between the Borrower and a Beneficiary under terms and conditions 
which shall have been agreed upon with the Association and which shall 
include, inter alia, provision whereby the Borrower shall make the 
proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to Part B of the 
Project available to each Beneficiary in the form of a grant.  The 
release of such proceeds shall be made in tranches to be released upon 
satisfaction of the requirements set forth in the Operational Manual.  In 
addition, each Health Investment Agreement shall include, inter alia, 
provisions with respect to: 
(a)
the amount allocated to the Health Investment in the form of 
a grant;
(b)
a description of the Health Investment, to be financed under 
the Health Investment Agreement, together with an estimate of the cost 
thereof;
(c)
the implementation schedule for the Health Investment, under 
the overall supervision of the PCU;
Page  20
(d)
the degree to which cost sharing, in accordance with the 
principles set forth in the Operational Manual, shall be required to be 
made by the Beneficiary with respect to the financing of the Health 
Investment for the implementation of which assistance is provided to such 
Beneficiary under the Health Investment Agreement;
(e)
the obligation of the Beneficiary, through the PCU, to 
procure goods and works to be financed under the Health Investment 
Agreement in accordance with the procedures set forth in the Operational 
Manual; 
(f)
the obligation of the Beneficiary to report to the Borrower 
on the progress of Health Investment implementation and to enable 
representatives of Borrower and of the Association, if the Association 
shall so request, to visit the facilities, construction sites or other 
activities to be financed under the Health Investment Agreement;
(g)
the obligation of the Beneficiary to maintain records and 
accounts for expenditures incurred under the Health Investment and 
financed from the proceeds of the Credit made available to the 
Beneficiary under the Health Investment Agreement and to submit to the 
Borrower at regular intervals statements with respect to such records and 
accounts; and
(h)
the obligations of the Beneficiary to operate and maintain 
the Health Investment in accordance with the standards set forth in the 
Operational Manual.
2.
The Borrower shall obtain the Association’s prior approval of the 
first three Health Investments proposed by Beneficiaries and the first 
three Health Investment Agreements for said Investments.
Part C:
Monitoring and Evaluation
1.
The Borrower shall: (a) ensure that all measures necessary for the 
carrying out of the Environmental Management Plan shall be taken in a 
timely manner; and (b) include adequate information on the carrying out 
of such measures in the progress reports referred to in paragraph 3(g) of 
Part A of this Schedule.
2.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators 
satisfactory to the Association, the carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association, on or about February 28, 
2003, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such 
date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by May 31, 2003, or such later 
date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
Page  21
