Page  1
December 12, 2001
Mr. Mihail Manoli
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Chisinau
Republic of Moldova
Re:
Swedish Grant for Health Investment Fund Project
Grant No. TF029833
Dear Sir:
I am writing on behalf of the International Development Association (IDA) to 
indicate IDA’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Sweden, to make 
a grant in an amount not exceeding five million three hundred Swedish Kronors 
(SEK5,300,000) (the Grant) to the Republic of Moldova (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex 
to this Letter Agreement.  The Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement 
below, that it is authorized to contract and withdraw the Grant for the said purposes 
and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon 
receipt by the Bank of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this 
Letter Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Roger W. Grawe
Director, Czech Republic, Hungary, Moldova,
   Slovak Republic and Slovenia
Europe and Central Asia Region
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
By /s/ Mr. Mihail Manoli
Minister of Finance
Date:
December 25, 2001
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
1.
Purposes and Activities
The purpose of the Grant is to assist in financing activities aimed at 
controlling the Tuberculosis (TB) and Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV/AIDs) 
epidemics in the context of the Moldova Health Investment Fund (HIF) Project (the 
Project), which aims to improve the health status of the Moldovan population and to 
increase the quality and efficiency of the public health sector.  The activities (the 
Activities) for which the Grant is given are as follows:
(a)
TB pilot projects.
Provision of goods and technical assistance for launching pilot projects in 
support of the Ministry of Health program in Chisinau City and four Judets through the 
Page  2
provision of goods for TB laboratories, and the development of monitoring and 
evaluation of TB activities, including the purchase of computers, software, vehicle 
and publications.
(b)
HIV/AIDS pilot projects.
Provision of goods and technical assistance for launching pilot projects in 
support of the Ministry of Health program in Chisinau City and four Judets through the 
preparation of HIV/AIDs laboratories upgrading plan, the provision of goods for 
HIV/AIDs laboratories, the development of HIV/AIDs and Sexually Transmitted Infections 
(STIs) surveillance, the updating of protocols to improve the management of HIV/AIDS 
(diagnosis, prevention and treatment), the development of HIV/AIDs public education 
activities (including printing), training of relevant staff, and the provision of 
matching grants to Non-Governmental Organization (NGOs) to carry out HIV/AIDs 
activities.
2.
Implementation Generally
.
The Recipient shall: (a) carry out the Activities through the Project Management 
Unit established for the Project with due diligence and efficiency; (b) promptly 
provide the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for that purpose; 
(c) furnish all information covering the Activities and the use of the proceeds of the 
Grant as IDA shall reasonably request; (d) from time to time exchange views with IDA’s 
representatives on the progress and results of the Activities; and (e) take all 
necessary measures required to enable IDA to visit the territory of the Republic of 
Moldova for purposes related to the Grant.  Without limitation on the foregoing, the 
Recipient shall, if IDA shall so request, prepare and furnish to IDA promptly upon 
completion of the Activities a report, in form and substance satisfactory to IDA, on 
the results and impact of the Activities.
3.
Procurement
Except as IDA shall otherwise agree, procurement of the consultants’ services 
and goods required for the carrying out of the Activities and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Attachment I to this 
Annex.
3.2.
The Recipient shall ensure that all imported goods to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant shall be insured against hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and that any 
indemnity for such insurance is payable in a freely usable currency to replace or 
repair such goods.  The Recipient shall ensure that any facilities relevant to the 
Activities are at all times operated and maintained in accordance with appropriate 
practices and that any repairs or renewals of such facilities are promptly made as 
needed.
4.
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1.
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by IDA on its 
books in the name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn therefrom 
by the Recipient in accordance with the provisions of this Section 4, for expenditures 
in respect of the reasonable cost of services required for the Activities and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.
4.2.
The expenditures for the following items may be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Activities:
   % of 
Amount of the Grant
Expenditures to
Item
Allocated (in Swedish Kronor)
be Financed
(1)
Consultants’ services
1,900,000
100%
(2)
Goods
2,900,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures,
100% of local expenditures 
(ex-factory cost) and 80% 
of 
local expenditures for 
other 
items procured locally
Page  3
(3)
Training
  500,000
100%
TOTAL                  
5,300,000
For the purposes of this paragraph:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the territory 
of any country other than that of the Recipient; 
(b) the term "local expenditures" means any expenditures that are not foreign 
expenditures, provided, however, that if the currency of the Recipient is also that of 
another country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, 
expenditures in such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be foreign 
expenditures; and
(c) the term "training" means expenditures incurred by the Recipient  in 
connection with the carrying out of training activities under this Agreement, 
including per diems and travel costs of the trainees, rental of facilities and 
equipment, communications costs, and training materials.
. 
4.3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above: (a) no withdrawals shall 
be made: (i) for payments made for expenditures prior to the date of signature of this 
Letter Agreement by IDA; (ii) on account of payments for any taxes levied by or in the 
territory of the Recipient; (iii) on account of expenditures in the territories of any 
country which is not a member of the IDA or for services supplied from such 
territories; (iv) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities if such 
payment, to IDA’s knowledge, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; or (v) 
after  September 30, 2003 or such later date as IDA shall establish by written notice 
to the Recipient (the Closing Date), except that withdrawals may be made for 
expenditures incurred prior to the Closing Date if the corresponding application is 
received by IDA within four months after the Closing Date, after which time any amount 
of the Grant remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant Account shall be canceled; and (b) 
if, in IDA’s opinion, an amount of the Grant allocated to any of the items in the 
table in paragraph 4.2 above will be insufficient to finance the expenditures for such 
item, IDA may, by written notice to the Recipient, reallocate to such item an amount 
of the Grant then allocated to another item which, in IDA’s opinion, will not be 
necessary to meet other expenditures.
4.4.
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, 
it shall deliver to IDA a written application for withdrawal of such amount in the 
form specified by IDA.  Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on behalf of the 
Recipient by the Minister of Finance or such other person as he or she shall have 
authorized in writing; and (b) be accompanied by such evidence in support of the 
application as IDA shall reasonably request.  Authenticated specimen signatures of the 
person authorized to sign withdrawal applications shall be provided with the first 
application bearing his or her signature.  Each withdrawal application for an amount 
of the Grant and its supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to 
satisfy IDA that the Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount from the Grant 
Account and that such amount is to be used in the carrying out of the Activities.  IDA 
shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account only to or on 
the order of the Recipient.
4.5.
IDA may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) services of individual consultants 
costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each; (b) contracts for goods costing less than 
US$100,000 equivalent each; and (c) training, all under such terms and conditions as 
IDA shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
4.6.
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the 
Grant.  IDA, at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, shall 
purchase with the currency of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such 
currencies as shall be required to pay for expenditures to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, for the purposes of this 
Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, such 
value shall be as reasonably determined by IDA.
4.7.
To facilitate the carrying out of the Activities, the Recipient may open and 
maintain in USD a special deposit account (the Special Account) in a commercial bank 
acceptable to the Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA including 
Page  4
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions 
of Attachment II to this Annex.
5.
Accounts and Audits
5.1.
(a)
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
a format acceptable to IDA, adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Activities.
(b)
The Recipient shall: (i) have the records, accounts and financial 
statements referred to in subparagraph (a) above and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards 
acceptable to IDA, consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; 
(ii) furnish to IDA as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months 
after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the financial statements 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) an 
opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as IDA shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii) furnish to IDA such other information concerning said records and accounts and 
the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as IDA shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with subparagraph (a) above, records 
and accounts reflecting such expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year after 
IDA has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable IDA’s 
representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and 
accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph (b) above and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with 
the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon 
to support the related withdrawals.
6.
Suspension and Cancellation
6.1.
IDA may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following 
events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any 
of its obligations herein specified; or (b) the right of  the Republic of Moldova or 
any other entity to which the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
(the IBRD) has made a loan with the guarantee of the Republic of Moldova, to make 
withdrawals under any loan agreement with the IBRD or any development credit agreement 
with the IDA shall have been suspended. 
6.2.
IDA may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after 
the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been 
suspended pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient 
shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to IDA, within six months after the 
effective date hereof, to carry out the Activities.
Attachment I 
Procurement 
Section I.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines), subject to the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
Page  5
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Individual Consultants
Services to prepare launch TB pilots, prepare an upgrading plan for HIV/AIDs 
laboratories, assist in developing HIV/AIDs/STIs sentinel surveillance system, update 
protocols to improve the management of HIV/AIDs, and develop HIV/AIDs public education 
activities shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.  
2.
Training
NGO twining for HIV/AIDs training and related training expenses up to an 
aggregate amount of $45,000 shall be procured on the basis of quotes obtained directly 
from training providers in accordance with procedures agreed upon with the 
Association. 
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.  
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
Section II.
Procurement of Goods 
Part A:
General
1.
Goods shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of Section I of 
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997, and 
January 1999, (the Guidelines) subject to the provisions of the following Parts of 
this Section I. 
Part B: 
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
Page  6
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
International Shopping
Readily available off-the shelf goods of standard specifications estimated to 
cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregated amount not to 
exceed US$225,000 equivalent, for the purchase of medical equipment and supplies for 
health facilities and laboratories, as well as computers and software for monitoring 
and evaluation, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international 
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than US$30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregated amount not to exceed US$50,000 equivalent, for purchasing a vehicle and 
printing educational materials and surveillance forms, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of
national shopping procedures in accordance with the provision 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part C: 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all works shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to the first two contracts for Parts C.1 and C.2 of this Schedule 
respectively, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Attachment II
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Attachment:
(a)
the term "eligible items" means the items set forth in the table in 
paragraph 4.2 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
US$[100,000] to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Attachment.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Attachment.
Page  7
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
The Recipient shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a 
deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account 
and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall 
have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Attachment for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Grant Account under the eligible item(s), and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in paragraph 5.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter 
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to 
said paragraph in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special 
Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 of the 
Annex to this Letter Agreement; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent 
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Recipient.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the 
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Attachment; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
Page  8
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
