Page  1
April 4, 2001
Mr. Mihail Manoli
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Chisinau
Republic of Moldova 
Re:
Dutch Grant for the Health Investment Fund Project
Grant Number TF024413
Dear Mr. Manoli:
I am writing on behalf of the International Development Association (the 
Association) to indicate the Association’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds 
provided by the Netherlands, to make a grant in an amount of ten million United States 
dollars (US$10,000,000) not exceeding twenty three million eight hundred Netherlands 
Guilders (NLG23,800,000) (the Grant) to the Republic of Moldova (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex 
to this Letter Agreement.  The Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement 
below, that it is authorized to contract and withdraw the Grant for the said purposes 
and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon 
receipt by the Association of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, 
this Letter Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Roger Grawe
Country Director 
Czech Republic, Hungary, Moldova, Slovak Republic, and Slovenia
Europe and Central Asia Region
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
By /s/ Mihali Manoli
Minister of Finance
Date:
4/11/2001
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
1.
Purposes and Activities
1.1.
The purposes of the Grant are to co-finance the Moldova Health Investment Fund 
(HIF) Project, described in Schedule 2 of the Development Credit Agreement dated 
October 6, 2000 between Republic of Moldova and the Association (Credit Number 3408 
MD) which has the main aim to improve the health status of the Moldovan population, 
and to increase the quality and efficiency of the public health sector by improving 
access to essential services for the poor.  The project includes support to strategic 
Page  2
work aimed at controlling the tuberculosis (TB) and human immunodeficiency virus 
(HIV)/aquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) epidemics. The activities (the 
Activities) for which the Grant is given are as follows:
(a) 
provision of financing to public communication campaign to inform 
stakeholders about the sector reforms, and media expertise to be provided to the 
Ministry of Health;
(b) 
provision of training for approximately 750 General Practitioners (GPs) 
and approximately 1,500 nurses. This includes training of existing GPs and retraining 
specialists to become primary care physicians; and training nurses to provide care at 
the primary and secondary level; 
(c) 
provision of training in management of health services to managers at 
Central, Judet and health care facility levels including training health services 
managers and administrators to  provide them with the necessary business skills to run 
autonomous hospitals;
(d) 
provision of support in development of TB/AIDS Strategies  to control the 
rapidly spreading TB and HIV/AIDS epidemics in close cooperation with the Government 
of Moldova, WHO and UNAIDS;
(e) 
provision of support in refurbishment of training centers (civil works 
and equipment) through provision of  finance necessary training equipment (US$124,000) 
to carry out the above mentioned training programs, and some minor civil works 
(US$50,000) in two training centers;
(f) 
provision of support in purchasing equipment for the Central 
Judet/Municipality of Chisinau for the first phase of the project with primary care 
equipment and basic supplies for a limited number of general practice centers in the 
Municipality of Chisinau and in the Central Judet;
(g) 
provision of support in refurbishment  of health services (second phase 
of Health Investment  Fund Project) to allocate funds to the Municipality of Chisinau 
and Judet health authorities to support the second phase of the project, the Health 
Investment Fund (through a competitive mechanism). The Fund will primarily finance 
regional restructuring proposals that include development of emergency care services 
and development of primary health care. In addition,  the Grant funds will be used to 
finance  small civil works for rehabilitation of health services in some limited 
number of hospitals. These investments will include the improvement of information 
systems, modernization of  emergency care, surgery or obstetric wards, etc.;
(h) 
provision of support in refurbishment of health services (third phase of 
Health Investment Fund Project)  which will make the closure and consolidation of 
facilities. The funds will be released to regions based on a pre-defined set of 
criteria. The Grant funds will be used for the rehabilitation of health services in 
some remaining hospitals;
(i) 
provision of support to Project management, procurement and financial 
management, and operational costs; and
(k) 
provision of support in preparing a Project impact evaluation through 
epidemiological, social, institutional and economic assessments of the project to be 
carried out in the beginning of project implementation; by mid-term; and at project 
end. The Grant will finance the studies, and the local and technical assistance. 
2.
Implementation Generally
2.1.
The Recipient shall: (a) carry out the Activities with due diligence and 
efficiency; (b) promptly provide the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for that purpose; (c) furnish all information covering the Activities and the 
use of the proceeds of the Grant as the Association shall reasonably request; (d) from 
time to time exchange views with the Association's representatives on the progress and 
results of the Activities; and (e) take all necessary measures required to enable the 
Association to visit the territory of the Recipient for purposes related to the Grant.  
Without limitation on the foregoing, the Recipient shall, if the Association shall so 
request, prepare and furnish to the Association promptly upon completion of the 
Page  3
Activities a report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, on the 
results and impact of the Activities.
3.
Procurement
3.1.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the consultants’ 
services, goods and works required for the carrying out of the Activities and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of 
Attachment I to this Annex.
3.2.
The Recipient shall ensure that all imported goods to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant shall be insured against hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and that any 
indemnity for such insurance is payable in a freely usable currency to replace or 
repair such goods.  The Recipient shall ensure that any facilities relevant to the 
Activities are at all times operated and maintained in accordance with appropriate 
practices and that any repairs or renewals of such facilities are promptly made as 
needed.
4.
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1.
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by the 
Association on its books in the name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be 
withdrawn therefrom by the Recipient in accordance with the provisions of this Section 
4, for expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required 
for the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.
4.2.
The expenditures for the following items may be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Activities:
Amount of the
   % of
Grant Allocated
Expenditures
Item
   (in United States Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Works:
590,000
85%
(2)
Goods:
     6,750,000
100% of foreign
expenditures, 100%
of local expendi-
tures (ex-factory
costs) and 80% of
local expenditures
for other items
procured locally
(3)
Consultants' services     2,170,000
100%
and training:
(4)
PCU's Operating costs:
 50,000
100%
(5)
Unallocated
440,000
TOTAL
    10,000,000
For the purposes of this paragraph the term:
(a)
“foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any country 
other than of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Recipient; 
(b)
“local expenditures” means any expenditures that are not foreign 
expenditures, provided, however, that if the currency of the Recipient is also that of 
another country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, 
expenditures in such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be foreign 
expenditures;
(c)
 “Consultant’s services and training”means expenditures for local and 
Page  4
foreign consultant’s services including student stipends (tuition, accommodation and 
logistics); and
(d)
“PCU’s Operating costs” means expenditures incurred by the PCU on account 
of management of Project implementation for salaries, but excluding salaries of civil 
servants, communications, local travel, utilities, printing and publications, office 
supplies, office maintenance, and such other expenditures as may be agreed upon the 
Association.
4.3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above:
(a)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account: (i) for payments 
made for expenditures prior to the date of signature of this Letter Agreement by the 
Association; (ii) on account of payments for any taxes levied by or in the territory 
of the Recipient; (iii) on account of expenditures in the territories of any country 
which is not a member of the Association or for goods produced in or services supplied 
from such territories; or (iv) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, 
or for any import of goods, if such payment, to the Association’s knowledge, is 
prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter 
VII of the Charter of the United Nations;
(b)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account after December 31, 
2005 or such later date that the Association shall establish by notice to the 
Recipient (the Closing Date); and
(c)
If, in the Association’s opinion, an amount of the Grant allocated to any 
of the items in the table in paragraph 4.2 above will be insufficient to finance the 
expenditures for such item, the Association may, by written notice to the Recipient, 
reallocate to such item an amount of the Grant then allocated to another item which, 
in the Association’s opinion, will not be necessary to meet other expenditures.
4.4.
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, 
it shall deliver to the Association a written application for withdrawal of such 
amount in the form specified by the Association. Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) 
signed on behalf of the Recipient by the Minister of Finance of the Recipient or such 
other person as he or she shall have authorized in writing; and (b) accompanied by 
such evidence in support of the application as the Association shall reasonably 
request. Authenticated specimen signatures of the person authorized to sign withdrawal 
applications shall be provided with the first application bearing his or her 
signature. Each withdrawal application for an amount of the Grant and its supporting 
evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to satisfy the Association that the 
Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount from the Grant Account and that such 
amount is to be used in the carrying out of the Activities. The Association shall pay 
the amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account only to or on the order 
of the Recipient.
4.5.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) services 
for consulting firms costing less than US$100,000 equivalent each; (b) services for 
individual consultants costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each; (c) contracts for 
goods costing less than US$100,000 equivalent each;  (d) contracts for works costing 
less than US$50,000 equivalent each; (e) training; and (f) PCU’s operating costs, all 
under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Recipient. 
4.6.
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the 
Grant.  The Association, at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the 
Recipient, shall purchase with the currency of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant 
Account such currencies as shall be required to pay for expenditures to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, for the purposes of 
this Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, 
such value shall be as reasonably determined by the Association.
4.7.
To facilitate the carrying out of the Activities, the Recipient may open and 
maintain in United States dollars a special deposit account (the Special Account) in a 
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and 
Page  5
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions 
of Attachment II to this Annex.
5.
Accounts and Audits
5.1.
(a)
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
a format acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect in accordance with sound 
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Activities.
(b)
The Recipient shall: (i) have the records, accounts and financial 
statements referred to in subparagraph (a) above and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards 
acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, 
but in any case not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements, records 
and accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the 
Association such other information concerning said records and accounts and the audit 
thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with subparagraph (a) above, records 
and accounts reflecting such expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year after 
the Association has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable the 
Association’s representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such 
records and accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph (b) 
above and that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can 
be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
6.
Suspension and Cancellation
6.1.
The Association may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right 
of the Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the 
following events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to 
comply with any of its obligations herein specified; or (b) the right of the 
Recipient, or any other entity to which the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (IBRD) has made a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to make 
withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank or any development credit agreement 
with the International Development Association shall have been suspended. 
6.2.
The Association may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of 
the Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time 
after the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have 
been suspended pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 above; or (b) if the 
Recipient shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to the Association, within 
six months after the effective date hereof, to carry out the Activities.
Attachment I
Procurement
Section I.
Consultants’ Services
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Page  6
Introduction and Section  IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers”, published by the Bank in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines), and the 
following provisions of this Section I.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants  
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for technical assistance, training, studies under paragraph 1.1 (b, d, 
i, k) of the Annex estimated to cost less than US$100,000 may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Single Source Selection
Services for  under paragraph 1.1 (b) of the Annex may, with the Association's 
prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 
through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for specialized tasks under paragraph 1.1 (b, c, d, i, k,) of the Annex 
tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
4.
Training 
Training shall be procured on the basis of quotes obtained directly from 
training providers in accordance with the procedure agreed upon the Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Activities shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for 
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$200,000
or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000
or more, but less than the equivalent 
of $200,000 the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
Page  7
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
Section II.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the 
following Parts of this Section II.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
International Shopping
Readily available off-the shelf goods of standard specifications estimated to 
cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregated amount not to 
exceed US$300,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 
and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregated amount not to exceed US$100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provision 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed US$200,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work and who has the experience and 
resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decision
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitation to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior review
Page  8
With respect to: (i) each contract for goods  procured under international 
competitive bidding procedures referred to in Part B above; and (ii) the first two 
contracts for goods and works procured in accordance with the procedures referred to 
Part C above, the procedure set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures 
set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Attachment II
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Attachment:
(a)
the term "eligible items" means the items 1 through 4 set forth in the 
table in paragraph 4.2 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Activities and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Grant; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to US$600,000 
to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Attachment; provided, however, that unless the Association 
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to US$300,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Grant 
Account, plus  the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Association pursuant to  Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or 
exceed the equivalent of US$3,000,000.  
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Attachment.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
The Recipient shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for 
a deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to 
the Association requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such 
intervals as the Association shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish 
to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Attachment for the 
payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, the 
Association 
shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient 
shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible 
expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn 
by the Association from 
the Grant Account under the eligible item(s), 
and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have 
been justified by said documents and 
other evidence.
Page  9
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, the 
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in paragraph 5.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter 
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Association 
pursuant to said paragraph in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the 
Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 of the 
Annex to this Letter Agreement; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent 
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to 
the Recipient.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent 
that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Attachment; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, 
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
