Documnt of
The World Bank
FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
C~Al 2 c2/- L)6
Repot No. P-5069-yE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAI4
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO USg402 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA
MAY 22, 1989
Ths docomen bas a restrcd dsbtdbton and may be ued by recpients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not oherwise be dicosed without World Bank athorization.



CURENCY           TS
(Currency Unit = Bolivar (Ba))l
Currency Unit                Calendar 1988               April 15. 1989
US$l                            Bs14.5                         Bs37
Be 1                            $   .069                       $  .027
Bs 1,000                        $ 68.97                        $27.03
ABIREIV&TIONS
BCV            -  Banco Central de Venezuela (Central Bank of
Venezuela)
CANTV          -  Compaflia Anonima Venezolana de Telefonos
(Venezuelan Telephone Company)
CORDIPLAN      -  Oficina Central de Coordinacion y Planificacion
de la Presidencia de la Republica (Central
Coordinating and Planning Office of the
President)
CVG            - Corporacion Venezolana de Guayana (Guayana
Corporation of Venezuela)
IMAU           -  Instituto Metropolitano de Aseo Urbano
(Metropolitan Institute of Urban Sanitation)
INCE           -  Instituto Nacional de Cooperacion Educativa
(National Institute of Cooperative Education)
INP            -  Instituto Nacional de Puertos (National
Institute of Ports)
FIV            -  Fondo de Inversiones de Venezuela
LKC            -  Long-run marginal cost
OCEPRE         -  Oficina Central de Presupuesto (Central Budget
Office)
PEQUIVEN       -  Petroquimica de Venezuela, S.A. (Venezuelan
Petrochemical Company)
PDVSA          -  Petroleos de Venezuela, S.A. (Venezuela
Petroleum Company)
SIDOR          -  Siderurgica del Orinoco, C.A. (Orinoco Steel
Company)
FISCAL YR
January 1 to December 31
11 Prior to March 14, 1989 the Bolivar exchange rate was run as a multi-
tier system: the official rate for most current transactions was set
at 14.5 bolivares/dollar. A preferential exchange rate of 7.5 Bs/US$ in
effect until October 1988 was applied to certain 'essential, imports,
defined as certain food stuffs, animal feed, and pharmaceutizal
products; ill other transactions (i.e. new capital flows and tourism)
were at a parallel, free market rate which fluctuated in 1988 between
Bs29/US$ and Bs42/US$. On March 14, the Government unified the
exchange rate, and established a floating, market-based system. The
exchange rate has since fluctuated between a high of Bs40/US$ and a low
of B353/US$.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
VENEZUELA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Table of Contents
Loan Summary
PART 1.    THE ECONOMY .............                                2
A. Background .............          ...........        2
B. Recent Economic Developments and Prospects ........5
C. Major Adjustment Issues ............................ 6
PART II.     THE GOVERNMENT'S STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM .........8
A. The Government's Economic Program ..................8 
B. Program Benefits and Social Adjustment ............ 11
C. Prospects, External Debt, and Financing Needs ..... 12
PART 111.    THE PROPOSED LOAN ..................................... 16
A. General ........................................... 16
B. Establishment of a Competitive Environment ........ 17
C. Poverty Alleviation ............................... 18
D. Public Enterprise Efficiency ...................... 19
E. Public Investment Priorities and Procedures ....... 21
F. Macroeconomic Consistency ......................... 22
G. Operational Considerations ........................ 22
PART IV.     COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY AND BANK OPERATIONS ....... 26
PART V.      COLLABORATION WITH THE IMF ............................ 31
PART VI.     RECOMMENDATION ........................................ 32
ANNEXES
I.  Economic Indicatorst Balance of Payments,
External Capital and Debt, Social lndicator
II.   Status of Bank Group Operations
III.   Supplementary Data Sheet
IV.   Government Statement of Development Policy
V.   Summary of Structural Adjuntment Action Program
VI.   Poverty Alleviation Program
VII.   Implementation Issues and Assistance
MAP: IBRD 120575
This report is based on the findings uf the preparatinn and appraisal
missions which visited Venezuela in February and April 1989. Frank Lysy
was the task manager, and the team included: M. Selowsky, J. Albert, R.
Martin, G. Mohadjer-Niederreiter and R. Taylor (IBRD) and K. Hansen, K.
Baer and E. Bitran (Consultants). D. Cortijo and K. Scalzulli provided
secretarial support.
This document has a restreited distribution and may be used by recipients only In the pefrormac
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Wot1d Bank authorization.



STRUCTURAL ADJUStMNT LOAN
LOAN SuARY
Borrower:            Republic of Venezuela
Amount:              US$402.0 million equivalent
Description:         The proposed loan would support the Government's
structural adjustment program, launched in February
1989. The program's principal objectives are to
restore competi,tiveness in the economy by removing
distortions and administrative discretionality in the
allocation of resources, laying the foundations for
sound public management (*specially on fiscal
matters), stimulating productive activity, and
improving the effectiveness of the Government's social
programs.
Program Benefits:    The program would establish the basis for sustainable
economic development by introducing basic changes in
the macroeconomic framework and management, by
promoting greater economic competition, by more
efficient management of public investment and public
enterprises, and by laying the groundwork for
developing well targeted and efficiently run social
programs.
Program Risks:       The principal risks are threefold:  (a) Government
difficulty in maintaining an adequate political
consensus to allow reforms to proceed in a timely,
coherent, and internally consistent manner; (b)
limitations in administrative capacity that could
impede the implementation of the measures and
programs; and (c) insufficient external finance to
allow the program to succeed. The resolve of the
Government to proceed with the program, even in view
of substantial internal opposition, gives evidence of
firm commitment to the program and the principles on
which it is grounded. The program includes special
provisions to build implementation capacity. The
reforms will of necessity imply large shifts of real
income among the various social groups, which may well
accentuat. social tensions. The reforms, however, are
necessary to put the Venezuelan economy back on a path



- ii -
of sustainable growth. The attention devoted to
redesigning and targeting food subsidies and building
up as rapidly as possible direct social programs to
strengthen nutrition and health services is designed
to minimize the social impact of the transitional
period, especially on lower income groups.
Estimated
Disbursementst       The proceeds of the loan would be disbursed in two
tranches: US$200 million equivalent upon
effectiveness; and US$200 million equivalent after a
satisfactory performance review expected to be held in
early 1990. In addition, US$2 million is designated
for technical assistance and would be disbursed
against technical assistance expenditures.
Retroactive financing will be permitted for those
eligible imports made before the date of the loan
agreement but not before April 1, 1989, up to an
amount equal to US$80 million, and for technical
assistance expenditures of up to US$400,000.
Schedule of
Disbursements:           Bank Fiscal Years          PY90           FY91
--- US$ millions---
Annual                   401               1
Cumulative               401             402
Hap:                 IBRD 120575



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON
A PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$402 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposea loan
for the equivalent of US$402 million to the Government of Venezuela. The
loan would support the first phase of a structural adjustment program aimed
at achieving balanced and sustainable economic growth. The loan would have
a term of 15 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate. Cofinancing arrangements with other
bilateral, and possibly multilateral, agencies are being actively pursued.
2.       This would be the first Bank loan to Venezuela since an agriculture
credit project was approved in January, 1974. Venezuela in the succeeding
years benefitted from Bank technical assistance and, following the 1973-74
oil price increases, lent to the Bank the equivalent of US$500 million.
Shortcomings in economic management, the inherent strains of managing an
economy wholly dependent on one commodity, oil, and a decline in oil prices
led, however, to mounting economic problems. Venezuela's GNP per capita
declined to US$3,110 by 1985 (using the Bank Atlas methodology). In
response to a request of the Government, Bank management agreed to consider
resumption of Bank lending to Venezuela with the objective of helping it to
achieve internal and external equilibria and to regain as soon as possible
its access to capital markets (ref. Board memorandum 'Possible Resumption of
Bank Lending to Venezuela" of December 11, 1986, SECM86-1335). An economic
report on Venezuela entitled Country Economic Report on Venezuelas Policy
Choices and Economic Growth (Report No. 6711-VE, dated March 3, 1988) was
distributed to the Executive Directors in March, 1988.
3.       The Venezuelan Government that took office on February 2, 1989,
almost immediately launched a broad-based economic stabilization and
adjustment program. This program has advanced rapidly. The Government
requested Bank support for the adjustment program in February, and a
preparatory mission took place later that month; this mission also discussed
the Bank's overall country strategy for Venezuela and objectives for future
lending. The Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) proposal was appraised by a
mission which visited Venezuela in April. The Government's economic program
and the specific policy actions supported by the SAL are summarized in this
report. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.



- 2 -
PART I - THE ECONOMY
A.   Background
4.       In the post World War II era, Venezuela has been transformed from a
tu'ral, quite small, and isolated economy and society, to a highly urbanized
nAtion, with an important industrial base, a commercially oriented
agricultural sector, and a new institutional structure. Venezuela's
population has increased from 4.2 million in 1945 to 18.7 -'illion in 1988,
both because of high natural population increase and subs .ntisl in-
migration. UrbLn population rose from 352 to 87Z of the total, obviously
reflecting a fundamental change in the social complexion. Driven by the
motor of the thriving petroleum sector, Venezuela has begun in this period
to modernize its society and economy, and to exploit the abundant resources
that make poasible a wide range of industrial, mineral, and agricultural
ventures. The period has seen, following the 1958 revolution, an unbroken
series of democratically elected governments and internal stability. Much
of this promise and opportunity for development, however, has yet to be
fully exploited, and the bulk of resources have been channeled to what is in
effect a relatively thin veneer of prosperity. Venezuela now faces a
development challenge on a par with many other Latin American countries
which lacked the resources and prospects Venezuela had earlier enjoyed.
5.       The reasons for this disappointing performance have been fourfold.
First, Venezuela has lacked a coherent and viable long-term development
approach and strategy. In its absence, a series of different, often
contradictory, approaches have been followed, and there has been a steady
increase in the extent and complexity of direct economic controls by the
state. This has led to increasing structural rigidities and an inability to
generate sufficient growth in productive capacity to sustain the growing
population. Venezuela's non-oil production sectors grew up behind high
barriers of protective tariffs and restrictions, which have left them ill-
equipped to compete externally or to utilize resources efficiently.
Venezuela's economy is governed today by a highly complex and intertwined
set of regulations and subsidies which affect virtually all modern sector
activities and introduce innumerable distortions. With the decline in oil
prices, the Government can no longer afford the subsidies that were used to
keep this system afloat. Second, as a consequence of these policies,
Venezuela has remained dependent on petroleum, which, until the 1986
collapse in prices, provided 952 of its export earnings. Venezuela thus
remains highly vulnerable to swings in the petroleum markets. More
seriously in a medium term perspective, the economy beyond the petroleum
sector remains thin and underdeveloped, providing limited employment and
opportuniti ; for broad-based development. Third, Venezuela has failed to
address the problems of poverty effectively in its development efforts, and
has yet to develop effective policies and services in the social sectors.
Social indicators in Venezuela are poor for a country at its level of per
capita income (US$3230 per capita in 1987), with rates of infant mortality,
incidence of malnutrition, population increase (2.72 a year), and illiteracy
all comparatively high. And fourth, despite numerous efforts and programs,
Venezuela's public institutions and public administration remain weak and do
not provide the basis needed for modernization of government operations in
support of a sustainable medium term economic development strategy.



- 3 -
6.       Venezuela's recent economic history has seen wLde and abrupt swings
in both policy and performance. At the root of this variable performance
has been the management of the petroleum economy, which has overwhelmingly
dominated Venezuela's economy throughout. Given the dependence of the
econqmy on oil for its export revenues and Government revenues (about 702 of
revenues in 1,ad), the international fluctuations in oil markets have had
profound effects on Venezuela, which have been exacerbated by economic
management in the country. In broad terms, the oil boom of the 1970s led to
a short period of rapid growth, a period 'n which important investment
programs were launched (aimed in large measure at diversification of the
economy), major policy and administrative reforms were initiated, and
innovative and ambitious programs to improve social services were
introduced. However, once oil prices stabilized, this demand-led growth led
to a steadily deteriorating external trade balance. When this was no longer
sustainable, there was a sudden switch in macro management towards
contractionary policies, led by a sharp reduction in the level of public
investment. This stop-go pattern continued until the mid-1980's, reflecting
the fluctuations in the world oil markets. By 1985, Venezuels was left with
a distorted economy which lacked the foundations for sustainable growth, a
large external debt which could not be serviced in the short term, and the
prospect of mounting inflation, in a country which had known low inflation
before. Despite successive efforts in the 1985-88 period, the crisis
inexorably deepened. In early 1989 it had reached a point where decisive
and far-ranging remedial measures were reqaired.
7.       Venezuela emerged from this period also with significant poverty
problems and a highly skewed income distribution. Furthermore, recent
studies indicate that the level and seierity of poverty has indeed increased
significantly in the recent past. Major factors explaining the persistence
of poverty are threefold: first, the Government programs were not built on
a sustainable institutional base, have been poorly managed, and have not
been targeted to those most in need. Second, Venezuela's rapid
urbanization, and especially the growth of metropolitan Caracas (now with an
estimated population of over 4.0 million, or 212 of Venezuela's population)
have severely strained the Government's capacity to provide services,
leading to the development of large slum communities with only limited basic
services. And third, although population growth has declined (from 3.4Z a
year in the 1970s to about 2.72 at present), the rate is still high. Recent
estimates indicate that 15-202 of the population live at or below a commonly
accepted line of absolute poverty. Reports indicate also a deterioration in
the nutritional status of the population, especially in poorer areas, and
affecting especially the most vulnerable groups: infants, pregnant and
nursing mothers, and children under six. The sad fact is that the
Government's anti-poverty programs, despite high expenditures, have failed
to fulfill the promise of even the early 1980s, when some commentators
suggested that Venezuela was close to meeting its basic needs objectives.
The problems have been primarily insufficient attention to design of
appropriate services and to targeting to lower income communities, too
little community involvement, and inadequate efforts to address the needs of
management and sustainability of social programs. Instead, the 'sociala
programs of earlier governments have attempted to cover the entire
population of the country, as for example through general food subsidies
that try to keep the prices of foods, including meats, lower than justified.
The main beneficiaries have therefore tended to be relatively well to do;
despite high expenditures the poor have not been greatly helped.



- 4 -
8.       Though. the basic structural weaknesses in Venezuela's economy have
their origins in large measure in policies pursued over the past twvo
decades, their import was not apparent until the economic difficultie3 of
the 1980s began to intensify. With the largesse of the financial resources
and foreign exchange provided by petroleum, relatively high growth rates of
real GDP had been achieved between 1950 and 1973. By the early 1970's
Venezuela's GDP per capita exceeded US$1,100, the highest in Latin America.
Venezuela's external position was stable, and the debt service ratio was low
(6.8Z in 1973). The period of the 1970s also saw the beginnings of major
efforts by the Government to promote industrial development, based on steel,
aluminum, and petrochemicals. This effort entailed large complement&ry
investments in hydroelectric development. As a result of government
promotional efforts, industrial development in the 1970s was extended to
include durable consumer goods and intermediate outputs for industry and
agriculture. However, because the petroleum-based eAs.iange rate tended to
depress the relative prices of traded goods, the industrial sector became
highly dependent on government promotional policiest protection from import
competition through tariffs and quantitative restrictions; regulations
governing local content requirements; subsidized credit; and restrictive
entry requirements. Between 1950 and 1975, the agriculture sector was also
growing rapidly (from 1949-51 to 1975, real output expanded at 5.22
annually) and was undergoing a structural transformation. In response to
the changes in the demand structure arising from a rapidly urbanizing and
industrializing society, as well as rising incomes, agricultural output
shifted more towards more expensive products (particularly livestock and
related products) as well as inputs for industrial use. Government policies
also encouraged a Ct !nge in factor use towards less intensive use of labor,
more intensive utilization of land and capital, and more generalized use of
purchased technological inpqts. But in the mid-1970's, agricultural
production, like other tradeable goods production, succumbed to the high
petroleum-based exchange rate and to the inward-orientation of Government
policies. Output growth slowed to only 1.6S per annum between 1975 and
1984. The agricultural labor force, after declining in relative terms for
several years, began falling in absolute numbers in tae mid-1970s, with an
out-migration annually of about 85,000, largely younger, people.
9.       Starting with the 1974 oil price boom, Venezuela has been unable to
achieve a balance of moderate growth with a sustainable balance of payments
and/or moderate inflation. The successive policies followed have led to
wide variations in performance, marked by their ineffectiveness in
addressi. r the economy's basic structural problems. From 1973 to 1977,
investme : grew rapidly (16.8? a year for private fixed investment, 18.1? a
year for public fixed investment), as Venezuela exploited the resources made
possible by the 1973-74 rise in oil prices (central government revenues
increased by 2652 in 1974 alone). The ratio of public expenditures to GDP
reached 402 of GDP in 1978, and public sector investment increased 2.5 times
faster than GDP. In parallel, the Government's role was expanded, with
rapid increases in direct production activities and promotional and
regulatory policies. GDP growth was rapid (6.8? a year). However, the
magnitude of the public sector investment program in 1974-78 proved too
ambitious; absorptive capacity was pushed to the limit, and resource waste
was substantial. With growth led by an expansion in demand, there was
steady deterioration in the trade and current ac-ount balances, with a shift
in the trade balance from a surplus of US$6.6 billion in 1974, to a deficit
of US$5.2 billion in 1978.



10.      With an uasustainable balance of payments, the Government cut back
sharply on investment and undertook other contractionary policies, which put
the economy in a prolonged slump. Investment was cut by as much as 402 in a
single year. The fluctuations in investment levels and the accompanying
policies prevented any permanent gains and if anything magnified the
economy's dejendence on petroleum. From 1978 to 1985, per capita GDP fell
in each and every year, and by a cumulative total of 24.6%. By 1985, per
capita GDP was 14.62 below the level reached in 1973, before the oil
windfall began. This occurred despite a level of investment in the 1970s
which, as a share of GDP, was the highest among the principal Latin American
countries. The 1978-85 decline occurred also despite the 1979-80 second
boom in oil prices, as inappropriate policies led to capital flight rather
than growth (capital flight is estimated to have been as much as US$10
billion in a single year). The 1978-85 decline was, however, accompanied by
positive and large external trade balances, capped by current account
surpluses of US$4.3 billion a year on average in 1983-85. This strong
current account position allowed Venezuela t.o reduce outstanding public
external debt after 1983 by about US$2.75 billion to US$25 billion and to
raise net official reserves by US$4 billion to US$15.5 billion at the end of
1985--the equivalent of more than two years of imports. Inflation was
moderate: the CPI grew at a modest 10.2Z annual rate from 1982 to 1986.
B. Recent Economic Developments and Prospects
11.      Between 1986 and 1988, the Government was able to stimulate a
moderate rate of growth, but this growth was accompanied by a sharp
deterioration in the balance of payments and by soaring inflation. In late
1985, the Government of President Lusinchi initiated a program to reactivate
the economy, based largely on a sharp rise in public sector investment.
Public sector investment rose from 7.72 of GDP in 1985 to 12.02 in 1986, a
rise of 662 in real terms albeit from a very low base. At 122 of GDP,
public fixed investment was still the lowest of any year since 1975, except
for 1984-85. The economy did respond, with GDP growing by 6.82. However,
in 1986 oil prices collapsed, with the average price received by Venezuela
falling by almost half, from US$25.7 per barrel in 1985 to just US$13.6 per
barrel in 1986. This, coupled with the demand-led growth, led to an
external current account deficit of US$1.5 billion compared to the 1985
surplus. The consolidated public sector balance moved to a deficit of 4.92
ot G.DP from a 3.32 of GDP surplus in 1985. The Government responded by
drawing down external reserves and utilizing other short-term financing
measures. Furthermore, inflation started to accelerate in the second half
of the year.
12.      This pattern continued in 1987-88.  Public fixed investment
stabilized as a share of GDP in the 11-112% to 12-1122 range, and growth
continued at a moderate rate, with GDP growing by 3.32 in 1987 and 4.22 in
1988. However, the overall fiscal balance remained in deficit (3.42 of GDP
in 1987, 6.92 in 1988), and the external current account remained in deficit
(US$1.1 billion in 1987, and US$4.6 billiont in 1988, equal to 7.62 of GDP).
The deficits continued to be financed by such means as drawing down
reserves, the build-up of trade credit lines, and other ad hoc measures.
Meanwhile, inflation accelerated to unprecedented rates for Venezuela, with
the CPI growing by 40.32 in 1987 and 35.5b in 1988. Much of this growth in
the CPI was due to higher food prices, but still, the non-food component of
the GPI rose by 27.72 in 1987 and 23.52 in 1988.



-6-
13.      By the end of 1988, Venezuela's economic situation had become
untenablet operating reserves had been depleted, imports were accelerating
as it was clear to all that the new Government would have to effect a major
devaluation, and the Central Bank began to build up internal arrears as it
stopped providing foreign exehange at the official rate of 14.50 Be/$ on
expiring 6-month Letters of Credit for private imports. Inflation was
accelerating to rates previously unknown in Venezuela. By January 1989
there were substantial shortages of staples in the markets, such as bread,
coffee, sugar, and rice. Merchants kept such goods in inventory (if they
had them at all) as everyone waited for the new administration of Carlos
Andres Perez to take office in early February 1989 with a firm commitment to
resolve what would be the new foreign exchange rate system (and hence the
bolivar price of imported items) and what prices might be de-controlled.
These issues had still not been resolved by late February and shortages
persisted or grew. The Government was announcing a strong adjustment and
austerity program, but details and timing were not clear. In this climate
of uncertainty, serious riots and widespread looting of shops broke out.
More than 300 people died. The immediate spark was a doublinag of petroleum
prices and the unexpected response of some bus drivers who doubled fares and
suspended student discounts (only a 302 fare increase had been authorized).
However, the causes were clearly much deeper, as the backdrop of shortages
and uncertainty had set up an explosive situation.
C. Haior Adiustment Issues
14.      As the Government sets about to correct past economic
mismanagement, it has to contend with several overarching issuest
(a) Macroeconomic Imbalances There is a clear need to implement a
balanced program that will aim for feasible external accounts,
both in terms of the availability of immediate cash flow as well
as declining debt ratios, and bring the fiscal deficit to a level
consistent with public external borrowing plans, internal
borrowing possibilities and the expected levels of inflation and
GDP growth. Without this macro-economic framework, no effective
response to the deep-seated problems facing Venezuela will
succeed, given the magnitude and interlocking nature of the
imbalances and distortions in the economy.
(b) Management of Public Investment Planning and Implementation: A
rigorous system for evaluating public investments on the basis of
rational economic criteria is urgently required, as the investment
progtam is poorly understood and managed in the aggregate, and
reflects only partially the Government's strategic objectives.
(c) Public Enterprise Inefficiency: The key role and size of public
enterprises dictate the need for a major reform in how they
operate. This must start with the establishment of a price regime
which reflects true economic costs.
(d) Uncompetitive Economic Environment: Venezuela's economy faces
innumerable distortions, including an undervalued exchange rate
which has been operated as a complex multiple rate system which
heavily subsidized importers and other users of foreign exchange.
Private foreign debt was particularly subsidized through the



preferential exchange system. Interest rates wera low with credit
rationed, and price controls were pervasive. Administratively
determined subsidies imposed rising burdens on the Government
budget. Domestic petroleum prices varied from less than lOS of
export opportunity costs (for refined products) to about .i5Z (for
high octane gasolines); for fertilizer, t.he price to the farmer
was less than 151 of opportunity cost, and animal feeds also were
heavily subsidized. Food and pharmaceutical imports received
(until October 1988) a preferential exchange rate of just 7.50
Bs/US$, when the varallel rate was in the range of 35-40 BsiUS$.
The tax regime is based on a system of extensive exemptions and
exonerations for income tax payers, and has resulted on an
excessive reliance on the petroleum producing sector for state
revenues. To stimulate private investment and create a climate
allowing rational development of enterprises, reforms are
essentiLl of the exchange rate regime, interest rate policies,
taxation -stem, and trade regime.
(e) Trade Regime: Venezuela's trade regime and its uneven application
has stifled the development of the non-oil economy and undermined
the efficiency of both the industrial and agricultural sectors. A
primary problem has been the complexity of the system, which
depends on administrative rationing of import licenses and foreign
exchange. Tariffs, nominally high, were often exonerated. The
system is far from transparent and, combined with the low exchange
rate, discourages exports. This in turn has slowed the
diversification of the economy away from oil. A far ranging
reform of the trade regime is clearly required.
(f) Poverty Alleviation: As noted above, social indicators such as
rates of malnutrition, infant mortality, and illiteracy are
relatively poor for a country at Venezuela's average income level.
This is in part a consequence of inattention to such issues in the
past, and ineffectiveness or inappropriate targeting of such
Government programs as did exist.  On top of this, the
stabilization/adjustment program will have an adverse impact on
the real living standards of some groups in the short run. There
is an urw-znt need to put in place better designed, more effective
social programs targeted especially to the most vulnerable social
groups.  The legacy of past failures to address structural poverty
problems and develop efficient social services also presents a
major challenge for the medium term.
15.      Looking to the medium to long term, Venezuela's development
prospects are good. Venezuela has only begun to exploit the potential
which its rich natural resources offers, rnot just petroleum but also
abundant hydroelectric potential and natural gas, iron ore, bauxite, gold
and land resources. This potential clearly offers the opportunity for
diversified growth in many sectors, with excellent prospects for exports
given Venezuela's location and its strong comparative advantage in terms of
energy intensive activities. Venezuela's economic problems, daunting as
they are, are nonetheless susceptible to solutions in the medium term, if
there is good macro-economic management. This needs to be set in the
context of a clear development strategy which takes into account the major
long term priorities of human resource development, addressing the problems



- 8 -
of poverty, diversifying the economic base, and ensuring that development
takes into account Venezuela's unique ecological characteristics and risks.
The problem of external debt is severe, but the debt overhang is smaller
than in most of Latin America. For the longer term, the Venezuelan
economic structure has shown that it is responsive to appropriate economic
incentives. The realization of its potential will depend critically on
progress in policy change and the availability of external financing.
PART II - THE GOVERNMENT'S STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
A. The Government's Economic Program
16.      The Government of President Carlos Andres Perez, which took office
on February 2, 1989, set out to redefine fundamentally the role of the
state through a radical, but long overdue, economic reform and
restructuring program. The essential aim is to reduce the elaborate
regulatory framework and complex and costly subsidies which pervade the
economy and, simultaneously, to encourage private sector activity and
investment through trade reforms, financial sector reforms and
establishment of a conducive investment climate. The reforms which have
been announced and those underway reflect a commitment to extend the
adjustment effort to specific problems at the sector level. In addition,
the reforms are designed to improve the effectiveness of the Government's
social programs, to serve both long-term goals and to cushion the social
impact and pressures that inevitably accompany such far reaching reform
efforts.
17.      The medium term adjustment strategy represents a dramatic change
from recent experience inasmuch as it would reduce substantially the extent
of controls in economic activity and promote a strong trade-oriented
development of the economy for the future. This policy framework includes
a fundamental reform of the exchange and trade systems, a liberalization of
price controls, a deregulation of the financial system, and significant
improvements in fiscal operations. The aim is to reduce the dependence of
the economy on oil exports through an expansion of non-oil private exports,
to achieve a sustainable current account outcome consistent with real
economic growth of at least 4 to 5Z a year, and to reduce the country's
debt service burden while increasing the international reserve position of
the Central Bank.
18.      The Government announced its overall economic program in mid-
February, 1989, and has proceeded with successive policy decisions and
implementation measures in the subsequent period. The program represents
the first phase of a long-term structural adjustment program, with a time
horizon of five years. Although the program is still evolving, overall it
is well formulated and, on balance, a realistic and pragmatic response to
the crisis facing the country.   The initial program comprises four basic
(but interlinked) elements as follows:
(a) Reform in the Exchange Rate System (Plan Cambiario): A main
feature of the new program is the establishment of a unified,
market determined value for the Bolivar to replace the complex and
highly distorted structure of exchange rates that has existed
since 1983. The new regime was formally put into effect on
March 14, 1989, at which time exchange controls were abolished,



with the value of the currency determined in an expanded interbank
market.   The new unified rate started at about 39-40 Bs/$ (but
soon fell to 35-36), compared to the previous official rate of
14.50 and a parallel rate that had reached 42 in late 1988. In
parallel with the exchange rate reform, the Government intends to
launch a comprehensive reform of the customs tariff regime. This
reform will be supported by the World Bank's proposed Trade Policy
Reform Loan, will involve the elimination of import duty
exemptions, the phasing out of quantitative import restrictions
and the simplification and reduction of nominal tariff rates.
Also, special import surcharges which were established on
December 30, 1988 will be eliminated and incorporated in a revised
tariff schedule.
(b) Fiscal Policy Reforms (Plan Fiscal): The Government plans to
reduce the fiscal deficit from 6.52 of GDP in 1988 to 3-42 of GDP
in 1989 through an almost doubling of gasoline prices (these were
raised an average of 942 on February 26, 1989), raising
telecommunications rates by 5O0, increasing power rates by 30-65Z
initially (followed by further monthly changes), adjusting prices
of other goods produced by public enterprises (such as aluminum,
steel, and f--tilizers), and by controls on spending levels. The
gains to the public sector from the real devaluation will be
important in meeting deficit targets, as will use of tariffs
rather than quantitative restrictions for imports. There will
also be some immediate adjustments in the system of tariff
collections for water and trash services. Over the longer term,
the Plan Fiscal aims to achieve major privatization and tax
reforms. Already, the Cabinet has decided to privatize
immediately three cement plants and three major public banks. The
Finance Minister has appointed a technical working group to
analyze the changes needed to simplify the individual and
corporate income tax regimes, and to introduce a value-added tax.
Over the medium term, the overall fiscal deficit will be reduced
further as a result of the full elimination of subsidies
corresponding to past exchange rate guarantees, revenue gains from
further public pricing adjustments, and the introduction of the
value-added tax.
(c) Financial Sector Reforms (Plan Financiero): General commercial
interest rates are now to be determined flexibly, with the Central
Bank Board meeting regularly (weekly to begin with) to set floors
and ceilings consistent with the floating foreign exchange rate,
Central Bank external reserve targets, and monetary growth
targets. Venezuelan law requires the Central Bank Board to set
such interest rate limits; economic facts dictate, however, that
with a floating exchange rate and such reserve and monetary
targets, the limits cannot be far from what would be market
levels. The old system, where the ceiling on the general
commercial bank lending rate was 132, was abandoned on February
17, 1989. The rate then went to 302 during a transitional period
until the new exchange rate system was put into operation, and to
352 in mid-March. Interest rates for agriculture were set at 72
points below the general lending rate for each commercial bank,
effective February 17, and the required share of lending to



- 10 -
agriculture was reduced from 21.52 of the banks' portfolio to
17.5X. The interest rate ceiling on old floating rate loans for
certain housing below a maximum price ceiling has been set at 152.
In order to ensure the efriciency of the financial system, the
Government is contemplating certain legislative reforms and a
rationalization of the regulatory and supervision system. These
initiatives are expected during 1989 and 1990.
(d) Social Sector Plan (Plan Social)t Another key element of the
adjustment program is to convert most indirect subsidies, which
previously had been provided mainly through the preferential
exchange rate regime, into targeted social programs. The only
indirect food subsidies that will remain will be for milk and
fertilizers, and these subsidies will be funded through direct
budgetary transfers rather than through hidden subsidies (such as
from the Central Bank through the provision of the preferential
7.50 Bs/US$ exchange rate). The focus will shift to targeted
programs, auch as school-feeding programs and programs operating
through health clinics in the barrios, although such programs will
take some time to build up. Given the distortions in relative
prices that have existed and the emphasis in the overall program
on corrective price adjustments, price flexibility will be a
critical feature of the adjustment program. Accordingly, the
Government has dismantled the previous three-tier price control
system operated under the Ministry of Development and the Price
Commission. In March, a new system was announced, applying to a
maximum of fewer than 20 essential goods and services. The prices
of controlled items will be adjusted from time to time to ensure
that that they move broadly in line with the trend of overall
consumer prices.
19.      The Government's economic program addresses the basic problems
which have led to the present crisis, and which have stunted and delayed
the balanced development of the economy over the past two decades. The
necessity for a coherent set of measures, implemented in proper sequence,
is clearly recognized and has dictated the rapid pace of reforms which has
been established. The implementation of the program is further complicated
by the uncertain external environment, where there are difficulties in
securing external financing and proceeding to restructuring of the external
debt, an important element in the equation. In addition, the reform
program will have to be managed well if it is to be effective. To this
end, the Government has established clear coordinatton mechanisms for the
economic program, under the leadership of the Minister of Planning, with an
economic committee of the Cabinet overseeing reforms. Special commissions
to design and direct specific elements of the reform program have been
established. Technical assistance support for the design of implementation
measures is being secured, and the Government is working closely with
external agencies, including the Bank, to mobilize the assistance required.
20.      An important element in the Government's economic program is
management of the external debt, as there is explicit recognition that the
program cannot be successfully implemented under past arrangements. These
entailed heavy net transfers to external creditors. Thus a revision of
current arrangements and new mechanisms to secure new financing are being



- 11 -
sought. A "debt cabinet" has been established within the Cabinet, and a
debt negotiator appointed. Efforts have also begun to strengthen the
internal monitoring and management of external debt within the Finance
Ministry and the Central Bank. Venezuela's total external debt stood at
US$35.7 billion at the end of 1988, the fourth largest in the L tin
American region. By far the largest share of this debt is to commercial
banks (US$22 billion counting medium and long term public and publicly-
guaranteed debt only). Of the overall total debt of US$35.7 billion,
US$25.3 billion or 71Z is public or publicly guaranteed. Venezuela has
managed its external debt to commercial banks in the recent past under the
terms of a rescheduling agreement signed in 1986 and subsequently amended
in 1987. In 1988, Venezuela paid US$3.1 billion in interest, of which
US$1.9 billion was to the commercial banks on medium and long term public
debt. Venezuela also paid US$2.1 billion in amortization in 1988. The
Government is currently engaged in negotiating a restructuring of the
existing debt and has sought a new money/debt reduction package to meet the
financing needs of the economic program. The commercial bank advisory
committee was restructured in April 1989 and the Government is engaged in
active discussions of a range of options for securing external financial
support.
B. Program Benefits and Social Adjustment
21.      The medium term macro-economic framework for the structural
adjustment program- entails a comprehensive set of economic policy changes
that will, if adhered to, increase the rate of GDP growth through increased
efficiency in resource use and by a rise in the level of productive
investment.  External creditworthiness would improve.   It will lead to a
transformation of the economy from one dependent on oil rents to one based
on production. Over the medium term, the measures are expected to improve
the climate for private sector activity and investment by removing the
anti-export bias in the trade regime, by strengthening the financial
sector, and by simplifying and clarifying the complex regulatory system
within which the private sector currently operates. The reform measures
directed towards public enterprise restructuring and improved management of
the public investment program will have a dual impactt first in increased
efficiency of operations, and second in iml ivements in the overall
business environment as roles are clarified, the rules of the game become
more transparent, and inefficiencies and misallocations of resources are
reduced. Non-oil exports are expected to show dynamic growth as a result,
as they have in the past (albeit briefly) when the incentives to such
growth were there. Both the industrial and the agricultural sectors have
substantial growth potential, but their pattern of development has been
profoundly distorted by past economic policies. The reform measures,
accompanied by sectoral adjustment measures and institutional reforms,
should lay the foundation for sustained growth of production and exports.
Better fiscal management and measures geared to streamline and clarify the
role of the public sector are expected to provide the basis for sound
macro-economic management, allowing greater domestic resource mobilization
and more efficient use of resources, and leading to improved
creditworthiness for external financing.
22.      The reform measures will, of necessity, imply large shifts of real
income among the various groups of the society. This is necessary if the
economy is to be put on a path of sustainable growth, but there plainly



- 12 -
will be significant transitional costs which will have important social
costs and may be disruptive in the short term, as illustrated by the riots
in February-March 1989 (para. 13). Those affected are unlikely to
appreciate that the subsidy structure was untenable and could not be
sustained. Further, the contractionary policies followed by the Government
during the stabilization period will bring dislocations in various economic
activities and increased unemployment. The impact is likely to be most
severe on the poorest groups. For this reason, the Government's efforts to
redefine and redirect indirect food subsidies to benefit lower income
groups, and to enlarge and expand targeted social programs which benefit
the most vulnerable groups of the society, are essential elements of the
structural adjustment program. Over time, the social impact is expected to
be positive, as the acceleration of economic growth will improve prospects
for national income and employment.   Fiscal policy reforms will increase
public savings, and revised public investment planning and programming will
direct expenditures to the most productive activities.   In addition to the
specific social program measures being supported under the SAL (paras.
37-40), the Bank plans through other operations proposed in the lending
program to help shield the poorer segments of Venezuelan society from
excessive adverse effects of the reform effort and to overcome past
deficiencies in targeting, coverage, and administration of social services
(paras. 67, 70).
C. Prospects, External Debt and Financing Needs
23.      Venezuela's basic prospects are good, provided it follows
reasonable economic policies and also provided it is able to obtain
sufficient external financial support to permit the reform program to
succeed. The country is rich in natural resources, not simply in petroleum
(more than 100 years worth of proven recoverable reserves at current
production rates and at current prices, even excluding the very heavy
Orinoco reserves), but also in natural gas, hydro-electric potential, and
reserves of bauxite, iron ore, gold, and coal. As the natural gas (much of
it associated with oil, and also with over 100 years worth of proven .
reserves) and hydro-generated electricity are basically non-tradeable, the
country has a strong comparative advantage in energy-intensive activities.
Venezuela is also well-endowed with land resources compared to its
population, has a relatively well developed infrastructure, and (although
illiteracy rates are high for a country at its income level) also has a
significant number of well-educated citizens. What the country has lacked
in recent years are good economic policies; as a consequence, it must now
not simply reform these policies but also face the hurdle of the debt
overhang, if it is to return to a sustainable growth path.
24.      With reasonable policies and sufficient external financial
support, projections indicate that a recovery in GDP growth to a
sustainable path is feasible and would be consistent with a viable set of
external accounts. Although GDP is expected to fall in 1989, a recovery to
a range of 4-1(2 to 5Z a year should be possible in the early 1990's. This
will require a recoverv of fixed investment to a level of eventually 23-242
of GDP. The resulting current account deficit and a possible financing
scenario to cover this is presented in Table 1.



- 13 -
Table 1: POSSIBLE FINANCING SCENARIO
-------^-- --------US$ billions - ---             ---
-----Actul-----        -----------Projected    ------
1966  198   19 I        1989   1990  1091       1996
A.  Financing Needed
1.  Current Account Deficit                     1.5   1.1   4.6         1.0   1.6  1.8          1.5
2.  Imputed Private Interest                    0.6   0.9   1.0         1.2   1.1   1.0         1.1
Total Net Financing Needed                      2.8   2.0   5.?         2.7   2.6   2.8         2.6
Scheduled Amortization 1/                       2.0   2.2   2.1         2.6  2.9   2.9          4.8
Total Orose Financing Needed                    4.8   4.1   7.6         6.2   6.4   6 1         7.5
8. Financing Provided
1. Officlal Sources 2/                          0.2   0.4  0.7          8.1   8.7   8.6         2.7
2. Commercial Sources !/                        0.0   0.0  0.4          8.8   8.8   8.6         4.6
a. Possible Rescheduling 4/                 -     -     -           1.8   2.0   2.0         2.5
b. Bonds, New Money, or Effect of Debt
Reduction                              0.0   0.0   0.4         2.0   1.6   1.0         2.0
8. Short-term Trade Credit                      1.2  2.2  -0.2          0.8  -0.5  -0.1         0.4
4.  Drawdown of Reserves /                      8.9   0.9  4.0         -2.2  -1.6 -2.1         -0.4
S. All other, Including Ar re                  -1.0   0.6   2.9         0.1   0.1   0.1         0.4
C. Resulting Debt Rattoi  S/
1. Gross total Debt/Exports                  297X    298t   284X      233X   2?6X   271X       218X
2. Net Total Debt/Exports                    180X    190X   219X      215X   208X   194X       1601
8. Gross Interest/Exports                   26.91   21.51  24.51     27.9X 27.7X  25.01       19.01
1/  Actual amortization paid for 19M-86; scheduled as of ond-1988 for 1989-95.
2/   Includoe I8D, IMO, IMF, FAR, BSI, and bilateral sourcew (including suppliers" credits).
8/   Include. comercial banks and sale. of bonds.
4    Assume rescheduling of all maturities on debt incurred prior to March 1983.
S/   IMF purchues Included on line 3.1 above.
O/ Does not assume any debt reduction scheme put into effect.
NOTE: Tot ls may not add due to rounding.



- 14 -
The current account deficit rose to US$4.6 billion in 1988, mainly because
of a sharp acceleration in imports in anticipation of the devaluation
widely expected for early 1989, but also in part due to low oil prices.
The deficit should fall in 1989, both because imports will be cut back as
the 1988 inventories are utilized and because of a recovery in oil prices.
The deficit should then be fairly stable in nominal dollar terms until
1995, although falling in real terms and as a share of GDP or exports. To
obtain total net financing needs, one must add to the current account
deficit an imputation Venezuelan officials make of interest earned on
private assets held abroad. This imputed interest is in fact never brought
into the country, but is counted in the Central Bank accounting system in
the technically correct way as a factor service income of Venezuelan
nationals, matched by an outflow of equal magnitude in the capital
accounts. This imputed interest plus the current account deficit yields
the net financing required. This plus amortization yields gross financing
requirements.
25.      The gross financing needs have been large and will continue to be
so. They were over US$4 billion in 1986 and in 1987, and reached US$7.8
billion in 1988. Venezuela obtained this financing through running down
its once ample external reserves (by US$3.9 billion in 1986, US$0.9 billion
in 1987, and US$4.0 billion in 1988), by building up short-term trade
credit lines (by US$1.2 billion in 1986 and US$2.2 billion in 1987), and in
1988 by building up substantial arrears on re-payments for trade credit
lines. These arrears are believed to be largely internal (i.e. to
Venezuelan nationals) and resulted in late 1988 when the Central Bank
stopped providing foreign exchange at the 14.50 Bs/US$ rate on expiring
six-month trade credits. It is believed most of these arrears were paid
off by importers through use of their own assets held abroad, i.e. by
implicit reverse capital flight. Note these 'arrears' do not reflect
failure by the Central Bank to pay off an external obligation as it became
due, but is rather an internal issue surrounding what rate of exchange
(i.e. 14.50 or the parallel floating rate) the Central Bank would charge
for the dollars it sells to importers to cover the expiring six-month trade
credits.
26.      As noted, the Government covered its external financing needs in
1986-88 through essentially short-term means (use of reserves, build-up of
net trade credits, and arrears). During this period, Venezuela did not
make use of significant levels of long-term borrowing from official sources
or the commercial banks; indeed, it paid over US$2 billion of amortization
on long-term debt in each year 1986-88. It is impossible for this pattern
to continue: by end-1988 reserves were exhausted, short-term trade credit
lines could not be further expanded, and arrears cannot be built up under
the new, unified and floating, exchange rate system. Indeed, reserves will
have to be re-built; the growth in reserves shown in Table 1 is taken from
the DIF program for 1989-91. It is anticipated that with the new
Government reform program, it will be possible to obtain very substantial
flows from official sources (the IBRD, IDB, IMF, and bilateral sources,
including suppliers' credits). These could total US$3.1-3.7 billion per
year in 1989-91, with almost half of this from the IM1. Even with such
support from official sources, however, there will still remain a large
financial gap, which would have to come from either commercial sources or
perhaps from reverse capital flight. It is expected that with the new
policies the Government is following, there will eventually be sigpificant



- 15 -
levels of reverse capital flight. However, the extent and the timing are
highly uncertain. Therefore, we have made no assumptions of reverse
capital flight in constructing the financial plan to support the
Government's structural reform program, and it has not been assumed in the
projections. However, to the extent reverse capital flight does
materialize, it will be possible to reduce the financing needs from the
banks. Of the remaining gap, a major part (US$1.8-2.0 billion per year,
1989-91), could come from rescheduling of commercial bank debt originally
incurred before March 1983 (the cut-off date for the 1986 commercial bank
rescheduling). However, there would remain US$2.0 billion in 1989, US$1.6
billion in 1990, and US$1.6 billion in 1991 to be obtained. Part could
come from sale of bonds; US$356 million of Venezuelan bonds were sold in
1988, mostly to Venezuelan financial institutions using their dollar assets
held abroad. It should be possible to continue this. There appears,
however, to be an irreducible minimum of about US$2.0 billion in 1989 and
US$1.2 billion per year thereafter that will have to be obtained from
commercial banks, either in the form of new money or through the effects of
some new debt reduction or debt service reduction arrangement. This is
equal to about 502 of the interest payments that would be made to the banks
over the next several years.
27.      Even if one assumes that the new money is obtained from the banks
through the now traditional concerted lending package approach (i.e. no
debt reduction scheme), the resulting debt ratios show a steady improvement
from their 1988 levels. This is shows in panel C of Table 1. Under this
scenario, with the levels of borrowing depicted, gross total debt as a
ratio to exports falls from 284? in 1988 to 2712 by 1991 and 2152 by 1995.
If one nets out total reserves (including gold), the ratio falls from 2192
in 1988 to 1942 in 1991 and 1602 in 1995. These ratios may be compared to
the levels of 400-5002 that normally have prevailed in the other major
highly-indebted countries in Latin America in crisis. Finally, gross
interest to exports is also expected to start to decline by the early
1990's, although a rise is expected Jn 1989-90 due to higher interest
rates.
28.      There is some sensitivity to the price of oil and to intecest
rates. Oil accounted for 862 of exports of goods in 1987, although this
fell to 81? in 1988 due to the lower oil prices. At current production
rates, a reduction in the price of oil of just US$1 per barrel leads to
US$600 million less in revenues per year. However, for moderate price
declines, the basic debt ratios for Venezuela would still fall over time.
For example, if oil prices were 102 lower than the levels of the base case
in every year from 1989 onwards, the gross debt to export ratio would only
fall to 265 in 1995 rather than to the 2151 of the base scenario. For
stable ratios (i.e. no eventual fall), oil prices would have to be
consistently 25Z lower than as projected in the base scenario. The
sensitivity to interest rates is less. A 10? rise in all interest rates
would cost the country about US$320 million on an annual basis, which may
be compared to a cost of about US$840 million for a 10 fall in the price
of oil. Over time, a 102 rise in interest rates would lead to a gross debt
to export ratio of 224? in 1995, compared to 2842 in 1989 and 2152 in the
base case for 1995.
29.      Venezuela is therefore facing a severe financial squeeze in the
short run, but with proper policies is not facing a problem of fundamental



- 16 -
long-run insolvency. With good policies and sufficient up-front support,
Venezuela's prospects are good. The program will fall, however, without
such financial support. The loan will therefore not be made effective
unless the macro framework is such that the program can succeed, and there
will therefore have f.o be substantial progress in obtaining adequate
financing for the loan to be declared effective. Continued substantial
progress in s:.'uring adequate financial support will similarly be required
as a condition of second tranche release. Whether commercial banks will be
willing to provide the necessary levels of financial support in the form of
the traditional new money lending package approach is questionable,
however. The Government is therefore exploring with the commercial bank
Steering Committee the option of offering various debt/debt service
reduction instruments as a meanse of closing the financial gap. A portion
(25Z) of this SAL and the accompanying Trade Policy Loan will be made
available to support an approved debt reduction plan, should the Government
wish (see para. 47).
PART III - THE PROPOSED LOAN
A. General
30.      The proposed Structural Adjustment Loan would support the
Covernment's 1989-90 program of economic adjustment and recovery.   The
loan was prepared with the Government during February, 1989. Appraisal
took place in April, 1989. Negotiations were held in Washington D.C.
between May 11 and 19, 1989. The Venezuelan delegation was headed by Mr.
Fernando Martines, Director General of Medium and Long Term Planning in
CORDIPLAN. The following paragraphs describe the components of the SAL
program, which are summarised in Annex V. Annex IV contains the
Government's Letter of Development Policy addressed to the Bank.  The
Supplementary Data Sheet is provided as Annex III.
31.      The proposed Structural Adjustment Loan and Trade Policy Loan,
being submitted simultaneously for consideration, are designed as the
initial phase of a Bank assistance program that will support the
Government's longer term strategy to improve domestic efficiency and
international competitiveness.   The two operations are complementary.  The
SAL program addresses the most critical medium-term structural issues
affecting the domestic competitive environment, the management of public
enterprises, issues of poverty alleviation, and the overall macro framework
for the adjustment program. The Trade Policy Loan focuses specifically on
support for the reforms of trade regulations, tariff policies, and
institutional mechanisms related to trade. The Government's program is
also the basis for IMF support through a first credit tranche purchase and
a proposed Extended Fund Facility Program (EFF) that is under
consideration. The IMF has, for its part, focused principally on aggregate
macro-economic performance issues and targets, notably the exchange rate
regime, levels of fiscal deficits, and overall expenditure policies. As
the proposed Extended Fund Facility arrangement also entails broad support
for the Government's medium term economic program, close cooperation
between the Government, the Bank, and the DMF has been essential to ensure
consistency and avoid overlap. Satisfactory progress on the overall
economic grogram. with specific reference to the macro-economic targets



- 17 -
established for 1989 (paras. 18, 46) (maintenance of exchange rate regime,
flexibly determined interest rates, fiscal deficit levels) would be
conditions of effectiveness and of release of the second tranche of the
SAL.
B. Establishment of a Competitive Environment
32.      Central to the new economic strategy is a fundamental redirection
of the approach used to allocate scarce resources, as past policies have
underpriced key resources, and then relied on administrative discretion for
their allocation. The key areas for reform are in the exchange rate
regime, the trade regimc, interest rates, the tax system, and investment
incentives. The SAL would support a move to a much more market-oriented
system. The essential decisions and first phase actions in this area have
already been taken. The parallel Trade Policy Loan will specifically
support the trade policy elements which are an essential part of this
effort.
33.      Of paramount importance is the exchange rate regime, given the
heavy distortions and losses entailed in the prior multiple exchange rate
system. A new exchange rate regime, based on a unified, free-floating
rate, was put in place on March 14, 1989. As expected, the new unified
exchange rate started out close to the former parallel rate and has slowly
moved down since then. Foreign exchange rationing has been ended, and the
agency responsible for it (commonly referred to as ex-RECADI) has been
dismantled. The G3vernment has taken measures to limit the Central Bank
losses that will result from commitments previously made to provide foreign
exchange at low nominal rates for some types of foreign debt. If these
commitments were honored, the fiscal losses incurred would equal more than
111 of GDP, an amount impossible for the Government to absorb. The
Government therefore has developed a plan (agreed on by the IMP and the
Bank) to limit the losses to 41 of GDP by phasing in the new free market
exchange rate for outstanding letters of credit, and by putting service of
private non-guaranteed debt directly on the free market. Of the 4S of.GDP
loss recognized in 1989, only 2? of GDP would be paid in cash, with the
rest paid in equal installments in 1990 and 1991, with a dollar denominated
Lond earning interest at LIBOR to be held until then.  The bond could be
diocounted in the private market if the importer wishes.
34.      Reforms in the interest rate system also have particular
importance. On February 17, the Government removed the old ceiling of 13?
for the general commercial lending rate. Interest rates are now determined
flexibly, within bounds adjusted frequently by the Board of the Central
Bank. This procedure was mandated by the Supreme Court. However, with a
floating exchange rate, and the targets set for external reserves and for
growth in the monetary aggregates, these bounds should not deviate far from
market determined rates. As of mid-April, the general commercial lending
rate was 35?. In two areas, agriculture and housing, interest rate
controls and effective subsidies will be maintained as an interim measure,
but to be phased down over time. Agricultural interest rates will float,
but at 7 percentage points below the general commercial lending rate of the
particular institution; lending will continue to be enforced by the
requirement that 17.5? of each bank's portfolio is in agriculture. For
existing floating rate mortgages for primary residences below a price



- 18 -
ceiling, interest rates to the homeowner will be initially set at 152, with
at least half the difference between this and the marginal cost of funds to
the institutions provided by an explicit budget subsidy. The Government
also intends to revise the rates charged by the various public development
funds, such as the Venezuelan Investment Fund (FIV), FONCREI (for medium
and small-scale industry), and BANDAGRO (for agriculture). As a condition
of loan effectiveness, adjustments satisfactory to the Bank would be made
in the interest rates charged by these institutions on loans to their
borrowers, taking into account prevailing commercial bank lending rates.
It would be a condition of second tranche release that procedures
satisfactory to the Bank have been implemented, by which the interest rates
charged reflect the cost of funds plus an appropriate margin to cover
operating costs.
35.      A major overhaul of the Venezuelan tax system is required to
simplify a system which is highly complex and administratively unworkable,
and which generates substantial distortions and yields little revenue.
Currently, almost 70% of tax revenues come from oil production and sales,
and a complex system of exemptions, exonerations, and credits enable most
tax payers to avoid paying income taxes. Rationalization of the system
will imply a change to a system with a broader tax base, diversification
away from the current system's dependence on taxation of oil, reduced
economic distortions, and a simplification of the tax administration
system. Given the complexity of the issues, a comprehensive analysis will
be undertaken to develop specific recommendations (including possible draft
legislation). This would focus specifically on means of simplifying the
system, and on the introduction of a value-added tax (Annex VII). The SAL
includes provision for technical assistance to support this effort.
36.      Investment restrictions have also been greatly reduced under the
Government's adjustment rrogram. The requirement of 'RIPI" status to
obtain investment incentives, which acted in reality as an investment
licensing requirement, has been eliminated. The Government has also stated
that private foreign and domestic investment is welcome in all sectors
except the nationalized petroleum and iron ore sectors. Even in these.
sectors, joint ventures with foreign or domestic private partners are being
considered.
C. Poverty Alleviation
37.      Poverty alleviation is a critical area for policy reform in
Venezuela. Past efforts have not been effective and Venezuela's social
indicators (rates of malnutrition, etc.) are poor for a country at its
income level. In addition, since the stabilization/adjustment program is
likely to have an adverse impact on the real living standards of some of
the poorest groups in the short run, this is an essential ingredient for
support in the SAL program. The problem in the past has been poorly
designed and/or poorly targeted social programs, with much of the
expenditures for general subsidies for food or agricultural inputs
(fertilizers, animal feed).
38.      The new Government has now decided to move away from such indirect
subsidy programs, which benefit the rich the most since they have the
income to consume the most, and use direct, targeted, social programs



- 19 -
instead. The Government has therefore eliminated all the indirect general
food subsidies, except for milk, and is phasing out the fertilizer subsidy.
The animal feed subsidy, previously planned to be at a level of 1122 of
GDP, has been totally eliminated. The savings from cutting these indirect
subsidies will be shifted to direct programs, which are now being designed
and set up. As a condition of effectiveness, agreement will be reached on
specific plans of action and funding requirements, focussed on 1989, for
direct social programs. It would be a condition of second tranche release
that satisfactory progress has been made in implementing the 1989 programs,
and that agreement has been reached on the plan of action and funding
requirements for 1990.
39.      The SAL program calls for concerted action to define and
implement, in the immediate future, a series of social measures designed to
serve both short term and long term ends. The medium term objective of the
program is to build up and increase the coverage of a series of direct
social programs that will meet the most urgent health and nutritional needs
of the most vulnerable social groups. The direct social programs would
focus on six areas: a quickly implemented program of grants (either cash
or food vouchers) to school age and pre-school age children to be provided
through schools in low-income neighborhoods; school feeding programs for
school-age children through schools in low income neighborhoods; nutrition
and health care for pregnant women and infants in low income areas;
nutrition for pre-school children through an expanded day care system;
housing improvements in the barrios; and provision of improved public
services in the barrios such as water, sanitation, power, etc. These
programs will in most cases build on existing programs, but require
substantial revamping and above all increases in scale and geographical
coverage. They therefore will have to be built up over time, and will
benefit from planned project investment support from the Bank (preparation
of this program is underway - see para. 63).
40.      In addition, there is a need to build-up the Government's
technical capacity to evaluate the effectiveness of its social programs, to
design efficient new programs, and to monitor the effect of the programs on
poverty. Technical assistance will be provided under the SAL for this.
The Government will also carry out a study of the practical feasibility of
developing differentiated products targeted to the poor (such as a special
powdered milk, special pastas, rice with 10-202 broken grains, a
yellow/white corn meal mix, and so on). Agreement would be reached that
these studies would be completed and reviewed by the Bank before December
31, 1989. Annex 6 describes Venezuela's anti-poverty programs and the
reforms required to make them more effective.
D. Public Enterprise Efficiency
41.      The SAL supports reforms to improve public enterprise efficiency
by focussing on major immediate changes in key prices (in the context of
agreement on the medium term goals for how prices should be set), by
supporting a review of the operations of the Venezuelan Investment Fund
(FIV), and by establishing an institutional structure for a privatization
program. Pricing to reflect true economic costs is a crucial first step.
The reforms of pricing policies now underway represent a major structural
adjustment and realignment of a wide range of prices, as, in the past, most



- 20 -
goods produced by the public sector have been sold at levels equal to the
'average cost of production". These often deviated far from the true
economic cost. In this system, for example, some petroleum products were
sold at prices on the order of one fifth to one tenth of export opportunity
cost. The Government has defined the principles of the new pricing policy.
which are summarized in the Letter of Development Policy (Annex V). The
goal is to have prices of goods produced by the public sector (or regulated
prices of private utilities, such as private electricity companies) sold at
economic opportunity cost levels. As guiding principles, export
opportunity cost will apply for tradeable goods and economic efficiency
pricing (i.e, long run marginal cost, as amplified by financial self-
sufficiency and other such considerations) will apply for non-tradeables.
Given the large distortions inherent in the existing pricing structure, a
time-beund program for phasing in the new pricing systeri is planned. The
Government has already acted to raise prices of petroleum, gas, steel,
aluminum, petrochemicals and other tradeables, and power, and agreement has
been reached on a schedule of price increases for other important goods,
services and commodities. It would be a condition of effectiveness of the
SAL that the agreed price increases for petroleum, fertilizers,
telecommunications services, electricity, natural gas, steel, aluminum,
iron ore, and petro-chemical products had been effected. There would be
further adjustments as a condition of second tranche release with
specifically all petroleum product and fertilizer prices increased in
accordance with a plan satisfactory to the Government and the Bank, and all
other tradeables at 100? of export opportunity cost. The Government also
plans to lift all import controls on the products produced by public
enterprises (which would serve to cap prices at world levels plus tariffs
and transport costs). Programs are also being developed to improve the
poor fee collection performance by public agencies, particularly in the
areas of water and sewerage and tr.sh. Finally, with the rise in inflation
of the last several years, there is a need to reform the regulatory process
for utilities, so that the rate base on which tariffs are determined is
adjusted to reflect inflation. Specifically, as a condition of loan
effectiveness, a decree or similar measure will have been issued which sets
the rate base for electric utilities such that assets are revalued for
inflation.
42.      Following this, there will be a need for firm-by-firm
restructuring measures. To initiate this process, specific corporate plans
and restructuring proposals are being prepared for key enterprises. The
Government will also undertake a review of the legal and institutional
framework governing public enterprises, with a view to proposing revisions
in existing arrangements that will allow and promote more efficient
management (for example, by changes in the composition of boards of
directors, greater autonomy and clearer accountability and monitoring
mechanisms, and clearer relationships with ministries). As well, the
Government will initiate measures to ensure that all future transfers to
public enterprises are transparent, with the goal that Government support
be based on approval corporate plans or restructuring programs. During the
next year, the Government will prepare information on all Government
transfers to public enterprises for 1987, 1988 and planned for 1989, and on
outstanding loan guarantees, public enterprise debts and arrears to
Government, and major payment arrears between public enterprises for
services provided.



- 21 -
43.      Another key area of public enterprise reform concerns the
Venezuelan Investment Fund (FIV), established in 1974 as a fund to absorb
part of the windfall from oil revenues. The FIV has played a critical role
in the past in investing Venezuela's oil windfall and in setting
Venezuela's industrial development pattern, but this role needs to be
reviewed in the light of the current economic situation. The FIV now has a
large portfolio of investments which need to be managed, and the focus thus
needs to shift to management of existing assets and turning them over,
rather than relying on outside funds and investing them. A comprehensive
review will therefore be undertaken to consider the mode of operations of
the FIV in the new economic environment. This review would be initiated
prior to loan effectiveness. Agreement has been reached that this review
would be completed by December 1, 1989. In the interim, Government has
indicated that until the review is completed and because resources are
tight, it will cap FIV transfers to financial or non-financial state
enterprises at no more than Bs. 24 billion in 1989.
44.      The SAL would also support the Government's privatization program,
which was announced in the President's speech of February 16. It would be
a condition of effectiveness that a satisfactory action plan had been
approved for the privatization program, including specifically the
establishment of the inter-ministerial commission charged with reviewins
and approving restructuring and privatization proposals, appointing
technical staff, and approving initial criteria to define the types of
assets to be considered for Privatization or liquidation. Ten enterprises
will be identified as privatization candidates. A complete listing of
public sector holdings will have been prepared. As a condition of second
tranche release, the inter-ministerial commission should have approvee. for
-divestiture at least ten public enterprises or holdings, and at least five
of these should have been br,ught to the point of sale, i.e. with
valuations and tender or bid documents completed and issued. The SAL
includes technical assistance funds to support this work, and follow-on
action is planned under future lending operations.
E. Public Investment Priorities and Procedures
45.      The aim under the SAL is to introduce concepts of basic economic
analysis to the review and development of new project proposals. This will
entail major efforts because of the weakness of current public investment
programming systems; the public investment program is not currently
reviewed on a regular basis, nor have suitable criteria for project
evaluation and selection been established. The Government has stated the
principles on which the evaluation of the public investment program will be
undertaken in the future: economic and social rate of return criteria
will in general be used in the evaluation of projects. Further, the roles
of the Planning Agency (CORDIPLAN) and of the FIV in the investment
programming process are being clarified. A schedule has been agreed upon
to undertake, with World Bank assistance, a comprehensive review of the
public investment program for 1989-93 in 1989.   Technical assistance is
provided under the SAL to assist in this effort and to initiate a program
to strengthen CORDIPLAN. It would be a condition of loan effectiveness
that the target level of investment for 1989 be agreed upon, with specific
sub-targets for PDVSA, non-financial state enterprises, and the rest of the



- 22 -
public sector. A condition of second tranche release will be a similar
agreement for investments in 1990.
F.  Macroecon_aic Consistency
46.      Two objectives are being sought under the SAL program:  (a) a
feasible external borrowing program, both in terms of immediate cash flow
and in terms of the movement of the basic debt ratios; and (b) a fiscal
deficit at a level consistent with public external borrowing plans,
internal borrowing possibilities and the expected level of inflation and
GDP growth. As part of the SAL understandings, the Government has agreed
that the levels of the fiscal deficit and the external borrowing program be
consistent with the macro targets. The Bank's analysis indicates that with
the SAL program, the parallel Trade Policy Loan, and the measures already
taken by Government either on its own or as part of the understandings with
the DMF, the fiscal accounts and external borrowing program will be
feasible.   The basic reason is that the reform program itself will lead to
a sharp reduction in the fiscal deficit, basically through the real
devaluation, the use of tariffs rather than QRs for imports and the
adjustments in petroleum and other domestic prices of goods produced by
public firms. In addition, for future stability, it is important to
establish a mechanism whereby excess oil revenues would be absorbed into a
special reserve when oil prices are unusually high, to be utilized during
periods when oil prices are especially low. Studies would be initiated of
the feasibility of establishing such an 'Oil Stabilization Fund'.
G. Operational Considerations
Loan Amount, Tranching, and Support for Debt Reduction
47.      The proposed loan of $402 million would meet about 2.4Z of
Venezuela's gross external capital requirements for 1989-91. It is
equivalent to about 1.22 of merchandise imports in the period. The loan
would be disbursed in two equal tranches. The first tranche of US$200
million, would be available for disbursement at loan effectiveness, and the
second tranche, also of US$200 million, would be made available following a
satisfactory review of progress in implementing the program with the Bank,
expected to be in January 1990 (see supplemental loan data sheet, Annex III
for list of effectiveness, second tranche release, and other conditions,.
In addition, an allocation of US$2 million would be disbursed against
specific expenditures for the implementation component (Annex VII).
Adequate external financial support will be critical to the success of the
adjustment program as explained previously (paras. 23-28); yet it has
become increasingly clear commercial banks will be unwilling to provide
such support at the levels needed through traditional financing mechanisms.
The Government is therefore exploring with the banks innovative debt
reduction instruments, to be included as options in the financing package
to be negotiated with the banks. It is anticipated that World Bank support
may be necessary, and therefore the Loan Agreements for the SAL and the
accompanying Trade Policy Loan include provisions whereby up to 25? of the
quick-disbursing funds (i.e., US$100 million for the SAL) may be used to
support an approved Debt Reduction Plan. The funds could be used for such
a purpose at the option of the Venezuelan Government, but only for a Debt



- 23 -
Reduction Plan approved by the Bank and only once conditions for second
tranche release had been fulfilled.
Loan Conditions
48.      Host of the key actions that are the basis of the Government's
structural adjustment program have already been undertaken (e.g., reform of
the exchange rate system, the setting of interest rates, etc.). To follow
up and continue this process, the following specific measures still to be
undertaken or completed will be conditions of loan effectiveness:
(a) Maintenance of a macroeconomic framework consistent with the
objectives of the reform program (para. 31);
(b) Satisfactory adjustment in the lending rate structure for public
development funds (para. 34);
(c) Final definition and commencement of implementation of the social
action program in 1989, with associated funding needs, providing
for direct nutritional and other assistance targeted at low income
groups (para. 38);
(d) Satisfactory action on price policy, including specific price
adjustments for petroleum products, fertilizers,
telecommunications services, electricity, natural gas, aluminum,
iron ore, steel, and petro-chemical products (para. 41);
(e) Establishment and implementation of a system to adjust for
inflation the Rate Base of electric utility companies, to be used
in the setting of power rates (para. 41);
(f) As part of the privatization programs establishment of an inter-
ministerial commission charged with reviewing and approving
privatization and restructuring proposals and setting criteria to
define the types of assets for privatization or liquidation;
preparation of a complete listing of public sector enterprises;
and identification of an initial group of ten public enterprises
as candidates for privatization (para. 44);
(g) Agreement on target levels of public investment for 1989,
including sub-targets for PDVSA, non-financial state enterprises,
and the rest of the public sector (para. 45).
49.      To provide continued support as Venezuela's reform program is
carried through, a second tranche of US$200 million will be released upon
the furnishing of satisfactory evidence to the Bank that:
(a) There has been continued adherence to the macroeconomic program,
including continued operation of the unified exchange rate system,
flexibly determined interest rates, and adherence to key macro-
economic targets for the fiscal deficit (para. 31);
(b) Procedures have been implemented by which the lending rates of
public development funds reflect the cost of funds plus a margin
for operating costs (para. 34);



- 24 -
(c) The social program for 1989 was successfully implemented, and an
appropriate social program and associated funding for 1990 has
been agreed to (para. 38):
(d) Price policy reforms have continued, including further adjustments
in the prices of petroleum products and fertilizers in accordance
with a plan satisfactory to the Government and the Bank; and
aluminum, iron ore, steel, and petro-chemical products (to 100I of
export opportunity costs) (para. 41);
(e) There has been continued progress in the public enterprise
restructuring and privatization program, including specifically
decision by the interministerial commission on the divestiture of
at least 10 public enterprise holdings, and a bringing to the
point of sale of at least five of these holdings (para. 44); and
(f) A suitable public investment program has been set for 1990 (para.
45).
50.      Other specific agreements may be summarized as follows:
(a) The carrying out of a technical assistance and training program,
supported in part by a portion (US$Z million) of these SAL funds,
in the areas of (i) poverty alleviation and design of social
programs; (ii) tax reform; (iii) privatization and restructuring
of public enterprises; (iv) public investment evaluation
procedures; and (v) external debt management (para. 51);
(b) That the Borrower will undertake studies of: (i) the operations of
the Venezuelan Investment Fund (FIV); (ii) the feasibility of
developing differentiated food products targeted to the poor; and
(iii) the feasibility of establishing an Oil Stabilization Fund
(paras. 40, 43 and 46);
(c) On arrangements for procurement (paras. 52-55).
Implementation Assistance
51.      The SAL program and the loan itself make special provision for
support to efforts to ensure efficient implementation of reform measures,
and to prepare the technical analysis and review of options needed to
pursue the reform program in the future. This has involved first,
intensive efforts to work out implementation plans for each component of
the SAL program, and second, technical assistance, actual and planned, to
assist in institutional strengthening measures and in the planned policy
reviews. Technical assistance support is provided under the loan in each
of the five areas of the reform program. The specific provisions and
associated costs are summarized in Annex VII. Briefly, the technical
assistance program would specifically support: (a) assistance in the
analysis of specific direct social programs, and more generally the
building-up of the Government's capacity to review and analyze its social
programs; (b) support for the privatization interministerial committee's
work and privatization studies, and the review of the public enterprise
system; (c) a comprehensive review of tax reform; (d) studies of long run
marginal cost; (e) support for the public investment review and technical



- 25 -
assistance to CORDIPLAN; and (f) external debt management. Terms of
reference for studies have been prepared and technical assistance work is
underway. The financing of technical assistance covers the specific needs
of the SAL program for 1989, and plann.ing work for future institutional
development and technical assistance would te undertaken as part of the
program. The Government has agreed on conditions of employment of
technical assistance personnel, in line with Bank guidelines.
Procurement and Disbursement
52.      The policy component of the loan proceeds would be used to finance
the CIF cost of eligible imports by the private and public sectors.
Ineligible imports comprise goods financed by other multilateral or
bilateral sources, luxury goods and goods intended for military use.
Retroactive financing will be permitted for those eligible imports made
before the date of the agreement but not before April 1, 1989, up to an
amount of US$80 million equivalent.
53.      Procurement will be carried out in accordance with the Bank's
Procurement Guidelines. Contracts of the public and private sectors
estimated to cost more than US$5 million equivalent will be procured
through simplified ICB procedures. Contracts of the private sector, valued
as less than US$5 million equivalent, would be procured following
established commercial practices, which should include, wherever possible,
requiring quotations from eligible bidders from at least two foreign
countries. Contracts of the public sector, valued at less than US$5
million equivalent, would be procured following Government procurement
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
54.      The loan would also finance technical assistance expenditures up
to an amount of US$2 million equivalent. Consultants will be employed in
accordance with the principles and procedures set forth in the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency". Equipment for technical assistance would be procured
through international or local shopping, with individual contracts not to
exceed US$25,000 equivalent. Retroactive financing for technical
assistance up to an amount of US$400,000 equivalent would be permitted for
expenditures made after April 1, 1989.
55.      The Central Bank (BCV) would be responsible for the coordination
and collection of relevant documentation and for preparing and submitting
withdrawal applications under the loan. Disbursements against contracts
valued at less than US$5 million equivalent would be made on the basis of a
Statement of Expenditures to be submitted by BCV, with the detailed
documentation retained by BCV for review by the Bank as required. Full
documentation would be required for approval of individual contracts
exceeding US$5 million equivalent. The BCV will undertake the screening
process to ensure that all procurement conditions have been met.
Applications for withdrawals will be consolidated and submitted in amounts
not less than US$1 million equivalent.
Program Benefits and Risks
56.      The program would establish the basis for sustainable economic
development by introducing basic changes in the macroeconomic framework and



- 26 -
management, promoting greater economic competition, more efficient
management of public investment and by enterprises, and laying the
groundwork for developing well targeted and efficiently run social
programs. The principal risks are threefolds (a) Government may have
difficulty in maintaining an adequate political consensus to allow reforms
to proceed in a timely, coherent, and internally consistent manner; (b)
limitations in administrative capacity may impede the implementation of the
measures and programs; and (c) there may not be sufficient external finance
to allow the program to succeed. The resolve of the Government to proceed
with the program, even in view of substantial internal opposition, gives
evidence of firm commitment to the program and the principles on which it
is grounded. The program includes special provisions to build
implementation capacity. The reforms will of necessity imply large shifts
of real income among the various groups of the society, which may well
accentuate social tensions. The reforms, however, are necessary to put the
Venezuelan economy back on a path of sustainable growth. The attention
devoted to redesigning and targeting food subsidies, and building up as
rapidly as possible direct social programs to strengthen nutrition and
health services, is designed to minimize the social impact of the
transitional period, especially on lower income groups.
PART IV - COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY AND BANK OPERATIONS
57.      The SAL and Trade Policy Loans would be the first Bank loans to
Venezuela since January 1974. Thus these loans represent the start of a
renewed program of Bank support for Venezuela's development programs. The
Bank's strategy for assistance to Venezuela is designed to support the
economic reforms introduced by the Perez Government, with particular focus
on those aspects which are directed to medium term development:
development of a competitive economic environment; establishment of a more
efficient role for the public sector, through reform and restructuring of
public enterprises, reforms of regulatory structures, and privatization of
state enterprises; strengthened management of public investment as a
vehicle for growth; and concerted programs to address the problems of
poverty and to develop effective social services. These areas, together
with support for the overall macro-economic framework (on which the
measures depend for success) will be the focus of the Bank's future
operational program.
History of Bank Assistance
58.      The Bank was active in Venezuela between 1961 and 1974, but this
lending relationship began to taper off from 1972. The Bank approved a
total of 13 loans to Venezuela, the first in 1961 (for a Caracas
expressway), and the last in 1974, for agricultural credit. The latter
loan never became effective, so the last loan in practice was the 1972
Livestock Development Loan. Total Bank loans to Venezuela amounted to
US$383 million, of which US$342 million was disbursed, and all but US$1.5
million have been repaid (with the very last payment due this June 15).
The last disbursement was made in 1979. The Bank's loans to Venezuela
included support for agricultural development (two projects), transport
(four projects, including an airport loan), power (four projects, including
part of the Guri hydroelectric project). telecommunications (two projects),



- 27 -
and water supply (one loan). PPARs were prepared for most projects; their
findings, while interesting from a historical perspective, have limited
application today given the passage of time and the fundamental
transformation of Venezuela's economy which has taken place in the interim.
In summary, most projects were viewed as relatively successful, with the
exception of two agricultural projects which were never made effective.
59.      During the 1970s, the Bank provided substantial technical
assistance to Venezuela, and maintained a Resident Mission in Venezuela
through 1979. After 1974, Venezuela chose not to borrow funds from the
Bank; subsequently, the per capita income of Venezuela increased to levels
above the Bank graduation limit. Venezuela in 1974 lent to the Bank the
equivalent of US$500 million (US$400 million in US dollars and US$100
million equivalent in bolivares). The Bank provided the equivalent of 27
staff-years of non-reimbursable technical assistance to help in the
appraisal of proposed projects and in general economic analysis. In this
context, the Bank was closely associated with the establishment of the
Venezuelan Investment Fund (FIV) and its early operations. From the late
1970s, Bsnk technlcal assistance was reduced to the equivalent of one staff
year eacn year.
Renewed Bank Program for Venezuela
60.      With the onset of the Latin American debt crisis, more limited
external funds in the post-1982 era, and the overall decline in economic
output, Venezuela sought a renewed borrowing relationship with the Bank.
In 1984, a special loan for hydroelectric power development was considered,
utilizing remaining funds from the US$300 million lent by Venezuela in
1974, but this loan did not materialize. The Bank at this stage pre-paid
the remaining balance on Venezuela's loan to the Bank. By 1986, it had
become clear that, with the expected devaluation of the currency,
Venezuela's per capita income expressed in US dollars would soon make it
eligible to borrow from the Bank. The need for development was clearly
established. Accordingly, the Executive Directors were informed in
December, 1986, that Bank management considered Venezuela once again an
eligible Bank borrower, and that the focus of the Bank program would be on
policy reform and hence adjustment-based lending (para. 2). Based on
Venezuela's current per capita income and our projections of future
economic growth, Venezuela is expected to remain eligible to borrow from
the Bank under present rules until well beyond the year 2000.
61.      Up to January 1989, the Bank's operational work in Venezuela
focused on an overall assessment of economic policies and issues, and on
the preparation of a trade policy loan. A Country Economic Report prepared
by Bank staff in 1987 was discussed with the Government in July, 1987, at
which time preparatory work for the trade policy program was initiated.
The report, which focused on a preliminary analysis of policy issues and
performance of the Venezuelan economy, particularly in the area of export
development and the trade regime, was circulated to the SEecutive Directors
in March, 1988. The Trade Policy loan was appraised in October/November
1987. In early 1988, however, the Venezuelan Government decided that the
approaching presidential elections (December, 1988) precluded action on the
necessary policy measures at that time, so consideration of the loan was
deferred. The proposed reform program was broadly in. line with the
Government's policy objectives, but In several specifLc areas, notably



- 28 -
interest rate policy, the approaching elections made it politically
impossible to proceed.
62.      At the Government's request, the Bank prepared in 1988 an
assessment of the policy issues facing Venezuela and options for reform,
with a view to establishing a coherent medium term framework for the
Government's programs and for future Bank operations. The objective was to
present this analysis to the incoming Government to help formulate a
program of economic reform which each presidential candidate affirmed was
required. The UNDP financed most of the work on this policy review
exercise, which was carried out by the Bank, in close collaboration with
Venezuelan Government officials. The review was broad in its coverage, and
was organized around four main themest public sector reform; exchange rate,
trade, and industrial policies; financial sector policies; and social
sector policies. The report was sent to tile Government in November, 1988.
The consensus with the Government on the diagnosis presented in this report
and its recommendations has served as the basis for the structural
adjustment program, and it provided important inputs to the reform measures
already announced and implemented.
Bank Operational Strategy
63.      The Bank's operational strategy for Venezuela has been framed In
the light of the Policy Options Report and subsequent dialogue with the new
Government. It entails support for Venezuela's adjustment and development
programs, through lending, economic and sector analysis, and external
resource mobilization. The focus of the country strategy is on policies
and actions identified as crucial to restoring sustained economic growth.
These include the establishment of a competitive policy environment
conducive to private sector activity and investment, more efficient and
effective public investment programs, and implementation and refocusing of
social programs and services to address the problems of poverty and limited
access to basic services. These measures, if implemented within a coherent
macro-economic framework, should facilitate an expansion of the non-oil
economy and exports, leading to more balanced growth and expansion of
employment, and also to alleviation of poverty and more rapid social
development. Central priorities for the immediate future are tot (a)
implement the current economic program, which is designed to effect
immediate realignments of the economy by removing the most severe
distortions while providing protection for the poor during the transition,
and to initiate the medium term economic adjustment and development program
(through the SAL and Trade Policy Loan and via economic and sector
analysis); (b) support Venezuela's efforts to secure external financing,
including debt restructuring and reduction measures; and lc) prepare
programs and investment proposals in support of medium term development
objectives, involving policy measures and investments in the key productive
sectors (industry and agriculture), the financial sector and continuing
trade policy reforms, social policy measures and development of social
services, and priority adjustment and investment programs in
infrastructure, notably the power sector, urban transport, and municipal
services.
64.      The SAL and Trade Policy Loan would support the Government's
ongoing economic program and define the framework for future policy action.
The SAL would serve as an "umbrella", establishing the macro-economic



- 29 -
viability of the overall program and launching the initial policies that
are central to the underlying reform strategy. The SAL builds on the
crucial stabilization measures already in place, and agreed upon in the
context of the IMF program. However, it focuses on the structural reform
measures that look to the longer term. With the SAL program as defined and
under implementation, the foundation for a broad-based Bank assistance
program would be established.
65.      The Trade Policy Loan would proceed in parallel with and
complement the SAL. It would specifically support the Government's reforms
of the trade regime which represent an integral part of the economic
program. Past trade policies in Venezuela have encouraged inefficiency by
supporting high cost, government-directed industrialization at the expense
of non-oil exports and efficient import substitution (non-oil exports
represented less than 42 of GDP in 1988). Quantitative restrictions on
imports and nominally high tariffs (often exonerated, and unevenly applied)
have conferred high and variable levels of protection and create a strong
anti-export bias. The Government now intends to create a system in which a
competitive exchange rate encourages the efficient production of tradeable
goods. Import and export restrictions will be retained only for protection
of health and public safety. Over time, nominal tariffs will be brought to
low and relatively uniform rates, and export subsidies will be removed.
The initial phase of the reform program would, over a two year periods (i)
replace quantitative import restrictions with tariffs in the manufacturing
sector; (ii) reduce tariff levels and dispersion; (iii) implement an
effective temporary admission scheme for imported inputs of exporters and
eliminate export subsidies; and (iv) strengthen customs, export promotion,
and other institutions affecting international trade.
66.      The SAL and Trade Policy Loan represent together a critical
element in the Government's stabilization and adjustment scenario for 1989.
The overall package will include the IMF's first credit tranche facility
and a planned Extended Fund Facility, the two IBRD loans, bilateral loans
(probably in conjunction with the IBRD and IMF programs), and a new
agreement with the commercial banks entailing a revision of current
rescheduling agreements, new money packages, and debt reduction measures.
The program represents a coherent framework for stabilization and reform,
but the external financing will be critical to the program's success.
Close collaboration and coordination among the parties involved has been
and will continue to be essential.
Future Lending Program
67.      Future Bank lending will continue to support the Government's
economic program, as it is refined in the light of implementation
experience. If the economic reform program is followed, the Bank's lending
could amount to about US$750 million a year. All operations in the lending
program will directly support policy reforms, with about half in direct
support of policy &djustment measures, entailing quick-disbursing loans,
and half in support of sector or project investment programs with a strong
policy content. Specific proposals for lending in the next two years
includes (a) a financial sector adjustment operation to focus on
institutional reforms in the banking sector, improvements in the regulatory
and supervision system, and reforms in directed credit programs and the



- 30 -
public banks; (b) a public management operation, which would follow up on
the major reform programs launched under the SAL, notably further
adjustments in the pricing environment of public enterprises and utilities,
restructuring of public enterprises, implementation of the privatization
program, and implementation of tax reform and civil service reform
measures; (c) a social sector project to support the expanded and new
social programs targeted to the poorest and most vulnerable social groups,
notably nutritional programs in low income areas serving pregnant women,
infants, pre-school age children, and school children; (d) an industrial
restructuring operation to focus on private industry, providing financial
and technical assistance to private industry to adapt to and take advantage
of, the new, more open, policy environment; (e) a social sector operation
to support improvement of services and self-help housing in the slum areas
of Caracas and major secondary cities; and (f) an agricultural sector
adjustment operation to continue the policy reforms initiated in the SAL
which address input subsidy, price policy, and credit policy issues and to
address investment program issues for the sector. In the subsequent years,
tentative lending proposals include further support for trade reform, an
agricultural research and extension project, a health project, support for
urban transport development, investments in improved urban services
(notably water supply and urban transport), and environmental projects
focussed on the key issues of gold mining and on watershed management.
External FinancifA Requirements and IBRD Exposure
68.      The net financing gap for Venezuela is projected to be US$2.6
billion per year in the 1989-95 period. Bank gross disbursements in the
range of US$650-700 million per year in the immediate future will cover 252
of the net financing gap. According to current plans, the IDB is expected
to contribute 10X, bilaterals will provide an additional 202 (including
suppliers' credits), and international monetary institutions (IMF, PAR,
IS) will contribute 152. Private financial institutions, in addition to
rescheduling amortizations, are expected to finance the remaining 30Zof
the net financing gap. Because the World Bank is renewing its lending to
Venezuela from zero base, this level of lending will not lead to
significant exposure. The World Bank share of total debt would be less
than 72 in 1995 and 9.4Z in 2000. Furthermore, the debt service to the
Bank will level off at 2.2? of exports in the late 1990s and then decline.
69.      Debt reduction could contribute to the financing plan so as to
complement new money. In order to support this development, we are
providing the option of support for debt reduction in this loan (para. 47).
Debt reduction will not increase significantly the Bank's own exposure.
For example, a 25? reduction in commercial debt would raise the Bank's
share in total debt by about one percentage point, to 10.4? in 2000.



- 31 -
Economic and Sector Work Program
70.      The Bank's planned economic and sector work program would have the
dual objectives of supporting the overall policy reforms and assisting in
the development of the lending program. A first priority is to undertake a
comprehensive review of the public investment program, which will support
the Government's parallel efforts under the SAL, and detailed sector papers
for the agricultural and industrial sectors. A study of social well-being
and a review of environmental issues are also planned.
Poverty, Institutional Development and Environmental Issues
71.      The proposed program includes an important poverty focus, and an
explicit objective is to formulate a core poverty alleviation program
comprising specific operations and analysis of poverty issues. This focus
is dictated by the severity of poverty in Venezuela, despite past
prosperity. In addition, institutional development will comprise an
important element in the country program, given the vital importance of
implementation issues for the success of the economic program and the
relative weakness of many core ministries and public sector agencies in
Venezuela. Modest preliminary technical assistance in this area is
provided under the SAL and would serve to identify and prepare broader
institutional development programs to be supported through future lending
operatLons. Important environmental issues face Venezuela, including
potential damage to the Amazon and Orinoco basins, limited watershed
management and soil erosion and depletion in some areas, and pollution
linked to industrial and mining development. These issues will be
addressed through the lending program as well as planned economic and
sector work to identify issues and options for action.
'PC
72.      Because per capita income exceeded the Bank Group's graduation
limits, IPC was not active for several years in Venezuela. However, IFC
resumed its operations in the mid-1980s, and now has an active program.
Between 1960 and March 31, 1989, total gross covmitments for IFC were
US$162.3 million, out of which US$158.9 million were loans and US$3.4
million were equity. Total undisbursed loans now stand at US$69.5 million.
During the last two years, IFC has approved three new investments in
Venezuelas to VENCEMOS, OPCO, and PROPILVEN, for cement production, hot
briquetted iron production, and polypropylene production respectively, for
a total amount of US$157.3 million (including a US$27 million guarantee of
a local bond issue). In the past two years, IFC's efforts have been
directed at supporting the Government's strategy of exploiting Venezuela's
natural resources to benefit the balance of payments and diversify the
economy. IFC has also provided substantial technical assistance to
Venezuela.
PART V - COLLABORATION WITH THE IMP
73.      Until 1989, Venezuela had never made use of Fund resources, and
indeed had a large positive reserve position in the Fund. As part of the
1986 conmercial bank rescheduling agreement, Venezuela agreed to enter into



- 32 -
an Enhanced Surveillance arrangement with the IMF, under which annual
economic targets were set, the Fund reviewed progress in the program twice
a year, and the Fund Staff Reports under this enhanced surveillance were
cir'ulated by the Government of Venezuela to the banks.  In early 1989,
Venezuela made a request to the Fund to enter into a more formal program.
A Letter of Intent was signed on February 28, and based on this Letter, the
Board approved on March 29 Venezuela's request to purchase its First Credit
Tranehe (252 of Quota, equal to SDR 342.88 million, or approximately US$450
million). Discussions are now underway on entering into an Extended Fund
Facility under which there would be additional drawings of approximately
US$4.3 billion equivalent over a three year period. The Fund Board is
expected to consider this request in June.
74.      The Fund is supporting the Government's adjustmentlstabilization
program. The Fund and Bank programs are mutually consistent and
reinforcing, with the Fund program focussed on macro stabilization
concerns, and the Bank program focussed on longer term adjustment measures
within a consistent macro framework. Key areas critical to the success of
both programs include the move to a unified and floating exchange rate, the
flexible interest rate policy, the lifting of quantitative restrictions on
imports and rationalization of the tariff structure, the start on tax
reform, rationalization of prices of goods produced by public enterprises
(especially petroleum), improved effectiveness of subsidy programs, and
limitations on the size of the fiscal deficit. Bank and Fund staff are in
agreement on the need for progress in each of these areas, and each staff
has been working with the Government in elaborating portions of the
program. Boti; institutions recognpie that there is just one Government
reform program, that it is a unified and coherent program, and that it
merits support.
PART  VI - RECO1MDT!ON
75.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan wouid comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed loan.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 22, 1989



514MA   00       VC -
I,. Per Ceslte O   In U96.      -31
A. abates of areas Oaseli; ProlImtI                    6. rowthI PteW.( p.r easue)
(if"e hutrree grile  40%)                         (frew   i40s51 Wele dots)
iou    isis   io1s@    66   SW8   1066            14168-7  197840 111O-V   SU?   1906
Ores OmotuesIle eduel u.P.     100.0  100.   100.   100.   10.    0.087                        08      0.      . 
MtWuOsdre.leUn"                4.0    8.        .?    8.6    6.6        ...                   .
Eeriewitu.r,                   8.6    8.8    4.6    0.6    8.9    6.9                415    8.4    8.8    4.1    4.3
IftadV.r                      8906   43.1   48.4    7.2   86.0   87.1                8.0    0.8   -0.9    3.8    8.6
(4 6%1,1gib Wufeturlag)         . .   16.1   160    38.0    1.?   13.3               8.?    9.4    8.0    1.8    4.0
seftle..                      84.6   81.6    4.04   66.    8611-    87.              4.?    8.6    0.8    8.8    4.0
Rees.res hIm..                   6.6    6.8    7,0    0.1    0.6         ...                    .
laperte 04119U                 5.6   38.1    6.6   19.7  92.8          ...                  ..       1.1    7.6
Iewet. of am                  17.0   10.8   31.6   30.6   91.8         ..                    6.8   -1.1I  -11.9
TOtAe S UaeadlrSS               91.1   91.?  908.0   "9.    994-1        ...                    .9   -0.9   -3.1
tote  Ceee  Vanle             44.8   60.?   Is.?   19.?   74.7         ...    10.4    0.4   4-6.
ftlon. ConmeuqIl            86.12   46.0   84.9   66.6   64.6                             IS.. 1.1I    0.8  -10.1
Omteiu  ouve.mAulo           19.1   11.1   11.0   11.1   10.1         ...                  4.8    0.4    486
Ore". oouetS  Ifive*lS'       14.9   01.0   16.4   80.3   14.4         ...                   4.8   .4.?   90.3,
FPISd ieeetaual              19.4   14.9   16.9   19.0   19.0        ..7.6    6.9   .4.0   40.7
Changes Is Iboesk            6.81    0.1    1.4    1.1    8.4        .               .      .
Gorss Ouesle luofta             6.?   89.8   88.3   36.6   38.8         .              .6    1.4   .8.      13.4
Not Fue"?logo"..              .7.1   .4.4    0.8   43.0   42.?         ...
met CuArtai Yreuefers          0.0   4.8.   4.64   4.1   40.8          ...
Ore.. Wtletsu  saving          06.8   6854      6.3  ~7.9   9.2.3       .               .      .       .    1.
toobS MommeofLOJ&               1968   1918   1960   1068   1967   21066
(at es.e1e40 19600 gile) -        -       -        ...  .. ...         ..
Ore.. COM"41tI Probst         1SW      381    19"     16       M0   8a1              8.?    8.8    0.3    8.0    4.0
Ceselte to lesert                               as.. 6  as     61     Os              ..     1.3   -.81   .9.8    6.6
terms .f Tied. djuotnmAt        .               0    40      -*8    -86 11.
oroins Ogumelle mesas           M.      .       9     179    17      668              ..     .6,  -1.3'  -1.4i   1,9
ora#mllereSoo  PPOeU.I         174    14       19    161    800    8I1               4.8    8.?   40.4      3.6    8.0
Ore". W6imlm  laws.                                                   We. 96 10 26  7        5..9   -1.6   -1.8    1.0
C. PrieI.. ldle.                19680   1004   196    1660  1SW        1966         1,066-0 197840 10-6?  196?   1966
Comemmer 0,Seee (111864)       1000   181.   166.   106.   11.   611.9                 3.1    9.6   11.1   06. 1    90.8
*almeWi Prle" (1106 68)        100.0  186.0  176.1  10090   100.   8649                1.4   10.6   70.8   44.0i   19.0
Sopl lglmOu fIteto             100.0  148.1  168.   168.0  281    278.8                4.4   18.4   11.4   41.4   10.1
ZislelbUaedtluruO.fSf.         100.0  141.6  166.8  171.0  161.4        ...                     .6   18.0   4?.?
S. Other padleuwt.s           19160-76 197640 190-0-7
Grag. hP.wl 9I.t ) t
Fooegu.lii                     6.8    3.8    1.6
Leber Fat.
are". 8615. in.. g.e.           ..    1.8   -4.8,
Prlvtle Cwwmnee1laoa  ..                .    -1.4
levl. (0436) / 6P(go)           ..      .6  -11.0
obrgla.I UevIng e 1.1:
Oro.. mottomeS Serlag         87.    11.6
Olrees commeele Saving        38.9    0.9
106  (perled aferaws)l            . .   11.0   40.1
Ui.re of Tota I1  1908 178   1060   16
Leber FWOre In:
*trleullure                   19.    W;9    6.
tadalP                        13.7   38.9   39.4
servIe.o                      40.7   61.1    8.
Tool                 ~~~~~100.0  100.1  100.0
                             a.............        .............................   ...........~....



n8ge 2 of 5
* KSIIC P89C876
VlaSuel ie( l... ...1.....18_)
.... ......_ ....... .     . _ .......... .. .. _._ .......... .._
ye I  t a%curen"% Ff'I t (aXIt IIIa     n
..._.________...._... ._.....__...._-
6. Ilarchesiel  Stees              198     18  i   s         1910_196     1"?  93
Pelt.l.                           13ol   1434   18144    T2          04    016
Alahimm                             402    370       411     649     40       5$7
In" 6.                              140      01       0      t10     I118    118
lbmsuete*re                         424     788      997    1073     948      919
Gold                                                  I .      .        7,  4  a1
Total  ees p06                    1927i   1034    1468      9122   1036    10112
P.   _iirshewdi. lwprt,
_._._..._..__.._.._..___._
Fee                                 722     8tt0    470    t1o
1 e VaW *eser                       178     1t1    19.       I71
th.    _        _ a   god          243     186      1486    184?
cothe  Isl.#d gm"s                8a6      29881  11198    159    am3    7232
0XPso  $VW_                        Wm XtiB    a                     s        So
Captlwed.                          878    S19047    24i4    806     320    8620
total aoet CP                     106ow    T700     7w      in6    103 t    11816
0. T"_ erm    *    <Tr", 1   * 100)    1980    1984    188    196    1987    1983
t. bpta pri*                         ..       ..      ..  100.0   118.0   105.0
t.         r  Pice                   ..       ..      ..  100.0   106.6  109.?
i.rt *. Tr"o  Trd                             ..      ..   10.0   11.9    98.?
188 mllicas (ts eur._t .es ri)I
i.bsce of P3..nto                  190    1964    1988    18    167    1980
Reporte Gofonds 86W8              19968   161110   18ow    1061131  11179   10975
ehmw dl.e (FM)                  1901   1U641   14"00    9121  l0w67   101o8
lbs-Pete  S"rces                 9*7    10"    12081   1l0         712      62
"De     ladi  (P)               1677    70    783S0    762W    S8    10672
s-Pset. Sr.lee                   428     2902      4        24    14SW     9"4
_eewrt sble""                      4i      674      52        87     899  -11
lbs Psetr Lm                        a"9   -9061   -gm    -1497   -1874   -170
0iterest per on)                 1471    1948    1789    N1W    231        4
Mts Cirret  .rAaere                -418    -119    -102      -72    -11       -91
(seer. reeittes.e)                  0       0       0        0       o       0
Cs,r AX  Sal bfO Off. Trftn    4749    46           8i     .1882  .4103   -44,1
lb  offielet Tr.  fere            -f1     -29      -2       84    4.3       -a3
Cu"t AX  gol after off. Tr.at    47        4869    111  -14"9   -1116   -460
&ANG-TOrs Capital 1tlee            Se    -2378   -1648   -24       -        -2477
DIrees Iveetmet                    as     1i        so      18      11       0t
l*b  Lt Ltes (     dat.)         178?    -7       -8     -1o0    -124   -1494
erW LT Uf ea (Nt)                231   -.187    -0092    -705   -46        1084
lete, Other ts"  (not)            -01      -844    424       1oo     0O    A128
bst 8i.. Ter, Copital           -18      -M       -880     100    26        132
CSmitel Poew* O.CIL.                0       0        0       0     -17       0
&rore VW DOmieien               -1129      21       26       0     549   39s
Choosieis lbs    Reserves          37AI   -1863   -172      38       on    400.O
las C.edlt rwo the l                0       0        0       0       0        v
other fRgerse  thsnge"          -3768   -10t1   -177      8"65     876    4002
Re-sre  iblse                     7.0    111.    9.6       0,1     0.0   -4.6
bIsereet pasnte                   2.1     3.8     2.9    0.7       8.1     4.1
Curren Acee s blest.              8.0     7.9      6.0   -2.0    -2.2   -7 t
I bes. "Mt. 0.   (I -. up8)   tl04          90I1  loISI   s4a7    7061    2
iees   lac. aold (all. VW)   16    1434   1899    109               1219     6186
Officit l h-Rteb (LCajW8) 40.9    7.02    7.80    0.06   14.810  14.80
Lae Real rf. x-N bee 19W0    100.00   98.63   09.88   70.07   86.78   60.18
W   (sil lew of currat 06)         977   S8    0t197   01114    964         i94



009   000 0n    n  5   t'01   n0lse  StA-         (Vi' 12#d4#1*1) MOt 'S
U t   St'I   tti z t    ateas    "t   git-       %qoo As   .1- su"Ow' 7
000-   000    01,0   00,0   0010   00oo    -*   -03I"40 q6     *9
oo,    0WOT1009    ogl e         9 fe tV         rI P3-tw  t-litd '
X tB g  WI        9bog  wst   +t a,"  "-t           n1 ""mam*wof l" It    t
000 06L 0000030    910 1369d/0    As.i#A,1 9r
agl o          g11's   u-a g, w1191 eo ssn           j0Ioqf  i *,n   *
00.0   00      00      000   00t0   00t0                  dOC-tS1 dAIP- U  's
0os0   S1t,    ISe i  0019   00   t110               t=/*99   -eOA        't
-*tIe  dS'k-wo
0550   9',035  01W  0 t 5-               101        30003/  AStn   9
Og   g9g n      o.SO'Ct  cacs  00IP  00           "lah4sO  *b-        *C
00'0   0010   Co00    Colo      O  0   1              MI0W.Wj,!9., am'
wo0  93-8    U-O   00-O   S-OQ  4*0                 13~  j*  g       t 90* e0~
COoeo    Oslo   6(o   9oo  g0          1*o       e     o- a te o  Oum       I*
talo   Oslo    ulo   e410   ss,0    ula               IVIOA qi L so os e. sq
W10   100   40'0  90        O     WO    900          OA 1   t " 0vmm   la
00 0    00    000   00    00e0   00 o31 Jo t *                          WuI 'a
T00    W08    WO    0T'0   03'0   S09                 13901 4005 03 a=  'I
oo3 -,t 0    1 "o &O-
9061   z4ts  S@4  tat    "M%t  Sat                       014        P
&GMIttnGU   _ "    4oun uStSe O    SS- *90                   Os-  enX-   6vt-  tot-               as 1ttXlt 't> !1*01 
luct    *"    ga       am    eot    sstm   act    em         Oct    act-   MC-   Il(t-              14004 04      -  VW
O      O       a       O      O          O      O       O       O           a O        O                       *poj   tt
State  oe      ota       M    mm   s-m    "Vs-  sebtt  am              s-   *-    Mt                             LI t"
O"l ts         fu  t       S9m C tOtCt   Nu- ceo-    f-   0s-    a  9S                       9 ~      sWwj-v  0%061.
OtMA 41390   ZgM        V     "UTt ttOftOot  66- gCOl-  Olst-  an-    M-F out                        "4A%  f 6ael"ul
Ut'    6t    4 9    949    tat    bet    #W          99-    so--             go-     9                      -Ott"
WCt"2   C9018GN        an    Ori    "Mt  tG9-   90n-  $01-   "O_   on-    ntt                          t1`43 "*'% t4
mu       b    II,    mt    t<         tU:    tot-  tn-    At-    Gt          OS-    a$                       ltlOit
II  6  II  a       0      0 ~~301   II0    030    000    W               030               vt90       9'a, q0
      it 0            go 002  t0   0          -     03-    og-    at-    oc-    00-                  GAT  .1tV A*
051   t0n      Al      r9     oot  9U 0 Z9            a 1               - a-    Oc-                      1O       1  9t1tt
OSOt   Gat    m0        e     S       O01     U-    T* I-C-    0Ot           5      I-               1*04! iO3091 1018
91    t06      "D         I 01    ffg91   00Ot  OU.-  0SWT-  am-  500-   tt9-   t*tt            t  -nAla IaFibutj * t
Ut    01    (KS .*0    100    001    5 0 ' -   - - - -   - - --  0 1 -    -  5 0 -   - - - ...   -.  -  0 -  .0  . .  ...............  
a10    03t    M9(t   16t   95t   00          nb1t    too    41-    051t   00-    09t1 5                          I ItO
(61    01 1    100    09       59     06       -   ^ICt    90       01" ( 41       9       t           0P   ttDthI-'wO %
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.-__ ............ ._......... .  ......... . _.._... ........... _______ ".06
---l---O--  -t --------
VAU.W)t*4 31b100 - V05RUGA
fW ItMM
s ;o t eRvi



- Annex I
Pal  4 of -5
1988 SOCIAL INDICATOR DATA SHEET
VENEZUELA
E U Aerence GrOups (|mE)
most
Recent     Upper itd    Inaustrial
1965       1975    Estimate       Income       mkt acon.
AREA
Total land aros (tfou sq km)    912.1        912.1       912.1
Agricultural (% of total)         21.4        22.3        23.2
WIP PER CAPITA (current US$)          940      2.110       2.550       2.510      14.680
POPULATIaON MSD VITAL STATISTICS
Total population (ttou)          8.964      12.655      18.265
Urban pop. (% of total)              72         s0          87          64          77
Population growth rote(%):
Total                                        3.5         3.1        2.0         0.6
Urban                                        4.7         3.9         3.2        0.8
Life expect. at birth (yrs)          63         07          70          67         76
Population projections:
Pop. in 2000 (thou)                                   24.172
Stationary pop. (thou)                                38 841
Population density per sq km
f agrieultural land                  40         e2          s0         775        526
Pop. age structure (%):
o-i4 yrs                           48         44          39          30         21
15-64 yrs                         49          53          57         59          67
*O and above                        3          3           4           5          12
Crude btrth rate (per thou)          42         35          31          27          13
Crdedeath rate (per thou)             a          6           5           a           a
Total fertility rate                0.1        4.7        328          3.5         1.6
Infant mort, rate (per thou)         65         45          31          43          11
Child MOeth rate (per thou)           3           3          2           5           0
Family planning:
Acceptors, annual (thou)            9         s6
Users (% of married women)                    49
POO. HEALTH AM NMITION
Index of food production per
capita (1979-61 a 100)              103         109         98         tO0         0OS
Per capita supply of:
Calories (per day)             2.321       2.475       2.485      2.954       3,3t8
Proteins (grams per day)           59        e6           G0          76         91
Pop. per physician (thou)           1.2         1.1        1.2         1.3        0.6
Pop. per nurse (thou)               0.6        2.6         3.2         0.9        0.2
Pop. per hospital bed (thou)          ,        3.0         2.7                    0.`1
Access to safe water
(% of population):  Total                     74          s0
Urban                    79          s0
Rural                    09          79
PopuLation Growth             Infant Mortality        Primary School Enrollment
3.                                                     so.ld- 
m ow ia * wrsup
53                         250                             U______*______



Amex I
Page 5 of S
1988 SOCIAL INDICATOR DATA SHEET
VENEZUELA
Rterence Grouops (MR)
most
Recont     Upper old    Industrtal
196S       1975    Estimato      income       mkt *con.
LAMO0 FORCE
Total Labor Force (thoU)         2.663      3.909      0.068
Fealo  %)                         20         23         27          30         38
Agriculture ()                    30         21          14         30          7
tndustry (%)                      24         27         2?          30         35
Participation rate (X):
Total                             30         31         34          37         47
nal*                              47         47         49          Si         59
Female                            12         15          18         23         35
Age dependency (M)               1O2.6       89.9       74.5        71.8       49.4
Hanzr.s
Average six, of household:
Total                             ..          6          5
Urban                             ..         ..                     .
Rural                             ..         ..                     .
fPreent  oe of dwllings with
-      electricity:
Total                             ..         70         79
Urban                                        ..          ..
tural                             ..         ..
EDUCATION
Enrollment rates:
Primary: Total                    94         97         108        105        101
Male                    93          97        109         108        101
Female                  94          97        108         102        101
Secondary: Total                  27         43         4S          S7         93
"Ml                   27          40         41         S7          91
Female                28          45         50         56          93
Pupil-Teacher ratio:
Primary                           34         30         26          25          19
Secondary                         17         18          17         18          i5
Pupils reaching grao 6 (%)          ..         61         Ss          e          99
InCOE. CUISUMPTIOM. AM POVERTY
Energy conJutption per cap.
(kg ot oil equivalent)              ..      2.260      2,409       1.313
Percentage of private income
received by:
Highest 10X of hOuseholds         41
Highest 20                        59         54
LOwet 20%                          3          3
Lowest 40%                        10         1o
got. absolute poverty income
level (USS per capita):
Urban                             ..         ..
Rural                             ..        3t1
Eot. pop. below absolute
poverty income level (X)
Urban
Rural                             ..
Pasenger care/thou pop.           29.7.      75.S          ..         ..      364.9
Newspwper circulation
(per thousand population)         C7.0       84.3      162.5       106.2      31S.6
IECSE August 1988
"aS mom. le my, ViW ks  03aE1 betmasMo Ot M  Nm 102 gui W5k ag MMe sieg sftfmteI elms. 15adi low



ANNEX It
Page 1 of 2
V"rA.US OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN VENEZUELA
A.   Statement of World Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of March 31, 1989)
Loan or                                                           Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                              (Less cancellation)
Number   Year  Borrower   Purpose                         Bank       Undisbursed
13 Loans fully disbursed and closed                       342.2
Total                                                     342.2
Of which has been repaid                                 340.7
Total now outstandins                                       1.5
Amount sold                                                27.5
Of which has been repaid                                  27.5
Total now held by Bank and IDA                              1.5
Total undisbursed                                                         0.0



Page 2 of 2
B.  State ent of IFC Investments as of March 31. 1969
-----U$ Mllilon---..
Date      Sorrower               True of Rueincas        Loan  IEJult   1t2i
1964, 1968,
1971       OftENDAS      Development Finance             .17.5   1.34    18.84
1971        CONCICA       CeMent & ConstructioR
Material                        2.01            2.01
1961        DIALITOS      Foo & Food Processing              .50    -        .50
1966, 1972  DOMINGCZ      Tin Cans                         1.00    .32      1.52
1989        OPCO          Iron & Steel                    75.13    -       73.13
1989        PIOPILVEM     Chemieals Petro chemLeals       47.00    -       47.00
1969, 1973  PRTDINAL      Pood & Food Processing           5.06             5.06
1960, 1964  SIVENSA       Iron & Steel                     2.70    .44    3.14
1975        SOFlISC       Money & Capital Markets           -       .70      .70
1975        VALINMC&   Money & Capital Markets              -       .35      .35
1988        vERCMOS       Cemeant a constructionl
Material                                -       10.0
Total Gross Comitment                                  158.90   3.35   162.25
Less Cancellations, Teminations & Sales                 71.52   3.35    74.87
Total ComLtments Now Held by IFC                        87.38    -      87.38
Total Unt5sbursed                                       69.50     -     69.50
* ll In addltLon, INC provided a guarantee of a local bond issue for US$27
million equivalent.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
VE ZUSLA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Supplementary Loan Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the Government to prepare program:  two months
(b) Program prepared bys Government of Venezuela, under the Coordination
of the Planning Department (CORDIPLAN)
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:                     February, 1989
(d)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:                     April 7, 1989
(e)  Completion of Negotiationss                         May 19, 1989
(f)  Planned Date for Effectiveness:                     September 15, 1989
Section IIs Special Bank Implementation Action
Program complexity and administrative weaknesses in implementing agencies
call for particular care to ensure coordination and specific planning for
implementation mechanisms; Loan includes funds to support these
implementation measures, including technical assistance support and policy
reviews.
Section III: Special Conditions
1.       The specific agreed measures which will be conditions of loan
effectiveness are as follows:
(a) Maintenance of a macroeconomic framework consistent with the
objectives of the reform program (para. 31);
(b)  Satisfactory adjustment in the lending rate structure for public
development funds (para. 34);
(c) Final definition and commencement of implementation of the social
action program in 1989, with associated funding needs, providing
for direct nutritional and other assistance targeted at low income
groups (para. 38);
(d) Satisfactory action on price policy, including specific price
adjustments for petroleum products, fertilizers,
telecommunications services, electricity, natural gas, aluminum,
iron ore, steel, and petro-chemical products (para. 41);
(e) Establishment and implementation of a cystem to adjust for
inflation the Rate Base of electric utility companies, to be used
in the setting of power rates (para. 41);
(f) As part of the privatization program: establishment of an inter-
ministerial commission charged with reviewing and approving
privatization and restructuring proposals and setting criteria to
define the types of assets for privatization or liquidation;



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
preparation of a complete listing of public sector enterprises;
and identification of an initial group of ten public enterprises
as candidates for privatization (para. 44);
(g) Agreement on target levels of public investment for 1989,
including sub-targets for PDVSA, non-financial state enterprises,
and the rest of the public sector (para. 45).
2.       Specific conditions for release of the second tranche are as
follows:
(a) There has been continued adherence to the macroeconomic program,
including continued operation of the unified exchange rate system,
flexibly determined interest rates, and adherence to key macro-
economic targets for the fiscal deficit (para. 31);
(b) Procedures have been implemented by which the lending rates of
public development funds reflect the cost of funds plus a margin
for operating costs (para. 34);
(c) The social program for 1989 was successfully implemented, and an
appropriate social program and assf.iated funding for 1990 has
been agreed to (para. 38);
(d) Price policy reforms have continued, including further adjustments
in the prices of petroleum products (to at least 40S of export
opportunity cost); fertilizers (to at least 602 of export
opportunity cost); and aluminum, iron ore, steel, and petro-
chemical products (to 10O of export opportunity costs) (para.
41);
(e) There has been continued progress in the public enterprise
restructuring and privatization program, including specifically
decision by the interministerial commission on the divestiture of
at least 10 public enterprise holdings, and a bringing to the.
point of sale of at least five of these holdings (para. 44); and
(f) A suitable public investment program has been set for 1990 (para.
45).
3.       Other specific agreements may be summarized as follows:
(a) The carrying out of a technical assistance and training program,
supported in part by a portion (US$2 million) of these SAL funds,
in the areas of (i) poverty alleviation and design of social
programs; (ii) tax reform; (iii) privatization and restructuring
of public enterprises; (iv) public investment evaluation
procedures; and (v) external debt management (para. 51);
(b) That the Borrower will undertake studies of: (i) the operations of
the Venezuelan Investment Fund (FIV); (ii) the feasibility of
developing differentiated food products targeted to the poor; and
(iii) the feasibility of establishing an Oil Stabilization Fund
(paras. 40, 43 and 46);
(c) On arrangements for procurement (paras. 52-55).



ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 9
REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA
Government's Statement of Development Policyt
Structural Adlustment Program
Since 1960 and up to the beginning of the present decade,
Venezuela's GDP grew at an annual average rate of about 6Z, with inflation
rates lower than world average and with one digit unemployment. As a
consequence, wealth indicators showed a sustained improvement in the quality
of living, all this withia social stability and democracy.
Nevertheless, this performance has changed dramatically during the
last decade. The international crisis of the 80's, together with inadequate
economic policies, took the country towards a severe crisis characterized by
a drop in GDP per capita, increased unemployment and more recently, higher
inflation rates and both internal and external disequilibrium.
In order to solve this situation and to recover the non-
inflationary growth path, our government designed a more comprehensive
strategy oriented to a deep structural adjustment reform, initiated last
February.
To make this reform viable, significant external financial support
is required, and, in this respect, the World Bank should play an important
role, not only regarding financing but also giving technical support to the
different projects to be implemented during the coming years.
Upon taking office on February 2, our new President, Carlos Andres
P6rez, was confronted with an economic situation unprecedented in our
history. Inflation was at record levels and external reserves had been
dep:eted. We have therefore decided to undertake a completely new and
different approach, one which marks a fundamental break with the policies of
the past. Our objectives are clear: we must restore the system to one
where sustainable growth is possible, we must over time reduce the level of
external financing that will be required (although for the program to
succeed major external support will be needed during the next following
years), and we must ensure that effective programs are put in place to
address specifically the needs of the poor.
We are now implementing a far-reaching program to achieve these
objectives. We are, first and very importantly, re-orienting our social
programs to target them more effectively to the needs of the poor. Second,
we are establishing an economic environment which utilizes competition as
the primary instrument by which key resources are allocated, rather than the
administrative decision-making used in the past. Third, we are improving
the efficiency of public enterprises and utilities, by rationalizing their
prices and by institutional reforms. Fourth, we are raising the efficiency



-2-
of public investment, through improved screening of proposed programs.
Finally, we are taking steps to ensure that reform measures are undertaken
vithin a consistent macroeconomic environment.
From this program we expect to see increased efficiency of resource
use in the economy, an expanded and more diversified export base, and higher
levels of saving and investment. From this, in turn, we expect to obtain
sustainable growth (with a viable balance of payments and low inflation), a
reduction in poverty, and greater economic stability. These are long-term
effects, although in the short-term there will be important disruptions.
However, the Government had little choice; the previous measures could be
sustained no longer. The Government has already made a major change of
direction in its policies. Extremely large relative price changes,
literally overnight, have occurred. The unification and floating of the
exchange rate to its new, market-determined level resulted in a devaluation
of the official rate of 1502. Lending interest rates went from 132 to ^%5Z
when the ceilings were lifted. Domestic petroleum prices were doubled.
Changes of this magnitude also imply very large shifts of real
income across the various groups of the society. Under the previous system,
attention centered on the distribution of the rents earned from the foreign
sale of oil. This is no longer possible. To make this change will be
difficult, politically as well as economically, but we have to do it if we
are to achieve our objective of sustainable growth.
For the program ti succeed, however, as well as to make the
transition bearable, extv nal financial assistance will be critical. We
have already obtained st., port from the IHP through the drawing of our First
Credit Tranche, and discussions are underway on an EFF Arrangement which we
expect to finalize in June. The U.S. Treasury provided a loan of $450m in
early March as a bridge to the IMF First Credit Tranche release.
Discussions are underway with Japan and other bilateral creditors for
support. We have in particular requested support from Japan in the form of
co-financing for the World Bank operations under consideration. Discussions
have continued with the commercial banks for relief from scheduled debt
service obligations, and more permanent debt relief through one or more of
the Brady Plan options.
As a key part of this overall plan, and to support specifically the
reform program now being instituted, we hereby wish to request formally a
loan from the World Bank in the amount of $402 million. This Structural
Adjustment Loan (SAL) will be critical to the success of our efforts.
Parallel with the SAL, and to support specifically the major trade policy
reforms that we are also implementing, we have also requested by means of a
separate letter to you, a Trade Policy Loan of $353 million We hope you
will proceed speedily with these requests. In the rest of this letter
below, we present specifically the reform program for which we are
requesting your support through a SAL.
I. Alleviation of Poverty
Effective programs to alleviate poverty are necessary not only
because of the negative short-term impact of the stabilization/adjustment
program, but more fundamentally because of the long-term need to deal
directly with poverty. Social programs in Venezuela in the past have not



- 3 -
been as effective as they should have been, and hence such social indicators
as the infant mortality rate are higher than they should be. It is the
intention of our Government to address this directly, through the design and
implementation of more effective social programs spec1fically focussed on
the poor.
Over the medium-term, we intend to shift our social program
expenditures so that the major part is for programs targeted directly for
the poor and other high risk groups. This will be achieved through the use
of direct transfer programs, or through subsidies on differentiated final
consumption items designed specifically for the poor. tie have already
started to implement such programs. In the short-run, it will be necessary
to maintain some indirect subsidies. These are being limited, however, to
just milk and fertilizers with the savings being used for the direct social
programs described below.
For the direct social programs, we have prepared and are now
starting the process of focussing on final steps for implementing the
programs which are specifically targeted to the poor in six major areas.
These include:
(a)   A program of direct cash grants, to evolve into a
nutritionally-focussed program, to be provided to school-age
and pre-school age children, through schools in low-income
neighborhoods;
(b)   Direct school feeding programs for school-age children,
through a targeting of schools in low-income neighborhoods;
(c)   Nutrition and health care programs for pregnant women and
infants, through health clinics in low-income neighborhoods;
(d)   Nutrition for pre-school age children, through expanded day-
care programs in low-income neighborhoods;
(e)   Improved housing in the barrios, through expanded
progressive housing and other assistance programs; and
(f)   Improved provision of public services in the barrios (water,
sewerage, power, streets, trash removal), through a
coordinated program of the responsible agencies.
Although it is the intention of our Government to expand these
programs at the most rapid pace possible, administrative capacity
limitations mean that some time will be required before the programs will
be able to reach a major share of the targeted populations. Technical and
financial assistance, in particular from the World Bank, will be important
in this regard, and we hope to be in a position later this year to request
formally a World Bank loan to support these direct programs.
The Government also intends to follow a flexible policy for the
imports of food items, so that the domestic price of items of particular
concern to the poor are not excessively above international levels.



-4-
We are also undertaking studies of the feasibility of developing
highly differentiated products aimed at the poor. These differentiated
food products, while nutritionally equal or even superior to the regularly
available products, have taste or other differences that make them
unattractive to the rich.
Finally, we will undertake a program to improve our technical
capacity to conduct surveys for poverty analysis, to gather information on
the costs and beneficiaries of the Government's social programs, and to
evaluate such programs.
All of the above refers to programs and plans for 1989 or
initiated in 1989. Prior to the end of the calendar year, we plan to have
developed and discussed with the World Bank our social program plans for
1990, within the scope of a new lending program with the World Bank
regarding socially oriented reforms.
II. Establishment of a Competitive Environment
Venezuelan policy until recently has been to make extensive use of
administrative decision-making to allocate resources, rather than market-
oriented mechanisms. Thus, the exchange rate for imports was kept low,
with the resulting excess demand for foreign exchange rationed by complex
administrative means; interest rates were capped at low levels, with the
general lending rate capped at 13Z when inflation was 35-40Z, with the
credit then rationed; the corporate and personal income tax system has been
complex, with widespread exonerations, exemptions, and tax credits
producing a complicated set of incentives and disincentives; and new
investments, have been restricted by the requirement to obtain
'RIPI'-status in order for the investments to be eligible for preferential
access to foreign exchange, tariff protection, credit, tax incentives, and
other preferences. We are implementing fundamental changes in each of
these areas.
The exchange rate system has been unified, and the new unified
rate is floating so that its level is determined by market mechanisms. The
previous official rate was 14.50 Bs./US$ (with a preferential rate for
certain foodstuffs and medicines of 7.50 Bs./US$ in effect until October
1988). The new floating exchange rate system went into effect on March 14,
with the rate moving at first to a level of close to 40 Bs./US$, but then
soon coming down to a rate of about 35-37 Bs./US$, where it is as of this
writing (mid-Hay). As part of the move to a unified and floating system,
foreign exchange rationing has been discontinued, and the Government bureau
responsible for it, ex-RECADI, has been dismantled.
In the move to the new floating exchange rate, the Central Bank
would have suffered huge losses (in excess of 10 of GDP) had it continued
to provide foreign exchange at a rate of 14.50 Bs./US$ to clear outstanding
six-month letters of credit for imports and at a rate of 7.50 Bs./US$ for
outstanding registered private non-guaranteed external debt. We have
therefore put in place a plan which assigns responsibility for the private
non-guaranteed debt to the private sector and which recognizes weighted
proportions (depending on the month the goods actually landed) for general
imports. Any imports landed after November 1, 1989, will pay the new
market exchange rate. This will limit Central Bank losses to no more than



- 5 -
42 of GDP. Furthermore, payment of these losses will be spread over three
years using a doilar-denominated bond mechanism, limiting cash outlays to
22 of GDP in 1989, 12 in 1990 and 12 in 1991. We do not intend in the
future to provide a Central Bank Guarantee of a fixed exchange rate for
trade credit, suppliers' credits, or other debt.
Interest rate limits for private loans are now determined flexibly
in light of market conditions.   The Central Bank must set limits on the
range of interest rates (as required by our Laws), but does this on a
flexible basis, reviewing the limits weekly, and setting them so as to be
consistent with our non-inflationary monetary control objectives and
movements in our floating exchange rate. Such an interest rate policy will
encourage domestic savings, repatriation of capital, and efficient
investment. To ease the transition to the new, much higher, nominal
interest rates for lending (37Z as of mid-May, versus 132 before), there
will be partial exceptions for agriculture and certain existing housing
mortgages. Private bank lending to agriculture will be at a rate 72 points
below each bank's general lending rate, with such loans solely for a
limited list of crops. No more than 17.5Z of each bank's portfolio will be
required to be in agriculture, against 21.5Z in the past. For existing.
floating rate housing mortgages below a certain maximum level, the rates
charged the homeowners will be set at levels of no less than 152 (to be
reset periodically) with an explicit budget subsidy to the financial
institutions to cover at least half of the difference between this and the
cost of funds. These special arrangements for agriculture and housing are
transitional, and it is the Government's intention to phase these out.
With the lifting of the private interest rate ceilings, we intend
to adjust upwards the rates for the public development funds (such as the
FIV, FONCREI, Corpoindustria, BANDAGRO, FINEXPO, and so on), in line with
the new, market-oriented private rates. Prior to July 1, 1989, we will
have made significant adjustments to these rates. By year-end, we will
introduce a system whereby the rates reflect the cost of funds plus an
appropriate margin to cover operating costs.
The Government also intends to proceed with a major tax reform.
Pending further analysis, we intend to submit to Congress a proposal for a
value-added tax, with a planned date of effectiveness of July 1, 1990. We
will also review and soon propose major changes in the corporate and
personal income tax systems, with the aim of simplifying them and reducing
the rates as the base is broadened. For this we are requesting technical
assistance to be provided under the SAL.
We have also removed previous restrictions on private investment
activity. The ORIPIO program of investment licensing has been eliminated.
We welcome private investment, both domestic and foreign, and view it as
essential for the economy to be put on a sustainable growth path. There
are no restrictions on such investment as to sector, with the partial
exceptions of the nationalized petroleum and iron ore sectors. Even in
these sectors, however, we are considering possible joint venture
operations. In the context of the Trade Policy Loan being requested from
the Bank, we are also undertaking a comprehensive review of industrial



- 6 -
regulations and incentives, aiming to ensure they do not have the
unintended side effect of restricting domestic or foreign private
investment.
III. Efficiency of Public EnterDrises
It has become increasingly important that the resources devoted to
the large public enterprise (PE) sector be utilized efficiently. Under the
structural adjustment program, the Government will initiate a PE reform
program, aimed at: redefining the role of the State in the provision of
goods and services; divesting those PEs that no longer fulfill a public
policy objective; and increasing the financial autonomy and efficiency of
those PEs remaining in the public sector. The initial emphasis, under the
structural adjustment program, will be on price adjustments for major PEs,
and on establishing the framework for privatization, restructuring and
longer-term reform of the PE sector. Over the medium-term, the
Government's objective is to ensure that all PEs are financially self-
sufficient, introducing not only organizational reforms, but also
reinforcing planning and controls according to modern corporate business
practices. For those PEs requiring Government compensation for the
provision of public services, the medium-term objective is that all
financial support be based on approved corporate plans or restructuring
programs, incorporating agreed performance and efficiency targets.
Pricing
Until the reforms presented by our new Government, Venezuelan PEs
and utilities were often required to charge very low prices, which deviated
sharply from true economic costs. In such a pricing environment, the
result was economically inefficient, even though many of the PEs are
managerially sophisticated. A necessary first step, therefore, is to
reform these prices and the system by which they are set, so they reflect
the true economic costs to the nation.
The medium-term goal is that all prices of PEs and utilities
reflect economic values. This means that for tradeable goods, domestic
prices will reflect world prices (i.e., match export opportunity costs).
For non-tradeable goods, which are often public monopolies, the prices will
be set in accordance with economic efficiency principles (i.e., long-run
marginal cost) as well as financial and productivity targets.
Although most prices will be set in accordance with this principle
before the end of the SAL period, two key prices were so distorted that
they require special treatment. These prices are for domestic petroleum
and for fertilizers. Prior to February 1989, petroleum prices varied from
about 322 of export opportunity cost levels (for high octane gasoline) to
less than 82 (for diesel and residual fuel oil). On February 26, 1989, we
raised petroleum prices an average of 942. While major, this still left
our petroleum prices far below export opportunity -ost levels, and the
structure of petroleum prices across the various products extremely
distorted. We intend to adjust our domestic petroleum product prices over
time so that within a three-year period (i.e. by early 1992) they will be
approximately at export opportunity cost levels. For fertilizers, we have
reduced the Government subsidy from over 901 of production costs to 502.



Over a three-year period, the Government intends to bring fertilizer prices
*llose to export opportunity costs.
We have also made significant adjustments in the prices of key
noa-tradeable goods. Natural gas prices were doubled with the other
petroleum price changes, and electric utility rates were raised 302 to 652
(effective April 1) depending on the user, with automatic monthly
adjustments of 32 to 62 for the next 1-2 years. The system of charges for
telecommunications services will soon be adjusted to reflect total monthly
use, and will reflect an average rise of at least 35Z. We are also
revising regulatory procedures by which future rate changes will be
determined, and have initiated studies for determining economic values
(i.e., long-run marginal cost and the target internal rate of return) for
prices of power, natural gas, and telecommunications. For INOS (water and
sewerage) and IMAU (trash collection) we have initiated actions towards new
procedures to improve fee collections.
Finally, we have made significant revisions in the prices and the
pricing procedures of public enterprises producing such tradeables as
aluminum, iron ore, steel, and petrochemicals. Formulae have been
determined for linking these prices to international levels, initial
adjustments have been made (in most cases fully to the international
levels) and by early 1990 the prices of these goods will all be at export
opportunity cost levels.
Role of the FIV
The FIV has played a key role in channeling our previous petroleum
revenue surpluses to investments in our economy. Its role must now change,
however, to reflect both the fact that petroleum surpluses will now be
small, and the need to manage better existing investments. For this
reason, we are now undertaking a comprehensive review of FIY practices in
the new economic environment, and intend to make major changes based on the
outcome of this review. Pending its completion, and to conserve public
resources during the current economic difficulties, we plan to limit FIV
net lending to, and purchases of equity in, financial and non-financial
state enterprises to no more than Bs. 24 billion in 1989.
Privatization and Public Enterprise Restructuring
Within the framework of bringing efficiency to the public
enterprise sector, the Government has announced its intention to launch a
privatization program and will establish a ministerial committee to
formulate a strategic plan for the public sector and within that to set the
guidelines for rationalization and privatization. Initial emphasis will be
on PEs which are financially viable and attractive to investors, thereby
establishing momentum for the program and building public support.
The program will be implemented on the basis of the following
broad principles/guidelines:



PEs will be priced realistically to reflect market value;
to ensure transparency, guidelines will be issued on
procedures for valuations, bidding, and evaluation of
offers;
- -    no protection or special privileges will be granted to
purchasers;
no Government financing or loan guarantees will be provided
to purchasers;
_-    all options/modalities for privatization will be considered,
includings public share issue, sale of assets, public
tender, partial privatization, primary share issue, etc:
__    the Government will allocate sufficient funds to cover net
liabilities related to divestiture (egs severance pay,
settlement of debts);
--    all sales of PEs or assets will be publicly advertised with
adequate time provided for interested investors to respond;
,-    PE8 targeted for divestiture will not undertake any major
new capital expenditures/investments.
To successfully launch the privatization program, during the SAL
implementation period we intend, inter alia, to: (i) prepare a
comprehensive inventory of public sector holdings, with key financial data;
(ii) approve an initial set of criteria to define which types of PEslassets
will be considered for divestiture; (iii) approve at least ten enterprises
for divestiture/privatization; and (iv) bring to point of sale at least
five of those PEs approved for privatization (i.e., complete the valuations
and bidding documents).
At the same time, the Government recognizes that the majority of
PEs will remain in the public sector over the medium term. We intend to
initiate reforms under the structural adjustment program to ensure that
these PEs operate efficiently and in a commercial manner. In this context,
we will review the existing legal/institutional framework governing PE
operations with the objective of increasing managerial autonomy and
accountability. In addition, in order to ensure a phased reduction in
Government financial support to the PE sector, we will initiate measures to
ensure that all budgetary and extra-budgetary transfers to PEs, as well as
loan guarantees, are fully transparent and justified on the basis of
approved corporate plans (embodying agreed performance targets) or
restructuring programs. During the SAL implementation period, we will also
undertake diagnostic reviews of at least six priority PEs to identify the
restructuring measures to improve their performance and financial self-
sufficiency.



IV. Public lfn?iqtmnt PtIOg  Les.id Procedures
AA effective and efficient publie investment program vill be
eritical to restoring susttaable growth. In the past. however, the public
investment psolts has been poorly sanaged, with deciseios not made based
on standard economic criterli. Out goal will now be to evaluate public
tiestante based on standard economic and social rate of return criteria.
Cordiplan and the FIV v1ii play key toles in the new process. wLth the Div
responsible for the review of projects for whlch finance has been requested
frm it, and Cordiplan playing a key role in overall nveetment allocations
*nd In reviewing investments brought to the Cabinet for decsilon.
Cordiplan will play an overall coordinAoting role In the publle investmnt
process, not by tryintr to plan individual projects (which vill of course
temin the responsibility of the individual agencies responsible for the
ivestment), but by setting criteria and procedures, by providing trainlng
and other assistance to the implementing agencies, and through Its review
function for major invstments brought to the Cabinet. to this end, befote
the end of 1909. Cordiplan will have issued a set of guidelines wich sets
out the methodology by vbich investment projects are to be evaluated In the
public sectog.
In addition, we plan to Initiate In 1989 a comprehenasive review of
the public sector investment program. The public investment program for
the resinder of the five-year term of this Adminstration will be based oan
the findlngs and recomendationa of this rewLew. In the lattrim. fot 1969,
we will undertake an Invesmnt progrm consistent vith the stabilisation
program, and which focuses particular attention on laborsintensive public
works and housing assistance, to offset ln part the disruptive effects of
the stabilisation program.
V. MHacro*conoMc Consistency
*?he refom  program Vill oly succeed if it is undertaken In th
context of a consistent macroeconomic envirzoment. Adequate external
financial support vill be critical, and internally, the overall fiscal
deficit will have to be consistent with expected inflation, CDP growth, and
internal and external projected borrowing levels. To this end, we intend
to limit the overall itecal deficit of the conSo1idated public sector to no
more than 41 of ODP In 1989. Ve have also developed medium-term plans, for
both the fiscal accounts and for external borrowing, which are feasible and
via&ble. and which should lead to restoration of a sustainable path of
growth for the economq.
Sincerely yours.
us1  I     SrguE           ZIglee ltu     4lenco
Minister of Planning       f N9*terpf flnanee
Ministe  o  draon
.  ~~~Knister of Labor



m    s&    L - POLcr M&N
Actions to b Taken Prier                   Condition for Second Trench. or Dated Co _onent
Policy J_wue./Cbjectives                    Action  Already Token                             to Len  fctiv                              (Spcifc Legl Condit;ons for Secod Tmd,e
Release marked with '- e')
1.  Allev;itin of Poverty
1.  Soiel ;ndicators (such a_ Infest             1. The Governmet ha  acted that        1. A astiefactory Plan of Action ha bom prpwred           I1  Steisfactory pregree on tt prga .
uorlilto' _nd mlnatrition rate) are            ito aedlws-tr  goal is that            end  aanouced. sith iaplsntstin underpay, fort 
relatively hih for a country  t                the mojer part of oci*l                Series of direct ocitl prormsetgt   to Vt              2.. Satisfactory pInn for low aocia  proa  ba
Venaxela's income level. 1,Svo also            pr_o  expenditure - *il be             poorw. icluding the folloeing                              been developed.
wag_ed since the _erly 190s. TM& is            targeted to individuals of
in part a conse_ enet finwprpriate,            loser it;o. throush food               a. A progra of cook grnts, to evolve into               . S   Study on differentiated consumption item has baa
ineficient, or poorly targeted                 et     or oter direct traser              nutritionally-focused prore_, to bo providedi           copl*ted.
Gouergnt social prore o. prorad.                                                         t       I oW1ch ad pr__I-co  ae children throug
ac-lIs in los-income  teigborhoods.
2.  1 adition, the short-tare ipat on            2. General indirect food subsidiee        b. Direcetool feed;ing pvramt   for scool-ae"
livine stbards of the                          have bee  diecontinud, eacept             chil dr", throuo  a tareeting of e_o1s in
stbillaation/adjuetment prorn- i               for Sil;k                                 leo-incom-   neighborhoos.
likely to be advere. nlee_  offset by                                                 c   Aritien Nd health cars psroa   for pregnan
effective scial program.                   8. Program    dry to ipove the               a     nd infants thrbo_  helth clinice In
Governments technical capacity            los-incem gellghorboods.
to conduct  #rve"d for poverty        de "b;tit  for pre-echool  a  children though
aaIya-;. to gather informtion             apendd day-care program In  os-Income
on the costs end be tefiiarie             neighborhood.
of  vovenent social program,            .  aroved hvoeing in the berriose thbroub
and to evaluate such progm               eapaed  proee;V bhouine and other
*a_i;onc Programs.
f. lwroved provision of public ;ervices in the
berrios (aster. ewersge  poser, st reet. trah
r_mmel). through a coordinated proa   of the
responsible _ge;_.
2  Stdes havb  ben initiated to e*asine  the
feasibilItY of developing for _sle (perhope With
subsidy) very speciflc Items targeted to the por.
includine  tn Inaeive  ort pSts. a pest mde
of a sic of rice and Wheat floutr unrefined sugr.
r wceith W  20OS broken grain, a differentiated
eorn am, thot asies shits nd yelle Corn flour.
a oedered sIli bed on * sil of able sd sobean
*; lkb  a veetable oiI with a differentiated teats.
and wrhimp other Item.
II!
o %



Atio, to b  Tae  Prior               Conditions for Second Tranche or Outed Cmop_mts
Policy zooma/mbJetva                                       Action. Alroad Take                               to Loa   feoctiv                     (Secfic Legal C:ndtion  for Sec5n  Tr_
Releae mrked elth en aoe)
1.  SEtbiahea  of a C        ettie                   Pora  SErd All
1. TIe sAhge rata aWatea has b_n uhiffed nd floated                                                        1. Cont;nued operation of the unified
1. avrnrnt Poo icy ha unt; i now been               booed on a markt eete.                                                                                     *exchane rate aysta   e ir,tedd
baaad an tba se  ot o"Wetr;ti've            2. Foreign exchange ratiomno  haa bee  diacenbinued. ed the
allocation of acrc  reecare, rtJher             Oavrnent burea  r_;sanibla for the rationing (*:-
than  arket-or;ented secheni_n. Than:    D        WI) ha been di;mattd.
S. C   nral 11kprorge  *;1i IIE  *texchner lo_a_on trade
a ithin a Wlt*pl p exchange  ate,               credit aNd on the private *ctor dt to  o more thea   4T
ysates, the official rate for  mprt          Of CDP. *ith the oah outl.y  Im-ted to U5 of MP ;n
is highly overveled. This lee" to            199  is of aP in 19W4 a   11 of CDP En 1991.
a attaince"s dwee_d for importe,         4. The  overrant _h   ee thd tht a fiaed *ohart  rate w;I
*bich *re then rationed by complex           not be oaramteed by it im tho futuro far trad  credit.
administrative controls.                     suppli;rau  credtu. or other debt.
b. lntereet rates have ben caped, *;th
the general lending rate at 135 ohile        Credit1 _J.at85
Inflation in 1907-e roec to S5-40.    S. Intert rate l;mita an ps-wte loans are deterltaed                1. Adjueteate sntisfactory to the         2.. Intereat rates for public devl_pget
with a resultEng *xcee Ad    for             flewitbly. with the mile *ecestite  for agriculture aNd          Sa  have bee  at" in the Interest         funds met to reflect the cost o the
credit,                                      horinrg  ortoaga.                                                rata charpd by public devespeant          fundo plua on appropriat  mrg;n to
e. Corporat  and persona  incaso  test      6. for agriculture:                                                  funds to their borrmera teking            cover operating case.
(other than on oil) eoll ct only             a. Interest rate cailinMP ast a rate of no mre thn               into acecunt prvaiiling cainrcial
about 2-1(8  of IP, but do thie                 72 pointf beloe the genoral bonk lending rate,                lending rates.                        3. Ce_arcial interat ratees cntinu  to be
throurh a obination of high nmeinal          b. The" losn  apply only for a I-ited list of crops.                                                       fleatble.
rata  which pre then in dffect               c  The percentage of a commarcial boanhle portol io
rduced throuh *idespred                         rquired to be In auch loa   as no aDre thn 17.53.
esonttion. *seetions and tea             7. For ousing aortahen:
credits.                                     a. Applicable only to old, float g rate, mirtgage  for
d. Nae nvetnte have been in effect                 principal residance below a price ceiling.
retrictd throgh the requireant               b. The initial interet rate for such mirtgages ao 1n.
that  P      tu   be obtained n                 and the Covarnant *ill provide an eapi icit subsidy
ordr to quality for preferential                out of the budget to the financial Institution to
e     to foregn echange. tariff                 cover at lest half of the diffofrenc  bewen thi;
protection, credit. tax incentives,             rate and the cat of fund.
and other preferonces.                   S. The Ooverant has etted that it toal is to p          out
thea  special Intervention  on agriculturl and hoasing
interest rates.
Tax Reform
9. The Corneat hea announe  ;to intntion to underteke a
_jor reform of the tat system in 1990 with the goa of
a _jor Simplification of the SWteo.
10. StudIe  hav  bee  initiated on the 4deign of the tea
refor. Ure Of a value-added tea *;il be considered.
__.eaetRsricAn                                                                                                                                        (I
11. The RIPI inveatment licensing hs bhen eliminated. 
12. The aovrneant has confiroad that psirite ;nneeteent.                                                                                                   0
forign as  nell es doaeet;eo I; unretricted en to                                                      4. Stdfaetoy prore  on tow reor m
aectMr. with the eacepteOm of petrole_ and iron ore,                                                       std; is.



Acttio  to b Token Prior             Cend :tion.   for Secand Trnch. or Dat  Ctoment.
Policy lsue/Mjectivee                                       AcCton. Already Taltn                              to Lon fiffectivetee                 (Specific Legal Conditipno for Sed trench.
Releaso marked with an a  >
III. Efficency of Public EterpriEes  (Pro)           Prleins
1. Veezuelan PEs and uti I itie. r4erte In      S. The Covern_nt has stated ,tt sedium-term goa  IS tfo use       1. Sydte  of chares for                   1  Ratsepri es of a*eh pottoleu  product
a price environment which often deisitom        ba_ic economie principles for the pricing of goods                teleonncttilons  ervice  to be              e so to be in mccordsne  with a plmo
eherply from tre economic COts.                  produced by the pubilc  asetor:                                  reformd, withS e vorw       rose in         satlt ectory to th, borrowr and the
AlthSoth  my PE. are meae rlally                 a. Per tradmebl* good*, domestic prieso wi ll rfloet             revenu_ of at Ieast SSt.                    Wlk.
opwhitctmetd. the re_tst io en                      orld prices (i.. the *port opportanity cot).             2. FartiliIr prices carged the farmer   2. Atjust ferti liter prices so that  oth
economically ineff;cient Symtem.                 b. For non-trrdeablt goods, coomic efficierny prices             to be roised to at leat 403 of              Price to the farmer is In accordance
*itl be  sed (i.o. leont-run merginal eest - LECw tl          seport opportunity ct                        ith a pi n satisfactory to the borower
adjusted tor financial  eIf-sfficietney end otebr such    a. Final epproval to be grmntd to a            and the 9ank.
coneideratia).                                                reglamnto or deree which               3.. Price. of aluminum, iron ore. Stool, and
2. Agr_eeent on a time-p*ased progrms to reach osportt               rtecogalime ravluteon of the rate           petrochemical Products *rs St eaport
opportunity cost level  or dow eatic petroleum prices,           bas  for Inflation In the setting of       oportnity cost-
3.  Agreemnt on a ti_-ph_oed program to r-och  aport                 poert rte.                             4. St. afaectory Progress on 'LC stdie.
opportunity o t levels for fertilizsrs.
4.  Average domestic petroleum price. increased by ovsr OM,
6. Ptowr rats rasled by 30451. with mnthty adjustment  of
3-i   to be med. ovor the nest 1-2 years.
5. tXturst ge priesc doubled.
7. Pesticid. and insecticide  miill not be provided wy
direct or indirect subsidies.
0.  Initial edjustent. m_d. in Oh  Price. of' aluinunt, iron
o, stel. and petohemical products.
9.  lpwort control. to be  ifted on good  produced by  1, in
particular stsol, aluminm. and petrochemicals (this will
serus to cao Prices at world svels tplIs teriffS)
10. Actions underay to leprove  feo collctions at DMi
(mater and mareraga serv ic) end  IO  (traoh
collection).
11. Studie. of LEC initiated in a.  poer; b. naurat ge;
and  . t l._actions.
2. The role and operation of the FQV need       22. Cteprehonive review  of the  eorDtiono of the PIV in tho
to be reo-easi ned.                             rew econmic environment initiated.
13. The overnment has steted it will limit FIV net lendingt                                                 S. QV rv** completed.
to. end new eauity Subscriptions in  fi;ancial or non-
financiel  tato entrprisO to no more then  a. 24
billion in 1W8.
0t



Actio, to be T.4mm Prior                   Condittnte. for Second Trantd  or Datd Ceoneats
tblicy       Aj ction Alread  Taken                                                           to Lao  wfcte                              (Specific Lega  Conditione for Secoin  T _
Release esrk*d with an See)
Privuti;tion Rn Rcdtrueburino
S. The Stlte's role in the provision of        14.  Decision tube  to privatlet       4. A sastifactory privatization action plea bee been      C.  An initial *t of at least 10 Pb has been
umdfe"eice  mt be redfind. with                   S public bil ad S  _ceeut           prDred nd apprend, *ist ith ;ploItion                      aprovwd for divestiture by Inter-_hni;terlel
proureeive divestture of elected P_               cqenias.                            wo dbray. Spcific *te1 will Include;                          eiasion.
to reduc  te financial end  ngrial                                                    -  estebil;bmt of luter-e;isterial comieslon
bod"   co Davernalnt, ad to attract em                                                   to ow-Ablieh criteria to define whidc type  of      7.e At least S of the *ibov  lroup have been browit to
capitol.    g an  nd tehoil. into                                                       public _oee *iI1 be conidered for                       point of aule, ioe.. voluations and te or bid
Pb being Privatized.                                                                     privatization or liquidation nd to                       do_.antc conpsited.
r"ie lJprore restructWrin  wd prit" tion
propoeisl.
-  thical awking grop with prent
e_cetriat baa ben  eapinted to support
inter-oinieterial coaileaon.
-   coprhei;v  Invetr      po Al ic
enterprleee  alth key financial dat, ha bee
- in nitial group of 10 PbE ha been Identified
as c_adidatesfor privatization.
4. Th  ineitutioatl fras     governing         1S.  A review af toe
Pib  oeld be revieged, revised. to                iatltion.l  erranoeente                                                                    1. Coepletlon of revive, Including proPAed revisions
enaro Pb operate on a co_nrcial                   governinr Pb has been                                                                          to eisting leglf/inetitutionel orraeeante.
bee-s, *lth tedeute mangrial  ,tonomW             Initiated. covering ;n
ad accomtbeiIlity.                                 Lig rola/coepositlon of PF                                                                9.  A table gill be prepared of all Dovernaent
beurds of SIrector                                                                             finanial support in 19W. tiS end 1iS  to ach
S. Priority Pbi need to be retructured.              re-ponaib Ilties of                                                                             PE (including throg  buwdert transfere. low
ministrim;_; awto   Po:                                                                        guaranteee, arrears. etc.).
6. All Cornent fiapncial support to Pb               Pricing, _ilarieo.  teffing.
(transfer-. loan  urantees, oetc.)                poreCaent;  nd performance
ehould be trunearent sod bead on                   iteriange      ton.
approvd   orporat  PI lne, rructur tin
prapra_  or performe""  areeeete;  nd
finaciol diecipline in PE tran_nction
ehoid be rstored.
0
1*l
Ch



Actiem to be Tahu  Prior                   Caditlae  for Secod Treh,nd  or on" Ccwcnent.
F)lIo,   Me.jjecivem                        Astian  Alre.iy Tolhu,                            to  tm" Eeftivs_                           (Srecific Ltgl Conditie fowr Se_end T _.
Release marked with sn em,)
IV. iablic   _     _vem~nt Proritie s
Proemdures
1. The poblic lineent Prso  he* na"              .   e  om      t hue et*tei he.       1. AgreeAet h_ bee  reached en te t1ret level of           1.  A Gidol mesthnook ha. bee  lened by th
bee  revieWed a  the b_el of emdad             Principlee ki phibc  publc             public Investent in SM. gith jgub-talrget for                ministry of Planing an th  critrbi for th
ecnmmic criteria. reiting In the               Saatr" iveet..nte ore to be            InvbmI bit            Nonft_cial state                       reise of Pvbl i  iivetment projes  (bed in
nefficint u ef of pbIic re_mrrm.               evalbowtd. Th priaciples               enterprises  an  the redt of_the pubic meete                gsal on *comasic rats of return evafWatia).
s     oh" econoeic sod soclal    <      1... Omn    Governent. demn, 01  aDud as   ieo.,
rate of return criteria .11 to          ad  -bnk devlopment instZtiae).                       t.  Satiefecr  Prog    in public inve_at
_eneral be send in th*                                                                             re"vr.
evaluti*o of public lnvebomnt
projecft und with the ministry                                                                 .A horemeet. an target level. of pubilc inveet"e
of Pla_ln4 (CQ   PLMQ  end to                                                                      In I1,90  including suh-trgete, for P      iM. moi-
FIV to plaw lte rvloe  in                                                                          fnanchil state enerprie, end the reet of *t
mitrbn   the sw   s . I                                                                            pubIc sCtor.
R. C    lftl hue deelope  a
proven  to strengthe  its
meeeitir to evaluate investment
proeJcts thet ore tio be
coniered at the Cabinet
level.
S. A  hdule has boen  et to
eadartehe am" neehenive
review in loW of the public
uctr lnvesont pror   . With
World Bac  aaist ee.
ofl



Actioem to be Take" Ptior                  Cudi lons or Secd Trancbe or iited Ce.ento
plt Icy         eActio   Already Tabs                                                         to Los 8lati                               (Specific Ligal Co.ditioas for S.cc.d Trsob
*eleae mared wsitmh an ' *)
V.  i s iC Cniete
Fi_S_.Acont
1.   In oer d,o sew* ae  abI ble Cme.            1. The gvernment beo eted it           1. Stlect     aessent ts the              i_soo1c          1. * Oberoecom"ic #rauorle r_ming Costee t wit*
ewIrcint fOr tW refes  r4ras  th.              will hat te  is*ical deficit           f 1awsu    to csr_itest *lto the objectives of to            the objective. of tiWe     t      r_a.
Projected ceneldsted pubili sectr              to 1419 of the  usst listed            adjeustmet progrm.
fisa$l a*own" mat be cumsietm   with           publIc sector to no Cre toss                                                                   2.  149 fiscal targetst ceb *'
empected inflaticn, 4fP geco   ad              d of oP.
Its-belI sd estensl proje                                                                                                                    8.          at    190 bdt          ,eA.
bo_roime level,                             2. A decgo has been _   astd _ hio
redoces to. pessibllitv of
-aeptim  to Isted biddies
pratices In publi scbo
prowreset.
2.    O eucoe of the refo.  pro_ess vil          8. A feaible esdia-te externl    2. Stisfctory p_ror   i; dieu*lem;  it to                       4.  Stipefatory progooms o fina"sc   plva,
depe_d us receiving sieqate atrtel             financing pbgn be bee                  banke en finescisl _apport.                                  Including developIest of * specific prog    for
finascial speport.                             prpred that is cussistet                                                                            1990 financing need.
*itkh scrolocurAneNWiad   h         8. A  _t    l  binlti. toef the fse il  etof
t*rgets.                                st.bli;      aim  us it1;  Sftbiliaatio  FnP   h;ch   8.  Co"letion of study of Oil Stbihintlos Fund.
amid absrb exces revue  in peiods of higbh
4. Arement  n a progam  to                oil price, to be util Ied In perie6of low
etrengtbe  the  Overasest'.            price.
cpcity for external debt
_sassesn,  incluWig the
esnitoring of tlo public
seo~,r's external fiancial
obligsien Cam. for
suppliers' credits). toe
projectien of fetre nee, sod
the evaluation of altertiwv
berrering lnstruestc.
14
C
'II



ANNEX VI
Page 1 of 8
VEEZUEL
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMT LOAN
Poverty Alleviation Meaaureo
General
1.        The Government has stated that the primary objective of the social programs
in the economic reform program is to cushion the poor from the effects of the
adjustments the economy must undergo to achieve sustainable, long-term growth. For
1989, the SAL program entails substantial shifts In the structure and incidence of
direct subsidies, as well as In social sector management and public spending more
generally. The Hinister of Social Affairs has been appointed to head a council which
vill oversee the design, lmplementation, and monitoring of these programs.
Assistance in this design work is provided under the SAL. and, In addition, work Is
underway to prepare an investment project to support the development particularly of
social program targeted to the most vulnerable social groups.
2.       The programs proposed in the Government's adjustment program, taken
together, represent a significant increase over prevLous years both In the amount of
fiscal resources and the share of CDP devoted to social spending. Social programs
accounted for 2S of GDP In 19686 proposed program for 1989 will reach 3.7Z.
Further, indirect price subsidies and exchange rate subsidlis totalled Bs. 14,940
mllion, or 1.7S of GDP in 1988. Taking Into account the exchange subsidies
eliminated as a result of exchange rate unification, the overall cost of lndLrect
subsidies is expected to decline to less than 1.61 of GDP. Direct transfer social
program (school lunch, day care progrm and the like) are projected to jump from
0.2S to 0.91 of GDP. Some additional subsidies are relevant to social sector policy.
Notably, Interest rate subsidies for home mortgages, proposed to buffer the effects
of removing the ceiling on lnterest rates, might cost the Government about BS. 5
billion, vith virtually all of the subsidy going to the middle and lower-middle
Income classes. Rural housing construction for low-income families will continue to
be subsidized with a preferential Interest rate, but cost estimates are not yet
available.
3.       in the ehort term, the goal of social programs is to make the higher
producer prices that will result from exchange rate readjustment compatible with
maintaining the purchasing power of the poor for basic goods. It is important tsat
these programs not be used primarily to protect domestic producers from changes in
relative prices. Specific programs (technologlcal assistance, debt relief) to
alleviate the costs of adjustments in sectors of comparative advantage may be
reasonable to consider, but should not be seen as components of a soclal program. To
protect the purchasing power of the poor, the Government can use direct or indirect
subsdies. On grounds of equity and efficiency, direct subsidies through social



ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 8
programs, targeted to the poor are far preferable. Nevertheless, the administrative
complexity of implementing direct subsidies may well justify maintaining indirect
subsidies, which are administratively easier, as a transitory measure.
4.       The social programs under the SAL are viewed primarily as the initial phase
of a long term effort to ameliorate poverty and to develop the human resources of
Venezuela. Because such programs have so far been poorly targeted, they have been
largely ineffective in reaching Venezuela's poor and in many cases have benefitted
the rich. A cost-effective and sustainable long-term system of assistance is thus
required.
5.       Within the ambit of the medium term social programs, the focus would be on
four specific areas: health, nutrition, education, and housing.
6.       In nutrition and primary health, increasing the coverage, improving
targeting, and increasing the efficiency of services are of paramount importance.
The combination of a broad, well-designed, health and nutrition network has been
found in comparable developing nations to have the highest Impact of any soclal
program on reducing infant mortality and malnourishment. The current coverage of
primary health care for high-risk groups in Venezuela ls extremely low; a large and
rapid expansion Is vital if the natLon is to redress Its deteriorating social
Indicators   In this effort, nutritional program  for pregnant woen and Infants In
poor areas should be the primary mechanism to reach those most at risk. Poor
childten from three to five years of age, though not as vulnerable as Infants, should
also receive state assistance through informal pre-school care such as offered by the
program of hosares de cuidado diario. Informal educational systems could play an
imortant role in targeting children most in need, since the formal pre-school system
is very limlted in size and affects few poor children.
7.       Besides programs for high-risk age groups, Venzuela also plans to put In
place a broad program to limrove the nutritional status of poor famiies. It is In
thLs context that the reforms and reductions In idirect food subsidies have been
designed, and work has started to develop a targeted food stamp program deslgned to
supplement the purchasing power of the poor. Food stamps, which have been
successfully used In many other countries, are cost-effective, since they directly
augmeat the income of the poor and help esure that the supplement is spent on food.
General price subsidies, by contrast, benefit most those groups that consume the most
of the subsidized goods. Since the rich, by vlrtue of their higher incomes, spend
more on most food item than the poor, they are often the prlamry beneficiaries of
prlce subsidies. A food stamp system, once In place, could be relatively easy to
admlnister. Stmps are distributed to low-income families, who use them to purchase
specified food Item In regular. stores. Nerchants may then cash the coupons at a
bank or. use them to pay whpoleglers.
S.       The Government plans to promote the development of differentiated products
consumed mainly by the poor, for which some subsidies would be maintained.
Mechanism  for this program are being worked out but would likely Include contracts
with the private sector to distribute such goods only in stores serving poor areas.
This kind of program has been effective in other nations, notably Brazil.
.9.       State lnvolvement In education In Venesuila is highly: regressive. An undue
share of public resources expended subsidie uilversities, while pre-schools In poor
areas are underfunded. Consequently, the quallty of elementary education for the
poor, already low, Is declining. We have recommended that the Government reallocate



ANNEX VI
Page 3 of 8
funds away from universities and toward pre-school and elementary education. The
well-off should be expected to pay at least part of the cost of university education.
thus freeing up resources to establish scholarships for the poor.
10.      Public involvement in housing has done little to improve income
distribution. Too much of the money expended redounds to the benefit of upper and
middle income groups but fails to improve the housing conditions of the poor. A
system of direct subsidies by which the poorest families would receive vouchers to
underwrite part of the down payment on a home, thus encouraging private sector
investment in supply housing to poor areas, is under consideration.
11.      To maximize the effectiveness of social program* In helping the poor,
programs are to be formulated and evaluated in accordance with the following
criteria:
(1)  DeRree of targetings  To vhat extent does the program target
low-income groups who face the greatest difficulties In meeting
basic needs;
(2) Annrooriateness: To what extent does the program satisfy the
critical needs of those families it serves;
(3) Economic EfflcLency: Subsidies that affect relative prices of
inputs, credit, or other production factors have adverse effects on
efficiency and resource uset and
(4) Administrative cost and likelihood of corruption: The
administration of the program should be conducive to simple
and efficLent program management.
Proposed roAram
(a) Indlrect price subsldles to basic basket of cocditles
12.      The Government intends to continue to control the prices of what lt has
defined as a basic bundle of up to 25 products. These Includes wheat meal (for
consumer and Industrial use), pastas, rice, pre-cooked corn meal, canned sardines,
concentrated foed for animals, poultry, eggs, mixed vegetable oll, urban and Inter-
urban transportation, essential medt.ne s, white cheese, Infant fornula, pork, and
toilet paper (34 and 4th qualities). Indirect subsidies have been eliminated for all
basic goods except for milk, a one-time subsidy for sugar, and fertiliters. Since the
Government just announced the elimination of subsidies, the total resources allocated
for the basic basket subsidy amount of B6. 14.8 billion is being revise4 downward,
with the difference to be applied to finance the direct subsidy program (see below).
A further sum of up to Is. 6.5 bllion has been earmarked for fertilizer subsidies.
The most Important Issue is to ensure that food price controls are applied to foods
of hlgh calorie content consumed mainly by the poor. Government proposes, to continue
subsidizing the followings
(a)  Powdered milks  Two kinds of powdered mLlk have been tsold under subsidy:
Inexpensive milk In generic packages and brand-name milk. Assuming that
505 of total consumption is supplied domestically, the unsubsLdited price.
of each would increase substantially: 2431 for brand-ame milk and 6712
for inexpesive milk. Meavy subsidization of high fat content mLlk has



ANNEX VI
Page 4 of 8
promoted inappropriate uses of the product, including the widespread use of
subsidized milk for cheese production and smuggling to Colombia. Because
of the similarity between the two types, high-income groups consume a
significant proportion of the inexpensive brand. OCEI surveys indicate
that the top 302 of the population consumes almost 362 of all inexpensive
powdered milk. It would be preferable to import and subsidize powdered
skim milk, combining this milk with soybean milk produces a differentiated
product of high nutritional quality more easily targetable to the poor.
(b) The Government recently provided a one-time subsidy for high grade sugar
and does not plan to continue subsidizing this product.
13.      The Government also aims to improve the distribution of agricultural
products in poor areas, by promoting the development of private retail facilities and
itinerant fresh produce markets. In addition, for the targeted, differentiated
products discussed above, agreements with private producers to distribute such
products primarily in poorer areas might be explored. Packaged goods could be
stamped for distribution only in specified areas, facilitating monitoring and
enforcement.
14.      Fertilizers:  A related issue is fertilizer subsidies.  The heavy
subsidization of fertilizers has promoted vast overuse for agricultural production
and the extension of agriculture onto unproductive and unsuitable lands. In some
cases, sucl. as corn, the cost of the resources applied to developing such marginal
operations is higher than the saving in foreign currency valued at their scarcity
price. This program has also promoted heavy smuggling to neighboring countries,
where the price is several times what it is in Venezuela. Subsidies should therefore
be phased out as quickly as possible, devoting part of the resources instead to more
productive research and irrigation development programs for agriculture. The
domestic price of fertilizers should be linked to international prices of these
inputs, establishing a clear calendar to make the two equivalent. For 1989, the
Government intends to limit the subsidy to 502 of the export opportunity cost. This
would mean that the average price of fertilizer should reach Bs. 3500-4000 per metric
ton, a 4002 increase over 1988 prices. Agricultural production should benefit from
having rational trade policies with a realistic exchange rate. Output prices should
be geared to international prices, which will imply significant price increases and
thus boost production in those sectors in which Venezuela has a comparative
advantage. Protection from sharply fluctuating world prices can be accomplished with
a variable tariff; protection from dumping can be accomplished with a specific
tariff.
(b) Direct social assistance programs
15.      Food grant program (Programa de Beca Alimentaria):  Under this program,
direct grants (either cash grants or food voichers), will be provided to families
with school-age children in low-income areas. Eligible heads of households will
receive Bs. 500 monthly for each child in pre-s-hool and elementary school. The
selection of target schools will be made on the basis of "poverty maps' identifying
the low-income areas throughout Venezuela. The program will be administered through
three commissions, one each at the national, regional and local level, with the local
association taking the lead in the selection of beneficiaries and directly
supervising the program.



ANNEX VI
Page 5 of 8
16.      Depending on the speed with which the direct subsidy programs described
below are developed or expanded, the Government plans to shift additional resources
from this program to programs providing primary health care and nutritional
supplements directly to poor and vulnerable groups.
17.      The Ministry of Labor and Social Development plans to implement this program
in two phases, with the first phase to cover ten states during the program's first
eight months of implementatlon (June 1989 - January, 1990). During the second phase
(January - July, 1990), the program will be extended to the remaLning thirtecen
states. The Program's first phase would affect 750,000 children between the ages of
4 and 12, or 432 of the children estimated to be eligible for such a program nation-
wide. During the second phase, it is expected that 921,400 additional children ages
4 - 12 will benefit from the grant program, or 491 of the children eligible for such
assistance in the remaining thirteen states.
i1.      The program budget for the first eight months of operation Is Is. 6.2
billion, or around 60? of the additional budget expenditires proposed for direct
social programs.
19.      Maternallinfant oroarams  The development of joint nutritionatihealth care
programs to serve the highest-risk population is crucial to reducing the growing
infant mortality rats. For thls reason, Increasing maternallinfant program coverage
is among the most important steps the Government can take In alleviating the effects
of poverty.  Tying the provision of food to preventive care has been found to
Increase the Incentive for the poor to seek preventive care. The Government is
proposing various direct nutritional transfer programs to reach prepant and nursing
w_-'sn, infants (children under 1 year old), preoschool children, and school children.
rt: pregnant and nursing woman and Infants, an expanded primary health care program
has been proposed through the primary health care system. Under the proposed
maternallinfant program, the Government Intends to Increase the coverage of prognant
women from lts current level of 103,000 to 362,000 and expand coverage to reach
277,000 Infants.
20.      The jmmdlate Issue In the implementation of the mother/childcare program
is the pace at which the Govrnmet can Increase coverage efficiently. Major efforts
are requlred In the first Instance to improve the preventive primary health care
system. Health care centers are not appropriately distributed. In many poor
neighborhoods, residents must expend valuable time travelling long distances to the
nearest center. The quality of service is low, and essential medicines scarce.
Faced with these circustances, the poor largely bypass theis centers for care in
hospitals, whose maintenance and operations are considerably more expensive from a
budget standpoint.
21.      Several steps could be taken limediately to lmprove the quality of baisc
health services and make them more accessible to lower-income groups   First, a
dLfferentl*l wage scheme, should be considered for medical and paramedical' staff to
encourage the reallocation of such professionals toward poorer areas. Essentlal
medicines shoutd bo available for free or for a low cost to the poor to, uooint
demand for health care away from hospLtals. A study will be undertaken of the
geographical placement of centers to ensure optimum access for the poor. The
development of new health care prograis needs to be closely coordinated by the lead
Labor and SOcial Development Ministry (Trabajo y D earrollo SocLal), the National
InstitutLon for Nutrition (NMeLonal de Nuttricif) which li reponsible for supplying
nutritional supplements, and the Ministry of Health.



ANNEX VI
Page 6 of 8
22.      Community-based dav care centersu  Among the Government's new poverty
alkeviation initiatives is an innovative program that combines the goals of
supplemental feeding. day care for poor children, and community education and
development. This program, called hopares de cuidado diario, currently comprises
1700 day care centers run by the Children's Foundation, a non-governmental
organization (Fundaci6n del Nino) and the Ministty of the Family (Ministerio de la
Familia) and attends to more than 9000 children. The program's objective is to
employ low-wage mothers in their own homes to care for 10 to 12 children. The
Government provides a subsidized loan to equip the hmes for day care and donates
toys and other necessary materials. The budgetary cost of this program is between
one-fifth and one-third of other more formal day care centers or traditional pre-
school education. A parent comunmity group, formed to supervise the hogares,
receives a transfer from the state and arranges, In a decentralized manner, for the
provision of meals to the children; often, other local women prepare the meals. The
expansion of program coverage is expected to give rise to lncome-generating
activities in many poor comunities. Members of such communnities will engage in
producing bread, arepas, chairs and mattresses for the centers, as well as
construction to upgrade and equip homes that will sem as hogayes. The Government
is planning to reach 72.000 children in 1989 at a cost of .. 900 million, and then
steadily to Increase coverage to reach half a million children by 1993. Although
this is an ambitious schedule, neighboring Colombia has managed to expand a similar
program from 120,000 to 500,000 children In three years.
23.      Ultimately, day care centers should play a central role in poverty
allevlation. Besides the nutritional beneflt they provide to children and the
creation of employment opportunities for the poor, day care centers help free up the
time of poor women, whose advancement and empowerment have been found to be integral
elements of development. The success of such centers is of such priority that the
Government, even as it hastens to expand them, should take the utmost care that they
are well-designed and administratively workable.
26.      s the coverage of nutritional programs for poor children under fopr is
extremely low, under the proposed program, day care centers will continue and expand
the provision of nutrition requireenat for low-income children. In this program,
for each 10 children covered by a day care center, 20 more will depend on the center
for autritional supplemnts. In addition, home care centers for half a day will
begin to operate, where children will also receli basic nutritional supplements.
Pre-school children remaiiung In their ovn homs will also be provided with basic
nutrients.
25.      Although the expanded dAy care system ls projected to reach at least 50,000
addltional low-Income children; there ay be limitations in the long run on potential
coverate for children one to two years of age. Experience in Colombia suggests that,
despite an extensive day care system, coverage of this critical age group is
extremely low. At this age, the licdence of malnutrition and mortality remains
high.  For these reasons, the maternall nfant nutritional supplement and health
program for children between one and two years will help ensure comprehensive
coverage of this vulnerable age group.



AtiUJX VI
Page 7 of 8
26.      Pre-school and school lunch program (Programa de Alimentos Escolares)i Thls
program currently provides school lunches, a milk/soymilk product (lactovisoy), and
milk to pre-school and school children in low-income areas. The proposed expanded
program will focus on increasing the nutritional supplements provided to pre-school
and elementary school children lo S0? of their daily nutritional requirements. This
will be done by increasing the nutritional supplements currently provided to include
a corn-flour biscuit (arepa). one fruit and a greater portion of the milklsoymilk
combination. One proposal under consideration is to contract with local women or
bakeries to provide fresh arepas to the schools daily. The existing program that
provides only milk (Programa de Vaso de Leche) vill be revamped so that children
receive solid nutrients for school lunches, thus receiving at least one nutritionally
substantive meal daily.
27.      The program's organization and administration will benefit from the recent
integration of the National Institute of Nutrition into the Hinistry of Labor and
Social Development, since INN currently manages several nutritional programs which
will be redesigned or expanded to target low-income school children more directly.
28.      This program Is scheduled to begin with the next school year, in September
1989. Together with the food scholarship program described above, this program will
cover 45? of all school-children in low-income areas at the national level.
29.      The program is budgeted at Is. 711 million, or around 6S of the proposed
additional budget for direct social programs.
(c) Program for Infrastructural development of barrios
30.      A broad program to improve the quality of basic-services in the barrios has
been proposed by the labor ministry. This program will include the provision of
water, sewer services, road paving and other aspects of urban development in 300
barrios In 1989 at a cost of Bs. 3'billion.  The min impact of this program will be
to improve health and sanitation conditions for poor famLlies, and it will also
create substantial employment In poor neighborhoods. This type of activity,brings
high social return and is especially suitable as a counter-cyclical measure during a
period of adjustmeat. In Bolivia, Chile, and other countries, the extensive
development of public works In the barrios vas essential to averting starvation
during adjustment. We strongly recomend that the Government devise and lmplement a
comprehensive program of highly labor-intensive projects In rural areas and urban
barrios.
31.      Another proposed program is housing upgrading in tbe barrios (remodelaci6n
de vivienda). Under such a program, the Government grants a subsidized loan of up to
Bs. 30,000 per family for housing Improvement. The loan must be repaid within three
yeares.families can hire the work of small enterprises created in their community or
use their own labor. This is a very efficient program to improve housing conditions
for the poor, and should be encouraged.
32.      A third type of program proposed for the barrios is the constructLon of
community civic centets to provide health care units, educational facillties, police
services, post offices, telephones, and the like. Each center costs roughly Is. 8
:million and can serve a community of 20,000 people. The ptiority of developing this
type of infrastructure at the speed proposed by the Government (40 each year for flve
years) needs to be examined. If the main objective were to provide health service99
the progtam could be easily justifled as a meas of Increasing the coverage of the
primary nutrition and health system. However, the other myriad purposes of the



AN4NEX VI
Page 8 of a
centers lead to additional complexity and delays, and are not as urgent as improving
the condition of basic family housing and basic services. Employment generated by
construction of such centers would be less labor-intensive than that required for
housing upgrading.
(d) Micro-enterprise development
33.      The Government has proposed a Guarantee Fund to promote the creation and
development of micro-enterprises in poor areas. The informal sector of the economy,
and even small and medium firms, faces considerable difficulty in acquiring credit
through the formal banking system. Strong informational asymuetries and high
administrative costs, especially in an environment of interest rate ceilings, make it
unprofitable for comercial banks to lend to this sector. For that reason, a
subsidiary role of the state in this area could be justified.



ANNWX VUl
Page 1 of 17
VENEZUELA - STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
SUPPORT FOR IMPLEMENTAT'-ON 0F POLICY REFORMS
1.       This Annex summarizes elements of the structural adjustment
program which focus specifically on the implementation of proposed
measures. Specific measures have been designed to assist the Government
carry out proposed policy changes in the five program areas: (a) poverty
alleviation and the design of effective social programs; (b) establishment
of a competitive environment, including tax reform; (c) public enterprise
efficiency; td) public investment priorities and procedures; and (e)
external debt management. The implementation component of the SAt. includes
provisions to finance technical assistance (including equipment and
training), to undertake specific studies related to proposed policy
changes, and to manage the process of policy review and implementation.
Specific technical assistance proposals are summarized in Table 1, and the
implementatLon schedule, attached as Table 2. Also attached are terms of
reference for several of the most urgent study needs.
I. Poverty Alleviation
2.       To mitigate the negative short-term social effects of adjustment
measures, and to put in place a sustainable long-term system of social
assistance, the Government intends to establish more effective and better
run social programs, particularly in the areas of nutrition, mother-child
health, and upgrading of the barrios. The Government currently has limited
capability to design, analyze, and monitor programs in the social sectors.
Funds under the Loan would assist the Government to analyze various
alternatives in the development of social programs, design new programs
directly targetted to the poorest social groups, and monitor the impact of
these programs, and more broadly, the effects of structural adjustment
measures. Specifically, assistance is planned to design the proposed food
stamps program, and to expand mother-child feeding programs for pregnapt
and lactating mothers and nutrition programs for day care centers and
primary school children. The indirect subsidy programs and low-income
housing programs will be redesigned to better target the lowest income
groups.
3.       The immediate impact of adjustment will make interim short-term
measures in the social sectors imperative. Of paramount concern in this
phase are the health and nutrition of the poor, notably children between 0
and 2 years of age, who are not now served by any Government program.
Immediate assistance will be provided to the Government on how best to
reach the most vulnerable population quickly, particularly, to help the
Government identify, and develop rapidly, a system to distribute the
medicines and nutritional supplements most needed by the poor. The
Government is also already developing a temporary system  to registet poor



AMOE VII
Page 2 of 17
families to receive food stamps or income supplements. Although this
initial registration will probably cover a broad sector of the low-income
population, it will be far better targeted than the current indirect
subsidies, and will serve as a pilot program for a more comprehensive
assistance program for the poor. In addition, assistance will be provided
to the Government to design programs through which poor children in schools
will be provided with considerably more hot meals or snacks. As a first
step, the Government is currently exploring the feasibility of auctioning
off concessions to private firms to prepare hot food and serve the food in
specified schools.
4.       It will not be possible in the short run to dismantle the
extensive, elaborate system of indirect food subsidies. The Government
does intend, however, to improve their targeting to the poor in three ways:
(a) by limiting the goods subsidized to these that are consumed intensively
by the poor and redress fundamental nutritional deficiencies; (b) by
developing, with the private sector, differentiated inferior products to be
marketed solely in poor areas at subsidized prices; and (c) by eliminating
or severely reducing subsidies on inputs, especially concentrated animal
feed. These steps will both increase the purchasing power of the poor well
beyond current levels and improve their nutritional intake; Assistance will
be provided under the loan to help Government analyze and select among
various options the best alternative for meeting the distributional
objectives.
5.       Over the medium-term, more fundamental changes will be possible.
The Government intends to begin by building a much stronger institutional
framework for its social programs. Social policy analysis would be
coordinated by a new group being established in the Ministry of Labor and
Social Development; the group will report directly to the Mlinister, who is
currently responsible for the Government's overall social program. OCEI,
the Government's statistical office, has been designated as the responslble
entity for monitoring the impact of adjustment, and more specifically, of
the social programs introduced as part of the structural adjustment effort.
OCEI has conducted large quarterly nutrition and household surveys for.
several years; with minimal assistance, the surveys could be modified to
provide more useful and timely information to policy makers.
It. Establishment of a competitive environment
6.       With improvement in public resource management a key element in
the Government's structural adjustment program, reform of the tax system
will be vltal not only to enable the Government to increase revenues in the
medium term, but more importantly to establish a more rational and
economically neutral tax system. Currently, almost 70? of tax revenues
come from oil production and sales; a complex system of exemptions,
exonerations, and credits for individual and corporate taxpayers has
enabled most eligible taxpayers to avoid paying taxes for the last decade,
and tax administration is so poor that even the relatively small percentage
of individual and corporate taxpayer income that is subject to taxation is



ANE VII
Page 3 of 17
not effectively monitored. Rationalization of the system will imply a
change to a system with a broader tax base, diversification away from the
current system's dependence on taxation of oil, and a simplification of the
extremely burdensome and practically ineffective tax administration system.
7.       To establish the basis for a competitive economic environment and
to improve public resource management, the Government is studying various
alternatives for reform of the tax system. Specific proposals include
simplification of the personal and corporate income tax regimes, and the
possible introduction of a value-added tax. To simplify the corporate and
individual tax systems, the Government is considering the following
proposed changess for the corporate income tax, a lowering of the top
marginal rates to improve compliance; elimination of the system of
corporate consolidation, whereby companies can still derive substantial
benefits from corporate fragmentation; and, application of a comprehensive
inflation adjustment to corporate taxes. For the individual income tax,
changes that the Government is considering to simplify the system includes
a) changes in the top marginal rate to improve compliance; b) elimination
of a plethora of deductions in favor of a standard, flat deduction;
c) exemption of dividends from income tax; d) introduction of inflation
adjustments; and e) determination of new filing and whithilding threebholds
to reduce the number of filing taxpayers and improve monitoring and control
of eligible taxpayers. The Government is also evaluating the need for the
eventual introduction of a value-added tax for goods and services.
Discussions on this are still preliminary, and much work remains to be done
to determine the Government's revenue needs in the medium term, and,
accordingly, the most appropriate VAT rate.
S.       To begin work on the tax reform, the Government has established a
technical group within the Ministry of Finance to assist in defining
required changes in the tax system, and take the lead in implementing new
tax Instruments and tax administration procedures, as well as in drafting
the necessary tax legislation. Assistance will be needed to analyze
changes needed to simplify the personal and corporate income tax regime in
order to increase taxpayer compliance; assistance will also be required to
determine the need for and scope of a value-added tax, and begin
implementation. In addition, consultants will be needed to assist the
technical group in calculating inflation adjustments for taxes. Funds
provided through the Loan would also allow the Finance Ministry to purchase
sorely needed computer equipment for performing the above analyses, and to
improve tax administration and monitoring.
III. Efficiency of Public Entergrises and Pricing Policy
9.       The Government it committed to reforming the burdensome public
enterprise sector. The G,overnment has formulated a clear strategy of
rationalizing the public sector, which includes not only privatization but
also enterprise reform. The Government plans to establish an Inter-
Ministerial.Commission, and an associated Technical Working Group, to lead
the privatization and restructuring program. Efforts are already underway
to prepare an inventory of enterprises and holdings, to update the



ANNEX VII
Page 4 of 17
financial and operating data on enterprises, and to collect corporate
plans. During the SAL implementation period the government intends to
select ten enterprises for privatization and to bring five of them to the
point of sale.
10.      Local and foreign funds have been provided under the SAL to assist
the Government in implementing its privatization program. There is
significant expertise available locally to assist the government and the
implementing agencies in preparing the enterprises for sale by carrying out
financial analysis and projections, enterprise and asset valuation, market
analysis, and enterprise sale (see detailed 'Checklist for Implementation
Attachment 2). In certain circumstances, such as hotel valuation, foreign
expertise may be required and funds have been provided for that purpose.
Given the current difficult investment climate, it is anticipated that the
privatization program will be implemented over a number of years.
11.      A parallel effort is being launched to reform and restructure
those enterprises remaining in the public sector. An important initial
step is a comprehensive review of the legal and institutional framework
governing enterprises. Funds are available under the SAL to assist the
Government in this effort. Diagnostic reviews of some enterprises are
already underway. Additional assistance may be required to help prepare a
more comprehensive program of public enterprise restructuring. Contingency
funds are provided for this purpose.
12.      Another major area of reform supported by the SAL is pricing
policy for Venezuelan public enterprises and utilities. Although pricing
for tradable goods can be based on the export opportunity costs,
calculating prices based on principles of economic efficiency such as
Long-Run Marginal Cost requires sophisticated analysis. In order to assist
the Government in adjusting these prices, assistance will be provided in
refinement of the methodological tools and base information required to
implement fully the new pricing policy, with an initial focus on services
in telecommunications, power, and natural gas.
IV. Public Investment Priorities
13.      Despite the increasing need to analyze and budget scarce
Government resources carefully, there is currently no effective public
invesment programming system. There is also no overall macroeconomic
framework to define broadly the parameters for investment and no
development plan setting out specific priorities against which public
investment decisions. To the extent that investment proposals are analyzed,
the methodology and criteria used for the selection of projects by sector
ministries and public enterprises are not consistent and generally favor
lager investments with little consideration given to economic and social
rates of return.
14.      Implementation assistance for public investment planning isi;meant
to help CORDIPLAN to develop the overall strategy for public investment as
well as to design the analytical tools necessary to evaluate public



ANNEX VII
Page 5 of 17
investments. Funds will be included under the Loan to undertake, in
collaboration with the World Bank, a comprehensive review of the Public
Investment Program. In order to establish basic criteria for the
evaluation of proposed investments, assistance will be provided to redesign
the methodologies currently being used to evaluate investments (based on
economic rate of return criteria), and to train CORDIPLAN and sector
ministry staff in their application. Given the lack of coordination and
exchange of information within CORDIPLAN as well as between CORDIPLAN and
the central budget office (OCEPRE), a study will be undertaken to review
the existing system of PIP formulation and evaluate the possibility that
the two offices be merged. If such a merger is found to be recommended,
then funds would be available to help reorganize the ministry.   Also
included are funds to improve the computer information systems for project
financial monitoring, and to expand the data base for the formulation of
the investment program. This work will be done in collaboration with UNDP
and IDB.
V. External Debt Management
15.      There is an urgent need for the Government to improve its capacity
to generate complete and accurate data on its external debt situation.
Although the Economic Research Division in the Ministry of Finance is
currently able to produce reasonably accurate and timely external debt
data, there are delays in reporting and registration of incorrect debt
data. The Economic Research Division is also responsible for debt
statistics and economic analysis, but it does not currently perform the
kind of financial or economic analysis which could assist the Government in
defining debt management policies and establishing a solid analytical basis
for debt negotiations. In addition, as demands increase for the Government
to review and analyze alternative debt proposals submitted by commercial
banks, the division will need to improve its capacity to analyze different
debt proposals, including use of innovative instruments such as the
collateralization of oil revenues, interest swap schemes, etc.
16.      Before loan effectiveness, the World Bank will provide the
Ministry of Finance *ith direct assistance in reviewlng its external debt
registration system in detail. In addition, the newly-appointed managers
of the debt office in the finance Ministry attended the World Bank's recent
external debt conference, in which various proposals were presented to
establish effective debt registration and management systems in highly-
indebted countries. To improve the existing debt registration system and
strengthen the Finance Ministry's capacity for external debt analysis,
assistance will also be provided under the Loan both to update the Ministry
of Finance's external debt registration system, and to assist Ministry
staff in analyzing debt data and alternative debt proposals.
VII. Management of Implementation Support
17.      The implementation assistance component of the SAL will be
coordinated by a designated studies coordinator in CORDIPLAN, whose terms            4
of reference and scope of work have been agreed upon (attached). Each
respective agency would be reponsible for drafting terms of reference for
consultancies, for recruitment of consultants, and for supervising their
work. The adminlstrative support will be provided by a SAL monitoring unit



AMIM VI!
Page 6 of 17
established in CORDIPLAN. Given that this is the first Bank loan to be
implemented, the Venezuelan responsible for implementing the technical
assistance component will receive training in Bank procurement and
disbursement procedures. Draft terms of reference for several studies-
-especially those whose recommendations are critical for meeting
conditionalities under the SAL--have been prepared and discussed with Bank
staff. Technical assistance in key areas, notably design of social
programs and debt management support, is already underway.
May 18, 1989
:         +~~~~~~



Annex VII
TABLE 1:                                Page 7 of 17
TNATIVE TWICAL ASSISTANC  PROUA
Ce poneint/Study                                                Conogultento            Estimated Costs
(pesu- te  )                  CS)
Foreign    Local         Foreign    Local
A. Poverty Alleviatlon
1. Food Stamps                                                  5                       50000
2. M-C-H Feeding Program                                        6                        00O0
S. Day Car. Nutrition Progrm                                    5                       $OO
4. Sebool Lench Foding Program                                   S                      50000
B. Indirect Subsidy Programs                                    S                       30000
6. Low-Ineo  Hbuoing Progrme s                                                          5 0000
7. Public Servlce s t e Barrioe                                 5                        O00
S. Other policy suelysla                                         7                      ?0000
6. Asalotane to OC                                              6                       SOOOO
Subtotal                                                         43        0            450000        0
9. Tax Rtfore
1. Estabtlshmnt of a VAT                                       16        a            130000   15000
2. Reform of Corpora  Income Tax                                12        S            120000   1s00
S. Reform of Pere_ls Icrn Tax                                  12        S            120000   26000
Subtotal                                                         40       11            l70000   55000
C. Public Ente"rre PrlvatlzatioRteatruatUrlfPtriclog
1. Long-Ru  abrglnal Coot Pricing Studies                       6         a             00000   12000
2. Valuaia  lod reloted TA for privatizatiOn                    so       10      8      00000   10000
S. Revliw of lopl/lnatltutloal arr _ang w
for  ovrnm t/enterplis  rlons                                 2                      20000
Subtotal                                                         29        is           860000  112000
0. Public tnweemrn,t Pelorities
1. Formulation of De"eloPmn Plan                                2                       20000
2. Copecepi_  e Retvie  ot PIP                                  4         4             40000    6000
S. Red ssin mstbedolog he fee  el"WaIn  lnveatmoat              6                       60000
4. Training                                                     8         8             30000    S000
5. OCEPRE-VORDLPuN relationebip rot bdgst/IlnvetamC t            1                      10000
0. Design of compeutr Infostien system                           1        2             10000    4000
7. Other studies                                                 7        5             70000   10000
Subtotal                                                         24       14            240000   28000
E. Egternal Debt
1. DObt relstration                                                                     60000
2.  vluate debt propesals                                        a                      50000
Subtotl                                                         11                     180000
F. manegeent
1.   DPIPS                                                      *                      120000
2. COROWDIP   Coordination                                       .                      1600
Subtotal                                                                                18500
G. Fquipmsot                                                                             100000
TOTAL                                                            14U       41           180000  195000
TOTAL COST                                                                                       2000000
pcifled



Annex VII
Page 8 of 17
TABLE 2:
MM8                    t    CY1990
i!~:I!NTAIU * r *,   _                               _ 
Third / Fourth    First / Second J Third / Fourth
A. Poverty Allevitlion Studies
1. Design of Mother-Child Health Feeding
Program                                      X
2.  Deslgn of School Lunch Feeding Proram       X
(Porgrm for Pro-Scheol C Wrlden)
S.  Design of Fooi stamps Progra                 I       X
4.  Reiwt  and Analysis ot ndirect Subsidy
Progrs _                                  X       X          X       X                X
S.  Analysis of Low-Incose Homsing                       X          X
0.  ReVie  of Pubilc Servm  In Berries                   X          X       X        X       X
7.  Asstance to OCUt tntegrated household
Studies                                   K       K          I       I        K 
Activity
B. Esabilshmnt of Compeblttve LAvironimet
Tax Reform
1.  Possibe Inbrodlon  of Volvo-Added Tax
a. Deakroun Analysis to DOtemine NeW to
ntrodce VAT and Sop of Nw Tax             X       X
b. Analysis of Legal R.iremats to
Introduc VAT                                      X
a. Formlatlos of Draft Loglion for VAT                                    X
d. Discuslon aed Presentation of Ne VAT
Legtslation                                                          X
*. Begin Impl.mentstion of New Adunistra-
tivo System for VAT                                                           X
.   .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
2.  Refors of Indivil Corporate Income
Taxes.



Annex VII
Page 9 of .17
TABLE _2:
IMPLEM!AttaN S0!DUIA Con'td.
CYI98                     CY1990
_____w__* u s f  * r t r s-
Thlrd   fou,*    First  Sosond / Third / Fourth
Conuonent
a. Individual losses Tax
I) Analys Variou Opinion tO StwletY
Individual Ineo_ Ta tnoludilngs
-Introduction ot Standrd Deduction
.Reduction of Top Marginal Rates
-Scoadl Ing of Tea Baw by Eliminating
Eapti an Exoerstions                          X
tl) introdue Intlateon AdjubtmeL..                  X
111) Oratt Legialatlor to Introeuc Stablp-
teld Individual ImS _  Tax                                 X
IV) oliouion VWnd Presentation ot New
Inividual Incom_  Legislation  lon
with Propod VAT                                                 X
V) 1egIn Iplewentto of Sleptlitiled
Individual Income Tex                                                    X
b. Corp"ot eS_ Tea
i) Analys Opbloe to Siplilty Tax Droea&d
Bee, en ImSrov Ceelleas, I1nu-
Reductlon of Tau Marginal Rat
-axamptln of Dlvldunds troe Ince  Teax  X      X
11) Reted.o   tlation AdJmuatmt                     X
III) Draft Legislation to Introeduce Slapt-
tled Crporete Incomes Tax                                X
Iv) Diectons and Pre _teton ot Nm
Corporete tnc.m. Tax Leglslatlee.
.    togther wilth Proposd Legal Changs
Inoadid.aun. Ao, T x and VAT.                            X



Annex VII
Page 10 of 17
TABLE 2:
IwiiAinoN SOE    Cost'd.
Cvi,..                   cXlio
Thlr/ Fourth    Fttr r    Soeond/ Third / Fourth
V) Bgnlo ImpleImetton ot Stoplitiod
Corporate Income To 
C. PrIvtl_tIzlonolubtle Entoroiso Rotormprlclis
(ses detaled tmpleatotloe ochledle, attache)
1.  Proprotloe ot Prlvalitto. Project         X       X
a. Nview t ofsl/Zmstitutioal Framework      x
2.  Selotios ot terprlse tor Prlviatien              X         X
S.  Propertios oat lnterprise tor Sol,                          X 
a.  latlon                                          X         X
4.  Sale, of Enterprle                                                 K        X
S.  Prieleg Sdiso                             X       X                X
D  Pubi c Inweetmt Priorittee
1.  Formulotte ot 0ovolo _ ePlan                      X         X
2.  C_eup.    Ivo wlow ot PV                         X         X
8.  RedesIgn Uethod4l.gloo tor Evalugting
4.  Tralinig ot CW&UIl Staff In Scoaeals
Eva lutios f1mtkd.l                            K         X
S.   aspslee Of Projet ote SA
(Sauc.de Propoote)                     X       X         X       X
6.  Stud of Iblattehlp Slb_os   1 ej
Zeotom et"Prrtmg (OCW /
C* UWN)                                X



Annex VII
Page 11 of 17
TA1BLE 2:
IPlEMENTATON sCHIML Cont'd.
_ _ _ _ _                 C VI". _
_----q a a r te r _
Third / Four"h    First / Second/ Third / Fourth
7.  1p_nmatetion of Ru.moaodltooa of
above St.ly                                     X         X
S.     eip. of Epaneud Do" Syetm                                 X
Activity
E. U.PI.eoI 1. Eat.ntat De Registration
. trugtb.o Etosl Deb Ikeeletubleon
8*t. Isolz lo di. R
a. Review and Cres.-Cet.ekla Deft for Re-
Supiter* Credtt; Bilateral and Multi-
l1tere Creilt                          X
b. mprevmst In Det 11"Rporting Systass by
Pubic Retities to plome. uletrp                   K         X
2.  Analysis VW projection of Fuure
Flemning Nee"                           X
lor _sto  eA Ivselutlo. of Dt
Pr.peeale                               K       X         X



Annex VII
ATTACHM4ENT 1:                Page 12 of 17
TERMS OF REFERENCE
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
STUDIES COORDINATOR
BACKGROUND
1.       Activities to be implemented under the Government's economic
reform measures supported by the Structural Adjustment Loan require the
active participation of four separate Government ministries and agencies,
with support from several more. In order to assist Government in the
implementation and monitoring of the measures, funds are available under
the SAL to finance technical assistance (including equipment and training)
to undertake very specific studies related to proposed policy changes as
well as to help manage the process.
2.       Management of the SAL-related activities (monitoring and
reporting), as well as of the technical assistance component will require a
considerable amount of time and management skill. Government has agreed to
establish a small SAL monitoring unit chaired by and under the aegis of
CORDIPLAN. The functions of the unit would be:
(a) to coordinate SAL-related activities undertaken by the
agencies involved and to prepare regular progress monitoring
reports for the Council of Ministers and for the World Banks
(b) in close collaboration with the involved agencies, to identify
aeas of policy reform requiring further study and to assist
the agencies to draft terms of reference for the studies;
(c) to implement the technical assistance component of the SAL.
3.       The Minister of CORDIPLAN has already nominated the Director
General of the Directorate for Medium and Long-Term Planning to be
responsible for overall SAL monitoring and administration of the technical
assistance component. He will be assisted with a 'studies coordinator'
who will have the following specific responsibilities:
(a) assist concerned ministries and agencies in the identification
of consultants to undertake short-term consultancies in
support of SAL-related activities, and in the preparation of
detailed terms of reference for their work;            .
(b) with assistance from UNDPIOPS, oversee the procurement of
goods and services to be financed under the loan:
(c) provide the concerned ministries and agencies with timely
information regarding timetable for implementing SAL-related
actions;



Annex VII
ATTACRI'IZENT  1:             Page 13 of 17
(d) assist the Director General in the preparation of regular SAL-
monitoring reports;
(e)
4.       Qualifications: the studies coordinator should have at least a
Bachelor's degree or equivalent, and preferably a master's degree in
economics or other social sciences. He/she should be very well-organized,
work well with people at all levels of government, and be able to
communicate (orally as well as written) in Spanish and English.



Annex VII
Page 14 of 17
ATTACIMENT 2:
Draft Terms of Reference
Review of Institutional Arrangements for Public Enterprise Sactor
Obiective:
A major component of the Government's structural adjustment program is the
reform of the public enterprise (PE) sector. The Government's medium-term
objectives ares to divest those PEs no longer fulfilling public policy
objectives; and to restructure/reform those PEs remaining in the public
sector to operate in a more efficient and commercial manner. One aspect of
the program will be a review of the legal and institutional framework/
arrangements governing PEs in order to: (i) identify constraints to
commercial operation; and (ii) recoumend appropriate revisions in the legal
and institutional arrangements to ensure adequate managerial autonomy on
operational matters while also ensuring adequate Government supervision of
PEs and managerial accountability for performance.
Specific Tasks
The consultant(s) will undertake the following taskst
Ci) review all legislation and decrees pertaining to PE
operations, including: role/composition of PE Boards of Directorss approval
of plans and budgets; procurement; employment (hiring, firing, promotions.
etc.); salaries; access to credlt and foreign exchange, etc;
(ii) review the application of the legislation and the existing
procedures/processes for review and approval of PE plans, budgets, salary
and bonus levels, procurement, financing, investments and dividends;
(iii) identify constraints in existing legal/lnstitutional
arrangements inhibiting PEs from operating in a fully coumercial manner;
(iv) assess existing mechanisms for Government supervision of Pgs
and monitoring/evaluating enterprise performance and ensuring managerial
accountability;
(v) identify alternative institutional arrangements for Government
supervision of PEs (e.g. performance agreements) and assess their relative
merits in the Venezuelan context;
(vi) on the basis of the above analysis, make recommendations on
revisions. where appropriate, to the existing instltutional arrangements
includingt the role and composition of the PZ Boards of Directors;
responsibilities of the sectoral ministries vis-a-vis their PEs; degree of
managerial autonomy with respect to pricing, procurment, staffing,
salaries/bonuses; process for review/approval of PE corporate plans and
performance targets; and systems/procedures/responsibilities for
supervision and monitoringlevaluation of PE performance.
Resource Requirementst
The assignment is expected to require two person-months.



Annex VII
Page 15 of 17
ATTACHMENT 2:
CHECKLIST FOR IMPLEMENTATION OF ENTERPRISE PRIVATIZATION
Emplementating Group   TA Needs
PREPARATION
Set-up of Institutionss
Inter-Ministerial Council                 IMC
Technical Working Group                   TWG
Policy Documentss                            TWG, DMC
Criteria for enterprise selection
Enabling legislation
Institutional process
Public education campaign                    TWG
Conference with private sector bankers,
industrialists, stock brokers             TWO
SELECTION OF ENTEPURISE3 YOR PRIVATIZATION
Inventory of enterprise6 and holdings        TUG,PE
Collection of all available financial
reports and corporate plans               TWG,PE
Identification of initial enterprises
for dossier preparation                   TUG
Dossier preparation                          Ministries,TWO,P
Approval of dossier                          IMC
PREPARATION OF ENTERPRTISE FOR SALE
Preparation of Enterprise
Financial analysis and projections        FA,PE Finance Dept     TA,.B
Asset inventory                           PZ
Supply and sale contracts                 PE Lawyer
Employment contracts                      PE Lawyer
Liabilities                               PE Lawyer, finance
Dept. PA, TWG          FA,1B
Valuation                                    PA                      FA,.I
Confirmation of privatization method         Implementing Agency
Analysis of market                           PA                      1B
SALE OF ENTERPRISE                           Implemnting Agecy
FA, Lavyers,
Preparation of bid documents                 Ministries,            ZR, Lawyer
Selection of media
Prequalification notice
Request for bids
Bld opening
Bid evaluation
Negotiation with bidders and creditors
Finalizing terms and conditions
Settling of net liabilLties
Transfer of enterprise
IMCTInter-Hinisterial Council; TWG:Technical Working Groups PEaPublic
EnterpriseFAslinancial Analyst: IlBInvestment Bank



Annex VII
Page 16 of 17
ATTACHMENT 2:
GUIDELINES FOR DOSSIER PRESENTATION
Enterprises that have beeii targeted for possible privatization
should be presented to the Inter-Ministerial Council on Privatization and
Public Enterprise Reform for decision. A brief dossier on each enterprise
will enable the Council members to familiarize themselves with the
enterprise. to focus on the issues involved in privatization, and to reach
a decision on whether or not to privatize. This note describes the format
and content of such a dossier.
After the appropriate headings, the dossier could take the
following format.
Objectivet This section will describe briefly the reasons for
privatization. and the timing and methodology of implementation.
Enterprise Performances This section has two parts. The first
part is a review of historical performance, includings 1) business of the
enterprise; 2) financial performance; 3) market analysis including share of
market, major competitors, distribution channelss 4) research and
development; and 5) management. The second part discusses expected future
performance based on financial projections, improvements in monagiennt, and
expected changes in the environment.
History of the Enterpriset This section will outlie the major
acquisitions, divestitures, and changes to the enterprise over time. It
will also include a discussion of its acquisition or establishment by the
state. The details of its current ownership status will be outlined.
Methodology of Privatizations All pertinent privatization options
should be discussed here, including liquldatlon. The Impact of each option
on optimu pricing, timing, and control of the enterprise should be
discussed to the extent possible. A preliminary recommendation should be
made, and possible purchasers identified.
Public Policy Implications. A discussion of the original public
policy rationale for establishing or acquiring the enterprise should be
presented, and its current relevance should be discussed. Careful thought
should be given to the Impact of each privatization option on social
welfare, employment, distribution of ownership and other public policy
issues.
Outstanding Issuess  This section should include a discussion of
the issues that need to be resolved prior to privatization, such as labor
issues , legal and regulatory issues, enterprise debt and the potential
budgetary implications of such liabilities.
Conditions of Sale: Any requirements that the government wishes to
impose on the purchaser, such as continued operation of the enterprise for
a mlnimum period, should be stated here.



Annex VII
ATTACHMENT 2:             Page 17 of 17
Plan of Actions This section consists of an outline of the steps
to be taken to bring the enterprise to sale. including transmission of
information to managemet, employees and the public.



V MAOR                              Caribbecn  Sea                                    G
_SaECTW RADS
- -STATE BOq*NDAM                                                                                       AZS 
INTERNATIONAt SOUN*DARE
ELEVATIONS IN METER& o.t
__-  0..$200
OEER 50AL                                                                                                                                   E t
_   _     __      ITTBU                                                                                                                              _      _     __RA      IL
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ s                                                           MO  n I fo  S3
|  -~~~~~="   =-:"--=^^_-   _                    *                                               18t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KIOWTERS 
_  =:s _   #-s_        J                                \                                                                          W       '.       ' X  M~~~~~~~~~~~~~6



