Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3091 VE
                   (Structural Adjustment Loan)
                              between
                       REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                      Dated October 16, 1989
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3091 VE
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated  October  16,  1989,  between  REPUBLIC  OF
VENEZUELA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received  a letter signed on May 16,
1989 from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives
and policies  designed  to  achieve  structural  adjustment of the
Borrower's economy (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the
Borrower's  commitment  to  the  execution  of  the  Program,  and
requesting assistance from the  Bank  in the financing of urgently
needed imports and services required during such execution; and
     (B)  on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has
decided in support of  the  Program  to provide such assistance to
the Borrower by  making  the  Loan  in  two  tranches  and for the
financing  of  services,  training  and  equipment  as hereinafter
provided;
Page  2
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications thereof  set  forth  below  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
     (a)  Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified to read:
          "'Project'  means  the  imports  and  other  activities,
     including the  technical  assistance  program  referred to in
     Section 3.03 of this Agreement,  that  may be financed out of
     the proceeds  of  the  Loan  pursuant  to  the  provisions of
     Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement.";
     (b)  Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
          "(c)  Not later than  six  months after the Closing Date
     or such later date as may  be agreed for this purpose between
     the Borrower and  the  Bank,  the  Borrower shall prepare and
     furnish to the  Bank  a  report,  of  such  scope and in such
     detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution
     of the  program  referred  to  in  the  Preamble  to the Loan
     Agreement, the performance by  the  Borrower  and the Bank of
     their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the
     accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan."; and
     (c)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in  the  General  Conditions and in the Pre-
amble to this Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein set
forth  and  the  following  additional  terms  have  the following
meanings:
     (a)  "SITC" means the  Standard International Trade Classifi-
cation, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations
in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986);
     (b)  "Bolivar" and "Bs" mean the currency of the Borrower;
     (c)  "Technical Assistance  Expenditures"  means the expendi-
tures to be financed from the proceeds of the Loan pursuant to the
provisions of this Agreement in respect of the activities referred
to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement;
     (d)  "FIV" means Fondo de Inversiones de Venezuela;
     (e)  "FONCREI" means Fondo de Credito Industrial;
     (f)  "CORDIPLAN"  means  Oficina  Central  de  Coordinacion y
Planificacion de  la  Presidencia  de  la  Republica,  the Central
Office of  Coordination  and  Planning  of  the  Presidency of the
Borrower;
     (g)  "CORPOINDUSTRIA" means Corporacion  de  Desarrollo de la
Pequena y Mediana Industria;
     (h)  "FINEXPO"  means   Fondo   de   Financiamiento   de  las
Exportaciones;
     (i)  "BANDAGRO" means Banco de Desarrollo Agropecuario;
     (j)  "PDVSA" means Petroleos de Venezuela, S.A.;
     (k)  "Ministerio de Hacienda"  means  the Borrower's Ministry
of Finance; and
Page  3
     (l)  "Rate Base" means the value  of  the assets of a utility
company, calculated  in  accordance  with  methods and assumptions
satisfactory to the Bank.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or  referred to in the Loan  Agree-
ment,  various  currencies  that  shall  have  an  aggregate value
equivalent to the amount of  four  hundred and two million dollars
($402,000,000), being the sum  of  withdrawals  of the proceeds of
the Loan, with each withdrawal valued  by  the Bank as of the date
of such withdrawal.
     Section 2.02. The amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance  with  the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1991 or such
later date as the  Bank  shall  establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of  the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum  for each Interest Period equal to one
half  of  one  percent  per  annum  above  the  Cost  of Qualified
Borrowings for the last Semester  ending prior to the commencement
of such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower  of  the  Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest  Period"   means   the  six-month  period
               commencing of each  date  specified in Section 2.06
               of this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.08. (a) The Borrower  shall take action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement  and  Article  V   of  the  General  Conditions  through
Ministerio de Hacienda.
     (b)  Without limitation or restriction  to the foregoing, the
Borrower shall act  through  Ministerio  de Hacienda in connection
with the preparation of withdrawal applications under the Loan and
for the collection  of  the  documents  and  other  evidence to be
furnished to  the  Bank  in  support  of  such  applications; such
Page  4
withdrawal  applications  shall  to   the  extent  practicable  be
consolidated, in  respect  of  expenditures  other  than Technical
Assistance  Expenditures,  so  as   to  apply  for  withdrawal  of
aggregate amounts of not less  than  the equivalent of one million
dollars ($1,000,000).
                            ARTICLE III
                       Particular Covenants
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower  and  the Bank shall from time
to time, at the  request  of  either  party, exchange views on the
progress achieved in  carrying  out  the  Program  and the actions
specified in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     (b)  Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank for  its  review  and  comment a report on the
progress achieved in carrying out  the  Program, in such detail as
the Bank shall reasonably request.
     Section 3.02. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods to  be  financed  out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be governed  by  the  provisions  of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
     Section 3.03. (a) The  Borrower  shall  carry out a technical
assistance program, satisfactory to  the Bank, which shall include
(1) technical assistance and training in the areas of (i) allevia-
tion of poverty and design of  social programs; (ii) reform of the
tax laws and regulations  of  the Borrower; (iii) restructuring of
enterprises owned by the Borrower and the possible sale to private
purchasers of all or a  part  of the Borrower's ownership interest
in any of such enterprises,  the pricing practices and policies of
such enterprises,  and  the  institutional  arrangements governing
such  enterprises;  (iv)  public  investment,  in  particular  the
procedures and priorities thereof;  and  (v) external debt manage-
ment; and (2) acquisition  and  utilization  of computer and other
office equipment  for  purposes  of  carrying  out  such technical
assistance  program.  Without  limitation  to  the  foregoing, the
Borrower shall as part of such technical assistance program estab-
lish, not later than December 31, 1989, a program, satisfactory to
the Bank, to improve the  Borrower's technical capacity to conduct
surveys for poverty analysis  and  to evaluate poverty alleviation
programs. The  Borrower  shall  provide,  promptly  as needed, the
facilities, staff, funds and other  resources for the execution of
such technical assistance program.
     (b)  For purposes of  carrying  out  the technical assistance
program referred to  in  paragraph  (a)  above, the Borrower shall
employ consultants whose qualifications,  experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall  be  satisfactory to the Bank. Such
consultants shall be  selected  in  accordance with the principles
and procedures  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  on  the  basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as  Executing  Agency"  published by the Bank in
August 1981.
     Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate records  and  accounts  adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices
the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a)  of  this  Section  for  each fiscal year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later  than  four months after the end
Page  5
               of each such year,  a  certified copy of the report
               of such audit by  said  auditors, of such scope and
               in such detail  as  the  Bank shall have reasonably
               requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concern-
               ing said records and accounts and the audit thereof
               as the  Bank  shall  from  time  to time reasonably
               request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one  year after the Bank has
               received the audit  report  for  the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audits  referred  to in paragraph (b)
               of this Section and  that  the report of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures and internal controls  involved in their pre-
               paration, can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals.
     Section 3.05. (a) Upon the fulfillment by the Borrower of the
conditions listed under paragraph 3  of  Schedule 1 to this Agree-
ment and subject to agreement by  the Borrower and the Bank on the
terms and conditions  to  be  applied  in  this case, the Borrower
shall have the option  to  use  a  portion  of the proceeds of the
loan, up to an  amount  equivalent  to one hundred million dollars
($100,000,000) for the  implementation  of  a  Debt Reduction Plan
which in the judgement of the  Bank shall meet the requirements of
the Bank's support of debt reduction programs.
     (b)  For purposes of this Section 3.05, "Debt Reduction Plan"
means a plan of the Borrower submitted to the Bank for the partial
funding under this  Agreement  to  reduce the Borrower's principal
payments on its external loans from non-official creditors.
     Section 3.06. (a) The  Borrower  shall carry out, under terms
of reference satisfactory to the Bank, studies on (i) the purposes
and objectives of  FIV;  (ii)  the  feasibility of developing dif-
ferentiated products targeted to  the  poor;  and (iii) the feasi-
bility of establishing a stabilization  fund, in which there would
be deposited certain petroleum  revenues in periods when petroleum
prices are high, with such  funds  to  be utilized in periods when
said prices are low.
     (b)  The Borrower shall promptly  upon the completion of each
such study and not  later  than  December  1, 1989, provide to the
Bank, for comments, a copy of its findings and recommendations.
                            ARTICLE IV
                  Additional Event of Suspension
     Section 4.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following  additional  event is specified, namely,
Page  6
that a situation has  arisen  which  shall make it improbable that
the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 5.01. The  following  events  are  specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement with-
in the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  that the  macro-economic  framework  of  the Borrower is
consistent with the objectives of the Program;
     (b)  that  the  Borrower   shall   have   caused  its  public
development funds,  including,  without  limitation, FIV, FONCREI,
CORPOINDUSTRIA, FINEXPO and  BANDAGRO  to make adjustments, satis-
factory to  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank,  in  the interest rates
charged by such development  funds,  on  loans to their borrowers,
taking into account the prevailing commercial bank lending rates;
     (c)  that the Borrower  shall  have  presented  to the Bank a
social  action  program,  including  the  specific  activities and
funding therefor, all satisfactory  to  the Borrower and the Bank,
for purposes of providing  subsidies,  direct assistance and other
assistance measures to  the  poor  during  the  year 1989, and the
Borrower shall have commenced the implementation of such program;
     (d)  that the Borrower, according  to  a plan satisfactory to
the Borrower and the Bank,  shall have put into effect adjustments
in  the  prices   of  petroleum,  fertilizers,  telecommunications
services, electricity, natural gas,  steel, aluminum, iron ore and
petro-chemical products;
     (e)  that the Borrower  shall  have  established and put into
effect a system, satisfactory  to  the  Borrower and the Bank, for
adjusting the Rate Base of  electric utility companies in a manner
which takes into account inflation;
     (f)  that the Borrower  shall  have  established a committee,
consisting, inter alia, of  the  Ministers of Finance and Develop-
ment, the  Minister  of  State  and  head  of  CORDIPLAN,  and the
Minister  of  State  and  President  of  FIV,  with  a secretariat
comprising duly qualified  and  experienced  staff, and shall have
assigned  to   said   committee   functions  and  responsibilities
satisfactory to the Borrower  and  the  Bank, which shall include:
(i) the establishment  of  criteria  for  determining the restruc-
turing, sale to private  purchasers  and the liquidation of enter-
prises owned by the Borrower; and  (ii) the review and approval of
proposals to restructure such enterprises or to sell all or a part
of the Borrower's ownership interest in any of such enterprises to
private purchasers;
     (g)  that the Borrower shall have  furnished to the Bank: (i)
a complete listing of enterprises wholly or partially owned by the
Borrower  with  key  financial  data,  including,  when available,
statements of assets and  liabilities  and statements of income of
such enterprises; and (ii) a list of at least ten such enterprises
which have  been  identified  by  the  Borrower  as enterprises in
respect of which the  potential  sale  of the Borrower's ownership
interest  shall  be  reviewed  by  the  committee  referred  to in
paragraph (f) above; and
     (h)  that the Borrower  shall  have  presented  to the Bank a
public investment program,  satisfactory  to  the Borrower and the
Bank, in respect of  the  year  1989, which shall include, without
limitation, the investment  levels  proposed  for: (i) PDVSA; (ii)
enterprises, other  than  financial  institutions,  wholly or par-
tially owned by  the  Borrower;  and  (iii)  the  remainder of the
public sector.
     Section 5.02. The date  January  16, 1990 is hereby specified
Page  7
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section  6.01.  The  Minister  of  Finance  of  the Borrower,
Ministro de  Hacienda,  is  designated  as  representative  of the
Borrower  for  the  purposes  of  Section  11.03  of  the  General
Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministerio de Hacienda
          Edificio Norte
          Centro Simon Bolivar
          Caracas 1010, Venezuela
                                              Telex:
                                               24215 HDACP
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                        REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA
                        By /s/ Sonia Perez Rodriguez
                                         Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ Ping-Cheung Loh
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   Subject to the provisions  set  forth  or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the Loan  may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account for expenditures made (or, if  the Bank shall so agree, to
Page  8
be made) in  respect  of  the  reasonable  cost  of  goods and, in
respect of Technical  Assistance  Expenditures, services, required
during the execution of the Program and to be financed out of such
proceeds.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  expenditures for goods  included  in  the following SITC
groups or sub-groups, or any  successor groups or sub-groups under
future revisions to the SITC, as  designated by the Bank by notice
to the Borrower:
     Group                Sub-group         Description of Items
     112                     -              Alcoholic beverages
     121                     -              Tobacco,    unmanufac-
                                            tured, tobacco refuse
     122                     -              Tobacco,  manufactured
                                            (whether  or  not con-
                                            taining  tobacco  sub-
                                            stitutes)
     525                     -              Radioactive        and
                                            associated materials
     667                     -              Pearls,  precious  and
                                            semi-precious  stones,
                                            unworked or worked
     718                     718.7          Nuclear  reactors, and
                                            parts   thereof,  fuel
                                            elements (cartridges),
                                            non-irradiated     for
                                            nuclear reactors
     Group                Sub-group         Description of Items
     897                     897.3          Jewelry    of    gold,
                                            silver   or   platinum
                                            group  metals  (except
                                            watches    and   watch
                                            cases) and goldsmiths'
                                            or silversmiths' wares
                                            (including set gems)
     971                     -              Gold,     non-monetary
                                            (excluding  gold  ores
                                            and concentrates)
     (b)  expenditures, other  than  Technical Assistance Expendi-
tures, in the currency of  the  Borrower  or for goods or services
supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
     (c)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except  that  withdrawals  may  be  made  on account of
payments made for  such  expenditures  before  that date but after
June  12,  1989  in  respect  of:  (i)  expenditures,  other  than
Technical Assistance  Expenditures,  in  an  aggregate  amount not
exceeding  the  equivalent  of  $80,000,000;  and  (ii)  Technical
Assistance Expenditures, in an  aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of $400,000;
     (d)  expenditures for goods  procured under contracts costing
less than $10,000 equivalent;
     (e)  expenditures for goods  supplied  under a contract which
any national  or  international  financing  institution  or agency
other than the Bank shall have financed or agreed to finance;
Page  9
     (f)  expenditures for goods intended  for a military or para-
military purpose or for luxury consumption;
     (g)  expenditures in excess of an aggregate amount equivalent
to $40,000,000 for foodstuffs; and
     (h)  Technical  Assistance  Expenditures  when  the aggregate
withdrawals in respect of such expenditures shall have reached the
equivalent of $2,000,000.
3.   No withdrawal  shall  be  made  and  no  commitment  shall be
entered into to pay amounts to or  on the order of the Borrower in
respect of expenditures, other  than Technical Assistance Expendi-
tures, to be financed out of  the  proceeds of the Loan, after the
aggregate of the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  withdrawn from the Loan
Account and the total amount  of such commitments, excluding with-
drawals and commitments  in  respect  of  the Technical Assistance
Expenditures, shall have  reached  the equivalent of $200,000,000,
unless the Bank shall be satisfied,  after an exchange of views as
described in Section  3.01  of  this  Agreement  based on evidence
satisfactory to the Bank:  (a)  with  the progress achieved by the
Borrower in the carrying out of  the Program; (b) that the actions
described in Schedule 4 to this Agreement have been taken; and (c)
that the macro-economic policy  framework  of the Borrower is con-
sistent with the objectives of the Program.
4.   If, after the  exchange  of  views  described  in paragraph 3
above, the Bank  shall  have  given  notice  to  the Borrower that
progress achieved in the  carrying  out  of the Program or actions
taken pursuant to Schedule 4  to  this Agreement are not satisfac-
tory, or that the macro-economic  policy framework of the Borrower
is not consistent with the  objectives  of the Program and, within
90 days after such  notice,  the  Borrower shall not have achieved
progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Bank, then the Bank
may, by notice to the  Borrower,  cancel the unwithdrawn amount of
the Loan or any part thereof.
5.   The provisions of this Schedule  are without prejudice to the
provisions of Section 3.05 of the Loan Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                       Amortization Schedule
                                            Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)
On each February 15 and August 15
     beginning February 15, 1995
     through August 15, 2004                        20,100,000
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     The following  premiums  are  specified  for  the purposes of
Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
   Time of Prepayment                            Premium
                                         The  interest  rate  (ex-
                                         pressed  as  a percentage
                                         per annum)  applicable to
                                         the  balance  outstanding
                                         on the Loan on the day of
                                         prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                          0.20
Page  10
     before maturity
More than three years but                          0.40
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                            0.73
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity
More than eleven years but not                     0.87
     more than thirteen years
     before maturity
More than thirteen years                           1.00
     before maturity
                            SCHEDULE 3
                            Procurement
1.   Contracts for the procurement of  goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $5,000,000  or  more  each  shall be awarded through
international competitive  bidding  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines), subject to the
following modifications:
     (a)  Paragraph 2.8  of  the  Guidelines  is  deleted  and the
following is substituted therefor:
     "2.8 Notification and Advertising
          The international  community  should  be  notified  in a
     timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
     advertising invitations to apply  for inclusion in a bidder's
     invitation list, to  apply  for  prequalification, or to bid;
     such advertisements should be  placed  in  at least one news-
     paper of general circulation  in  the Borrower's country and,
     in addition, in at least one of the following forms:
          (i)  a notice in the  United Nations publication, Devel-
               opment Business; or
         (ii)  an  advertisement  in  a  newspaper,  periodical or
               technical journal  of  wide  international circula-
               tion; or
        (iii)  a notice to local  representatives of countries and
               territories referred to in the Guidelines, that are
               potential suppliers of the goods required."
     (b)  The following is added at  the  end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
          "As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
     the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
     used in  international  trade  and  specified  in the bidding
     documents."
     (c)  Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
2.   (a)  Contracts for goods,  other  than  goods  referred to in
paragraph (b) below, estimated to cost the equivalent of less than
$5,000,000 each shall be awarded  on the basis of procurement pro-
cedures satisfactory to the Bank.
     (b)  Contracts  for  computer  and  office  equipment  to  be
acquired as part of  the  technical assistance program referred to
in Section 3.03 of this Agreement  may  be awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations solicited  from  a list of at least
Page  11
three suppliers from  at  least  two  different countries eligible
under the Guidelines,  in  accordance with procedures satisfactory
to the Bank. The amount of each such contract shall not exceed the
equivalent of $25,000.
3.   With respect to each contract  referred  to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, the Borrower  shall  furnish  to the Bank, prior to
the submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan  Account  in  respect of such contract, two
conformed copies of such  contract,  together with the analysis of
the respective bids and  recommendations  for award, a description
of the  advertising  and  tendering  procedures  followed and such
other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
4.   With respect to each contract  referred  to in paragraph 2 of
this Schedule, the Borrower  shall  furnish  to the Bank, prior to
the submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan Account in respect thereof, such documenta-
tion and information as the Bank may reasonably request to support
withdrawal applications in respect of such contract.
5.   The provisions of the preceding  paragraphs 3 and 4 shall not
apply to contracts on  account  of  which  the Bank has authorized
withdrawals from the Loan  Account  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure.
                            SCHEDULE 4
              Actions Referred to in Paragraph 3 (b)
                  of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
1.   Progress shall have  been  made  in  the  carrying out of the
technical assistance program referred  to  in Section 3.03 to this
Agreement.
2.   (a)  Progress shall have been made in implementing the social
action program referred to in Section 5.01 (c) to this Agreement;
     (b)  the Borrower shall have  presented  to the Bank a social
action program,  including  the  specific  activities  and funding
therefor, all  satisfactory  to  the  Borrower  and  the Bank, for
purposes  of  providing  subsidies,  direct  assistance  and other
assistance measures to the poor during the year 1990; and
     (c)  in the event that the  exchange  of views referred to in
paragraph 3 (b) of Schedule 1  to this Agreement is held after the
year 1989, progress shall have  been made in the implementation of
the program referred to in paragraph (b) above.
3.   The Borrower, (a)  according  to  a  plan satisfactory to the
Borrower and the Bank, shall  have  put into effect adjustments in
the prices of petroleum  and  fertilizers;  and (b) shall have put
into effect adjustments in the prices of aluminum, iron ore, steel
and petrochemical products to the effect that said prices shall at
least equal the export opportunity cost, "export opportunity cost"
for purposes of the foregoing  to be determined in accordance with
methods and assumptions acceptable to the Bank.
4.   The Borrower  shall  have  made  progress  in  respect of the
restructuring of enterprises owned by the Borrower and the sale of
all or part of  the  Borrower's  ownership interest in such enter-
prises to private purchasers and,  without limitation of the fore-
going, the committee  referred  to  in  Section  5.01  (g) of this
Agreement shall have approved the sale of the Borrower's ownership
interest to such purchasers in respect of at least ten such enter-
prises and  shall  have  completed  all  valuations  and tender or
bidding documents, to  the  satisfaction  of  the Borrower and the
Bank, for such sale in respect of at least five such enterprises.
5.   The Borrower  shall  have  presented  to  the  Bank  a public
investment program in respect  of  the  year 1990, satisfactory to
the Borrower  and  the  Bank,  including,  without limitation, the
Page  12
investment levels proposed  therein  for:  (i)  PVDSA; (ii) enter-
prises, other  than  financial  institutions,  wholly or partially
owned by the  Borrower;  and  (iii)  the  remainder  of the public
sector.
6.   The Borrower shall have  caused its public development funds,
including,  without  limitation,   FIV,  FONCREI,  CORPOINDUSTRIA,
FINEXPO and BANDAGRO, to establish and commence the implementation
of procedures, satisfactory  to  the  Borrower  and  the Bank, for
setting the interest rates  charged  by  such development funds so
that such rates  reflect  the  cost  of  funds plus an appropriate
margin to cover operating costs.
