-                International Bank for Reconstruction and Development                            87699
                          International Development Association
                             International Finance Corporation
                        Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
                                      FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                    CONFIDENTIAL                                                                EDS99-68
                                                                                                            March 29, 1999

      Board Meeting ofMarch 30,1999
      Statement by Eugene Miagkov

                                  MALAYSIA: Country Assistance Strategy
                                                   and
                                      Social Sector Support Project,
                                    Education Sector Support Project,
                                   Year 2000 Technical Assistance Project


               We express our overall support for the proposed assistance strategy which we find to be
      in line with the Government's principal objectives, both immediate and longer-term. The ~trategy
      is, in the short term, to help mitigate the social consequences of the crisis and prevent the ~rosion
      of social sector achievements in the short to medium term. The CAS also proposes a wid~ range
      of non-lending instruments assisting the Government's efforts to restore growth and con~dence,
      and enhance Malaysia's competitiveness over the medium term.
                                                                                                   '

             We are pleased to note the participatory manner in which this first full CAS for M)alaysia
      since 1993 has been prepared. The CAS consultations and discussions involved higlh-level
      policy-makers, Government officials, parliamentarians, private sector representatives, acacfemics,
      NGOs, including civil society organizations and special interest groups, and other donors. Strong'I




      emphasis on partnership and participation seems particularly relevant, given the neces~ity of
      speedy full-fledged Bank re-engagement in this country after it was hit by an unprec~ented
      economic crisis.

               The Government's consistently proactive approach to cnsts managem¢nt is
       commendable. Its preemptive measures in response to the crisis have culminated, in a
       comprehensive National Economic Recovery Plan (NERP) which focuses on restoring ¢rowth
       by reviving domestic demand, preventing the erosion of gains in the social sector~. and
       protecting the poor and other vulnerable groups. At the same time, many specific polici~s and
       measures within the NERP framework continue to evolve, whilst the degree of uncertaint~ in the
       domestic and external environment remains high.                                                      !


                                                                                                            I

              As the CAS paper suggests, the Government tends to base its policy response on! over-
       optimistic assumptions, particularly concerning the growth recovery. The latter issue was pne of
       the most debated during the recent CAS consultations, and we would appreciate more d'tailed
       information on the substance of Bank/Government discussions relating to Malaysia arowth
       prospects.                                                                                \

    llis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only'[ in the
    ~crfonnmce of their official duties. Its contents may not otherv;ise be disclosed V.·ithout
                                                                                                1
    '>':,:;r~d B:mk authorization.                                                            J
                                                2



        The CAS document recognizes Malaysia's remarkable growth record in the pre-crisis
period and its impressive achievements in reducing poverty, improving quality of people's lives
and enhancing social services. In the aftermath of the crisis, growth and poverty reduction trends
have been reversed, unemployment has increased sharply, and the gains made in the health and
education sectors have been put under threat. At this stage many data on the social impact of the
crisis and on the new poverty situation are still emerging. We expect that the ParticipatorJ'
Poverty Assessment (FYOO) will provide a comprehensive picture of the current state of affairs
and serve as a solid analytical basis for the Bank's future operations in social sectors.

        We understand that Malaysia tries to meet its large financing needs resulting from the
crisis by relying primarily on domestic sources. However, to finance the recovery package the
Government also has to mobilize substantial additional funds from external sources, in~luding
the World Bank. The size and composition of Bank lending envisaged in the CAS differ
noticeably from what the Government requested, namely $2.7 billion, including $700 million in
fast-disbursing funds (para. 56). We would be interested in Staff comments in this regard. i
                                                                                           ,,



                                                                                            ~

        The proposed base case lending program envisages Bank investment loans mainl){ in the
social and related sectors. What kind of other investment operations, if any, might be e~pected
under the high case scenario? What are the likely fast-disbursing loans, should the hig\h case
scenario materialize?                                                                    '

       While the overall set of high- and low-case triggers seems appropriate, we won~er (i)
how flexible the scheme is, particularly in terms of contingencies for adjustment lending, $1d (ii)
whether Table 4lists the triggers in the order of their priority.

       We welcome the introduction of a preliminary framework for monitoring counttY and
Bank performance on the CAS, as well as the intention to make it more detailed. Wer look
forward to the presentation of a refined monitoring framework and its results in the\ CAS
progress report.                                                                     i

       Finally, we endorse the proposed Social Sector Support Project and Education $ector
Support Project which accompany the CAS, as well as Year 2000 Technical Assistance
Project which goes under the streamlined procedure.

        In conclusion, we would like to commend the Staff for preparing the CAS document and
three above-mentioned projects.
