              International Bank for Reconstruction and Development                               87700
                       International Development Association
                          International Finance Corporation
                     Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
                                  FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                  CONFIDENTIAL
                                                                                                          EDS99-72
                                                                                                 March 29, 1999


   Board Meeting of March 30, 1999
   Statement by Pieter Stek

           Malaysia- CAS; Education Sector Support Project; Social Sector Support Project




   When the Bank renews its involvement with a country it is crucial to have a clear framework for
   engagement based on' a thorough analysis of the situation of and the needs in a col..!ntry. In this.
   respect the Malaysia CAS is a very useful document. It justifies resumption of lending to
   Malaysia. World Bank assistance to the social sectors could provide the leverage needed to
   prevent the erosion of past achievements in the present situation. I would like to commend the
   staff with the work done and thank them for their answers on our questions about the CAS as
   well as the Education and Social Sector Support Projects.

   This being said, some very important questions remain about the future of Bank involvement in
   Malaysia and indeed future developments in Malaysia itself. The Bank should proceed prudently.

   Paragraph 32 notes that the Government needs " ... to deal with the poor perceptions of
   governance, transparency and the rule oflaw..." Even if Malaysia has a good track record on
   economic governance "poor perceptions" have an obvious source in unpredictable and sweeping
   changes in economic policies. As long as investors cannot be sure that the rules will not be
   changed during the game, poor perceptions reflect an all too real governance problem. In this
   respect, it should be noted that even after the modification of the capital controls, a part of the
   portfolio investments locked in as a result of the September 1998 announcement can still not be
   repatriated without paying a levy (paragraph 36). In addition, the risk of unrest due to growing
   discontent over the economic situation cannot be excluded.

    The issue of transparency of (economic) policy making should be highlighted. Indeed, there are
    important downside risks for Malaysia, but the country also seems to have more upside potential
    than neighbouring countries (Merrill Lynch expects two percent GOP growth in 1999). However,
    this upside potential can only be realised if the Malaysian Government makes a credible start
    with the implementation of the necessary long-term reforms instead of focusing on short-term
    measures. The redefinition of Non Performing Loans, which is also at odds with commitments

iThis  document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
'perfonnance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
. \Vorld Ban..\:: authorization.
made under the Economic Restructuring Support Loan, is an example of how not to do it
(paragraph 55).

The CAS lays out a three-year program with USD I to 1.5 billion of investment lending in the
base case. I attach great value to the base case assumptions in table 4 as necessary circumstances
to go forward with the proposed program. Should the Government not maintain public
expenditure on social services, the proposed projects would become gap filling instead of
providing additional protection to the poor and vulnerable groups. In the same vein, failure to
improve transparency would reveal disinterest in the proposed Public Expenditure and Structural
Policy Reviews. With regard to the high case, I take it that "IMF endorsement" implies
endorsement of the macro-economic framework by the Fund's Board.

The CAS notes that it is possible that Malaysia may wish to scale down borrowing if recovery
goes faster than expected (paragraph 76). In this case, staff intends to maintain the country
relationship through policy dialogue and Economic and Sector Work. To what extent will the
Government be responsive to the Bank's advice if it does not borrow anymore? Given the
significant probability that lending will come to a halt again in the near future, the Bank should
make sure that it does not spread itself too thinly (paragraph 62). The ADB, UNDP and bilateral
donors are active in the areas of the environment and agriculture. The Bank should not get
involved in these areas.

With respect to co-ordination with the ADB we heard through our office in Manila that an ADB
mission recently suspended negotiations with Malaysia after it had been told that the World Bank
would give the country USD 400 million in fast-disbursing loans. After consulting with staff we
have informed our office that the ADB was apparently ill informed. Could the staff comment on
this information gap?

According to paragraph 57 the preparation of the CAS has been a participatory process.
According to our Embassy in Kuala Lumpur, the local NGO network does not seem very strong.
Moreover, the departure of foreign NGOs might further weaken local NGOs, which sometimes
rely heavily on funding from foreign NGOs. Could this affect the possibility to manage the
proposed poverty assessment (paragraph 61) in a participatory way?
