Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 28047-MA
PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
MALAYSIA
SOCIAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
Loan No. 4452-MA
March 1, 2004
Human Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(January 2004)
Currency Unit    =    Ringgit
Ringgit 1.00     =    US$0.26
US$1.00          =    Ringgit 3.80
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
GOM             -      Government of Malaysia
UNDP            -      United Nations Development Programme
Vice President:          Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
Country Director:          Ian Porter, EACTF
Sector Manager:           Fadia Saadah, EASHD
Sector Director:         Emmanuel Jimenez, EASHD
Task Team Leader:           Darren Dorkin, EASHD



PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
MALASIA
SOCIAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT (Lu. 4452-MA)
A.     Introduction
1.     This is the Project Completion Note for the Malaysia Social Sector Support Project, for which
the Board approved Loan 4452-MA in the amount of US$60.0 million on March 30, 1999. The
Government of Malaysia (GOM) requested cancellation of the Loan on April 14, 2000. Consequently,
the Bank's management agreed to the GOM's request and cancelled the Loan on April 19, 2000. An
amount of US$59.4 million was cancelled. No disbursement was made from the Loan and a front-end
fee of US$0.6 million was deducted from the Loan principal. In accordance with OP 13.55, this note is
in lieu of an Implementation Completion Report reflecting the fact that cancellation of the Loan took
place before meaningful project implementation.
B.     Background
2.     As a response to the East Asia economic crisis that started in 1997, the Government of Malaysia
requested fast disbursing assistance to mitigate the adverse social consequences of the crisis, and to
finance a preemptive reform program. The World Bank approved a US$300.0 million Economic
Recovery and Social Sector Loan in June 1998. As the recession deepened, the Government requested
additional support and the World Bank prepared a Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) and an initial
pipeline of operations in the social sectors. The World Bank's primary objective in the CAS was to
minimize the erosion of social sector achievements and provide instruments to restore growth and
confidence and enhance Malaysia's competitiveness. The Government and World Bank agreed on a
lending program of three projects, totaling US$404.0 million, which were prepared on a rapid timetable,
and included the Education Sector Support Project, the Social Sector Support Project, and the Y2K
Technical Assistance Project. The Social Sector Support Project was appraised in November 1998,
negotiated in February 1999, and approved by the Board of Directors on March 30, 1999. The Loan
Agreement was signed on March 31, 1999 and the Loan became effective on June 28, 1999. Total
project costs were estimated at US$88.1 million, including US$60.0 million financed by the Loan, and
US$ 1.0 million co-financed by a grant from the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP).
C.     Project Objectives
3.     The project had two main objectives. The first objective was to support the National Economic
Recovery Plan strategy for ameliorating the adverse impacts of the economic crisis on the poor and
vulnerable by maintaining their welfare and access to essential social services, particularly by those
groups located in the poorest districts. The second objective was to strengthen the monitoring of poverty
over time as well as of the effectiveness of programs designed to reduce poverty and to mitigate the
adverse impact of the crisis, particularly those supported by the project.
D.     Project Design
4.       The project consisted of four main components that were to be implemented over a three year
period: (A) Rural Development and Poverty Alleviation, to support (i) in-site community development in
60 villages with a high percentage of hard core poor, and (ii) the construction of 400 preschools and
upgrading of another 1,300 in villages located in the poverty districts; (B) Health Clinics, to support the
construction and equipping of 31 rural community and ten urban health clinics in underserved areas; (C)



Social Assistance for Disadvantaged Groups, to support the Ministry of National Unity and Social
Development and its strategic partners in delivering socio-economic services to disadvantaged groups;
and (D) Poverty Monitoring and Impact Assessment, to carry out (i) an enhanced Household Income
Survey to collect baseline information on crisis impacts, and an in-depth impact evaluation of selected
poverty programs, and (ii) beneficiary assessments to evaluate the impact of programs supported by the
project, and a national participatory assessment to monitor the impacts of the crisis.
E.     Project Effectiveness and Implementation
5.     There were two conditions for Effectiveness that were fulfilled within 90 days after Loan
signing, including: (i) appointment in each project ministry of a person to be responsible for project
accounting functions; and (ii) issuance of procedural and management guidelines for the Special Account
and adoption of such guidelines by the project ministries. The project launch workshop was held shortly
after Board Approval in April 1999. Since three of the project components (A, B and C) supported
ongoing government programs, implementation was expected to commence without delay. However, a
number of factors impeded project progress. First, the Govemment did not open the Special Account
during implementation and did not seek retroactive financing for potentially eligible expenditures.
Therefore, apart from the fee income of US$0.6 million deducted from Loan principal, no Loan funds
were disbursed in the ten months following Loan Effectiveness. Second, the October 1999 supervision
mission discovered that the GOM had contracted suppliers through National Competitive Bidding to
construct health clinics without receiving the required Bank's prior approval, and the potential existed
that these contracts may not have been eligible for Bank financing. In addition, there were significant
delays in the preparation of the procurement plans for the project, which resulted in delayed construction
and equipping of health clinics. Procurement delays also raised the probability of project extension
beyond the three year life of the project.
6.     Finally, there was a difference of views between the GOM and the World Bank on important
issues related to Component D -- Poverty Monitoring and Impact Assessment. This component was to
strengthen govemment capacity to assess the social effects of the crisis and the effectiveness of
interventions, to be financed by a UNDP grant of US$1.0 million. Finalization of a Project Document
between the Govemment and UNDP by September 1, 1999 was stipulated as a Remedy of the World
Bank in the Loan Agreement. However, the GOM did not execute the UNDP Project Document and in
September 1999 requested that the component be cancelled because the economic crisis had decelerated.
The World Bank disagreed and emphasized that the assessments were still valuable to design future
poverty reduction programs and leam important lessons about the social impacts of the crisis. The World
Bank further advised that since effectiveness of the UNDP Document fell under Remedies of the World
Bank, failure to finalize the Document, or obtain alternative funds for the Poverty Component, meant that
the World Bank could avail itself of a number of legal remedies under the General Conditions applicable
to the Loan Agreement. The Poverty Component was not implemented at the time of Loan cancellation.
F.     Project Cancellation
7.     The GOM requested cancellation of the Loan in April 2000, explaining that project complexity
and lack of familiarity with Bank procedures (e.g., procurement) at district level caused poor project
performance, and noting that the GOM would use govemment funding for implementation of project
activities. World Bank management agreed with the GOM's request and cancelled the Loan on April 19,
2000. The reasons behind the request for cancellation stem from a variety of factors.
8.     The Economic Recovery and Social Sector Loan (ERSL) that had been approved at the Onset of
the crisis was disbursed as a single tranche on the same day of Effectiveness. However, after ERSL



approval, no fast disbursing loans were envisaged under the World Bank's three year lending program
that was proposed in the March 1999 CAS, and instead the above mentioned three sector investment
loans comprised the lending package. It may be noteworthy that the design of the SSSP operation as a
sector investment loan, and in particular procurement planning and compliance with Bank procurement
procedures, caused significant delays in project implementation. Perhaps simpler approaches could have
been adopted. These delays were coupled with the issue surrounding the GOM's request to cancel the
Poverty Component. These combined factors help explain the reasoning behind the Govemment's
decision to cancel the Loan.
G.     Lessons Learned
9.     The experience of the Social Sector Support Project provides a number of key lessons learned for
future human development sector interventions in Malaysia, as well as interventions formulated to
respond to economic crises:
*  Successful implementation of projects prepared to respond to crises depends upon
widespread support among key stakeholders both inside and outside government. This is
especially important in an environment where macroeconomic events provide the main
impetus for project dialogue and design. While the GOM requested World Bank assistance
to cope with the economic crisis, there was insufficient time for broad collaboration and
consultations to engender extensive support for project design. As the economic crisis
diminished, GOM support for the project waned. The experience also points to the
importance of choice of lending instrument, and that related implementation issues need to
be carefully discussed at the project concept stage with the client.
*  Careful consideration should be given to the procurement design if an investment operation
is selected. There are cases where fast disbursing operations may be better suited, or
procurement design needs to be tailored to the specific conditions of the country and the
project to ensure quick implementation.
*  Application of World Bank rules and procedures when a client country does not have
adequate experience with such procedures may create implementation delays. This was
partly the case with Malaysia where, although the World Bank provided assistance in
procurement training and financial management, the GOM was not sufficiently prepared to
implement the project in three years as designed, given that it had been an inactive Borrower
for four years.
*  Designation of three ministries responsible for project implementation did not help
accelerate implementation. In such cases, perhaps fast disbursement programs would have
been better suited or the project design should have been simpler.
*  For project components that probe or research areas of increased sensitivity, especially those
carried out by technical assistance, strong government ownership is crucial from the time of
initial design throughout implementation.



