Document of
The World Bank
ReportNo: 18855-MA
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$60.0 MILLION
TO
MALAYSIA
FOR A
SOCIAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
March 3, 1999
Human Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective October 1, 1998)
Currency Unit = Ringgit
Ringgit 1.00 = US$0.263
US$1.00 = Ringgit 3.8
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB                               -    Asian Development Bank
AG                                 -    Accountant General
CAS                               -    Country Assistance Strategy
DOS                               -    Department of Statistics
EPU                                -    Economic Planning Unit
ERSL                              -    Economic Recovery and Social Sector Loan
GOM                                -    Government of Malaysia
HIS                                -    Household Income Survey
ICU                               -    Implementation Coordination Unit
JKR                               -    Public Works Department
KEMAS                             -    Community Development Division of the MORD
MOF                               -    Ministry of Finance
MOH                               -    Ministry of Health
MONUSD                            -    Ministry of National Unity & Social Development
MORD                              -    Ministry of Rural Development
NERP                               -    National Economic Recovery Plan
NGO                                -    Non-Governmental Organization
PIU                                -    Project Implementation Unit
PMR                               -    Project Management Report
RSA                               -    Rapid Social Assessment
SA                                -    Special Account
SOE                               -    Statement of Expenditures
UNDP                               -    United Nations Development Program
Vice President:                   Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:                 Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, EACSM
Sector Manager:                   Alan Ruby, EASHD
Task Team Leaders:                Jill Armstrong/Chingboon Lee



Malaysia
Social Sector Support Project
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators .....................................2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by
the project ...................................................2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy ........................                    ...........................2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ..................................4
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components ....................................................4
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project .......................................5
3. Benefits and target population ....................................................5
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements ....................................................7
D. Project Rationale
I. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ................................................9
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other
development agencies (completed, ongoing and planned) ...................................... 10
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design ...................................................     11
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ...................................................I 1
5. Value added of Bank support in this project ...................................................                 11
E. Summary Project Analyses
1. Economic assessment ...................................................                                         12
2. Technical assessment ...................................................                                         12
3. Institutional ................................................... 12
4. Social ................................................... 12
5. Environmental assessment ...................................................                                     12
6. Participatory approach ...................................................                                       12
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability ..................................................                                               13
2. Critical risks ..................................................                                                14
3. Possible controversial aspects ..................................................                               14



iv
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness conditions ........................ 15
2. Legal Covenants ........................                                        15
H. Readiness for Implementation ........................                           15
I. Compliance with Bank Policies ........................                          16
Annexes
Annex 1.  Project Design Summary .17
Annex 2.  Project Description .19
Annex 3.  Estimated Project Cost .22
Annex 4.  Financial Summary .22
Annex 5.      Procurement, Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements      23
Table A.      Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements .26
Table Al.     Consultant Selection Arrangements .26
Table B.      Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review .27
Table C.   Allocation of Loan Proceeds .28
Annex 6.      Project Processing Budget and Schedule .29
Annex 7.  Documents in Project File .30
Annex 8.      Status of Bank Group Operations in Malaysia .31
Annex 9.  Malaysia at a Glance .32
Annex A  Poverty Districts .34
Annex B   Monitorable Indicators .35
Annex C   Project Management Reports .36



Malaysia
Social Sector-Support Project
1.  Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
SE Asia and Mongolia Country Unit
Date: March 3, 1999                                 Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Jill Armstrong
Country Director: Ngozi Okonjo-lweala               Sector Manager/Director: Alan Ruby
Project ID: MY-60943   Sector: Social               Program Objective Category: Poverty Reduction
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Program of Targeted Intervention:  [X] Yes  [] No
Project Financing Data              [X] Loan        [] Credit      [  Guarantee        [] Other [Specifyl
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): US$60.0
Proposed terms:                        [   Multicurrency      [X] Single currency, specify: US$
Grace period (years): 3           [   Standard Variable  [X] Fixed            []   LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 15
Commitment fee: 0.75%
Front End Fee on Bank
Loan: 1.00%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                             Local              Foreign            Total
Government                                                  28.2                0.1              28.3
UNDP                                                         0.9                 .1               1.0
IBRD (includes 1% up-front fee)                             52.0                7.9              60.0
Total          81.1               8.1              89.2
Borrower: Government of Malaysia
Responsible agency: Ministry of Finance
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):    1999       2000       2001      2002
Annual      7.4       18.2       22.6        11.8
Cumulative      7.4       25.6       48.2       60.0
Project implementation period: 36 mos. Expected effectiveness date: 06/99    Expected closing date: 12/02
OSD PAD Form: July 30, 1997



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective:
The project has two main objectives. First, it will support the National Economic Recovery Plan
(NERP) strategy for ameliorating the adverse impacts of the economic crisis on the poor and vulnerable
by maintaining their welfare and access to essential social services, particularly by those groups located
in the poorest districts. Essential social services are broadly defined to include basic health services
which are predominantly used by the poor, and social assistance to the needy (the hard core poor, school
children from poor households, disadvantaged groups such as the destitute elderly, poor widows and
single mothers, orphans). These essential social services form an important part of the social safety net in
Malaysia. The second project objective is to strengthen the monitoring of poverty over time as well as of
the effectiveness of programs designed to reduce poverty and to mitigate the adverse impact of the crisis,
particularly those supported by the project. In the short term, it is expected that feedback from the
monitoring and evaluation exercises would allow flexibility in the way in which loan proceeds are
allocated. In the medium term, it is expected that improved monitoring and evaluation capacity will lead
to improved efficiency in social sector expenditures.
2. Key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
Key performance indicators include: (i) monitoring public expenditure on social services; (ii) a
district targeting coefficient estimating the share of project resources spent in 66 poverty districts (Annex
A); (iii) component specific indicators to assess project inputs, outputs and, to the extent possible,
outcomes (Annex B).
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 18812-Af    Date of latest CAS discussion: March 30, 1999
The first full CAS for Malaysia since 1993 (when the country stopped borrowing), has been
prepared and is to be discussed in March 1999. It supports the Government in mitigating the social
consequences of the crisis in the short term, and prevent erosion of social sector achievements in the short
to medium term. The Project, an operation in the initial phase of renewed lending to Malaysia, is a
response to immediate client needs and supports the near term CAS objective to lessen the adverse impact
of the crisis on the poor and vulnerable segments of society. It seeks to do this by ensuring that programs
which protect the welfare of the poor and near poor, which maintain their access and use of essential
social services, will continue to be funded despite serious budgetary constraints in the near to mid term.
In the face of a 1999 federal government deficit of 6 percent of GDP, the Project will assist in financing
these programs.
Furthermore, by supporting spending on key anti-poverty and social assistance programs, and
through the targeting of resources to the poorest districts where over two-thirds of the rural poor live, the
Project also serves the broader CAS theme of assisting Malaysia to preserve its impressive gains in the
social sectors, to continue its efforts to eliminate hard core poverty, and to share the benefits of growth
more equitably.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy
Pre-crisis, a high and sustained rate of growth, with low unemployment and without much change
in income distribution, allowed Malaysia to make tremendous gains in poverty alleviation. During the last
quarter of a century, poverty (using the poverty line of $2 international dollars at 1985 prices) decreased
from slightly over half the population to about 5 percent of households in 1997. Hard core poverty,



Page 3
defined as households with incomes 50 percent below the poverty line, and concentrated in rural areas
was reduced from 7 percent in 1985 to about 1 percent in 1997. Growth being the prime engine of
growth notwithstanding, the Government also supported a number of targeted anti-poverty programs
whose efficiency is generally thought to be satisfactory. Although the modest level of spending on these
programs (at around 0.3 percent of GDP) implies that they were only significant at the margin as an
instrument for poverty reduction, they provided nonetheless, a basic safety net for the most vulnerable
segments of the population (i.e., the hard core poor, the disabled, the destitute elderly, orphans, and poor
widows).
Preliminary data indicate that the social impact of the economic crisis may be substantial enough
to reverse some of the country's impressive gains in poverty reduction. Poverty is increasing, particularly
in urban areas; up to half a million people are newly poor. The poor are disproportionately impacted by
rising prices: although inflation has been moderate (5.2 percent year on year in December 1998), food
prices have risen faster than other components of the CPI, and food accounts for almost 45 per cent of
expenditures of the lowest quintile versus only 35 per cent for an average household. Unemployment has
increased from pre-crisis levels (2.7 percent in 1997-technically full-employment) and is likely to reach
4 to 5 percent by end- 1998. Wage rates are expected to be flat or falling. Health and education
utilization data indicate a substantial switch in demand for services from the private to the public sector.
This comes at a time when declining public revenues are forcing the Government to cutback on recurrent
spending that in turn, has begun to affect the quality and adequacy of services. Protecting these programs
will be important not only for the rural poor who are the traditional target group (poverty in Malaysia is
still predominantly a rural phenomenon), but also for the "new" urban poor. The implication of today's
greater urbanization and formalization of the Malaysian economy is that a greater share of people who
have been affected by the crisis are likely to be in the urban areas, and the traditional cushion of "reverse
migration" (going back to the countryside) while still feasible for some, may not be available to all
retrenched urban workers.
The Government's commitment to protecting anti-poverty and other social programs providing
essential services to the poor and near poor, led to a request for budgetary support from the Bank in early
1998. Accordingly, the Bank approved a fast-disbursing $300 million single-tranche Economic Recovery
and Social Sector Loan (ERSL) in June 1998, primarily to protect vulnerable groups in society and
support structural refonns in the banking and corporate sectors. Although the ERSL enabled the
Government to reverse budget cuts made earlier, thereby restoring 1998 budgetary allocations for the
social sectors to the pre-crisis level, it became clear as the crisis deepened, that Malaysia would require
additional help in maintaining spending on social services in 1999 and beyond.
In July 1998, GOM announced a National Economic Recovery Plan (NERP) to bring the economy
back on a positive growth path, and alleviate the hardship of poverty as a result of the crisis. In line with
this objective, the recently unveiled 1999 budget aims to achieve a mild recovery primarily through
stimulation of domestic demand. Although Federal Government revenue is projected to fall in 1999,
budgetary allocations for programs which can help to stimulate the economy (e.g., construction of roads,
upgrading of educational facilities, and rural development) and provide essential social and economic
services to the poor and near poor, will be maintained at the pre-crisis level, and in some cases, even
increased. Consequently, development expenditure on social services as a percentage of GDP, will rise to
2.1 percent in 1999 from an average of 1 .6 percent during the pre-crisis years (1994-96), while operating
expenditures will be maintained at pre-crisis levels (around 5.8 percent of GDP).
As a result of the shortfall in domestic revenues, the Government has approached the Bank for help
in financing priority social programs targeted to the poor and vulnerable through a Social Sector Support



Page 4
Project (SSSP). This Project has been developed on a rapid timetable in order that it is able to support
measures aimed at protecting the poor and vulnerable groups from the adverse impacts of the crisis.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The Project will address four major sector issues: (i) overall budgetary constraints that could
affect spending in the social sectors; (ii) the uncertain impact of economic crisis on the poor and near
poor; (iii) capacity of public institutions in the short term, to cope with the near poor who are likely to fall
below the poverty line as a result of the crisis; (iv) limited coverage of anti-poverty programs in the urban
areas.
Several strategic choices have been made in the Project design in response to the above sector
issues. First, in view of the ongoing crisis, the Project seeks to provide support rapidly, therefore only
on-going government poverty and social programs targeted to the poor were considered for inclusion.
Second, in order to monitor both poverty levels and how the social impacts of the crisis evolve over time,
an additional Household Income Survey, as well as qualitative social and beneficiary assessments and
selected impact evaluations, will be conducted. Third, planned expansion of service delivery by the
Ministry of National Unity and Social Development and their NGO partners will be protected to ensure
that there is sufficient capacity to implement programs for target groups, especially in urban areas, whose
population size may increase significantly in the near term.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost
breakdown):
In order to ensure that the project will support those programs which alleviate hardship of the
poor and near poor that is caused by the crisis, a set of criteria was used as the basis for selecting
programs to be financed by the Project. The criteria included: (i) positive impact in achieving primary
objectives for the target group; (ii) on-going programs with implementation experience and demonstrated
institutional capacity; (iii) sufficiently short gestation period for achieving impact (i.e., within three
years); and (iv) ability to target service delivery to poor districts.
The Government and the World Bank mission reviewed a number of on-going programs in three
line ministries (Ministry of Rural Development, Ministry of Health, Ministry of National Unity and
Social Development) against the above criteria, and agreed on a set of programs (see the Project
description summary) for financing under the Project. These programs are grouped under three main
components according to their affiliation by ministry (see Table).
The Project also includes a poverty monitoring and impact assessment component to monitor
poverty levels, the evolving social impacts of the crisis, and the impact of social programs supported by
the Project on alleviating hardship due to the crisis. Specifically, this component will finance a follow-up
household income survey (HIS) in March 1999 of 15,000 households first surveyed before the crisis;
qualitative beneficiary and national participatory assessments; and an in-depth impact evaluation of
selected programs. These assessments, which are likely to reveal new needs as the crisis evolves, provide
flexibility and the basis for any adjustments and reallocations needed within the Project during
implementation. In the medium term, it is expected that results from this component will be an important
input into the design of the Government's next Five Year Development Plan. It is expected that llNDP
will co-finance the activities under this component.



Page 5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Because this operation is a rapid response to provide support for ongoing government programs,
the focus of the Project will not be on major policy and institutional reforms. Nonetheless, the Project
includes an important institutional component to improve poverty monitoring over time, the geographic
targeting of resources for poverty alleviation.
3. Benefits and target population:
The primary benefits of the Project will be the maintenance of essential programs for poverty
alleviation and the strengthened capacity of the government to monitor poverty and evaluate poverty
alleviation programs.



Page 6
Component                        Cost Incl.     % of      Bank-      % of
Contingencies    Total   financing    Bank-
(US$M)                 (US$M)   financing
A. RURAL DEVELOPMENT AND POVERTY
ALLEVIATION COMPONENT (Ministry of
Rural Development)
Poverty Village Development program. This sub-
component will support in-situ community             23.6       26.7       20.4        86.6
development in 60 villages with a high percentage
of hard core poor.
Early Childhood Education program. This sub-
component will support the construction of 400
preschools and upgrading of another 1,300 in
villages located in the poverty districts.           14.5       16.4        8.5        58.5
B. HEALTH CLINICS COMPONENT
(Ministry of Health)
This sub-component will support the construction    28.1       31.9        17.6       62.6
and equipping of 31 rural community and 10
urban health clinics in underserved areas.
C. SOCIAL ASSISTANCE FOR DIS-
ADVANTAGED GROUPS COMPONENT
(Ministry of National Unity & Social Development)
This sub-component will support the             20.7       23.5        12.8        62.0
MONUSD and its strategic partners (e.g.
NGOs) in delivering socio-economic services
to disadvantaged groups (e.g., poor elderly,
orphans, single mothers, the disabled).
D. POVERTY MONITORING AND IMPACT
ASSESSMENT COMPONENT
Quantitative Assessments. (i) an enhanced HIS to      0.8        0.9        0           0
collect baseline information on crisis impacts and
(ii) in-depth impact evaluation of selected poverty
programs.
Qualitative Assessments. (i) beneficiary
assessments to evaluate the impact of programs
supported by the Project; and (ii) national          0.3        0.3         0          0
participatory assessment to monitor impacts of the
crisis.
Total        88.1      100.0        59.4       67.3
Note: Total figures exclude the 1% front end fee.



Page 7
The target population for the Project is the hard core poor, the poor and the vulnerable. The poor
(defined by a poverty line of $2 international dollars at 1985 prices) accounted for about 5 percent of
Malaysian households in 1997. The hard core poor are defined as households with income levels below
50 per cent of the poverty line; they accounted for approximately 1 percent of the total population in
1997. The vulnerable are those households living near the poverty line, but who are especially vulnerable
to economic shocks which may cause them to join the ranks of the poor. Updates of poverty and
unemployment will be obtained from an additional household income survey in March 1999 to be
collected by the Department of Statistics and supported by the Project. Because the Survey asks
respondents about the previous twelve month period, the results should capture the initial impact of the
crisis.
Several targeting mechanisms will be used: (i) geographic targeting based on population and
poverty incidence (1997 HIS data); (ii) means-testing and established lists of the hard core poor; and (iii)
self-targeting based on support for services that are used primarily by the poor and vulnerable (e.g., basic
health services). Periodic beneficiary assessments will check the targeting performance of specific
programs.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
a. Executing agencies: (i) Ministry of Rural Development will execute the Rural Development
and Poverty Alleviation component; (ii) Ministry of Health will execute the Health Clinics component;
(iii) Ministry of National Unity and Social Development will execute the Social Assistance for
Disadvantaged Groups component; (iv) EPU, Department of Statistics and the three line ministries will
execute the Poverty Monitoring and Impact Assessment component.
b. Project Management: Given that all components are on-going government programs, there is
reduced need for establishing separate project management units. The EPU, however, will coordinate the
three line ministries and ensure that project accounting and procurement are carried out to meet Bank
requirements. The EPU, in its planning function will be the locus for utilization of the quantitative and
qualitative assessments, including any reallocation decisions during project implementation. The
government's Implementation Coordination Unit (ICU) will coordinate quarterly Project Management
Reports (PMRs) and annual operational plans from each of the line ministries for submission to the Bank.
The Accountant General's Office would have overall responsibility for the management of the Special
Account and for compiling Statements of Expenditures submitted by the line ministries and preparing
loan withdrawal and replenishment requests. By negotiations, the Government will confirm the key
agencies' involvement and designate a key contact in each of the line ministries and in the EPU  For
Project effectiveness, a person with appropriate accounting skills will be named in each line ministry.
Each of the three line ministries will undertake to: (i) prepare quarterly Project Management
Reports for onward transmittal to the World Bank; (ii) ensure that procurement of items financed by the
Project complies with World Bank guidelines; (iii) review and validate payment requests from
implementing units/departments and thereafter forward Statement of Expenditures for eligible
expenditures to the Accountant General's office; and (iv) arrange for the sub-contracting of beneficiary
surveys to qualified NGOs or academic institutions and thereafter, oversee the implementation of these
surveys.
c. Financial management arrangements. A financial management assessment was carried out in
the three line ministries which will be implementing the Project. The objective of the assessment was to
determine whether the ministries have in place adequate financial management systems as required by the
IBRD under OP/BP 10.02 and, based on the findings, to assess the readiness of the Project to implement
PMR-based disbursements under LACI. The assessments revealed a financial management system,



Page 8
based on a branch accounting system controlled by the Accountant General (AG), which meets the
requirements of OP/BP 10.02 in the following respects:
*  Clear accounting instructions and standardized procedures and forms which facilitate accurate and
timely data input and processing;
* Strong internal controls which include rigorous segregation of duties in connection with clear
instructions for authorization and approval of invoices, control over bank accounts and custody of
assets;
*  An Independent National Audit Department headed by a professionally qualified Auditor General
which employs staff who are adequately trained to carry out the audit function in accordance with
generally accepted auditing standards.
In connection with project accounting, monitoring and reporting there are however the following
weaknesses:
*  Two of the ministries, MNUSD and MORD, are serviced by a centralized accounting service of the
AG's office. Their "finance" departments are therefore nominal and for the most part staffed by non-
accountants. The work carried out in these finance departments is concerned mainly with preparing
payment vouchers for submission to the AG's office and monitoring actual expenditures against
budget allocations. Present staff therefore lack experience of double entry bookkeeping and cash
flow forecasting and lack the accounting skills required to obtain relevant and on a timely basis,
project accounting information from the central accounting system operated by the AG.
-  Implementation of existing GOM projects is handled at program, as opposed to ministry, level at both
MNUSD and MORD. Project monitoring is also done at program level with financial information
being monitored via "memorandum" records of transactions. This will continue to be the case under
this Project. There will, however, now be a need for the information to be consolidated into project
accounting information at ministry level but the two ministries involved currently lack the experience
to do this. MOH, by contrast, has a Project Implementing Unit which is currently undertaking a
World Bank project. The Unit does not however employ an individual with sufficiently strong
accounting skills.
For the two reasons stated above, it was determined that the Project does not have the financial
management and reporting systems in place to produce reasonably timely and accurate PMR reports on
which disbursements can be based. The loan will therefore be disbursed using Statements of
Expenditures (SOE) procedures with PMRs being produced and submitted to the Bank on a quarterly
basis for project monitoring purposes. The project financial management arrangements are set out in
Annex 5.
d. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements: Project components will be monitored at the level of
the implementing agencies on a program basis. For each program, input (i.e. financial) and output (units
delivered) indicators will be collected by the implementing agencies and included in an annual report to
be submitted to the Bank. In addition, Project wide indicators are listed in Annex B and will be
monitored throughout Project implementation. Finally, the fourth component, Poverty Monitoring and
Impact Assessment, supports an in-depth impact assessment of selected antipoverty programs and
beneficiary assessments of the effectiveness of selected programs.



Page 9
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
A review of Bank experience in similar country circumstances presented three alternative project
designs: (i) social protection investment projects (e.g., Mexico PROSSE Project); (ii) social funds; and
(iii) sector adjustment loans (SECAL) focused on policy reforms and protection of social expenditures.
The SECAL alternative was rejected because of: (i) the lack in in-depth sector knowledge as a
result of the hiatus in Bank-country relationship during the past five years; and (ii) the inappropriateness
of the adjustment lending instrument for accommodating activities which are incremental, narrowly
targeted to the poor, and based in several ministries. The social fund approach also proved to be
unsuitable, given that a key objective of the Project is speed and readiness for implementation, thereby
precluding the introduction of new programs or institutions. The investment instrument in the form of a
three-year time slice of ongoing programs was chosen because it would ensure the direct flow of Bank
funds to intended beneficiaries.



Page 10
2. Major related projectsfinanced by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned):
(Bank-financed projects only)
Sector Issue                Project        Implementation   Development Objective
Progress (IP)           (DO)
Bank-Financed
Structural Adjustment       Economic Recovery and         S        To mitigate potentially
Social Sector Loan                    adverse social impacts of the
economic crisis by providing
support to the social sectors
and to reforms already
implemented or in progress
in the financial and corporate
sectors.
Education                    Polytechnic                  S        To promote a more
Development Project                   decentralized, demand-
driven Polytechnic system.
Education                    Education Sector          Proposed    To mitigate the negative
Support Project                      impacts of the economic and
financial crisis on the
education sector.
Health                       Health Project               S        To meet emerging
environmental and
occupational health
concerns, improve equitable
access to primary health
care, introduce new health
technologies that improve
quality of services and meet
priority growing needs and
institutional strengthening.
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly
Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The Project incorporates lessons from similar programs in other crisis-affected countries. These
lessons include: (i) focusing on selected, established government programs facilitates effective
implementation and supervision (Bank financing is directed at programs in three main sectors); (ii)
upstream agreement on procurement and financial management issues prevents implementation delays;
(iii) allowing for flexibility in project design and ability to reflect emerging implementation experience
based on continued monitoring of both the perforrnance of Project interventions and evolving crisis
'The ERSL is a $300 million, single-tranche SAL approved in June 1998. The loan provided budgetary support
which allowed the Government to reverse the spending cuts in the social sectors announced in early 1998 in
response to concern over declining revenues. The SSSP will ensure that post-1998, spending on priority social
programs will be protected and expanded as necessary to meet new needs that may emerge. Under the ERSL, the
Government also increased funding for some anti-poverty programs such as the rural micro-credit scheme
administered by the NGO Amanah Ikhtiar Malaysia (AIM), and for the construction of rural community and health
clinics. The SSSP will not be supporting the AIM scheme as funds for this from the ERSL are still available.
Funding will be provided for new rural community and health clinics, not already financed through the ERSL.



Page 1 1
impacts; (iv) tapping institutional capacity of all agencies for cost-effective and speedy delivery of
services; and (v) the importance of high standards of transparency and accountability to assure good
governance.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership.
The Project is a direct response to the request for assistance received from the Malaysian
Government, in particular the Economic Planning Unit (Prime Minister's Department) and the Ministry
of Finance. The cooperation and active participation of these agencies as well as the Ministries of Health,
Rural Development, and National Unity during the Project identification mission, and their willingness to
complete requirements for appraisal in three months, are indicative of high levels of ownership and
commitment.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Bank support will add value in several ways: (i) the Bank offers international experience from
similar programs in other countries affected by economic and financial crises; (ii) the Bank's
involvement will ensure high standards of monitoring and impact evaluation; and (iii) international
standards of transparency and accountability in the use and management of resources will result from the
Bank's participation.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic assessment:
As the Project has been prepared on a rapid timetable to provide budgetary support for ongoing social
programs targeted to the poor and vulnerable, economic analysis of the programs will not be carried out
ex-ante. Programs were selected for financing under the Project based on a set of criteria to: (i) assess
their impact on achievement of stated objectives (i.e., to provide the poor and vulnerable with economic
and/or social services); and (ii) assure speed and readiness for implementation (i.e., demonstrated
implementation capacity). In-depth impact assessments of key poverty programs will be carried out
during implementation.
2. Technical assessment:
The standards and norms of the line ministries (MORD, MOH and MONUSD) will be applied to
the components to ensure coherence and compatibility across sectors and programs. The line ministries
will conduct a technical appraisal of each activity to ensure the use of appropriate and cost-effective
technologies which make use of local materials and labor. The appraisal ensured that infrastructure,
equipment, and other inputs were consistent in scale, quality, cost and content with the proposed activities
of the project and that implementation is technically feasible.
3. Institutional:
a. Implementing agencies: The institutional capacity of the implementing agencies for
undertaking the selected programs (i.e., project sub-components) was assessed through an iterative
process of program selection based on the criteria described in section 1 above.
b. Project management: Project supports on-going government implemented programs, therefore
the roles of the EPU, ICU, AG's Office, and line ministries have been well-defined. Overall coordination
will be the responsibility of the EPU.



Page 12
4. Social:
One of the central issues for all crisis countries including Malaysia, is diagnosing who is poor
and identifying shifting patterns of vulnerability in a rapidly changing environment. In order to gain a
better understanding of these issues, a qualitative Rapid Social Assessment (RSA) of the impact of the
crisis was conducted by the Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia (National University) during project
preparation (October 1998). This will be expanded into a full national participatory assessment using the
same sampling frame as the enhanced Household Income Survey to be carried out in March 1999 under
the Project. Data from the qualitative assessment will be integrated with the household survey and the
collective findings will help to guide targeting and/or reallocation of Project resources during
implementation.
5. Environmental assessment:  Environmental Category   []A   []B    [X] C
The project is assigned a C environmental classification because the project is expected to have
negligible, insignificant, or minimal environmental impacts.
6. Participatory approach:
This Project has been prepared rapidly in order to respond to the impacts of the crisis. As
a result, it has not been possible to undertake extensive consultations with stakeholders during project
preparation. However, the Rapid Social Assessment was undertaken to generate hypotheses on the
impacts of the economic crisis, diagnose who the potentially poor are, and identify shifting patterns of
vulnerability. The RSA was used in three ways: (i) to contribute towards Project targeting; and (ii) to
assist in the design of a national HIS to be carried out in March 1999.
To promote ownership of ongoing government programs, primary beneficiaries will also be
involved in beneficiary assessments to gauge the impact of the programs. The results of the assessments
will contribute towards redesign of programs where appropriate. These beneficiary assessments will be
conducted by NGOs.
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Primary beneficiaries who were involved in the assessment included retrenched workers, factory
workers (including workers in timber-related industries), estate workers, migrant workers, squatters, petty
traders in the infornal sector, single mothers, indigenous people in Peninsular Malaysia, rubber small
holders, rice farmers, fishing folk the elderly, and indigenous farmers affected by the drought.
b. Other key stakeholders:
Other affected groups such as NGOs, local and central government agencies, academics,
professional organizations, unions, and religious groups were involved through key informant interviews
and focus groups.
F: Sustainability and Risks



Page 13
1. Sustainability:
A key criterion for selection of programs for Project financing is the requirement that they are
existing programs with established budgetary mechanisms to assure maintenance and operation of the
assets created.



Page 14
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Project outputs to development
objectives
Risk                    Risk            Risk Minimization Measure
Rating
Additional spending on essential social  M      Careful review of means-testing and other
services and/or priority social programs        selection criteria for targeted programs;
do not reach those at and below the             quantitative surveys combined with qualitative
poverty line                                    social assessments to ascertain the extent to
which target groups actually benefit from the
additional spending. District targeting
coefficients.
Government loses its commitment to       N      Anti-poverty programs are supported by all
policy objectives of eradicating hard core      segments of society. The govemment is
poverty, and offsetting the social impacts     implementing the NERP which has among its
of the crisis                                   six strategic objectives, that of mitigating the
adverse social impacts of the crisis.
Local capacity to monitor poverty do not  M     Support for capacity building in key local
improve in the near to mid term                institutions to improve data collection and
analysis, especially qualitative. Malaysian
institutions have traditionally been able to learn
by doing.
Political instability                    M      Political durability of current government
cannot be assessed, but anti-poverty programs
and socioeconomic achievements are widely
recognized and enjoy strong support.
Local counterpart funds are not available  N    Social sector budgets have been protected
in a timely manner                              and/or restored in the face of budget cuts in the
past.
Malaysian procurement procedures delay   M      Upstream assessment of procurement
the delivery of services                        procedures to ensure consistency with Bank
guidelines.
Poor targeting of project resources      M      Careful selection of programs based on a set of
predetermined criteria, strong monitoring of
program impacts, flexibility to allow
reallocation of project resources during
implementation.
Overall Risk Rating    M      The project incorporates monitoring and
management arrangements that will allow
adjustments and resource reallocations during
the implementation phase.
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
While Malaysia has had a long experience of quantitative data collection and analysis, the
introduction of qualitative assessment methods is relatively new. An important challenge for the



Page 15
Government will be to utilize and disseminate the findings of such assessments to as wide an audience as
possible.
G: Main Loan Conditions
The Loan Agreement between the Borrower and the Bank is the Project legal document. The
following conditions, inter alia, are contained in the Loan Agreement:
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
* the Borrower will ensure that each line ministry has a staff assigned with appropriate skills in order to
effectively meet the accounting requirements;
*  the Accountant General's office has confirmed that it has written procedures governing the
management of the Special Account and that these procedures have been disseminated to the line
ministries.
2. Legal Covenants:
* retroactive financing will be available for eligible expenditures after January 1, 1999;
* the Borrower shall: conduct a quantitative assessment (an enhanced household income survey to be
administered with the March 1999 Labor force Survey) to measure the social impact of the economic
crisis; analyze the data; and submit the report on findings to the UNDP and the Bank by September
30, 1999;
-  the Borrower shall conduct a National Participatory Poverty Assessment as a follow-up activity to the
rapid assessment carried out in October, 1998 and submit a report on findings to the UNDP and the
Bank by March 30, 2000;
* the Borrower shall conduct beneficiary assessments with terms of reference acceptable to UNDP and
the Bank and submit a report on findings to the UNDP and to the Bank by December 31, 2000;
- the Borrower shall conduct at least two in-depth impact evaluations with terms of reference
acceptable to UNDP and the Bank and submit a report on findings to the UNDP and to the Bank by
September 30, 2001;
* annual financial audits will be carried out by independent auditors in accordance with auditing
standards acceptable to the Bank;
* the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank by March 30th in 2000, a report to include status of
monitorable indicators, and annual operation plans for the current year, including budget; and
conduct annual reviews of project implementation progress in April of each year beginning April 30,
2000.
R. Readiness for Implementation
[X] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation. [ ] Not applicable.
[X] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[X] The Project Implementation Plans have been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[] The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G): n.a.



Page 16
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Jill Armstrong
Task Team Leader/Task Manager
Alan Ruby
Sector Manager/Director
Ng oz
Country Manager/Director



Page 17
Annex 1
Project Design Summary
Malaysia: Social Sector Support Project
Narrative Summary         Key Performance            Monitoring and          Critical Assumptions
Indicators               Evaluation
Sector-related CAS                                                           (Goal to Bank Mission)
Goal:
Support the Government   Spending on social       *  Annual report on        *  Reinforcing social
in mitigating the social    programs as % GDP         government                programs enhances
consequences of the crisis  Percentage of target      expenditures;             welfare of the poor
and facilitate social sector population reporting  *  Beneficiary surveys       and vulnerable
development and poverty  satisfaction with services   and participatory          groups.
eradication in the medium    .                        assessments
provided by the
term.                    Government.              *  ESW work (periodic);
Project Development    Impact Indicators                                     (Objective to Goal)
Objective:                                        *  Budget documents,
Reducing the adverse     District targeting           MOF annual reports;    *  The Malayslan
social impacts of the    coefficient;                 B                          economy will resume
crisis on the poor and                            *  Beneficiary                 a positive growth
cearisisonthe poor   anh                              assessments and service   path by end-2001;
maintaining their welfare                             utilization reports    *  Government
and access to, as well as                         *  Household income           allocation for
use of essential social                               surveys to collect data    essential social
services; particularly for                            disaggregated by           services will return to
those groups located in                               geographic location.       pre-crisis levels by
the poorest districts.                                                           end-2001.
*  Incorporation of the
results of the Poverty
Strengthening the                                                               Monitoring
monitoring of poverty    Implementation of poverty                               component into the
and the effectiveness of   monitoring activities                                 planning process (e.g.
poverty alleviating                                                              5 Year Development
programs.                                                                        Plan).
Outputs:                 Output Indicators                                   (Outputs to Objective)
Provision of essential   Number of clinics
health services.         constructed/rehabilitated;
, *  Assessment and survey  *  The additional
Provision of essential   Number of women              reports;                   spending on essential
social services and        bene*  Supervision mission                           services actually
support to disadvantaged            .                 reports.                  reach those at and
groups.                                                                         below the poverty
Provision of small scale                                                        line;
rural community facilities                                                   *  Continuity of current
and services.                                                                    government policy
objectives (i.e.,
alleviating hard core
poverty, and



Page 18
Establishment of a                                                          offsetting the social
poverty monitoring                                                         impacts of the crisis).
system and strengthening                                                *  Capacity of local
survey analysis and                                                        institutions to
impact evaluation                                                           conduct and adopt
capacity.                                                                   enhanced poverty
monitoring.
Project Components:           INPUTS                                    (Components to
(in US$ millions)                            Outputs)
A. Rural Development
and Poverty Alleviation                        SSSP activities will be  *  Political stability.
monitored through        *  Local counterpart
*  Poverty Village             26.7            quarterly Project           funds are available in
Development                                 Management Reports and      a timely manner;
*  Early Childhood             16.4            supervision missions (see    *  Malaysian
Education                                   Annex B for project-wide    procurement
and component specific      procedures do not
B. Health Clinics                              monitorable indicators that  significantly delay
will be examined at regular  the delivery of
*  Rural Community             28.1            intervals).                  services;
and Urban Health                                                     *  SSSP programs have
Clinics                                                                 been selected on the
basis of a pre-
determined set of
Social Assistance for                                                       criteria, involve
Disadvantaged Groups                                                        careful monitoring of
program impacts, and
*  Support for ongoing         20.7                                        the project allows for
MNUSD                                                                   a reallocation of
development                                                             project resources as
programs                                                                required.
Poverty Monitoring and          0.8
Impact Assessment
*  HIS/In-depth
Impact Evaluations           0.3
*  Beneficiary and
Participatory
Assessment



Page 19
Annex 2
Malaysia: Social Sector Support Project
Project Description
A. Rural Development and Poverty Alleviation Component -US$ 38.0 million
1.    Overall Objective and Rationale. While the overall impact of the economic crisis on the rural
sector is expected to be less than for the urban sector, most of the poor in Malaysia are located in rural
areas and among them are a number of groups who are particularly vulnerable to adverse impact. They
are: (i) beneficiaries of social programs (e.g., the hard core poverty program) that could face cuts because
of budget constraints; (ii) the retrenched and other unemployed workers in the urban sector who return to
the countryside (the "reverse migration" phenomenon); (iii) rural workers or small-holders in high
import-dependent sub-sectors or those which are sensitive to ringgit devaluation effects; and (iv) rural
households who do not produce for export or for their own subsistence and are thus more liable to be
affected by the inflation of their cash expenditure needs. Interventions in the rural areas should therefore
focus on helping these vulnerable groups.
2.    Poverty Village Development Program. This program is targeted to villages with a high
percentage of the hard core poor and aims to: (i) upgrade the physical and infrastructure situation of the
village and, (ii) improve the quality of life and economic opportunities of villagers. To achieve these
objectives, community facilities will be constructed and human resource development services will be
provided in the areas of preschool education, functional literacy, counseling and skill training.
3.    Financing and Implementation. About 60 villages, located in the list of poverty districts (Annex
A) which have the highest incidence of hard core poverty, will be selected jointly by state and federal
authorities for support under this program. District level implementing agencies will report on the
financial and physical progress of the program to MORD through the relevant state development
department. The total cost (including contingencies) for the program during 1999-2001 is estimated to be
US$23.6 million, of which US$20.4 million will be financed by the Loan.
4.    Early Childhood Education Program. This program, targeted at pre-school children and their
parents in poverty districts is aimed at promoting the physical, social, emotional, spiritual and mental
development of young children, and to give parenting skills to their parents. The on-going program is
under the Community Development Division (KEMAS) of the Ministry of Rural Development (MRD)
and covers nearly 7,500 classes with almost 221,000 children ages 2-6. Maximum class size is 35, with
classes held for three hours, five times a week. Active participation of parents in the running of the
school is expected, including contributed labor for school upkeep. The KEMAS program presently
reaches about 60% of total pre-school population in the rural areas of Malaysia.
5.    The project would support the: (a) building of 400 pre-school centers, about 6 new facilities in
the 66 poverty districts. Another 1,300 will be renovated by the end of the three year project. The new
schools will be equipped with educational materials, furniture and books, and sports items; renovated
schools will also receive supplemental equipment.
6.    Implementation and Financing Arrangements. The state office of KEMAS will identify the
villages for the program with priority given to the 60 villages under the Poverty Village Program, and the
remaining villages are selected on the basis of relative poverty, the concentration of families or pre-
school population, and the time each community applied. Applications are open in October of each year
and close at the end of the year. Top priority is given to poor families. The Public Works Department
(JKR) will be responsible for civil works above RM50,000, while smaller works (the usual case) will be



Page 20
under the responsibility of the District-Office. At the start ofthe budget year, the warrant for civil works
is sent to the State. After districts/villages are identified, a sub-warrant is allocated to them. Quotations
are then advertised and the contract is then let after reviewing the bids from 3-5 contractors or bidders.
Construction usually starts within two months from bid advertisement. The total cost (including
contingencies) for the program during 1999-2001 is estimated to be US$14.5 million, of which US$8.5
million will be financed by the Loan.
B. Health Clinics Component -US$ 28.1 million
7.    Objectives and Rationale. The objective of the component is to maintain provision of essential
health services for lower income groups during the current financial crisis. The Government's policies
have been particularly pro-poor and have emphasized the provision of preventative activities and
essential services at the grassroots level. Two types of facilities, rural community clinics and urban
health clinics, will be constructed and equipped in areas that are currently underserved and with reduced
access to adequate health services. The 31 smaller clinics will focus on providing maternal and child
health services and minor outpatient treatment in rural areas. The 10 larger health clinics will provide
more accessible to primary health care in towns and urban areas and as such will reduce overcrowding in
hospitals as the demand for publicly funded health care has increased during the crisis. The clinics would
be constructed and equipped in poorer states and selected poorer districts, the majority of which are ones
that the Government had planned to undertake but had considered scaling back given budgetary
shortages.
8.        Financing and Implementation. The Plaining and Development Division, Ministry of Health
(MOH), which has had long-standing responsibility for the program, will oversee the component. Actual
management of the construction process would be undertaken by the Public Works Department.
Approximately 41 clinics would be constructed. The total cost (including contingencies) is US$28.1
million, of which 61 percent will be financed by the Loan.
C. Social Assistance for Disadvantaged Groups Component -US$20.7 million
9.    Overall Objective and Rationale. To meet its goals of improving the standard of living of the
poor and most vulnerable members of society (e.g., the elderly poor, the disabled, orphans, and abused
women), the MONUSD has adopted a policy of developing strategic alliances with NGOs for the delivery
of social assistance services. In 1998, as a result of budget constraints, MONUSD had to cutback on the
scale of development activities which support the delivery of social services. The objective of this
component is to provide support to the Ministry of National Unity and Social Development's (MNUSD)
ongoing social welfare programs under its development budget. In particular, the project would support: (i)
the refurbishment and equipping of about 500 existing and construction and equipping of 150 new
kindergartens for poor children and training of their teachers; (ii) renovation and equipping of 68 homes and
shelters for the elderly and orphans and training of caregivers; (iii) construction of 120 day care centers for
the disadvantaged elderly; and (iv) construction and equipping of seven Women's Centers in which to
provide single mothers and abused women with temporary shelter, counseling and training.
10.   Financing and Implementation. The component will be implemented through the Ministry's
ongoing development program. The Public Works Department (JKR) would be responsible for the
management of the construction process. The total cost (including contingencies) is US$20.7 million, of
which the Bank Loan would finance US$12.8 million.



Page 21
D. Poverty Monitoring and Impact Assessment Component -IS$ 1.0 million
11.   Overall Objective and Rationale. This component, comprising the quantitative and qualitative
monitoring of poverty, and in-depth evaluation of selected anti-poverty programs, is critical to developing
the capacity of the Government to assess the social effects of the crisis and the effectiveness of
countervailing measures. It is expected to provide an important input for the Government as it prepares
the next Five Year Development Plan. In the short term, it should help guide any resource reallocations
during Project implementation. Activities that will be supported include: (i) an enhanced Household
Income Survey (HIS) during the first quarter of 1999 to monitor how poverty and income distribution
have been changing during the precipitous decline in economic growth in 1998; (ii) an in-depth impact
assessment of selected anti-poverty programs; (iii) a national participatory assessment following the HIS
to collect qualitative information to complement the quantitative survey results; and (iv) beneficiary
assessments to monitor the impact of key poverty programs.
12.   Financing and Implementation. A new module containing supplementary questions about the
impact of the crisis will be attached to the existing HIS questionnaire. Using the first quarter 1999 Labor
Force Survey as a base, this enhanced questionnaire will be administered to some 15,000 households in
the sample. The Department of Statistics (DOS) will be the responsible agency for data collection and
processing, while EPU will take charge of data analysis. Work on the in-depth impact assessments will be
contracted out to local and international consultants under EPU's supervision. The EPU will be the lead
implementation agency for the national participatory assessment to be carried out by local consultants,
while the line ministries will oversee implementation of the beneficiary surveys. The total cost of the
component is estimated at US$1.0 million, to be financed by UNDP.



Page 22
Annex 3
Malaysia: Social Sector Support Project
Estimated Project Costs
(US$ million)
Project Component                                        Local         Foreign         Total
A. Rural Development & Poverty Alleviation
1. Poverty Village Development Program                21.3            0.4           21.7
2. Early Childhood Education                          12.4             1.3           13.7
B. Health Clinics
1. Rural Community & Health Clinics                   21.1            5.4           26.5
C. Social Assistance to Disadvantaged Groups                  19.3              0           19.3
D. Poverty Monitoring & Impact Assessment                       .9             .1            1.0
Total Baseline Cost                                        75.1            7.4           82.2
Price Contingencies                                            5.6            0.3            5.9
Total Project Cost                                         80.6            7.5           88.1
Note: Totals may not add due to rounding. Total excludes 1% Front End Fee on Bank Loan.
Annex 4
Malaysia: Social Sector Support Project
Financial Summary
US$ millions
Implementation Period       Total
1999     2000      2001
Project Costs
Investment Costs                       23.3     36.7       28.1         88.1
Total                                23.3     36.7      28.1         88.1
Financing Sources (% of total project costs)
IBRD                                    58.4     62.1      81.4         67.3
UNDP                                     3.5      0.7       0.0          1.2
Government                              38.1     37.2      18.6         31.5



Page 23
Annex 5
PROCUREMENT, FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND DISBURSEMENT ARRANGEMENTS
Procurement
Procurement Methods. All goods, works, and services financed under the IBRD Loan will be
procured in accordance with the World Bank Guidelines Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits, January 1995, revised January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999.
Consultants will be engaged in accordance with the World Bank Guidelines Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999.
Procurement will be the responsibility of the Ministries of Health; Rural Development; and National
Unity and Social Development.
a. Goods: ($14.5 million including contingencies) Goods envisioned under this project,
including equipment, vehicles, furniture and materials, will be of small value and dispersed over a wide
geographical area. Each package valued between US $100,000 equivalent and US $200,000 equivalent
(not anticipated to exceed US $ 3.33 million in the aggregate) will be procured through National
Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures acceptable to the Bank. Procurement of goods with an estimated
contract value below US $100,000 equivalent (not anticipated to exceed US $ 11.09 million in the
aggregate) will follow shopping procedures as defined in paragraphs. 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Should contracts exceed US $200,000 equivalent, ICB bidding procedures will be utilized. Procurement
of goods through centrally executed government or ministry wide contracts constitutes "Reserved
Procurement" and, as such, goods procured under these contracts will not be eligible for financing from
the proceeds of the Loan.
b. Works: ($51.5 million including contingencies) This project will finance new construction
and rehabilitation of health clinics, schools, houses, recreational facilities and community halls. The
works envisioned under the project, of small value and dispersed over a wide geographical area and
spread over time, are unlikely to be of interest to foreign bidders. Works contracts costing US$100,000
equivalent or more (not anticipated to exceed US $ 27.01 million in the aggregate) will be procured
through National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures acceptable to the Bank. Smaller works
contracts, each costing less than US $100,000 equivalent (not anticipated to exceed US $ 23.3 million in
the aggregate) will be awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified bidders, with the
contract awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder.
c. Services: ($22.1 million including contingencies) Services will include the provision of
technical assistance, studies, training and workshops. As a rule, contracts for services valued at US
$100,000 equivalent or more (not anticipated to exceed US $2.0 million in the aggregate) will be awarded
based upon quality/cost based selection procedures. Consultant services estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of US $ 1 00,000 (not anticipated to exceed US $ 18.94 million in the aggregate) will be
awarded based upon the qualification of the consultants who have expressed an interest in the job or who
have been identified. In those instances when a team of consultants is not required, selection will be
based on the procedures for employment of individuals as described in Guidelines, Section V. Single
source selection of consultants for Components A and C of the Project would be permitted with prior
agreement of the Bank.
Malaysia's procurement laws provide that procurement under projects financed by international
financial institutions will be subject to the rules of the financing institution. Therefore, a side letter,



Page 24
which identifies national procqrement procedures which are in conflict with the Bank's guidelines and
contains assurances that the Borrower will adhere to Bank guidelines, will be signed together with the
Loan Agreement.
Prior review thresholds. The first three contracts for goods and for works procured by NCB,
per ministry, and any contracts awarded through ICB will be forwarded to the Bank for prior review.
Prior review will be required of all contracts for consultant services with firms valued at US $100,000
equivalent or more or those awarded on a single source basis. Prior review will also be required for
contracts with individuals valued at US $50,000 equivalent or more. Selective post review of awarded
contracts below the threshold levels will be conducted during supervision.
Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
Disbursements. Disbursement of the proceeds of the loan will be made against the expenditure
categories shown in Table C. Withdrawal applications will be supported by SOEs for:
*  Civil works below US $100,000 equivalent per contract
*  Goods below US $100,000 equivalent per contract
*  Consulting firms contracts below US $100,000 equivalent per contract other than those awarded on a
single source basis and
*  Contracts for individual consultants below US $50,000 equivalent per contract.
All other Withdrawal Applications will be supported by full documentation and signed contracts.
Special Account To facilitate the implementation of the Project, one Special Account (SA) for
the project will be opened at a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The
SA will be operated and maintained by the AG's office. The SA, which will cover the Bank's share of
eligible expenditures under the Project, will have an authorized allocation of US $5.0 million, with an
initial withdrawal of US$2.0 million to be withdrawn from the Loan and deposited in the SA. The initial
allocation would be increased to US$5.0 million when the amount disbursed from the Loan totals US$10
million. Applications to replenish the SA, supported by the appropriate documentation will be submitted
regularly, preferably monthly, or when the amount withdrawn equals 50 percent of the initial deposit,
whichever comes first. It is a condition of loan effectiveness that the AG's office will have issued
procedural and management guidelines governing the operation of the SA and that such guidelines have
been communicated to the three line ministries.
Organization and staffing All project accounting matters will be the responsibility of the PIU at
MOH and the Finance Sections at MONUSD and MORD.
Funds Flow and Accounting. Project accounts will be prepared from the same payment
vouchers which form the basis of input to the AG's central government accounting records. The
appointed accounts assistant will be responsible for recording all project related data in separately
identifiable project accounting records. Authorization of payment vouchers will be the responsibility of
the persons nominated by Government as being responsible for project related matters at each ministry.
All payments to contractors and suppliers will, as normal, be dealt with through theAG's office. Each
ministry will be responsible for preparing its own "mini" SOE which will then be submitted to theAG's
office in accordance with the procedures laid down by that office. The AG will then collate this
information and submit it to the Bank together with a completed Withdrawal Application form, when a
replenishment to the Special Account is required.



Page 25
As part of the annual budget process, on the basis of plans submitted to Treasury by the
ministries, Government will allocate in advance to the ministries, annual counterpart funds required for
project implementation. The individual ministries will need to pre-finance project expenditures from this
appropriation. In accordance with GOM procedures, none of the ministries will at any time have direct
control over the disbursement of these counterpart funds. They will however receive details from the
AG's office of all payments which have been made, in order to enable them to complete the project
accounting records. The AG will then at regular intervals claim a "refund" from the Special Account, to
be credited to the individual ministries appropriation account, representing the Bank's share of eligible
project expenditures.
Reporting Each ministry will be responsible for producing a simplified quarterly PMR relevant to
its component under the project (Annex C)2. These reports will consist initially of: (i) a uses of funds by
project activity (Report 1-B of the PMR); (ii) a copy of the output monitoring report produced by JKR
(The Public Works Department) with explanations for any significant variances occurring during the
period and; (iii) the procurement management reports (Report 3 of the PMR). The accounts assistant in
each ministry will prepare the quarterly PMR. which will then be reviewed by the nominated responsible
individual at each ministry. The individual PMRs were discussed and agreed with each ministry during
appraisal. Within 45 days of the end of each quarter the individual PMRs will be submitted to the Bank
through the Implementation Coordination Unit (ICU), a department of the Prime Minister's Office. ICU
will carry out a quality control review of each of these PMRs and then consolidate the PMRs into one
report for onward submission to the Bank. Within one year of Loan effectiveness, the each implementing
ministry will have developed the reporting systems to enable them to link the physical outputs under the
Project to project expenditures.
The annual financial statements will comprise a year end Summary of Sources and Uses of Funds
Statement, Report 1-A of the PMR, a project balance sheet at the year end, comparative figures from the
previous year and notes to the financial statements. The accounts will be prepared, in accordance with
GOM accounting regulations, on a modified cash basis.
Audit. GOM has indicated that, as with ongoing projects, the Auditor General will be responsible
for the annual audit of the project financial statements, the eligibility of expenses disbursed on the basis
of the SOEs and of transactions on the Special Account. The audited financial statements will be
submitted to the Bank within six months of the end of the Project's fiscal year. The audit will be
conducted in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Bank and under World Bank Terms of
Reference.
Status of GOM and DPSD compliance with audit covenants in existing Bank-financed projects
At the present time the Government of Malaysia has two ongoing Bank-financed projects: (Health
Development Project (MY-PE-4312) and Polytechnic Development Project (MY-PE-4309). The latter is
being implemented by DPSD. The audited financial statements for the Polytechnic Development Project
have, over the last few years been submitted late. In particular, the 1995 audited accounts were overdue
by 15 months. Both projects are however currently in full compliance with the Bank's audit covenants,
with the Health Development Project having submitted its most recent audited accounts well in advance
of the due date.
2 These are attached as drafts and will be finalized during the Project Launch Workshop.



Page 26
Annex 5, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US $million equivalent)
Total Cost
Expenditure                                                       (Including
Category                       Procurement Method                 Contingencies)
NCB        Shopping         Otherl     N.B.F
Civil Works    27.01      23.30                        1.19       51.50
(14.01)    (11.65)                                 (25.65)
Goods           3.33       11.09                       0.08       14.50
(3.30)     (9.55)                                  ( 12.85)
Services                                   20.95       1.16       22.1
(20.79)               (20.79)
Total          30.35      34.38            20.95       2.43       88.10
(17.31)    (21 20)          (20.79)               1 (59.29)
- This category includes consultant services, training.
Note: NBF=Not Bank Financed. Total Bank amount excludes 1% up front fee.
Totals may not sum due to rounding.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
Annex 5, Table Al: Consultant Arrangements
(In US $ million equivalent)
Consultant                        Selection Method                  Total Cost
Services                                                           (including
Expenditure                                                         contingencies)
Category
QCBS          CQ          Other            N.B.F.
Firms           2.0            10.0                         1.16     13.16
Individuals                    8.94                                   8.94
Total           2.0            18.94                        1.16     22.10
Note:   QCBS Quality and Cost Based Selection
CQ    Selection Based on Consultant's Qualification
N.B.F. Not Bank Financed



Page 27
ANNEX 5, TABLE B: THRESHOLDS FOR PROCUREMENT METHODS AND PRIOR REVIEW
Expenditure         Contract Value       Procurement          Contracts Subject to
Category            (Threshold)          Method              Prior
Review/Estimated
Total Value Subject
to Prior Review
US$                                      Us $
Works               Less than or equal to   Small works       None
$100,000
More than $100,000   NCB                 First 3/ - $1,200,000-
Per ministry
Goods               Less than $100,000    Shopping            None
More than $100,000   NCB                 First 3/ - $600,000
Per ministry
Services
Firms               Less than $100,000    Consultant          None
Qualification
Any value           Single Source        All/$2,000,000
More than $100,000   Quality and Cost    All/ $600,000
Based Selection
Individuals         Less than $50,000    Consultant           None
Qualification
Greater than $50,000   Consultant        All/$200,000
Qualification
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  $4,600,000



Page 28
Annex 5, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                   Dollars)         to be Financed]
(1)  Ministry of Rural Development
(a) Works                  7,000,000       50%
(b) Goods                  6,000,000       100% of foreign expenditures,
100 % of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and 70% of local
expenditures for other items
procured locally
(c) Consultants'          15,000,000       100%
services
(2)  Ministry of Health
(a) Works                 10,000,000       50%
(b) Goods                  5,000,000       100% of foreign expenditures,
1 00 % of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and 70% of local
expenditures for other items
procured locally
(3)  Ministry of National Unity and Social Development
(a) Works                  7,000,000       50%
(b) Goods                  1,000,000       100% of foreign expenditures,
100 % of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and 70% of local
expenditures for other items
procured locally
(c) Consultants'           3,500,000       100%
services
(4)  Fee                          600,000
(5)  Unallocated                4,900,000
TOTAL                 60,000,000



Page 29
Annex 6
PROJECT PROCESSING BUDGET AND SCHEDULE
A. Project Budget (US$000)                     Planned               Actual
410,000             337,000
(thru appraisal)
B. Project Schedule                            Planned               Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)     6 months
First Bank mission (identification)           07/26/1998           07/26/1998
Appraisal mission departure                   11/28/1998           11/30/1998
Negotiations                                  01/11/1999           02/01/1999
Planned Date of Effectiveness                 03/08/1999           05/30/1999
Prepared by: Economic Planning Unit, Prime Minister's Department
Preparation assistance: None
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                   Specialt
Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala                        Country Director
Katherine Marshall                       Regional Director
Natasha Beschorner                         Country Officer
Chingboon Lee                            Task Manager
Jill Armstrong                        Deputy Task Manager
Emmanuel Jimenez                       Poverty and Monitoring
Choeng-Hoy Chung                         Rural Development
Richard Meyers                        Health and Population
Branko Milanovic                    Poverty and Social Assistance
Caroline Robb                          Social Assessment
Martha Ainsworth                   Poverty and Impact Assessment
Negda Jahanshahi                   Economic and Financial Analysis
Rodrigo Cisneros                           NGO grants
Wijaya Wickrema                        Financial Management
Omowunmi Ladipo                 Financial Management and Disbursement
John Fringer                             Procurement
Hilary Kiell                            Procurement
Margaret Png                                Legal
Jean Claude Sallier                        Road Engineer
Kenneth Sigrist                        Project Management



Page 30
Annex 7
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
A. Project Implementation Plan
1 . The Social Impacts of the Economic Crisis in Malaysia - A Rapid Assessment, December
1998
2. Malaysia Social Sector Support Project - Working Paper - Rural Development and Poverty
Alleviation Component, November 1998
3. Malaysia Social Sector Support Project - Working Paper - Health and Population
Component, November 1998
4. Malaysia Social Sector Support Project - Working Paper - Social Support to Poor Students
Component, November 1998
5. Malaysia Social Sector Support Project - Working Paper - Social Assistance to
Disadvantaged Groups Component, November 1998
6. Malaysia Social Sector Support Project - Working Paper - Poverty Monitoring and Impact
Assessment Component, October 1998
7. Malaysia Social Sector Support Project - Working Paper - Project Management
Component, October 1998
B. Bank Staff Assessments
I .    Malaysia Structural Policy Review and Path to Recovery, November 2, 1998
2.    The East Asian Social Model After the Crisis, March 1998
3!    Malaysia: Country Assistance Strategy Outline, November 1998
C. Other Background Papers Consulted
I . The National Economic Recovery Plan, National Economic Action Council, Malaysia, 21
July, 1998
2. The 7th Malaysia Five-Year Development Plan (1996-2000)
3. Poverty Eradication, Expansion of Productive Employment and Social Integration in
Malaysia, 1971-1994, National Report for the World Summit for Social Development,
Copenhagen, February 1995



Page 31
Annex 8
Status of Bank Group Operations in Malaysia
Operations Portfolio
As of 04-Mar-99
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                    and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                  disbursements a/
Project ID    Year           Borrower                Purpose
IBRD       IDA    Cancell   Undisbursed   Orig          Frm Rev'd
-ations
Number of Closed Projects: 82
Active Projects
MY-PE-4312       1994   GOVT OF MALAYSIA    HEALTH                      50.00      0.00       0.00         27.72    17.56            0.00
MY-PE-4309       1993   GOVT OF MALAYSIA    POLYTECHNIC DEV            107.00      0.00       0.00         44.64    38.63            0.00
Total                                                                  157.00      0.00       0.00         72.36    56.19            0.00
Active Projects        Closed Projects           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                    84.65             2,907.84             2,992.49
of which has been repaid:                     2.32            1,980.69             1,983.01
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                   154.68               927.14             1,081.82
Amrount sold                       .                 0.00               153.40              153.40
Of which repaid                                  0.00               153.40               153.40
Total Undisbursed                  :                72.36                 0.00               72.36
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month and is currently as of 31-Jan-99.



Page 32
Annex 8
Malaysia
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 31-Jan-99
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                         Disbursed
IFC                               IFC
FY Approval          Company        Loan    Equity   Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic
1984                   SEAVI MVB           0.00      .01    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00   0.00    0.00
1990                   21st Century        3.68     0.00    0.00    2.78    3.68      0.00   0.00    2.78
1991                   SEAVI MVB 11        0.00      .62    0.00    0.00    0.00       .62   0.00    0.00
1991                   VIM MVB II          0.00      .02    0.00    0.00    0.00       .02   0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                3.68      .65    0.00    2.78    3.68       .64   0.00    2.78
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan    Equity   Quasi  Partic
1998                   TITAN VINYL        18.50     0.00    3.50   34.02
Total Pending Commitment:      18.50     0.00    3.50   34.02



Page 33
ANNEX 9
Malaysia at a glance                                                                9/15198
. East   Upper.
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             Asia &   middle-                                    -
Malaysia    Pacific  income       Development diamond*
1997
Population, mid-year (millions)                        21.0     1,753       571                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, l/S$)                   4,680       970     4,520
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                       98.3     1,707     2,504
Average annual growth, 1991-97                                                                         l
Population (%)                                          2.3       1.3       1.5      G                  8
Labor force (%l)                                        2.7       1.4       1.9      GNP                             pGross
per    |            -           primary
Most recent estimate (latestyear available, 1991-97)                                 capita                       enrollment
Poverty (f% of population below national poverty line) I/  16
Urban population (% of total population)                55         32        73
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        72         69        70
Infant mortality (per I,000 live births)                I 1        38        30
Chi malnutrition (% of children under 5)                23         16        .,                Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                  S8         84        79
Illiteracy{% of popultion age 15+)                      17         17        15
Gross primary enrollment (%of school-age population)    91        116       107         -Malaysia
Male                                                  92        118        ..              Upper-middle-income group
Female                                                92        116         -
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     1986      1996      1997
Economic ratios'
GDP fUS$ billions)                            11.5     27.7      99.3      98,5
Gross domestic investmenVGDP                  23.6     26.0      41.5      42.8
Exports of goods and services/GOP            49 7      56.3      92.0      943                      Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                    33.7     32.1      42.6 -  44.4
Gross national savings/GDP                    29.7     25.5      33,1
Current account balance/GDP                    5.0     -0.4      -5.2       4.9
Domestic
Interest paymenWsGDP                           1.3      4.7       1.4        1.6     Dmsc ,                       Investment
Total debt/GOP                                23 5     78.9      40.1                Savings
Total debt service/exports                     6.9     21.8       8.2
Present value of debt/GDP                       ..       ..      42.0
Present value of debtUexports                   .         ..     44.4
Indebtedness
197646  1987-97      1996      1997   1998-42
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  6.2       8.8      8.6       7.8        ..         - Malaysia
GNP per capita                       3.2       6.2      5.9       5.2        ..               Upper-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services        80       14.5      7.2       9.8
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986      1996      1997      Growth rates of output and investment (e)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                   26.8     19.2      12.8       12.1
Industry                                      32.3     35.5      46.2      47.3    209
Manufacturing                               17.7     18.5       34.3      35.7
Services                                     40.9      45.3      41.0      40.6
Private consumption                           50.9     51.0      46.0      44.6             92   93   94   95   96   97
General govemment consumption                 15.4     16.9      11.4      11.0                -GDI    -G--GDP
Imports of goods and services                 39.6     50.2      91.0      92.8
197646  1987-97       1996      1997      Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                    3.1      2.3       2.2        3.0    30
Industry                                       7.3     11.2      11.2       5.2    2
Manufacturing                                7.3     13.6       12.2      12.5    20
Services                                       7.1      8.8       7.7       12.7
Private consumpton                             5.8      8.4       6.0       4.7
General government consumption                7.0       7.4       1,4       4.8
Gross domestic investment                      8.5     17.0       5.8      12.9            92   93   94   95   96   97
Imports of goods and services                  9.6     18.0       4.2      10.1             -     Exports     * l mports
Gross national product                         5.8      8.7       8.4       7.5
Note: 1997 data are preiiminary estimates. 11 Poverty estimate is from 1989.
* The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Page 34
Malaysia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976    1986       1996      1997      Inflation
Domestic prices                                                                     IEto  8o
(% change)                                                                          3
Consumer prices                                  .      0.8       3.6       2.7     6
Implicit GDP deflator                         12.7    -8.6        5.2       2.9    4<
Government finance                                                                  2
(% of GOP, includes current grants)                                                 o
Current revenue                                 ..    27.3       23.6      23.9            92    93    94    95    93    97
Current budget balance                          ..    -0.8        6.1       7.4             -     GDP deflator    .  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                         ..      0.0       1.1       2.6
TRADE
(US$ millions)                               1976     1986       1996     1997      Export and import levels (US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                             ..  13,682    76,548    77,700      100,000
Fuel                                          ..   2,092       2,867                    T
Rubber                                         ..   1,233      1,395    1,419      a0,o. 
Manufactures                                  ..   6,009    62,997    63,558       60,00].
Total imports (cif                              ..  10,816    78,425    78,530       40009
Food                                          ..    1,210     3,066         .
Fuel and energy                                     1,319     3,874                20
Capital goods                                 ..   4,873    47,580                    o
Export pnce index (1995=100)                    ..      41         94         ..91  92  93  94  96  96  97
Import price index (1995=100)                   ..      33         89         ..                 Exports    e Imports
Terms oF trade (1995=100)                        ..    122        107
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                               1976     1986       1996     1997      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                5,691   15,637    91,387    92,463      0    r
Imports of goods and services                4,644   14,016    90,803    91,512                               3
Resource balance                             1,047    1,621       584      951       -                  
Net income                                    -428   -1,781    -4,613    -4,451     -4
Net current transfers                         -39       37    -1,129          ..
Currentaccount balance                        580    -123    -5,158    -4,800                                 I
Financing items (net)                         218    1,578      7,640    -1,200
Changes in net reserves                      -798   -1,455    -2,482      6,000    n10
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)          ..       ..   27,700    21,700
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)               2.5      2.6       2.5       2.8
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976    1986       1996      1997
(US$ millions)                                                                       Composition of total debt, 1996 (US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         2,713   21,880    39,777
IBRD                                        306      908        907      758
IDA                                           0        0          0        0                       A:907 D:497
Total debt service                            404    3,527      7,657        G.    |         1,068   E_E ,816|
IBRD                                         37      182        231      183
IDA                                           0        0          0        0    l|
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                               6       88          7
Official creditors                          118      -57       -777
Private creditors                           310      317      3,243                                          F 24459
Foreign direct investment                   381.    489       4,500
Portfolio equity                              0        0      4,353
World Bank program
Commitments                                 104      319          0         0     A- IBRD                       E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                47       66         85        51     B - IDA    D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                         14      109        161       126     C-IMF                         G-Short-term
Net flows                                    33      -43        -76      -75
Interest payments                            23       73         70        57
Net transfers                                10    -116        -146     -132
Development Economics                                                                                                 9/15/98



Page 35
ANNEX A: LIST OF POVERTY DISTRICTS
State                      District
Johor                Muar
Kedah                Bailing, Bandar Baharu, Pendang, Padang Terap, Sik
Kelantan             Bachok, Machang, Pasir Mas, Pasir, Pasir Puteh, Tenah Merah, Tumpat, Kuala
Kerai, Gua Musang, Geli
Melaka               Jasin
N. Sembilan          Jelebu, Kuala Pilah, Rembau, Tampin
Pahang               Kuala Lipis, Raub
Perak                Kinta, Kuala Kangsar, Perak Tengah, Larut Matang, Hulu Perak
Selangor             Hulu Selangor
Terengganu           Besut, Kuala Terengganu, Marang, Hulu Terengganu, Setiu
Sabah                Beaufort, Kinabantan, Kota Belud, Kota Marudu, Kuala Penyi, Kudat, Kunak,
Nabawan, Pitas, Ranau, Sipitang
Sarawak              Bau, Lundu, Sri Aman, Betong, Satatok, Lubuk Antu, Kanowit, Mukah,
Limbang, Lawas, Sarikei, Julau, Matu, Daro, Meradong, Song, Belaga,
Samarahan, Simunjan, Sirian, Bintulu, Tatau.
Note: A ranking of 132 districts according to poverty levels was based on data from the Ministry of
Rural Development (MORD). The Ministry compiles a list of poor districts in Peninsular Malaysia using
the registry of the hard-core poor derived from the 1995 Household Income Survey (HIS), and an
independent census of rural small-holders conducted by RISDA in 1995. Based on the combined
percentage of the rural poor from the two surveys, the eighty districts in the Peninsular Malaysia were
ranked from the poorest to the richest. The poorest 33 districts in Peninsular Malaysia were selected as
the "poverty districts". For Sabah and Sarawak, where only the Household Income Survey data are
available, 11 out of 23 districts in Sabah, and 22 out of 29 districts in Sarawak were classified as poverty
districts. Seventy percent of the rural poor live in these 66 districts.



Page 36
ANNEX B
MONITORABLE INDICATORS
Overall Project                                 Baseline      1999  2000  2001
Share of identifiable Project expenditures spent  75          75    75    75
in poverty districts
Early Childhood Education
Numbers of buildings built                        400         100   150   150
Numbers of buildings rehabilitated               1300         650   650       0
Poverty Villages
Number of villages receiving program interventions   60      10    35      15
Health Clinics
Number of rural community clinics built        31            0      20     11
Number of urban health clinics built           10            0       0     10
Assistance to Disadvantaged Groups
Number of new kindergartens                     150          40     55    55
Number of day care centers for elderly          120          30    45    45
Quantitative Poverty Monitoring
Household Income Survey (LFS/HIS 1999)                       X
Impact Evaluations                                                  X      X
Qualitative Poverty Monitoring
Beneficiary Surveys                                                 X
National Participatory Survey                                X



Page 37
ANNEX C
SIMPLIFIED PROJECT MANAGEMENT REPORTS (PMRS)



Uses of Funds By Project Activity                                                      Report 1-B -1
Government of Malaysia
Social Sector Support Project - Ministry of Rural Development Component
For The Quarter Ending dd-mmm-yy
in RM 000's
Foreign Exchange Rate lUS dollar =
Actual                             Planned                              Variance                     PAD
Project Activities                Current    Year to   Cumulative   Current    Year to   Cumulative   Current    Year to   Cumulative             Life of
Quarter      Date       To Date    Quarter        Date      To Date    Quarter         Date      To Date        Project
1. Early Childhood Education                             0           0            0           0           0           0            0           0           0             0
a) Rehabilitation of existing kindergarten buildings
- rehabilitation                                                                                                              O           0           0
- equipment                                                                                                                   0           0           0
b) Construction of new kindergarten buildings
- land preparation                                                                                                            0           0           0
- construction                                                                                                                0           0           0
- equipment                                                                                                                   0           0           0
0           0           0
0           0           0
ICarried forward to I1-B-2                                0 o         01          0           01          0l          0l           0                 0     0              0



Uses of Funds By Project Activity                                                      Report 1-B -I
Government of Malaysia
Social Sector Support Project - Ministry of Rural Development Component
For The Quarter Ending dd-mmm-yy
in RM 000's
Foreign Exchange Rate lUS dollar
Actual                             Planned                              Variance                     PAD
Project Activities              Current    Year to   Cumulative  Current    Year to   Cumulative   Current    Year to   Cumulative               Life of
Quarter      Date       To Date    Quarter        Date      To Date    Quarter         Date       To Date        Project
Brought forward from 1-B-I                            0           0           0           0            0           0           0            0           0              0
2. Poverty Village Development                        0           0           0            0           0           0           0            0           0              0
a) Housing assistance
- construction of new houses                                                                                                 0            0           0
- repairs of existing homes                                                                                                  0            0           0
b) Construction of community hall                                                                                              0            0           0
c) Construction of religious hall (not Bank financed)                                                                          0            0           0
d) Construction of recreation facility                                                                                         0            0           0
e) Pre-school education
- land preparation, construction and                                                                                       0           0           0
equipping of kindergartens                                                                                              0            0           0
f) Human resource development courses
- family values                                                                                                           0            0           0
- vocational skills                                                                                                       O            O           O
- tutorials                                                                                                                0           0           0
Total Project Expenditure                             0           O                  0 0                           0           0      0    O           0a             0



Uses of Funds By Project Activity                                              Report 1-B -1
for contracts above (i) the prior review threshold
(ii) USD 100,000 equivalent
Government of Malaysia
Social Sector Support Project - Ministry of Rural Development Component
as at dd-mmm-yy
Contract                Contract                Supplier/                Nationality    Zip Code   Contract   Amount   Amount
Description               Number                Contractor                                 if U.S.    Value   Invoiced to   Paid to
__________        ~Date      Date
Equipment
National Shopping
Civil Works
National Shopping



Uses of Funds By Project Activity                                                 Report 1-B -1
for contracts above (i) the prior review threshold
(ii) USD 100,000 equivalent
Government of Malaysia
Social Sector Support Project - Ministry of Rural Development Component
as at dd-mmm-yy
Contract                 Contract                Consultant                 Nationality     Zip Code   Contract   Amount   Amount
Description                Number                                                             if U.S.     Value   Invoiced to   Paid to
Date       Date
Quality and Cost Based Selection
Consultants Services
Other



Uses of Funds By Project Activity                                                        Report 1-B -1
for contracts above (i) the prior review threshold
(ii) USD 100,000 equivalent
Government of Malaysia
Social Sector Support Project - Ministry of Rural Development Component
as at dd-mmm-yy
Bidding Process Dates (dd/mm/yy)
Contract             Tender   Bid Docs Ready      No Objection      Call for Bids     Bid Open         No Objection       Contract          Contract              Supplier/
Description            No.                                                                                                 Signature           End                Contractor
Est.    Actual    Est.    Actual    Est.    Actual    Est.    Actual    Est.    Actual    Est.    Actual    Est.    Actual  _
Equipment
National Shopping
Civil Works
National Shopping



Uses of Funds By Project Activity                                                        Report 1-B -1
for contracts above (i) the prior review threshold
(ii) USD 100,000 equivalent
Government of Malaysia
Social Sector Support Project - Ministry of Rural Development Component
as at dd-mmm-yy
Bidding Process Dates (dd/mm/yy)
Contract             Tender   Bid Docs Ready     No Objection       Call for Bids      Bid Open        No Objection       Contract          Contract              Consultant
Description            No.                                                                                                 Signature           End
Est.    Actual    Est.    Actual    Est.    Actual    Est.    Actual    Est.    Actual    Est.    Actual    Est.    Actual
Quality and Cost Based Selection
Consultants Services
Other



Uses of Funds By Project Activity                                                     Report 1-B
Government of Malaysia
Social Sector Support Project - Ministry of Health Component
For The Quarter Ending dd-mmm-yy
in RM OOO's
Foreign Exchange Rate lUS dollar
Actual                            Planned               _            Variance                    PAD
Project Activities                    Current    Year to   Cumulative  Current    Year to   Cumulative  Current    Year to   Cumulative            Life of
Quarter      Date      To Date    Quarter       Date      To Date    Quarter        Date      To Date       Project
Maintain Provision of Essential Health
Services During the Current Financial Crisis.
(A) Construct Community Clinics (KD's)                                                                                                   O                      O
(B) Construct Health Clinics (KK's)                               0           0          0           0           0           0           0          0           O
- Pahang                                                                                                                              0           0           0
- Sabah                                                                                                                               0           0           0
- Other States                                                                                                                        0           0           0
(C) Purchase Medical Equipment                                    0           0          0           0           0           0           0          0           0
- Community Clinics                                                                                                                   0           0           O
- Health Clinics                                                                                                                      0           0           0
(D) Purchase Furniture                                            0           0          0           0           0           0           0          0           0
- Community Clinics                                                                                                                   0           0           0
- Health Clinic in Pahang                                                                                                             0           0           0
- Health Clinic in Sabah                                                                                                              0           0           0
- Health Clinics in Other States                                                                                                      0           0           0
(E) Purchase Motor Vehicles for Health Clinics                                                                                           0          0           0
Total Project Expenditure                                         0           0          0           o           0           0           0 o        0           0             0 o



Uses of Funds By Project Activity                                                     Report 1-B
for contracts above (i) the prior review threshold
(ii) USD 100,000 equivalent
Government of Malaysia
Social Sector Support Project - Ministry of Health Component
as at dd-mmm-yy
Contract                  Contract                Supplier/                  Nationality     Zip Code   Contract   Amount   Amount
Description                Number                  Contractor                                   if U.S.    Value   Invoiced to   Paid to
Date       Date
Equipment
National Competitive Bidding
- contracts awarded for equipping KD's
- contracts awarded for KK vehicles
Local Shopping
- contracts awarded for equipping KK's
- contracts awarded for purchasing furniture
Civil Works
National Competitive Bidding
- contracts awarded for construction of KD's
- contracts awarded for construction of KK's
KD = Community Clinics
KK   =H ealth   Clinics__                   _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___ _ _ _ _                     __ _ _ ___                _ _ _ _



Uses of Funds By Project Activity                                                                 Report 1-B
for contracts above (i) the prior review threshold
(ii) USD 100,000 equivalent
Government of Malaysia
Social Sector Support Project - Ministry of Health Component
as at dd-mmm-yy
Bidding Process Dates (dd/mm/yy)                                                   _
Contract               Tender  Bid Docs Ready       No Objection        Call for Bids       Bid Open         No Objection         Contract           Contract               Supplier/
Description               No.                                                                                                      Signature             End                Contractor
Est.    Actual    Est.    Actual    Est.    Actual    Est.    Actual    Est.    Actual    Est.    Actual    Est.    Actual
Equipment
National Conmpetitive Bidding
- contracts awarded for equipping KD's
- contracts awarded for KK vehicles
Shopping
- contracts awarded for equipping KK's
- contracts awarded for furniture
Civil Works
National Conmpetitive Bidding
- contracts awarded for KD construction
- contracts awarded for KK construction
KD = Community Clinics
KK = Health Clinics                                                                                                     . -



Uses of Funds By Project Activity                                                         Report 1-B
Government of Malaysia
Social Sector Support Project - Ministry of National Unity and Social Development Component
For The Quarter Ending dd-mmm-yy
in RM 000's
Foreign Exchange Rate lUS dollar -
Actual                             Planned                              Variance                     PAD
Project Activities              Current    Year to   Cumulative   Current    Year to   Cumulative   Current    Year to   Cumulative               Life of
Quarter      Date       To Date    Quarter        Date       To Date    Quarter        Date       To Date        Project
1. Kindergartens                                      0           0            0           0           0           0            0           0            0             0
a) refurbishment of existing kindergartens                                                                                    0           0           0
b) construction of new kindergartens                                                                                          0           0           0
c) equipment                                                                                                                  0           0           0
d) teacher training                                                                                                           0           0           0
2. NGO Homes and Shelters                             0           0            0           0           0           0            0           0            0             0
a) renovation                                                                                                                 0           0           0
b) equipment                                                                                                                  0           0           0
c) training of volunteers & caregivers                                                                                        0           0           0
d) tuition fees                                                                                                               0           0           0
3. Government Homes and Shelters                      0            0           0           0           0           0            0           0            0             0
a) equipment                                                                                                                  0           0           0
b) training of volunteers & caregivers                                                                                        0           0           0
5. Women's Centres                                    0            0           0           0           0           0            0           0            0             0
a) construction                                                                                                               0           0           0
b) equipment                                                                                                                  0           0           0
c) advisory panels                                                                                                            0           0           0
0
Total Project Expenditure                                          O           O           1           O           O            O           0            o0 _



Uses of Funds By Project Activity                                                  Report 1-B
for contracts above (i) the prior review threshold
(ii) USD 100,000 equivalent
Government of Malaysia
Social Sector Support Project - Ministry of National Unity and Social Development Component
as at dd-mmm-yy
Contract                 Contract               Supplier/                 Nationality    Zip Code   Contract   Amount   Amount
Description               Number                 Contractor                                 if U.S.    Value   Invoiced to   Paid to
_____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ D ate  D ate
Equipment
National Competitive Bidding
National Shopping
Civil Works
National Shopping



IL SCS o w,unc s nyn rojeci; iicltivlvIy                                                 .~Lepor.
for contracts above (i) the prior review threshold
(ii) USD 100,000 equivalent
Government of Malaysia
Social Sector Support Project - Ministry of National Unity and Social Development Component
as at dd-mmm-yy
Contract                   Contract                 Consultant                   Nationality     Zip Code   Contract   Amount    Amount
Description                 Number                                                                  if U.S.     Value    Invoiced to   Paid to
._________ . ___________________________________             .______.__                          _ _._______   D ate  D ate
Quality and Cost Based Selection
Consultant Qualifications
Single Source Selection



Uses of Funds By Project Activity                                                           Report 1-B
for contracts above (i) the prior review threshold
(ii) USD 100,000 equivalent
Government of Malaysia
Social Sector Support Project - Ministry of National Unity and Social Development Component
as at dd-mmm-yy
Bidding Process Dates (dd/mm/yy)
Contract             Tender   Bid Docs Ready     No Objection      Call for Bids      Bid Open        No Objection       Contract          Contract               Supplier/
Description            No.                                                                                                Signature            End                Contractor
Est.   Actual    Est.    Actual    Est.    Actual    Est.    Actual    Est,    Actual    Est.    Actual    Est.    Actual
Equipment
National Competitive Bidding
National Shopping
Civil Works
National Shopping



Uses of Funds By Project Activity                                                              Report 1-B
for contracts above (i) the prior review threshold
(ii) USD 100,000 equivalent
Government of Malaysia
Social Sector Support Project - Ministry of National Unity and Social Development Component
as at dd-mmm-yy
Bidding Process Dates (dd/mm/yy)                              _ ___            l
Contract             Tender   Bid Docs Ready       No Objection       Call for Bids      Bid Open         No Objection        Contract           Contract              Consultant
Description             No.                                                                                                    Signature            End
Est.    Actual    Est.    Actual    Est.    Actual    Est.    Actual    Est.    Actual    Est.    Actual    Est.    Actual
Quality and Cost Based Selection
Consultant Qualifications
Single Source Selection



