Report No. PID6999
Project Name                     Malaysia-The Social Protection Project (+)
Region                           East Asia & Pacific
Project ID                       MYPE60943
Borrower                         Malaysia-Ministry of Finance
Implementing Agencies
The Economic Planning Unit, Ministry of
Health, Ministry of Rural Development,
Ministry of National Unity and Social
Development, Ministry of Education
Date of  PID Preparation         October 23,1998
Appraisal Date                   December 1, 1998
Projected Board Date             January 21, 1999
I.      Country and Project Background
Malaysia's development record over the past decades has been
impressive. The Malaysian economy, a mixture of private enterprise and a
soundly managed public sector, posted remarkable growth in real per capita GDP
over the past decades. This growth translated into significant progress in
all  sectors, with a substantial reduction in poverty.
During the last quarter of a century, the poverty rate (using the poverty
line of $2 international dollars at 1985 prices) decreased from slightly over
half the population to 7.8 per cent. Hard core poverty, defined as households
with incomes 50 per cent below the poverty line, and concentrated in rural
areas was reduced from 7 per cent in 1985 to about 1-2 per cent in 1998.
Growth being the prime engine for poverty reduction notwithstanding, the
government also pursued a number of targeted anti-poverty policies whose
efficiency has generally been favorably assessed.
Since the late 1970s and early 1980s, a variety of social assistance
programs have been administered by the Ministry of Rural Development (for the
rural poor), Ministry of National Unity and Social Development (for children,
elderly, handicapped etc. in both urban and rural areas), and the Ministry of
Education (for students from low-income households). A common characteristic
of these programs is that they emphasize one-shot grants and loans rather than
current transfers, given that the philosophy of the Malaysian government is
against open-ended (cash) welfare that may encourage idleness and dependency.
These programs are in general, well-run and have contributed to poverty
reduction, even if the modest size of spending on these programs (0.3 per cent
of GDP in 1997) means that while they were significant at the margin, they
have by no means been the key instrument for poverty reduction. This
situation however, must be reviewed for the medium term, given that changing
demographic trends and consumption patterns (as a result of increasing
affluence) may necessitate a more substantial and formalized social safety
net to compensate for weakening informal systems of support.
In addition to social assistance, the social protection framework also
includes labor policies affording protection to workers through a severance
pay requirement, working conditions standards, and a workmen's compensation
fund for invalidity and disablement benefits. There is no unemployment
insurance scheme because the Government is concerned about the disincentives



for work that such a scheme may bring. There are several pensions schemes of
which the primary ones are the: (i) Employee Provident Fund covering almost
the entire work force of 8 million, half of which are currently active
contributors; (ii) Pension Trust Fund responsible for pensions paid to retired
civil servants; and (iii) Armed Forces Fund covering pensions to retired
military personnel.
Malaysia's effective fiscal policy coupled with its strong financial and
institutional framework have helped buffer the immediate impacts of the
financial crisis. Nevertheless, as the crisis unfolds, the social impacts are
becoming increasingly significant. The ringgit has shown considerable
volatility since July of 1997, depreciating by 55 percent. The rate of growth
in real GDP has decreased from 7.8 percent in 1997 to a projected negative 4.8
percent in 1998.
Preliminary data indicate that the adverse social impacts of the crisis
will be substantial. Assuming a real GDP decline of 5 per cent in 1998 which
translates into a drop in real per capita income of about 7.5 per cent, the
poverty headcount will rise from about 5 to 6.5 per cent, resulting in an
additional 300,000 persons joining the ranks of the officially poor. The poor
will also be negatively impacted by the price effect of the crisis, given that
food prices have risen faster than other components of the CPI, and food
accounts for almost 45 per cent of expenditures of the lowest quintile versus
only 35 per cent for an average household. The economy has gone from full
employment (the unemployment rate fell to 2.5 per cent of the work force in
1997), to an unemployment rate of 4.5 per cent in mid-1998 that is expected to
reach 6.5 per cent (about 520,000 people) by the end of the year. Wage rates
are expected to be flat or falling. Inflation has increased from about 3 per
cent last July to 7.8 per cent in mid-1998. Health and education utilization
data indicate a substantial switch in demand for services from the private to
the public sector. As public revenues have declined, cutbacks in Government
spending have begun to affect services, despite efforts to protect programs
providing essential social services. Protecting these programs will be
critical not only for the rural poor (the traditional target group), but also
for the "new" urban poor. The implication of today's greater urbanization
and "formalization" of the Malaysian economy is that a much greater share of
people who have been adversely affected by the crisis are likely to be in the
urban areas, and the traditional cushion of "reverse migration" (going back
to the countryside), while still feasible for some, will by no means be
available to all urban laborers who may be retrenched.
In view of these circumstances in July 1998, the Government announced a
National Economic Recovery Plan to bring the economy back on a positive growth
path. One of the six strategic objectives of the National Economic Recovery
Plan is to continue the country's equity and socio-economic agenda which had
been instrumental during the past two decades, in maintaining social stability
in the country. In line with this objective, the Government has proposed a
plan of action to mitigate the adverse social impacts of the crisis which
threaten to reverse the gains made in the past. The Government has approached
the Bank for help in strengthening this plan and implementing it through a
Social Protection Project. Specifically, this Project will have to be
developed on a rapid timetable in order that it is able to support the
Government's compensatory and fiscal stimulus measures in the near term, aimed
at protecting the poor and vulnerable groups from the emerging adverse social
impacts of the crisis.
II.     Project Objectives
-2-



The project has two main objectives. The major objective of the project
is to support the National Economic Recovery Plan strategy for ameliorating
the adverse impacts of the economic crisis on the poor and near poor through
maintaining their welfare and access to as well as use of, essential social
services, particularly by those groups located in the three poorest states
(Kelantan, Trengganu and Sabah). Essential social services are broadly
defined to include basic health services which are predominantly used by the
poor, social assistance to the needy (the hard core poor, school children
from poor households, disadvantaged groups including indigenous peoples), as
well as financial assistance (i.e., micro-credit) to the poor for
employment/income generating activities. Given that there is no unemployment
insurance and hardly any family-related transfers in Malaysia, these essential
social services are de facto, the social safety net in Malaysia.     A second
objective of the project is to strengthen the monitoring of poverty over time
as well as of the effectiveness of programs designed to reduce poverty and to
mitigate the adverse impact of the crisis, particularly those supported by the
project.
III.    Project Description
The project consists of six independent components. The four primary
components support carefully selected on-going government programs developed
within four line Ministries and consist of: The Rural Development and Poverty
Alleviation Component; The Social Support for Poor Students Component; The
Health and Population Services Component; and The Social Assistance for
Disadvantaged Groups Component. In addition, a Poverty Monitoring and Impact
Assessment Component supports the Social Protection Project's institutional
strengthening objective. Finally, Project Management Component has been
designed to support the operation of the Project Management Office, and its
responsibilities for oversight and monitoring of disbursements, financial
management as well as special account management and training, procurement
oversight and training, project reporting, and support to the Project Steering
Committee.
A.      Rural Development and Poverty Alleviation (Ministry of Rural Development)
(i)             Integrated Poverty Village Development Program (US$ 22.76 million).
This sub-component will support in the poverty districts, income generation
activities, housing rehabilitation, and in-situ community development for
villages with a high percentage of hard core poor.
(ii)            Rural Infrastructure Program (US$145.68 million).     This sub-
component  will finance labor intensive, community-based projects to:    (i)
improve the quality of village roads linking villages in poverty districts to
market centers; and (ii) provide electric power to villages in remote areas.
(iii)           Early Childhood and Preschool Education Program (US$33.14
million).   This sub-component   will support the construction and upgrading of
preschools in villages located in the poverty districts, as well as the pre-
service and in-service training of teachers for the preschools.
(iv)            Rural Micro-Credit Program (US$14.77 million).     This sub-component
will provide funding to the Amanah Ikhtiar Malaysia (an NGO) to expand its
rural micro-credit program.
(v)             RISDA Smallholder Revitalization Program (US$19.00 million). This
program will promote grouped retapping and improved technology transfer for
abandoned urban periphery rubber holdings as well as under-tapped areas in
poverty districts
B.      Social Support for Poor Students (Ministry of Education)
(i)             Supplementary Nutrition Program for Primary School Children
(US$65.92 million).   This program will provide a rice-based meal and milk to
-3 -



primary school children from poor families whose household income is below Rm
750 per month.
(ii)            Textbooks Loan Program (US$55.34 million).        This program will finance
the purchase of textbooks which are loaned out to primary and secondary school
children from poor families whose household income is below Rm 1,000 per
month.
C.      Health and Population Services (Ministry of    Health)
(i)             Rural Community And Health Clinics Program (US$32.37 million).
This will support the construction and equipping of community health clinics
in poverty districts.
(ii)            Rural Water And Sanitation Program (US$15.57 million).     This
program will provide safe drinking water supplies and sanitary latrines for
rural households in poverty districts.
(iii)           Essential Drugs Program (US$55.07 million).     This sub-component
will finance the purchase of essential drugs for public hospitals and health
clinics (in both rural and urban areas) used primarily by low income groups.
(iv)            Surveillance Of Communicable Diseases (US$1.79 million). This sub-
component will strengthen the control of communicable diseases, particularly
in the Orang Asli (indigenous people) community.
(v)             Family Planning Services (US$1.23 million).     This sub-component
will finance the purchase of contraceptive supplies, production and
distribution of IEC materials, and the training of health professionals in
related family planning skills.
D.      Social Assistance for Disadvantaged Groups (Ministry of National Unity &
Social Development)
(i)             Support for NGOs (US$28.48 million). This sub-component will
support capacity building measures of NGOs that work in coordination with the
Ministry's efforts to deliver social services to disadvantaged groups. It
also provides support to small grants scheme for NGOs providing economic and
social services to the poor and near poor.
(ii)            Support for Women (US$17.37 million). This sub-component will
finance the construction and operation of Women's Service Centers which
provide training and counseling services, and temporary shelter to abused
women.
E.      Poverty Monitoring and Impact Assessment (Economic Planning Unit and four
line Ministries)
(i)             Poverty Monitoring (US$0.82 million). This sub-component will
finance: (i) an enhanced household income survey during the first quarter of
1999 to collect information on how the crisis has impacted families over the
past 12 months; and (ii) capacity building measures for the Department of
Statistics and the Economic Planning Unit on monitoring poverty across time.
(ii)            In-depth Impact Evaluations (US$0.71 million). This sub-component
will finance an in-depth assessment by the Economic Planning Unit of three
major anti-poverty programs supported under the project.
(iii)           Beneficiary and Participatory Assessments (US$0.38 million).
This sub-component, to be implemented by the four line ministries, will fund
qualitative beneficiary and national participatory (baseline, mid-term and
final) assessments to monitor the impact of the programs supported by the
project, as well as the crisis impacts being addressed by the Project.
F.      Project Management (US$0.09 million)
This component will support the operation of the Project Management Office,
and its responsibilities for oversight and monitoring of disbursements,
financial management as well as special account management and training,
procurement oversight and training, project reporting, and support to the
Project Steering Committee.
-4-



IV.     Project Implementation and Monitoring
Executing Agencies:   (i) Ministry of Rural Development will execute the Rural
Development and Poverty Alleviation component; (ii) Ministry of Education
will execute the Social Support for Poor Students component; (iii) Ministry
of Health will execute the Health and Population Services component; (iv)
Ministry of National Unity and Social Development will execute the Social
Assistance for Disadvantaged Groups component; (v) the Economic Planning
Unit, Department of Statistics and the four line ministries will execute the
Poverty Monitoring and Impact Assessment component; and (vi) Implementation
Coordination Unit under the Prime Minister's Department, will execute the
baseline, mid term and final National Participatory Assessments.
Project Management: A Project Management Office attached to the Economic
Planning Unit, will carry out day-to-day project coordination with the
Economic Planning Unit sections concerned, and with the Project Implementation
Units in each of the four line ministries.    Specifically,   the Project
Management Office will oversee project finances, accounting, and project
procurement as carried out by each implementing agency, contract for regular
audits, collect/compile reports on the quantitative and qualitative
assessments, and prepare quarterly monitoring reports on Project
implementation for the Project Steering Committee, and the World Bank.
Project Implementation Units have already been established in the Ministry of
Education and the Ministry of Health for externally-funded projects.     In the
case of the Ministry of Rural Development and Ministry of National Unity and
Social Development, new Project Implementation Units will have to be set up.
Project Oversight: The Government will appoint a Project Steering Committee
to: (i) oversee project implementation as carried out by each implementing
agency; and (ii) based on feedback from the household income survey, in-depth
impact evaluations as well as beneficiary and national participatory
assessments, make mid-course adjustments and/or reallocation of Project
resources, as appropriate. The Deputy Director-General, Macroeconomic Policy
of the Economic Planning Unit, will serve as the overall Project Director
and chairperson of the Project Steering Committee. Members of the Project
Steering Committee will include representatives of the Ministry of Finance,
the Accountant General's Office, the Implementation Coordination Unit, the
four line ministries, and at least two non-government institutions. The
Project Management Office will report to the Project Director, who in turn,
will report to the Project Steering Committee. Finally, an Advisory panel
comprising government and non-government experts will be appointed to assure
the quality of the poverty monitoring (quantitative and qualitative) reports
and therefore, their usefulness for guiding the Project Steering Committee in
resource reallocation decisions.
Accounting, Financial Reporting and Auditing Arrangements: Four special
accounts will be operated corresponding to each of the implementing
agencies/ministries. These will be opened under the authority of the Ministry
of Finance which will exercise overall supervision over the system including
authorizing the establishment of the accounts, approving signature authority
and receiving copies of the withdrawal and replenishment applications for ex
post review. The implementing units will have responsibility for payments out
of the individual accounts and for the preparation of the withdrawal and
replenishment requests. The Project Management Office will contract
independent auditors to conduct periodic accounting and financial audits of
the implementing agencies.
-5-



Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements: The Project components will be
monitored at the level of the implementing agencies on a program by program
basis. For each program , the internal efficiency, output, and outcome
indicators will be collected by the implementing agencies and reported to the
Project Management Office for review and checks before preparing quarterly
reports to the Bank. Project wide indicators (i.e., budget and spending
levels of the four ministries, regional targeting coefficient, effective use
of quantitative and qualitative monitoring instruments) will be compiled by
the Project Management Office based on examination of government financial
reports, independent technical field reviews, and findings of the beneficiary
and participatory assessments
V.      Project Financing
The total cost of the project including contingencies for the entire
project is estimated at US$510.483. This includes: US$106.02 for the Health
and Population Services Programs; US$235.35 for The Rural Development and
Poverty Alleviation Programs; US$121.26 for the Social Support for Poor
Students Programs; US$45.85 for the Social Assistance for the Disadvantaged
Groups Programs; US$1.91 for the Poverty Monitoring and Impact Assessment
component; and US$.09 for Project Management
The Project Management Component expects co-financing from UNDP and the
Asia Crisis Fund (Australia).    OECF will be approached for co-financing of
selected line agency programs.
VI.     Sustainability
A key criterion for selection of programs for Project financing is the
requirement that they are existing programs with established budgetary
mechanisms to assure maintenance and operation of the assets created. The
hard core poverty program for e.g., has been in existence since the early
1980s. Many other programs (essential drugs, social welfare for disadvantaged
groups, supplementary nutrition for school children, family planning services)
are financed through annual operating budgets whose funding will resume from
general revenues when the economy stabilizes in the mid term. During project
appraisal, institutional capacities to manage and maintain the assets to be
financed by the Project (village roads, safe drinking water systems, medical
equipment, etc.), will be carefully assessed.
VII.    Lessons Learned from Past Operations
The Project incorporates lessons from similar programs in other crisis-
affected countries.   These lessons include: 1. focusing on [Note:    Lessons
learned from completed and ongoing projects financed by the Bank and other
development agencies.]heTheTselected, established government programs
facilitates effective implementation and supervision (Bank financing is
directed at four sectoral programs); (ii) upstream agreement on procurement
and financing accounting practices prevents implementation delays; (iii)
allowing for flexibility in project design and ability to reflect emerging
implementation experience based on continued monitoring of both the
performance of Project interventions and evolving crisis impacts; (iv) tapping
institutional capacity of all agencies as well as community groups (based on
comparative advantage) for cost-effective and speedy delivery of services; and
(vi) the importance of high standards of transparency and accountability and
the need for rigorous supervision to assure good governance as well as to
resolve bottlenecks quickly (critical for rapid disbursement and near term
impact).
-6-



VIII.     Poverty Category
Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)
IX.     Environmental Aspects
The Project is assigned a "B" environmental classification because the
only sub-component with significant environmental implications is the village
roads program. This sub-component involves the upgrading of village roads
and/or their link to existing rural roads and rural growth centers. The
environmental impact however, is expected to be minimal. First, the village
roads will retain existing alignments and would essentially improve surfacing
(track to gravel or gravel to tar) which might involve some widening. It will
not, however, involve heavy earthworks, forest cutting or major distortions to
drainage systems. Second, no new roads will be built into remote areas as the
connections will be from village to village, and to higher designed road
systems. There is therefore, minimal risk that they would encourage
destruction of pristine conservation areas or vulnerable environments like
head watershed areas. Given the minimal adverse impacts described above, there
is no need for a full environmental assessment. The Project will, however,
require that the Ministry of Rural Development provide the Bank, their Village
Roads Design Guide for review and approval by the Bank.
X.       Program Objective Category
To be determined.
XI.      Contact Point:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending October 30, 199
- 7 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it is
prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental
Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public Information Document
(PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.
-8-



