Page  1
1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB5004 
 
Operation Name 
Programmatic Public Expenditure Development Policy Loan 
(PEDPL) 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
Central Government Administration (40%); General Public 
Administration (40%), Pension Insurance (20%). 
Project ID 
P108759 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF SERBIA 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
August 11, 2009 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
August 18, 2009 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
October 20, 2009 
1.  Country and sector background 
 
The Serbian economy grew strongly until 2008, fuelled by aggregate demand, and on the back of 
significant economic changes since 2000.
 
Real growth of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) 
averaged 6.2 percent in 2007 and 2008. Demand-led growth was linked to a significant credit 
boom, expansionary fiscal policies, increases in real wages, and rapid increases in exports.  
Output has risen by nearly 50 percent since 2000, as the corporate sector started to post profits 
and the banking sector was restructured.  In 2008, FDI reached an estimated 5.5 percent of GDP 
and net borrowing from abroad reached 9.6 percent of GDP. Strong economic growth was 
accompanied by a widening current account deficit and increasing private sector debt.  The 
current account deficit reached 17.1 percent of GDP in 2008, up from 8.7 percent in 2005.  High 
fiscal and current account deficits, further aggravated by rapid credit growth (mostly foreign-
currency denominated) left Serbia vulnerable to the current global crisis.  
As in most emerging economies, medium-term growth prospects have been severely dampened, 
and the economy will be in recession in 2009.  Economic activity fell sharply in the final quarter 
of 2008 and slumped in the first few months of 2009 and external adjustment has started. 
Serbia뭩 
growth is projected to decline to -2 percent of GDP in 2009 and no growth in 2010. At the outset 
of the crisis there was significant pressure on the banking sector since there was significant 
withdrawal of private foreign currency deposits. In addition, there was significant depreciation of 
the local currency which made even more difficult regular servicing of credits which are 
otherwise dominantly (about 70 percent) denominated in foreign currencies. As a result of these 
adverse developments and economic shocks unemployment started to rise. As per the Labor Force 
Survey unemployment rate increased from 14 to 15.6 percent from the last quarter of 2008 till 
April 2009. Living standards deteriorated with wages lower in real terms by 10 percent in the first 
half of the year compared to the same period of 2008.   
2. Proposed Objective 
 
The Public Expenditure DPL series is designed to support the government in the creation of a 
smaller and more efficient public sector while at the same time providing for well targeted social 
programs. The level of public spending in Serbia is high relative to other countries in the 
Page  2
2
region. Both current and capital spending has been increasing between 2005 and 2009. Within 
current transfers, wages and pensions account for most of the increases. The increase in the wage 
bill reflects both increases in employment levels and wages in health and education. The 
substantial increase in pension payments is due to past indexation of pensions to sharply growing 
wages and one large exceptional pension increase in late 2008. In contrast, subsidies have been 
declining. 
The Government뭩 reform program to improve the efficiency of public spending consists of 
measures that can be structured in three pillars.
 
(i) public expenditure management reforms to 
address excessive and poorly managed fiscal spending with a particular focus on fiduciary issues; 
(ii) public expenditure allocation reforms to improve the quality of spending in the largest 
spending sectors where crisis-related nominal freezes are in place in the short-term and the design 
of the medium-term reforms package is currently particularly critical; and (iii) social assistance 
especially to cushion the impact of the current crisis and to enhance the coverage of the programs 
going forward.
 
3.  Rationale for Bank involvement 
 
The proposed DPL program would focus on structural reforms aimed at improving the 
productivity of spending and containing overall spending levels in the context of the crisis. The 
proposed operation builds on the previous World Bank work with the Government of Serbia 
(GoS), as supported by previous Structural Adjustment Operations and helps the GoS to prepare 
the best for mitigation of the impact of the international economic crisis. The proposed operation 
is complemented by another DPL series aimed at supporting Serbia뭩 Private and Financial Sector 
Development. 
 
4. Preliminary description 
 
The objective of the PEDPL will be achieved through supporting reforms carried out by the GoS 
which are summarized in three pillars: 
 
Pillar I - Public Expenditure Management Reforms
:

Putting in place a more comprehensive, integrated medium-term planning and budgeting 
framework
 

Improving public expenditure monitoring and control 

Strengthening debt management 
 
Pillar II  - Public Expenditure Allocation Reforms 

Containing the public sector wage bill and improving public administration 

Making the pensions system fiscally sustainable 
 
Pillar III  - Social assistance and protecting the most vulnerable
 

Improving  the tracking of the demand for social assistance and social program 
performance and impact 

Promoting access to more adequate means-tested cash benefits and to social services 
 
5. Benefits and Risks 
 
The potential benefits of the proposed Operation are substantial and include: 
Page  3
3

Meeting fiscal needs, as detailed in the IMF-supported Government program. Board 
approval of this loan and its related disbursement would help secure financing of the fiscal 
deficit and would help cushion the impact on the economy of the global economic crisis. 

Supporting the policy dialogue to help cushion the impact of the fiscal crisis by moving 
forward structural reforms and improving medium-term public sector productivity.  
The envisaged reform program would be consistent with the GoS뭩 aspiration for eventual 
membership in the European Union (EU). 
 
The proposed DPL series is a relatively high risk Operation. Serbia went into the financial crisis 
with high fiscal and current account deficits, aggravated by rapid foreign currency credit growth 
and large cross-border borrowing of domestic enterprises. An ongoing IMF program hinges on 
large fiscal adjustment and requires very significant external financial support and private sector 
debt rollover. Specific risks include (i) uncertainty over the global economic outlook; and (ii) 
limited capacity of some public sector institutions to design and implement ambitious reforms. 
 
6. Poverty and Social Impacts and Environmental Aspects 
 
The growth slowdown is expected to lead to higher poverty rates. Serbia뭩 poverty rates declined 
substantially before the onset of the current global economic crisis. Between 2004 and 2008, the 
fraction of the poor below the poverty line declined by half. However, with economic growth 
projected to contract by 4 percent in 2009 from 6 percent growth rate in 2008, the fraction of the 
poor is expected to increase. The data from the most recent household budget survey (HBS 2008) 
shows that even a 5 percent decrease in the incomes of those above the poverty line will increase 
poverty by 1.4 percentage points, roughly 90,000 more people. 
 
The social assistance reforms proposed under this Operation are expected to lower poverty. The 
proposed reforms are expected to protect and increase access to means-tested programs. The 
nature of the reforms suggested in the area of public expenditure management is such that it can 
be assumed that they are not going to lead to any adverse distributional shift. However, tentative 
Bank analysis suggests that there might be some concerns about the distributional impact of the 
extending the freeze of pensions to 2010, proposed under a potential DPL 2. Following further 
analysis, the Bank will discuss with the Authorities measures to mitigate this impact. 
 
The major pillars of the PEDPL series have been assessed for likely significant effects on the 
environment, forests and natural resources under the requirements of the World Bank's OP 8.60. 
The specific country policies supported by the Operation are not likely to have significant effects 
on Serbia's environment and natural resources. The measures contemplated under the loan are 
primarily geared towards supporting the increased efficiency and sustainability of public 
expenditures. This will cover cross-sectoral public sector reforms, sectoral reform in pensions and 
public sector wages, and social protection. None of the sectors included in the Operation are 
expected to have any direct significant links to the environment. 
 
7. Tentative financing 
 
The full IBRD loan is expected to be withdrawn in a single tranche of an amount equivalent to 
US$100 million  
 
8. Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
Page  4
4
The Ministry of Finance will be responsible for the overall implementation of the proposed 
operation and for reporting process and coordinating actions among other concerned ministries 
and agencies. The Bank will monitor actions and review progress of the implementation of the 
proposed operation, as well as the subsequent actions of the GoS program by using the short term 
and overall program outcomes outlined in the Policy Matrix. 
 
9. Contact point: 
 
Contact: 
Marina 
Wes 
   or 
 Lazar 
Sestovic 
 
Title: 
Lead 
Economist 
     Country 
Economist 
Tel: 
(+381-11) 
3023-706 
    (+381-11) 
3023-709 
Fax: 
(+381-11) 
3023-732 
    (+381-11) 
3023-732 
Email: 
mwes@worldbank.org
lsestovic@worldbank.org
 
