                                  Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                     Report No: ICR2494




         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                          (TF054521)

                                      ON A



                                      GRANT

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF DKK 60 MILLION
                      (US$10 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                      TO THE

                PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION
          (FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE PALESTINIAN AUTHORITY)

                                      FOR A

          LOCAL GOVERNMENT CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT




                              December 26, 2012




Sustainable Development Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                 (Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2012)
               Currency Unit = New Israeli Shequalim (NIS)
                         1.00 NIS = US$0.25455
                         US$1.00 = NIS 3.9285
                        US$1.00 = DKK 5.9091
                            FISCAL YEAR
                          January to December
                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
COTS     Customized Off-The Shelf
DANIDA   Danish International Development Assistance
DKK      Danish Kroner
EMSRP    Emergency Municipal Services Rehabilitation Project (I and II)
FPPM     Financial Policies and Procedures Manual
FMIS     Financial Management Information System
FY       Fiscal Year
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
ICR      Implementation Completion and Results Report
IEG      Independent Evaluation Group
IFC      International Finance Corporation
IFMIS    Integrated Financial Management Information System
ISR      Implementation Status and Results Report
JSC      Joint Service Council
LDP      Local Development Program (Danish funding)
LDSW     Locally Developed Software
LG       Local Government
LGRDP    Local Government Reform and Development Program (Belgian funding)
LGU      Local Government Unit
MDLF     Municipal Development and Lending Fund
MDP      Municipal Development Program (I and II)
MMSDP    Municipal Management and Service Delivery Project
MOF      Ministry of Finance
MOLG     Ministry of Local Government
MTR      Mid-Term Review
NDP      National Development Plan
NGO      Non-Governmental Organization
PA       Palestinian Authority
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PCU      Project Coordination Unit
PGMIS    Project Grant Management Information System
PPM      Physical Planning Manual
PPR      Post-Procurement Review
PRDP     Palestinian Reform and Development Plan
PSESP    Palestinian Socio-Economic Stabilization Plan
RMIS     Revenue Management Information System
TFGA     Trust Fund Grant Agreement
WBG      West Bank and Gaza


           Vice President:          Inger Andersen
           Country Director:        Mariam Sherman
           Sector Manager:          Franck Bousquet
           Project Team Leader:     Soraya Goga
           ICR Team Leader:         Christianna Johnnides
                                          West Bank and Gaza

                Local Government Capacity Building Project (LGCBP)



                                                 CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Rating of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ..........................................1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .........................................5
 3. Assessment of Outcomes .....................................................................................11
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome....................................................16
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ................................................17
 6. Lessons Learned ..................................................................................................19
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies/Donors .........20
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .....................................................................21
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ............................................................................22
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ............................................................28
 Annex 4. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ..32
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ......................................................................33
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results..............................................34
 Annex 7. Summary of Grantee's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ...................35
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ..................46
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ................................................................47
 Additional Annex 10. Timeline for LGCBP-related projects ..................................48

 MAP IBRD 33512R1
A. Basic Information
                                                                         Local Government
Country:               West Bank and Gaza      Project Name:             Capacity Building
                                                                         Project
Project ID:            P116860                 L/C/TF Number(s):         TF-54521
ICR Date:              12/26/2012              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                         PLO FOR THE
Lending Instrument:    SIL                     Grantee:
                                                                         BENEFIT OF THE PA
Original Total
                       USD 2.47M               Disbursed Amount:         USD 10.00M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:        USD 10.00M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Municipal Development and Lending Fund
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
 DENMARK

B. Key Dates
                                                                              Revised / Actual
     Process             Date            Process             Original Date
                                                                                  Date(s)
Concept Review:        04/17/2009   Effectiveness:            03/22/2005         03/22/2005
                                                                                 09/09/2008
Appraisal:                          Restructuring(s):                            09/30/2009
                                                                                 12/28/2010
Approval:              03/22/2005   Mid-term Review:
                                    Closing:                  12/31/2008         06/30/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Substantial
Bank Performance:                              Moderately Satisfactory
Grantee Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower         Ratings
                        Moderately
Quality at Entry:                               Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                        Unsatisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank            Moderately Satisfactory Overall Borrower Moderately Satisfactory


                                               i
Performance:                                       Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Sub-national government administration                                100                100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Decentralization                                                                           10
Municipal finance                                                      67                  55
Municipal governance and institution building                          33                  25
Urban planning and housing policy                                                          10

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Inger Andersen                       Christiaan J. Poortman
Country Director:          Mariam J. Sherman                    Nigel Roberts
Sector Manager:            Franck Bousquet                      Hedi Larbi
Project Team Leader:       Soraya Goga                          Ibrahim Khalil Dajani
ICR Team Leader:           Christianna Johnnides Brotsis
ICR Primary Author:        Christian Vang Eghoff


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of the Project is to improve local governance and accountability, and
thereby foster the efficient and sustainable economic, social and physical development of
the urban and rural areas in the parts of West Bank and Gaza under the jurisdiction of the
Palestinian Authority, through the capacity building of the Ministry of Local Government
(MOLG) and the Local Government Units (LGUs).


                                                ii
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The PDO was not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target      Formally        Actual Value
                                             Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                approval         Target         Completion or
                                               documents)         Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 : Reform in FM and accounting systems put in place by the end of the project.
                                          Creation and
                                          implementation of                  Unified chart of
                                          a unified chart of                 accounts and
                                          accounts and                       standard budget
                                                             Outcome
                                          standard budget                    format in all munis
                No standardized Chart of                     indicator
                                          formats.                           & budgets
                Account, no standardized                     unchanged,
                                          Introduction of                    submitted to
                budgeting systems, no                        but dates (part
Value                                     modified accrual                   MOLG for
                municipal budget                             of original
quantitative or                           accounting                         approval. Modified
                reporting to MoLG, all                       PAD
Qualitative)                              including (i)                      accrual accounting
                accounts in the                              indicator)
                                          standard Financial                 introduced
                municipalities are                           were revised
                                          Policies Manual                    including 1)
                manual.                                      and target
                                          for modified                       standard FPM in 32
                                                             values added
                                          accrual accounting                 munis 2) FARV in
                                          (ii) FARV (iii)                    32 munis 3)IFMIS
                                          IFMIS pilots for                   pilot in 32 munis
                                          34 munis
Date achieved 09/30/2004                  12/31/2008                         06/30/2012
                Fully achieved. COA work initiated under non-LGCBP funding but finalized by
Comments
                LGCBP. PAD expected accounting and financial management system to be put
(incl. %
                in place in MOLG; this was implemented under other funding. Two
achievement)
                municipalities considered as not running I
                Reform in physical planning procedures for four clusters of LGUs put in place by
Indicator 2 :
                the end of the project
                                                                             Physical planning
                                                                             approach
                                                                             developed; draft
                                                                             manual accepted by
                                                                             MOLG. Approach
                                                             Initial date
                                                                             piloted in 4
                                                             revised to
Value                                     Development and                    clusters. MOLG
                No procedures for                            correspond
quantitative or                           of new physical                    rolling out
                physical plans in WBG.                       with new
Qualitative)                              planning approach.                 approach to 2 more
                                                             project closing
                                                                             clusters using own
                                                             date
                                                                             financing;
                                                                             requested donors
                                                                             use this approach
                                                                             demonstrating
                                                                             sustainability of


                                              iii
                                                                             subcomponent
Date achieved 09/30/2004                  12/31/2008          06/30/2012     06/30/2012
Comments      Fully achieved. All activities foreseen in the PAD related to physical planning
(incl. %      and amalgamation were implemented, including piloting and updating of
achievement) manuals and approaches.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                                  Formally
                                               Values (from                       Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                             Revised
                                                 approval                        Completion or
                                                               Target Values
                                                documents)                        Target Years
                  New computerized financial and acounting systems operational in selected
Indicator 1 :
                  municipalities.
                                            Computerized       Computerized
Value                                                                         Computerized
                  No Computerization in systems in place in systems in
(quantitative                                                                 systems in 32
                  any municipalities.       selected           place in 34
or Qualitative)                                                               Municipalities.
                                            municipalities.    municipalities
Date achieved     09/30/2004                12/31/2008         06/19/2012     06/30/2012
                  94 % achieved. Two of the targeted smaller municipalities were deemed to not be
Comments
                  using a computerized system due to lack of capacity. Hebron municipality is
(incl. %
                  running a different computerized accounting system from the one developed by
achievement)
                  the LGCBP (due to hist
                  Lead Consultant/Advisor, and key consultants and staff for MOLG Budget
Indicator 2 :
                  Department recruited by end May, 2007.
                                                                              Consultants
                                                                              recruited, retained
                                                                              to follow up
                                                                              assignments. 4 jr
                                                                              accountants trained
                                                                              by MDLF;
                                                                              seconded to
Value                                       Consultants                       Budgetary
                                                               Target date
(quantitative     No consultants recruited recruited by end of                Department to
                                                               revised
or Qualitative)                             May 2005                          support
                                                                              implementation of
                                                                              the new unified
                                                                              accounting and
                                                                              budgetary system at
                                                                              MOLG. MOLG
                                                                              committed to jr
                                                                              accountants
Date achieved     09/30/2004                05/31/2005         05/31/2007     05/31/2007
Comments
              Fully achieved. MOLG Budget department has managed the municipal budget
(incl. %
              process since 2010.
achievement)
              Necessary equipment (and essential spares for 2 years) is procured through a
Indicator 3 : competitive procurement process in accordance with World Bank guidelines by
              end December 2009.


                                                iv
Value                                       Procurement of                     Equipment and
                  No equipment or spare                        Target date
(quantitative                               essential                          spare parts were
                  parts available.                             adjusted.
or Qualitative)                             equipment.                         procured.
Date achieved     09/30/2004                12/31/2007         12/31/2009      12/31/2009
Comments          Fully achieved. Equipment needed by MOLG on the Central and District Levels
(incl. %          and at the Department of Joint Services Councils were prioritized and procured
achievement)      based on MOLG Departmental Assessments, but later than foreseen in the PAD.
                  Municipal Development and Lending Fund established and institutionalized by
Indicator 4 :
                  end of May 2005.
                                                                               This Objective has
                                                                               been fully met. A
                                                                               Cabinet Decree in
                                                                               Oct 05 confirmed
                  MDLF does not exist.                                         the establishment of
                                                               The indicator
                  PCU imbedded within the PCU capacity                         the MDLF as an
Value                                                          revised to
                  MOLG and is not           building group                     autonomous and
(quantitative                                                  focus on the
                  administratively          established by end                 self-sustaining
or Qualitative)                                                establishment
                  autonomous or self-       May 2005.                          institution which
                                                               of MDLF
                  sustaining.                                                  became the PA's
                                                                               preferred institution
                                                                               for channeling
                                                                               municipal dev.
                                                                               funds
Date achieved     09/30/2004                05/31/2005         05/31/2005      10/30/2005
Comments          Fully achieved, with 5 months delay. The establishment of the MDLF was
(incl. %          initiated under EMSRP I but MDLF was fully operationalized as a project
achievement)      implementing agency through the LGCBP.
                  A document outlining strategy and guidelines for the consolidation of LGUs
Indicator 5 :
                  developed and endorsed.
                                            Guidelines
                                                                               Guidelines
                                            Guidelines
Value                                                          The indicator developed and in
                                            developed and in
(quantitative     No guidelines.                               was not         use by MOLG for
                                            use by MOLG for
or Qualitative)                                                revised.        the amalgamation
                                            the amalgamation
                                                                               of municipalities.
                                            of municipalities
Date achieved     09/30/2004                08/31/2006                         06/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %      Fully achieved but later than expected.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                    Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                               DO                           IP              Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                (USD millions)
  1     12/30/2009             Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     4.97
  2     06/30/2010             Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory              6.62
  3     03/05/2011             Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory              7.06



                                                  v
                                                 Moderately
  4    12/04/2011   Moderately Satisfactory                                  7.57
                                               Unsatisfactory
  5    07/04/2012   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory          8.15


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                  Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Extension of closing date to
                                                     December 31, 2010. No
 09/09/2008       N                           2.39   separate DO and IP ratings for
                                                     LGCBP while linked to EMSRP
                                                     II.
                                                     Splitting off the TF from the
 09/30/2009                                   4.70   EMSRP as a stand-alone
                                                     project.
                                                     Extension of closing date to
 12/28/2010               S     MS            6.85   June 30, 2012, and reallocation
                                                     of grant proceeds.




I. Disbursement Profile




                                              vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
1.1 Context at Appraisal
1.      The West Bank and Gaza (WBG) has been in deep social, economic, and
political crisis starting with the second Palestinian Intifada in September 2000. At
appraisal, violent conflict between the Israelis and Palestinians had taken the lives of
many Palestinians and Israelis. Palestinian economic and social indicators had fallen
dramatically. The gross national income declined by 35% between 1999 and 2002,
physical damage was estimated at more than US$1.7 billion, and total investments
had fallen from about US$1.45 billion in 1999 to as little as US$150 million in 2002.
With the Palestinian population growing at over 4% annually, real per capita incomes
at the end of 2002 were only about a half of what they had been three years previously
and the share of the population living in poverty tripled to about 60%.

Sector Context
As a consequence of the sharp decline in economic activity and household income,
municipal revenues declined by as much as 50%, undermining the municipalities’
capacity to provide services. Municipal expenditures were estimated at about 5.5% of
GDP and 17.3% of public sector spending in 2003. These are high figures in a
regional perspective, explained in part by the fact that many WBG municipalities
predate the establishment of the Palestinian Authority (PA) 1 and have historically
been charged with providing services under the supervision of the Israeli authorities.
In spite of their importance, Local Government Units’ (LGUs, covering municipalities
and villages) financial and management capacities were limited; they were using
manual, cash-based accounting, and budget preparation and physical planning were
ad-hoc. Many LGUs were too small to be viable. The Ministry of Local Government
(MOLG), the LGU oversight and policy setting body, was having difficulty in
aggregating LGU budgets and guiding LGUs on proper budget preparation.



Palestinian Authority and Donor Strategy
2.      The 2004-05 Palestinian Socio-Economic Stabilization Plan (PSESP) aimed
overall at responding to the humanitarian and social needs resulting from the crisis,
but specifically targeted improvements to LGU service delivery. The local
government (LG) component of the PSESP built on a Local Government Diagnostic
Study and linked Action Plan (identifying more than eighty sector issues and
proposing numerous remedial actions) prepared in the context of the wider PA public
sector reform program. The action plan was endorsed by the MOLG, the Palestinian
Cabinet, and the donor community, including the Danish Internal Development
Assistance (DANIDA) and the World Bank.

3.     A number of sector interventions supported by donors were funding recurrent
services in LGUs and making job-creating investments, but longer-term developments
had largely been placed on hold. DANIDA’s response to the crisis was to continue


1
 The Palestinian Authority (PA) was established as an interim administrative body after the Oslo
Accords (1993-95) with responsibility for management of the territory under its control.


                                               1
involvement with and deepen its support to municipal management in Gaza. Danish
assistance amounting to DKK 20 million was also channeled through the Bank’s
Emergency Services Support Project in FY02 and DANIDA wanted to broaden its
support to the LG sector in WBG.

Rationale for World Bank Response
Following the Intifada in 2000, the Bank’s strategy had been to balance emergency
assistance with maintaining medium-term developmental activity. As captured in the
2003 Replenishment Request for the West Bank and Gaza Trust Fund, one of the
higher level objectives for the Bank was to strengthen capacities and finance the
delivery of basic services to the poor through the development of efficient and
transparent institutions in key institutional domains, including municipalities. With a
portfolio including several multi-donor funded operations, the Bank had long been in
the forefront of LG sector reform in WBG, funding a Municipal Infrastructure
Development Project (MIDP, US$30 million) from 1996 to 2003, focused mainly on
infrastructure rehabilitation, but also implementing a Revenue Management
Information System (RMIS) in nine pilot municipalities, while having less success
with a Financial Management Information System (FMIS). At the time of appraisal of
the Local Government Capacity Building Project (LGCBP), the Bank was already
managing a multi-donor trust fund for the on-going first Emergency Municipal
Services Rehabilitation Project (EMSRP I, US$20 million IDA funding, US$100
million total), typifying the Bank’s approach in seeking to provide emergency
assistance to LGUs, while providing limited support to developing the institutional
framework of the LG system. The EMSRP I was seen by the PA and many donors as
the key vehicle for channeling support to the municipal sector in WBG. As such, it
provided a very good starting point for the preparation and implementation of the
LGCBP. The Bank was asked by the PA and the Government of Denmark (as the
LGCBP donor) to take the lead in preparing the project, which would complement the
EMSRP I and focus more on the foundations for longer-term improvements to the
local government system, in line with a planned successor project to the EMSRP I.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)
4.     The objective of the project was to improve local governance and
accountability, and thereby foster the efficient and sustainable economic, social and
physical development of the urban and rural areas in the parts of West Bank and Gaza
under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority, through the capacity building of
MOLG and LGUs.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key
Indicators, and Reasons/Justification
5.     The PDO and key indicators for the project were not formally revised. A
formal restructuring focusing on the indicators in the Results Framework was
envisaged, but did not happen in the absence of an official request (see Sections 2.2
and 2.3 for details). Adjustments were however implemented when the LGCBP was
ultimately split off into a stand-alone operation (see Section 1.7), but were not
formalized through a project restructuring.




                                          2
1.4 Main Beneficiaries
6.      The primary beneficiaries were the administrations of LGUs in WBG, which
would benefit from improved capacity to carry out adequate financial management
and implement physical planning. The central government administration (in
particular MOLG) would also be strengthened to better serve LGUs through improved
oversight and policy setting, including through the establishment of an internal
capacity building group. Ultimately, the beneficiaries of the project would be the
populations of the LGUs, who would benefit from improved capacity in LGUs to
manage public funds and include the population in participatory planning of
investments. From the outset, this was more focused on urban than rural areas.
1.5 Original Components (as approved)
Component 1: Financial Management and Accounting Systems Reform
(Appraisal/actual cost: US$4.12 million/US$6.32 million)

7.      The objective of the component was to improve the accounting, financial
management and budgetary control capabilities of MOLG (including its regional
offices) and LGUs. This would happen through:

   (a) Conducting MOLG information system needs assessment as basis for
       developing and implementing a Ministry of Finance (MOF) mandated
       computerized financial management and accounting system (software,
       hardware, documentation, and training).
   (b) Development of specifications and methodology for phased implementation of
       a computerized Integrated Financial Management Information System
       (IFMIS) in a representative set of LGUs (including software, hardware,
       documentation and training, and based on a chart of accounts and budgeting
       framework to be separately prepared by UNDP consultants).

Component 2: Physical Planning and Management Systems Reform
(Appraisal/actual cost: US$2.75 million/US$1.24 million)

8.     The objective of the component was to strengthen the capacity of MOLG and
the LGUs in WBG to effectively guide, manage and monitor the development of
urban areas and be responsive to the needs of citizens. The outputs concerned:

   (a) Development of guidelines for strategic planning and for the programming,
       financing and management of key infrastructure and services, including for
       public participation. Training and implementation of guidelines in selected
       LGUs.
   (b) Assessing LGUs technical, economic and financial performance capacities, to
       develop a framework and strategy for the amalgamation of small and
       nonviable LGUs into efficient and sustainable Joint Service Councils (JSCs),
       including governance structures, management, investment programming,
       financing and service delivery. Implementation of the framework for selected
       LGUs.
   (c) Preparing physical planning for LGUs and JSCs, including investment
       programming, financing and service delivery, and implementation for selected
       LGUs thereafter (including software, hardware, documentation and training).


                                        3
Component 3: Institutional Development (MOLG)
(Appraisal/actual cost: US$1.84 million/US$1.46 million)

9.    The objective of the component was to increase the capacity of MOLG to
manage a decentralized local government system. Planned activities were:

    (a) Recruitment of lead capacity building consultant/advisor, LGU budget advisor
        and 4-5 staff for MOLG’s Budget Department. Capacity building programs in
        project coordination and support in MOLG.
    (b) Preparation of Departmental capacity building strategy and implementation
        action plan (including improved MOLG Operational and Management
        Procedures, well equipped Departments, and the recruitment of additional key
        staff). Further, essential equipment, not exceeding 40 percent of total expected
        requirement, procured.
    (c) Implementation of Departmental capacity building strategy and action plan.

Component 4: Project Management and Operating Support
(Appraisal/actual cost: US$0.46 million/US$0.98 million)

10.     The component objective was to coordinate, monitor and report on the project,
by establishing a Capacity Building Group, alongside MOLG’s existing EMSRP I
Project Coordinating Unit (PCU).

1.6 Revised Components
11.     The components were not revised. It was agreed at the mid-term review
(MTR) to drop Sub-component 1.1, as the approach was eventually changed by the
government to a generic approach for all ministries, and implementation (including
for MOLG) was financed by other donors. This change was however not captured in
amendments to the Trust Fund Grant Agreement (TFGA). Component 4 was adjusted,
as project implementation was transferred to the Municipal Development and Lending
Fund (MDLF) and the project focused on making MDLF fully operational.

1.7 Other Significant Changes
12.     The LGCBP was appraised as a Trust Fund linked to the EMSRP II, in initial
concept stage at the time. 2 The TFGA was signed for US$2.5 million, corresponding
to the first tranche payment out of US$10 million foreseen for the project. On
September 9, 2008, a TFGA amendment was approved to: (i) increase the total grant
amount to US$10 million based on the donor's payment of the entire contribution, and
(ii) extend the closing date by two years. The LGCBP had to be de-linked from the
EMSRP II, in conformity with the guidance at the time that recipient executed
activities with a commitment value over US$5 million shall be given a separate


2
 Initially named Municipal Management and Service Delivery Project (MMSDP, PCN review in May
2005), with the LGCBP to provide joint financing for local government capacity building. Due to the
prevailing emergency condition in WBG in 2005 which was coupled with a significant deterioration in
essential municipal services, on October 4, 2006, the MMSDP was converted to an emergency
operation and renamed EMSRP II (i.e. follow-on to the EMSRP I, closed in March 2006). The
EMSRP II was approved in December 2006.


                                                4
         project code (and hence a separate ICR is needed). Given that a substantial amount
         was disbursed under the grant, the manual re-mapping process took longer than
         anticipated, and was completed by September 30, 2009.

         13.     The project was extended twice for a cumulative extension of 3.5 years. See
         summary timeline included for reference below, including main related Bank-funded
         sector projects. The mentioned projects are explained more in the ICR sections and in
         Annex 10: Timeline for LGCBP-related projects.

Bank-funded sector projects:              MMSDP/EMSRP II                                 MDP I: Multi-phase/multi-donor.
                                          preparation (PCN May                           Fiscal stability of LGs, performance-based
  MIDP: Infrastructure
                                          2005)                                          grants               MDP II (Oct 2013):
  rehabilitation,
  RMIS, FMIS EMSRP I: Municipal services                                                                      Service delivery
                                                               EMSRP II: Originally MMSDP, then               mechanisms, citizen
                  budget support, employment                   EMSRPI follow-on. Developed MDLF               engagement, and
                  creation, MDLF design                        transfer formula (with LGCBP)                  revenue generation


1996         2003       2004       2005        2006          2007       2008       2009          2010      2011   2012        2013
                               TF agreement     Effective-      2 year         LGCBP split off      18 month
LGCBP events: Appraisal        DANIDA-WB        ness            extension      from EMSRP II        extension
                                                                                                                     Closed

Illustration 1: Timeline for LGCBP and related projects

         2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
         2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
         Preparation
         14.     Preparation took place in relatively short time, since the grant donor
         (Denmark) was interested in supporting the recently adopted LG Action Plan, had
         time constraints to commit funds, and had requested the Bank to administer the TF. In
         accordance with Bank policies, the LGCBP being trust funded with an initial
         contribution of $2.5 million it was not prepared and appraised as a standard lending
         operation and did not go through standard project processing procedures (i.e. no
         concept review or Board presentation, standard Project Appraisal Document (PAD)
         was not required). The Bank’s experience and the fit with Bank strategies 3 fully
         justified the Bank intervention. The project was to use the implementation framework
         of the on-going EMSRP I, including the well-functioning PCU in MOLG.

         Design
         15.     LGCBP preparation drew on lessons learned from previous interventions,
         particularly the Bank-funded Municipal Infrastructure Development Project (MIDP,
         US$40 million, 1996-2003), which aimed to strengthen the local government system.
         It specifically funded the piloting of a municipal Revenue Management Information
         System (RMIS), but had not succeeded in implementing a municipal Financial
         Management Information System (FMIS), partly due to the fact that MOLG was
         unable to prepare satisfactory terms of reference or provide effective technical and
         consulting support, and partly due to the onset of the crisis in 2000.




         3
          The Trust Fund for Gaza and the West Bank: Status, Strategy, and Request for Replenishment, Nov.
         5, 2003 foresees a project to further contribute to the development of a sustainable municipal financial
         system, building on the design of the MDLF under the ongoing EMSRP I, under implementation.


                                                                    5
16.     Several lessons were learned from previous operations, particularly that the
key pre-requisites for successful reform in WBG include: (i) strong PA commitment
and leadership; (ii) a well thought out and agreed reform framework and realistic
action plan; (iii) measures by the PA to ensure that the key project staff are retained
within the governmental system; (iv) selective and focused use of foreign consultants
working closely with local staff and transferring knowledge; (v) tailoring systems to
the specific needs and capacities of the organizations involved; (vi) patience and
realism with respect to the scope, timing and pace of change; and (vii) an effective
and sensitive monitoring, reporting and a problem-solving framework.

17.     Some of the above lessons were taken into consideration in project design
prior to project approval, most notably (i) and (iv). LGCBP built on the LG Action
Plan, for which MOLG had demonstrated strong ownership, in line with point (i), and
which provided adequate the background analysis. From the MIDP it was also
apparent that there was a need for a computerized accounting system as an overlay to
the piloted RMIS. MOLG was about to drop the RMIS in absence of an overlay, so
the introduction of IFMIS had a potential double advantage by salvaging previous
achievements. The project was further to leverage work on a unified chart of accounts
for LG budgets, being prepared by UNDP consultants, and was designed to make use
of targeted external technical assistance, in line with (v) above. The project was
designed around the IFMIS, but with other elements to enhance the capacities of
LGUs, most notably asset registration, which would support a shift from cash-based
to accrual-based accounting, and improved planning practices and amalgamation of
smaller LGUs to support their financial and fiscal viability.

18.     The team worked to assure broad compliance with the other lessons learned,
but could not fully incorporate all points prior to appraisal given the limited time
available to secure the funds. Regarding points (ii), (iii), (vi), and (vii) above, while
the LG Action Plan was broadly shared, it was not sufficiently detailed to directly
synthetize project components from, and as such the scope of IFMIS implementation
and roll-out phases was not clearly defined, and the monitoring framework could only
be developed in preliminary form. Also, the mechanisms to retain staff could not be
defined in the time available. The team recognized this and requested additional funds
from the donor to carry out full design post-effectiveness. As to point (v),
involvement of beneficiary LGUs in definition of the IFMIS requirements was only to
take place after appraisal, which might otherwise have unearthed problems with
multi-currency accounting and post-dated checks early on – this was later to be at the
crux of contractual differences with the IFMIS supplier.

19.     The LGCBP was designed as a recipient executed trust fund solely funded by
Denmark, with no Bank funds committed. The Bank team was aware that a full
appraisal could not be completed in the time available, as the donor was facing time
constraints to commit funds, but insisted that a more detailed design should be done,
and the donor agreed to provide a Bank-executed trust fund of US$60,000 to hire
consultants to carry out full component design after project approval. On this basis,
the project could not be deemed ready for implementation at the time of effectiveness,
although this was a conscious strategy and measures were taken to assure full design.
The team made an informed choice to weigh risk, also considering the fact that the
MOLG had already established a well-staffed higher-level group, with the mandate to



                                           6
further develop and implement the agreed LG reform program. Further, the proposed
project would rely on the well-functioning EMSRP I implementation framework.

Quality at Entry
20.     The overall project concept was based on a home-grown reform agenda and
correctly identified need to improve municipal governance, and had a good fit with
Bank priorities. Project appraisal was timed to give impetus to the LG agenda and
secure the necessary funds, and Bank inputs contributed to assuring that development
outcomes could be achieved, by laying down a process to finalize design post-
appraisal. However, quality at entry is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory as the project
was under-designed by standard operational measures, in spite of the clear roadmap to
finalize design (including availability of adequate funding). The reform aspects of the
project (introducing concurrent and multiple changes to financial management,
budgeting, accounting, and planning) were somewhat under-estimated. Also, the
LGCBP PAD and the M&E framework did not follow the standard formats. This
became particularly problematic following the de-linking of the project from the
EMSRP II in 2009 when the project was suddenly being rated against standard Bank
measures and in the absence of a formal restructuring.

2.2 Implementation
21.     The project encountered significant technical problems and difficulties due to
the socio-political environment, which were however overcome to assure full
implementation of the main project activities. The project took some time to take off
due to an operating environment marked by frequent changes in senior level
leadership at MOLG, lack of government and private sector experiences in key areas,
and insufficient detail of the proposed components. Consultants were quickly
recruited to finalize design and propose TORs for the key outputs related to IFMIS
and planning. However, the work on the chart of accounts (as basis for the IFMIS
design and carried out externally to the LGCBP) was not of sufficient quality to serve
as basis for the IFMIS design, and a decision was taken to finance the work on
LGCBP funds. In October 2005, the MDLF was established through EMSRP I and it
was decided that MDLF, initially intended as a financing mechanism, should also
serve as implementing agency for sector projects, including the LGCBP, which then
contributed to making the MDLF fully operational through transfer of equipment and
PCU staff.

22.     As the initial problems took some time to resolve, the project was not fully
into implementation when the Hamas political party won the Palestinian Legislative
Council elections in March 2006, resulting in the cessation of aid by much of the
international community (although Denmark did not disengage from the LGCBP) and
reluctance by international consultants to travel to WBG. The Government of Israel
(GoI) ceased transfer of clearance revenues to the PA. A Caretaker Government was
established in 2007, whose international recognition enabled fiscal stabilization and
the GoI resumed the full transfer of clearance revenues. However, at the time of the
MTR in March 2008, only 20% of funds had been disbursed. Some progress had been
made, as the chart of accounts and the budget manual were prepared and in use by
municipalities. It was agreed to drop Component 1.1 due to the limited progress on
the MOF side to finalize the standard financial management system it wished all
ministries to adopt. The resources were then reallocated to Components 1.2 and 3.
The above-mentioned problems had affected project implementation and were the


                                          7
primary reasons for the first project extension agreed at the MTR (from December 31,
2008, to December 31, 2010, formalized through amendment to the TFGA on
September 9, 2008).

23.     A second major implementation difficulty resulted from a contractual dispute
between the MDLF and FreeBalance, the IFMIS supplier, mainly due to technical
difficulties from the multi-currency nature of WBG public sector financial
management, which operates with multiple currencies without a base currency, an
issue that is unique to West Bank and Gaza. This delayed implementation and almost
resulted in eight IFMIS pilot municipalities abandoning the project. The project
context also remained extremely challenging, since from December 2008 to January
2009, there was a major conflict in Gaza which resulted in its blockade by Israel.
Together, these factors were the main driving forces for the second extension on
December 28, 2010 (from December 31, 2010, to June 30, 2012, approved through a
restructuring paper). At the same time as the extension, sub-component 3.3 related to
an MOLG Departmental capacity building strategy and action plan was dropped, as it
was being supported by other donors.

24.     The IFMIS contractual dispute was lengthy but was eventually resolved as all
parties made an effort to get the project back on track. MDLF hired an in-house expert
IFMIS consultant with good negotiation skills, the IFMIS supplier sent high-level
representatives to WBG, and the Bank provided mediation and brought in a consultant
with globally recognized knowledge of IFMIS, including the specific FreeBalance
software. Once the dispute was resolved, activities resumed in September 2011 and
IFMIS activities, including training of municipal staff 4 were completed before the
second extended project closing date. All LGCBP component activities were finalized
as designed following effectiveness, except for the original sub-components 1.1 and
3.3, which had been dropped from the project.
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
Design
25.     The main PDO (“to improve local governance and accountability?) was
considered adequate for the type of project and the resources available, although the
level of ambition was probably too high with the explicit inclusion of rural areas in
the PDO corollary (“efficient and sustainable economic, social and physical
development?), since project design gave more prominence to urban areas (rural areas
were included through the Component 2 amalgamation strategy). However, the M&E
framework design did not follow the standard PAD format, and does not adequately
distinguish the different links in the results chain (activities, outputs and outcomes),
leading to a focus on outputs rather than outcomes. The data collection method was
not described in the PAD. The PDO indicator in the PAD Annex 1 (LG laws revised,
granting significant autonomy to LGUs and providing for increased public
participation and accountability) does not relate to any project outputs and is
disregarded in the ICR.



4
  Albeit somewhat rushed during the last days of the project, with a contract amendment for the
training signed in March 2012 and training for Gaza staff postponed several times due to logistical
difficulties preventing the staff of the contractor entering Gaza and the municipal staff exiting the Gaza
strip. The training was finally held in June 2012 in Egypt.


                                                    8
Implementation
26.     Prior to the split-off of LGCBP from EMSRP II, all reporting under the
LGCBP had been covered under the annual grant reporting and monitoring, combined
with detailed annual progress reports to the donor. The LGCBP reporting was also
part of EMSRP II missions, for which aide-mémoires would have a paragraph or two
on LGCBP progress. Due to many Bank system changes over the seven-year life of
the project, the indicators were rephrased (mostly shortened to fit internal reporting
document templates) without affecting a formal restructuring. By early 2010, the
Bank and the MDLF recognized the need to change the indicators because reform of
organizational functions at MOLG were envisaged, which ultimately would not be
implemented by the LGCBP, and implementation of a revised sub-component 1.1 was
funded by other donors.

27.     The revised results framework, which was better suited to monitor results of
the project (with more focus on measurable and achievable outcomes under the
project, although retaining some simple output indicators), was agreed upon with
MDLF in the June 2010 aide-mémoire and the aide-mémoire of March 2011
requested a letter to proceed with the restructuring. However, guidance to the Bank
team regarding the requirement for a formal letter was not consistent and in
consequence communication between the Bank and MDLF was not sufficiently clear
for MDLF to send a formal restructuring request which would include changes to the
results framework, hence the proposed and agreed revisions were never formalized,
although accepted and implemented in practice by both parties.

Utilization
28.     The overall M&E capacity of the MDLF was satisfactory and information on
outcome monitoring was consistently adequate for the last two years of the project,
following the changes to the M&E framework agreed at in June 2010. However the
lack of clarity regarding the status of the revised Results Framework led to the MDLF
reporting concurrently on two results frameworks, original and revised (see Annex 7:
Grantees ICR).
2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
Safeguards compliance
29.    The project was rated Category C as it did not finance any physical
investments and there were no negative environmental or social impacts. As foreseen
in the PAD, the physical planning manual developed under the project had specific
guidelines on environmental and social aspects of investments.

Fiduciary compliance
30.     The PCU, then MDLF, was responsible for all fiduciary aspects. In general,
financial management arrangements have been rated Satisfactory. Audited financial
statements have been submitted on a timely basis, the external auditors expressed
unqualified audit opinions and management letters did not include significant
observations. Procurement performance has generally been rated Satisfactory, except
for delays encountered in processing some packages, mainly attributed to changes in
MDLF staffing and management. Post procurement reviews did not reveal major non-
compliance, except for a contract for computers (US$60,842), in which the lowest
evaluated bid was rejected for non-compliance with the required delivery schedule,


                                          9
although not stated in the request for quotation. The Bank concluded that this was a
genuine misunderstanding of the guidelines and, on an exceptional basis, did not
declare misprocurement. Problems related to the management of the IFMIS contract
(see Section 2.2) were eventually resolved and management of deliverables assured
finalization of all activities before project closing, in spite of very tight deadlines. In
the course of the procurement process for services to assist the MDLF in the
establishment of IFMIS, MDLF and the Bank detected two separate instances of fraud
by a company and by two joint venture partners. Thanks to the cooperation of the
MDLF, three companies and one individual were ultimately debarred upon review of
the evidence and preemptive actions were taken to avoid awarding contracts to non-
qualified companies.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
31.     At the end of the project, four key outstanding issues remain in order to ensure
IFMIS sustainability: (i) further training is required to assure operation and
maintenance of the system, especially for smaller municipalities and the three Gaza
municipalities, which received training very late and had little time to learn by doing
during the project; (ii) further operationalization is required for the IFMIS Help Desk
set up at the MOLG; (iii) the maintenance contract for the software should be kept
current with the software supplier; (iv) RMIS requires revisions to handle the issue of
post-dated checks, an issue particular to WBG. MOLG and MDLF have been in the
process of drafting a strategy paper to address the future implementation of IFMIS for
some time and it is expected that the above issues will be addressed by that paper. The
issues to be worked out are: (i) the high cost of maintaining Help Desk consultants in
MOLG, which do not yet have the full capacity to support municipalities, although it
has all the necessary equipment and personnel has been trained; and (ii) deciding who
should bear the cost of future software licensing (MDLF or municipalities).

32.    Funds are available for demand-based IFMIS roll-out to another 50
municipalities under the Municipal Development Program, supported by all major
sector donors. In this context, a solution will be found to the issue of post-dated
checks. There is strong demand for LGCBP outputs as implementation of many of
them (financial accounting policies and procedures, fixed assets register and effective
implementation of IFMIS) are performance criteria required to access funds from the
MDLF under the MDP I. Further, the fixed assets registration and valuation manual
developed under this project has been adopted by other donor partners (Cooperative
Housing Foundation under USAID funding) and the amalgamation manual is being
used by projects such as the Local Development Program (LDP, phases II and III
2008-2013, US$12.6 million, Danish funding) and the Local Government Reform and
Development Program (LGRDP, 2011-2015, €15 million, Belgian funding). The
physical planning manual is being used by the MOLG in clusters on their own
financing in addition to being used by other donors (Cooperative Housing
Foundation).




                                            10
3. Assessment of Outcomes
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
Rating: Substantial

Objectives
33.     The objectives of the LGCBP remain highly relevant, in spite of shortcomings
in design and difficulties to clearly define the objectives and indicators at appraisal. In
its report submitted to the Ad Hoc Liaison Committee in 2011, the Palestinian
Government recognized initiatives of financial management, physical planning and
amalgamation procedures and guidelines development under LGCBP as important.
Phased decentralization and measures to consolidate democratic processes at the local
government level are part of the 2011-2013 PA National Development Plan (NDP). A
concrete goal is to assure municipal fiscal autonomy, which would not be possible
without adequate financial management and investment planning supported by the
LGCBP. The NDP also aims to encourage local communities to participate more in
public policy, including the formulation of local government expenditure plans and
urban and rural planning, which is supported by LGCBP. The municipal sector is a
specific focus of the joint Bank-IFC FY12-14 Interim Strategy Note, in support of the
NDP, as part of strengthening the institutions of a future state to efficiently manage
public finances and ensure services to citizens.

Design and Implementation
34.     The project was implemented under very difficult circumstances, with travel
to Gaza extremely difficult from 2007 onwards. The MDLF and the Bank made
adjustments to implementation arrangements to ensure continued implementation and
completion of essential activities, assuring that the project could continue to progress
towards the PDO, including dropping activities that had been superseded by changes
to the context. However, given the condensed preparation schedule and design
shortcomings described several obvious opportunities to formally restructure the
project and provide a fully comprehensive component description were missed. In
conclusion, this ICR finds that the changes made during implementation contributed
to assuring high relevance against the development priorities and circumstances
prevailing at the time of the ICR. This was achieved by removing the activities which
could be implemented though support from other donors and which were not essential
to achieve the major aspects of the PDO. Overall, design shortcomings did not
prevent the project from achieving the highly relevant objective, due to the
adjustments made throughout implementation, justifying a relevance rating of
“substantial?.
3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
Rating: Satisfactory

35.     The achievement of the PDO is rated satisfactory. The project has supported
significant reforms in the municipal sector and contributed to improving local
governance and accountability, the key aspect of the PDO, and as measured through
the restructured PDO indicators in the datasheet. The affected municipalities are home
to over two million people (half the WBG population) who stand to benefit from
improvements to municipal management introduced by the project. Key building
blocks for a transparent municipal finance system have been implemented by LGUs



                                            11
and MOLG, fostering the efficient and sustainable economic, social and physical
development of urban and rural sectors in WBG and laying the groundwork for
continued improvements to the overall local government system.

36.     LGCBP was instrumental in reforming the management capacity of LGUs and
improving the overall the relationship between the MOLG and LGUs. The shift from
cash-based to modified accrual-based accounting is an essential contribution to
improved local governance and accountability. Modified accrual accounting can
contribute to efficiency, by providing performance benchmarks of costs and service.
With the adoption of modified accrual accounting, it becomes possible to publish such
measures and to use these measures as management tools. The municipal executive
has been provided with the means to receive financial reports on demand and follow
up on budget implementation, which was not possible before the LGCBP. With the
adoption of modified accrual accounting, publishing budgets enable citizens to exert
oversight of local governments, and MOLG oversight of the budget process becomes
meaningful. The EMSRP I then II made progress in getting the municipalities to
submit budgets (prior to EMRSP I only 20% of municipalities submitted budgets,
now 100% submit budgets, as this is part of the funding requirements for MDLF), but
the fact that they are using unified chart of accounts, developed under the LGCBP,
now means that MOLG can use the data to carry out oversight.

37.     Further, through the IFMIS financial reporting between municipalities and the
MOLG has been clarified, standardized and simplified, to ensure proper and timely
accountability for public resources. Asset inventory has also contributed to proper
maintenance, and this is significantly more efficient than letting infrastructure assets
deteriorate completely. This LGCBP contribution to both allocation and technical
efficiency is even more essential as resources and expenditure decisions are
decentralized.

38.    The two PDO indicators were fully achieved as follows:

 (i)   Reform in FM and accounting in the LG system were put in place as foreseen
       under Component 1, benefiting municipalities with a total population of
       1,959,701. This includes standardized systems of accounting (chart of
       accounts), financial management and budgetary control which has been
       developed, adopted and implemented in all 134 municipalities, and the design
       and approval of an IFMIS that has already been introduced in a representative
       sample (32) of LGs (and will be rolled out to another 50 municipalities under
       the MDP II). IFMIS is a system that integrates financial processes executed by
       different related systems such as budget preparation software, financial
       management information system (FMIS), Revenue Management Information
       System (RMIS), and asset management to derive full benefits from
       performance-based public financial management. As such, the LGCBP helped
       salvage the investments in RMIS under the Bank-funded MDIP, which the
       MOLG was likely to drop in the absence of a financial accounting module as
       part of the IFMIS.

       The implementation of an IFMIS enables the selected municipalities to
       exchange budgeting and financial data with the MOLG and will provide
       municipal officials and MOLG managers the information required to make


                                          12
       management decisions, plan activities, and monitor and evaluate outcomes.
       The impacts on municipal finances are not yet measurable due to the novelty
       of the tools introduced, but substantial changes have been introduced by the
       project. As testified by the mayor of the large city of Nablus (a well-known
       business man) during the ICR mission, the fact of being able to pull up budget
       reports through IFMIS has enabled him to manage the municipality in a much
       more professional way based on accurate and current budget data and the
       RMIS allows him to keep track of revenues from utilities and municipal
       buildings, which was not possible before LGCBP. The dropping of the MOF
       mandated financial management system from Component 1 did not affect the
       achievement of outcome, as this output related more to central government
       accounting than to the actual LG system. Further, the activity was
       implemented through funds from other donors.

(ii)   (ii)    Reform in physical planning procedures and amalgamation for four
       LGU clusters was also implemented as foreseen, for the first time introducing
       public participation and voice in planning. The piloting of LGU amalgamation
       benefits the rural population, through the building of more viable LGUs
       capable of providing services. The LGCBP outputs directly benefit the 89,291
       people living in the affected municipalities, with a further potential to benefit
       other urban and rural areas of WBG. A new physical planning approach has
       been developed and MOLG has started rolling out the approach to two
       additional clusters through its own financing and with the assistance of the
       LDP and LGRDP, thus establishing the sustainability of this sub-component.
       All local governments supported by the project now have draft land use plans
       and these are currently going through the process of being approved through
       the legal mechanism of the higher planning council.

39.     The indicators also demonstrate achievement of the expected objective for
each component. The objective of Component 1 was to improve the accounting,
financial management and budgetary control capabilities of MOLG and LGUs.
MOLG is using the FPPM, and for the first time MOLG is able to actually exert
oversight over municipality budgets since they are prepared based on the COA and
according to standard budget formats. The Budget Director estimates that having clear
policies and procedures has contributed to doubling the efficiency of his department.
Further, the joint training of MOLG and municipal staff contributed to establishing
working relationships between central and local government staff, previously marked
by a lack of mutual understanding and difficulties in communication.

40.    The objective of Component 2 was to strengthen the capacity of MOLG and
LGUs in WBG to effectively guide, manage and monitor the development of the
urban areas and be responsive to the needs of citizens. A clear LG amalgamation
process where appropriate has been successfully introduced into a representative set
of LG clusters (4) with others under preparation, and public participation in local
government decision-making has been piloted.

41.     Achievement of the Component 3 objective to increase the capacity of MOLG
to manage a decentralized local government system did experience shortcomings in
the efforts to build the capacity of MOLG under the LGCBP. This was however due
to the fact that other donors decided to support activities planned under LGCBP and


                                          13
as a result the scope of activities under this sub-component was changed from those
outlined in the PAD. MOLG did make clear progress with its responsibility for
monitoring LG budgets, a result attributable to LGCBP. It should be noted that the.
The implementation of the departmental action plan was therefore not implemented
under the LGCBP. The PAD indicator for Component 4 on establishment of a
capacity building group in MOLG alongside the EMSRP PCU was overachieved with
the establishment of MDLF (developed but not fully operationalized under EMSRP I).

42.     The project also contributed to learning which is used in the MDP I and II on
the pace of the introduction of modified accrual accounting and several of the
innovations piloted under this project are now being rolled out under MDP I -
including the FPPM, FARV, and IFMIS. The synergies with the transfer mechanism
managed by MDLF is further evidenced by the fact that implementation by
municipalities of several LGCBP outputs have been adopted as performance criteria
for the allocation of funds. This creates a strong demand for LGCBP outputs and
therefore benefit streams from the LGCBP will likely continue to increase.

43.     Overall, Component 1 was clearly the heart of the reforms introduced by the
project (including in terms of funding), and has achieved its objectives with no
shortcomings. The PAD Logical Framework (precursor the M&E framework)
expected implementation in a significant number and representative sample of LGUs,
so the fact that two out of 34 municipalities are not fully using IFMIS due to capacity
constraints can only be considered as a very minor shortcoming (the target number
was added after approval). The MOLG accounting system was implemented through
funds from other donors. Component 2 also fully achieved its objective and the
policies and procedures piloted and implemented under the project are fully
implemented and functional. Component 3 did experience moderate shortcomings,
but this did not prevent the project from achieving its overall PDO, and on the other
hand overachieved on the establishment of MDLF. See a complete list of outputs in
Annex 2 with additional notes on linkages between outputs and outcomes.
3.3 Efficiency
Rating: Substantial

44.     The economic justification in the PAD was based on the LGCBP assisting to
establish more efficient management of the local government system. The expected
economic and financial benefits of the proposed interventions were not quantified.
The efficiency analysis for the ICR is carried out for Component 1 (US$6.32 million,
IFMIS, RMIS and fixed assets valuation) based on multi-criteria analysis of cost-
comparison, time-efficiency, and technical and allocation efficiencies with estimative
quantification of benefits. The full justification of the efficiency rating can be found in
Annex 3, including details on assumptions regarding comparability.




                                            14
45.
Table 1: Multi-criteria evaluation of LGCBP efficiency
 Criteria       Comparator LGCBP             Comments
 Cost-          US$26,000      US$31,250     LGCBP compared to central government FMIS,
 effectiveness per user        per user      reasonable cost-effectiveness given LGCBP
                                             environment and number of geographic sites involved.
 Time-          6.1 years      7.25 years    LGCBP compared to central government FMIS,
 effectiveness                               reasonable time-effectiveness given LGCBP delays
                                             attributable to project environment.
 Cost-benefit Not available Positive net Net present value positive with estimated 6% allocation
 analysis                      present value and technical efficiency gains from IFMIS, RMIS and
                                             fixed assets valuation.


46.     The project was designed with the qualitative objective of advancing local
governance and transparency. Benefits were not intended to be monetized at appraisal,
but the analysis for the ICR shows that, based on realistic assumptions, the project
turns out to be economically justified and it is concluded that the IFMIS part of the
LGCBP was efficient, given the uniqueness of the implementation environment,
justifying investments based on quantitative considerations. Project management
decisions to persist with to the IFMIS supplier in spite of contractual difficulties
contributed to achieving satisfactory project efficiency. The project did not have
entirely optimal cost-benefit ratio since lower cost alternatives could have been made
available to smaller municipalities (maintaining cash-based accounting and focusing
on the change from manual to automated accounting). This was initially envisaged but
later abandoned due to the difficulties in implementing the IFMIS, coupled with
absence of local expertise, and priority was given to a unified approach across all
municipalities. The two-tier approach is being implemented under the MDP I (the
local supply has developed), so the lessons learned can entail cost savings going
forward.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

47.     The PDO was highly relevant at the time of appraisal to ensure improvements
to the LG system and remains highly relevant at the time of the ICR. Adjustments
during implementation did not prevent the project from achieving its development
objective, with minor shortcomings on secondary component objectives (specifically
the number of municipalities running a computerized system). The project also has
synergies with other projects, likely enhancing the future impact of LGCBP outputs. It
should also be noted that the LGCBP was designed as a complement to an emergency
operation (EMSRP II) and implemented during a time when the Bank was funding
emergency operations. As such, it provided a very important contribution to
sustainable and systemic improvements to sector performance, which the emergency
projects were not able to support. Analysis shows a likely substantial efficiency, a
result contributed by project management decisions. Based on the substantial
relevance, satisfactory achievement of PDO, and substantial efficiency, the ICR
concludes that on balance the shortcomings are moderate and the outcome of the
LGCBP is moderately satisfactory, especially given the significant contributions to
improving local governance and accountability, the benefits of which will likely
continue to increase.



                                               15
3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
48.    By supporting efficient budget, financial management, and more inclusive
physical planning, the project supported the LGUs to better cater to marginalized
groups who otherwise did not have a voice in the local planning process. Previously,
physical plans were developed by the MOLG without implication of the local
population, now public hearings have been introduced, the LGUs have taken over the
process, and MOLG role is reduced to supporting the process and approving the final
documents.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
49.     The project focused on institutional change; the direct impacts are fully
captured in Section 3.2. In addition, through support to operationalizing the MDLF,
the project contributed to increased donor harmonization in a complex sector with
many overlapping activities and laid down part of the groundwork that led to a
programmatic sector approach under the two MDPs, with participation of most sector
donors. All major sector donors took part to the joint MTR for the EMSRP II and
LGCBP and the LGCPB donor (DANIDA) was associated to all supervision missions.

50.    Finally, it should be noted that the LGCBP is evaluated as a stand-alone
operation in this ICR, but should ideally be seen as part of a continuous process of
improvement to the LG system in WBG, complementing other sector projects (see
especially EMSRP I5 and EMSRP II 6 ICRs and the MDP I PAD).

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
Not applicable.
3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
Not applicable.
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Significant

51.     The risk that improvements to local governance and accountability achieved
by the LGCBP will not be maintained is rated as Significant. Overall, it is likely that
project outputs will continue to provide benefits, and that roll-out will continue,
mainly under the MDP II. However, the overall country context remains fragile and
unpredictable. Therefore, although the LG system operates rather independently of the
macro-context, as shown by the fact that MOLG continues to supervise LGUs in Gaza
in spite of the political divide between the West Bank and Gaza. Political tensions
and the threat of a resurgence of violence between Israeli authorities and the PA,
changes to context could still pose a risk that priorities will change towards more
emergency oriented activities to the detriment of adequately maintaining LGCBP
achievements. Another risk to the development outcome comes from the lack of a
clear government strategy on continued technical support (Help Desk) and payment of
software licenses. The impact of this would be significant, but, although the
development of a strategy is part of clarifying the relationship and responsibilities


5
    Overall outcome rated Moderately Satisfactory by the World Bank and IEG.
6
    Overall outcome rated Satisfactory by the World Bank, IEG rating pending.


                                                  16
between the MOLG and MDLF and hence is taking some time, the risk of a clear
strategy not materializing in the short to medium term is limited given the good
results and strong pressure from donors and municipalities to continue progress and
move to phase II (supported by the MDP II). The combined risks from context and
lack of clear strategy justify a “significant? risk rating.
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

52.    The Bank’s main contribution through the lending phase consisted in
developing the overall concept and providing a strategy on how to detail components
once the project was approved. Due to sector expertise of Bank staff and historic
engagement in the sector, the Bank had the trust of both the PA and Grant Donor
(Denmark), which enabled the mobilization of resources before the commitment
deadline of the Donor, thus assuring the initial support to operationalize the LG
Action Plan and giving substance to the emerging local government agenda.

53.     The Bank should have assured full appraisal of project activities and did not
adequately assess the technical difficulties and capacity to implement IFMIS. Some of
the appraisal and documentation shortcomings noted in this ICR can be attributed to
the fact that the project was expected to complement the EMSRP II and was therefore
not developed as a full stand-alone operation. The highly condensed preparation
schedule did not permit adequate preparation or appraisal. However, the PAD
provides limited justification for the program of activities appraised, other than
referring to the Diagnostic Study and Action Plan and this ICR concludes that the
Bank should have assured elaboration of a full standard format PAD with an adequate
M&E framework.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

54.     The Bank was actively supervising the project throughout, and was
instrumental in overcoming the main project difficulties relating to IFMIS contractual
issues, recognizing that reforms and institutional building require close monitoring
and dialogue. The Bank proactively downgraded the rating of the project and with the
client developed an action plan that allowed for a close follow up of the IFMIS
contract. By bringing in a high-level consultant to support the client, the Bank helped
ensure that activities could be completed before the second extended project closing
date. Missions were regular and additional ongoing implementation support was
provided from successive Country Office-based TTLs. The Bank was also successful
in obtaining exemptions from the Gaza blockade ensuring that 10 servers critical to
the implementation of the IFMIS were in place after an entire year of inactivity on the
implementation of IFMIS in the three Gaza municipalities.

55.     Shortcomings in Bank performance relate to the inability to ensure formal
restructuring and the bias in the results framework towards outputs rather than
outcomes. These shortcomings are however outweighed by the Bank’s decisive



                                          17
contribution to assuring full project implementation, justifying a Moderately
Satisfactory rating.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

56.     These weaknesses notwithstanding, the Bank did consistently provide a high-
level of implementation support and provided significant and decisive inputs to ensure
that the project could be implemented with a satisfactory outcome. The outcome
rating is in the satisfactory range and this justifies an overall Bank performance rating
of Moderately Satisfactory.
5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

57.     The project was implemented within a very difficult environment at times in
active conflict, including an administrative division between the West Bank and Gaza.
In spite of this, the government was able to make progress on the main reform
agendas supported by the project (IFMIS and related activities, and planning) and is
rolling out the planning on own initiative and funds. This performance is mitigated by
the government’s inability to provide a clear strategy for the continued support and
roll-out of IFMIS, in spite of this being a condition in the TFGA, and several
reminders from the Bank on the lack of engagement to carry out activities related to
MOLG capacity building.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

58.      The fact that the project was implemented in a very challenging context
testifies to the engagement of MDLF, in spite of visits to Gaza being extremely
difficult after 2009. MDLF generally retained qualified, efficient, and skilled staff,
although the expanding portfolio of MDLF in general, and the preparation of MDP I
in particular, did constrain MDLF staff time. Technical, financial and progress reports
were provided on time and good programming was developed early during project
implementation. Contacts with the government and the Bank team have been
excellent and regular. The management shortcomings of the IFMIS contract led to
prolonged implementation delays, and for long periods of time jeopardized the overall
outcome of the project. By hiring an in-house IFMIS expert the contractual
difficulties were overcome and the project delivered, but with many activities rushed
through just before project closing (including training of Gaza municipal staff).

59.    PCU performance during the first months of the project (before the
operationalization of the MDLF) is rated Satisfactory, but this does not influence the
implementation agency rating due to the limited role played.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory




                                           18
60.     Both the government and implementing agency experienced challenges that
impaired their performance for periods during implementation, placing the project at
risk for extended periods of time, and leaving the project without clear follow-on
strategy. In spite of these shortcomings, additional efforts made by MDLF ensured
that the project could be fully implemented by the closing date in a very challenging
environment, thus justifying an overall rating of Moderately Satisfactory.
6. Lessons Learned

61.     Implementing improved financial management in local governments is an
essential element of improving local governance and oversight but also a complex
process that must adapt to shifts in management and technical difficulties. The
results were facilitated by to strong demand from local governments and willingness
to complete the complex and demanding process due to the benefits in sight. However,
the many institutional and technical pitfalls along the way could have derailed the
process. In spite of work done to develop clear definition of system specifications and
TORs for IFMIS, technical issues became the focus of contractual disputes (as in
many other related projects), and so complicated an already complex reform process.
In the end, the outside expertise brought in to support the respective parties was
instrumental in maintaining focus on problem resolution and generating willingness to
overcome the problems.

62.     Need to ensure adequate appraisal, quality at entry and documentation of
all operations to mitigate risk. An informed choice was made to defer full design
until after effectiveness, in line with Bank procedures for trust-funded projects of this
type, and based on the ownership of the home-grown LG Action Plan. This however
resulted in some activities not being properly appraised, the scope of the IFMIS
component not being specified, and some shortcomings in project documentation. In
spite of funds being set aside for post-appraisal design, the project eventually had to
cancel planned activities, largely because other donors took over. So, while the
LGCBP turned out to have positive results, each case should be assessed separately;
even those projects which do not formally require full appraisal and documentation
could well benefit from going the extra mile by documenting the project fully in a
standard format, to make sure that lessons learned are incorporated and risk is
properly evaluated.

63.    Impact of changes in Bank Policy for projects under implementation
should be not be underestimated and should be well communicated to Clients.
During the seven year life time of the project, Bank policies and procedures changed
including instituting a new Bank reporting system. While such changes can be
expected during the course of a project, they should be communicated to clients
beyond the project level.

64.    Operating in conflict environments necessitates a high level and creativity
of supervision, especially for projects with a reform element. The LGCBP
succeeded in the face of very challenging conditions, but the IFMIS component was
in jeopardy for long periods of time, due to contractual differences between MDLF
and the IFMIS supplier, worsened by capacity constraints and difficult project
environment. This was only overcome through additional efforts by all parties,
including strong engagement by the Bank supervision team and management and use
of video conferencing by MDLF to access staff and beneficiaries in Gaza.


                                           19
65.     Restructuring should be pro-active, especially in conflict areas, and
guidance to task teams should always be clear in this regard. The evaluation in
this ICR makes it clear that restructuring should be implemented at the first
opportunity to correct design flaws and shortcomings on indicators, especially in
conflict areas with evolving project environment and parallel interventions by many
donors. In hindsight, there are no objective reasons for not having pursued a formal
restructuring of the LGCBP to correct project shortcomings and align the project
formally with the reality on the ground, including the activities initially foreseen to be
funded by LGCBP, but which were funded by other donors, and correct the indicators
which were not be fully developed at appraisal. The restructurings in 2008 and 2010
were limited to project extensions and reallocations, whereas a formal restructuring of
components and the M&E framework was warranted to keep the project description
and results chain in line with reality.

66.     Pay particular attention to capacity equilibrium in the local government
system. At the end of the project, MOLG has seen its capacities in some areas (such
as budget oversight) improve substantially, but is lacking behind MDLF and
especially some of the larger municipalities in terms of IFMIS technical capacity.
This is partly due to a lack of political decision to improve capacities in MOLG, but
also indirectly brought on by MDLF having better knowledge of project activities due
to daily implementation and incentives (salary), thus leaving MOLG at a knowledge
disadvantage in relation to its policy setting role.
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies/Donors

(a) Grantee/Implementing agencies
MDLF comments on the draft ICR chiefly concern requests for changes to the text in
the draft ICR regarding involvement of beneficiaries in IFMIS design, clarification of
IFMIS roll-out, and elaborating on the risk evaluation. MDLF comments have been
fully incorporated in the final ICR, as further detailed in Annex 7.

(b) Cofinanciers/Donors
Comments on the draft ICR received from DANIDA pertain to the future of IFMIS,
MoLG and MDLF strategy, and PAs commitment going forward (see Annex 8). The
ICR has been updated with the latest information available based on discussions
between the Bank and PA institutions in the context of the MDP I & II.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)
Not applicable.




                                           20
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                       Appraisal                               Percentage of
          Components                                Actual (US$ M)
                                   Estimate (US$ M)                             Appraisal
1. Financial Management and
                                             4.12                   6.38            154.8%
Accounting Systems Reform
2. Physical Planning and
                                             2.75                   1.30              47.3%
Management Systems Reform
3. Institutional Development
                                             1.84                   1.44              78.3%
(MOLG)
4. Project Management and
                                             0.46                   0.81            176.1%
Operating Support
             Total Baseline Cost             9.17                   9.93            108.3%
Unallocated                                  0.75                   0.00              0.00
             Total Project Costs             9.92                   0.00              0.00
Project Preparation Costs                    0.00                   0.00              0.0%
     Total Financing Required                9.92 (a)               9.93 (b)        100.1%
(a) Initial TFGA signed for US$2,474,000.
(b) Number differs from actual disbursements in table (b) below and in the datasheet, since some
workshops, newspaper advertisements and other small activities were not attributed to components
early in the project.

(b) Financing
                                                        Appraisal
                                        Type of                         Actual      Percentage
          Source of Funds                               Estimate
                                      Cofinancing                      (US$ M)     of Appraisal
                                                        (US$ M)
Trust Funds (Denmark: Danish Intl. Full project
                                                          10.04 (c)        10.00        99.6%
Dev. Agency-DANIDA)                financing
(c) Corresponds to the combined amount of the initial TFGA (US$2,474,000) and September 2008
TFGA amendment (US$7,563,396).




                                              21
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

67.    Below is an expanded list of outputs with some explanatory notes on links to project
outcomes, complementing the description in the main text.

Component 1: Financial Management and Accounting Systems Reform

68.    Appraisal cost: US$4.12 million. Percentage of appraisal cost: 42%.
Actual cost: US$6.38 million. Percentage of actual total project cost: 64%.

The objective of the component was to improve the accounting, financial management
and budgetary control capabilities of MOLG and LGUs.

69.       The main component outputs are as follows:

      •   Unified chart of accounts developed and currently used to prepare all
          municipal budgets (132 municipalities with amalgamation against 134 at
          appraisal).
      •   Financial and accounting policy note elaborated and in use.
      •   Uniformed budget format and unified Financial Policies and Procedures
          Manual (FPPM) on a modified accrual basis developed and fully implemented.
      •   Integrated Financial Management Information System (IFMIS) has been
          implemented and customized in 34 municipalities (but is fully operational in
          32 municipalities) and the Budget Department of MOLG. This includes
          municipal financial department assessment, supply of hardware, software and
          training, and consultant assistance to help the municipalities put in place the
          constituent pieces of the financial framework needed for successful IFMIS
          implementation.
      •   Revenue Management Information System (RMIS), developed under the
          Bank-funded Municipal Infrastructure Development Project (MIDP), was
          updated and integrated with the IFMIS.
      •   Fixed assets registration and valuation methodology (FARV) and related
          supporting manual developed and implemented in 43 municipalities, including
          targeted implementation support to each municipality. The methodology, once
          adopted by the MOLG, would be used by all LGUs to value or revalue
          existing and future fixed assets, as part of the transition from cash to modified
          accrual basis of accounting.
      •   Fixed Asset Manual, including the detailed policies and procedures to be
          followed by local governments in properly recording the acquisition,
          ownership, utilization, disposal and replacement of municipal fixed assets.
      •   Hiring of IFMIS specialist responsible for advising MOLG’s IT unit on all
          aspects of the design, implementation and operations of information systems
          within MOLG.
      •   Training workshops for the MOLG and municipal staff on accounting
          concepts and procedures to enable them to handle the full range of municipal
          financial management responsibilities when IFMIS implementation was ready.
      •   Help Desk established in MOLG but not fully operational. It is staffed but
          does not have office space to be operational and current external consultants
          are too costly for MOLG to maintain in the longer run.



                                             22
70.    Component 1 further funded the hiring of a number of consultants to assist in
various aspects of project implementation:

      •   Financial Specialist to assist in project implementation in Gaza.
      •   Municipal Finance Consultant to assist the MDLF and the MOLG to supervise
          IFMIS implementation.
      •   IFMIS Consultant to serve as liaison between the IFMIS supplier and MDLF.
      •   Financial and Institutional Development Consultant, Municipal Financial
          Officer, IT Officer, Disaster Recovery Expert and IFMIS Project Manager to
          strengthen MOLG and MDLF capacities for LGCBP implementation.
      •   Accounting and Financial Consultant to review the functionality of the
          existing financial application of Hebron municipality and its integration with
          other applications.

71.     The initial activities related to management and accounting systems in MOLG
were dropped from the project, although this was not formalized through restructuring.
This activity related to central government accounting and not to the local government
system (including integration between MOLG and municipalities) and is not
considered as a shortcoming for the LGCBP in terms of achieving the component
objective, even more so since the MOLG management and accounting systems were
implemented by projects financed by other donors.

Component 2: Physical Planning and Management Systems Reform

Appraisal cost: US$2.75 million. Percentage of appraisal cost: 28%.
Actual cost: US$1.30 million. Percentage of actual total project cost: 13%.

72.    The objective of the component was to strengthen the capacity of MOLG and
the LGUs in WBG to effectively guide, manage and monitor the development of the
urban areas and be responsive to the needs of citizens.

73.       Component outputs are as follows:

      •   Baseline survey of urban planning activities and capacities in WBG.
      •   Physical Planning Manual (PPM) finalized in its first version and adopted by
          MOLG, which is contributing to piloting it under other projects. The manual
          enables MOLG, MDLF and the local community to guide and formulate their
          policies and procedures to implement physical planning corresponding to their
          level of responsibility.
      •   Physical planning activities are completed in 4 clusters of LGUs: (i) Qabatia –
          five LGUs; (ii) Al Izariyeh/Abu Dis – two LGUs; (iii) Al Kafriyat
          Municipality – five LGUs; and (iv) Al Itihad Municipality – two LGUs. The
          physical plans direct growth, plan for join public services, integrate the
          physical development initiatives in the amalgamated area, optimize land use,
          help preserve agricultural lands, and utilize the resources in a sustainable
          manner. The four Spatial Strategy Frameworks have been submitted for
          acceptance by the Higher Planning Council, as per the PA’s legal requirement.
      •   Amalgamation policy framework and operational manual for amalgamation
          have been developed and piloted in four clusters. (The piloting is not



                                            23
       supported by the LGCBP. It is financed by Denmark and Belgium through
       separate projects).
   •   Amalgamation task force is operational and an amalgamation strategy is being
       implemented.
   •   Urban Planning Training Course Workshop for MOLG engineers to support a
       shift from implementers to supervisors of municipal staff.
   •   Training of 22 MOLG engineers and planners at Jordan Engineers Training
       Center.

74.    Component 2 further funded hiring of a number of consultants to assist in
various aspects of project implementation:

   •   Senior Urban Planning Advisor to provide technical support to the MOLG
       Planning Department and the Department of Joint Councils for Services
       Planning and Development to progressively shift its physical planning
       functions to a more supportive and policy formulation role. The advisor
       worked closely with counterparts to address both policy issues and the
       introduction of new planning practices such as strategic planning and
       community involvement, and linking plans to investment strategies. The
       advisor assisted in developing planning practices that address the unique
       planning constraints faced in the West Bank and Gaza and help in identifying
       local, regional and international best practices that could be adapted to the
       local planning environment.
   •   Urban Planning Consultant to support the physical planning department at
       MOLG and enhance performance for better policy formulation and more
       effective management approach for the development of the new systematic
       physical planning process developed by the LGCBP. The overall scope of
       work of the consultant was to assist MDLF and MOLG Planning Department
       in implementing the physical planning component, through delivering a TOR
       to prepare the Physical Planning Manual (PPM). This enabled MOLG
       planning department to progressively shift its physical planning functions to
       more supportive and policy formulation role, in a more decentralized local
       government sector in West Bank and Gaza.
   •   Urban Planning Officer at MDLF and MOLG to enhance the overall policy
       and institutional capacity of MOLG planning department in particular, in
       setting urban planning policies and guidelines to support LGUs mandated
       planning responsibilities, and assisting in progressively shifting its current
       physical planning functions to a more supportive and policy formulation role.
   •   Local Urban Planner at Department of Joint Service Councils (JSCD) to
       provide technical support to the MOLG Planning Department and the JSCD
       for Services Planning and Development, LGUs and JSCs to progressively shift
       physical planning functions to a more supportive and policy formulation role,
       in a more decentralized local government sector in West Bank and Gaza.
   •   Local Government Consultant to help address policy issues for the
       implementation of the amalgamation strategy and action plan and assist
       MOLG and MDLF in supervision and implementation in amalgamated LGUs.
   •   Environmental Consultant to provide technical support to the MDLF in its
       efforts to enhance the monitoring and mitigation of environmental impacts of
       projects and sub-projects implemented at municipalities, specifically those



                                         24
          sub-projects funded under the Emergency Municipal Service Rehabilitation
          Project II (EMSRP II).

Component 3: Institutional Development (MOLG)

Appraisal cost: US$1.84 million. Percentage of appraisal cost: 19%.
Actual cost: US$1.44 million. Percentage of actual total project cost: 15%.

75.   The objective of the component was to increase the capacity of MOLG to
manage a decentralized local government system.

76.       Component outputs are as follows:

      •   The capacity of 132 MOLG employees was enhanced in computer
          applications and related office skills.
      •   IT equipment and furniture for the MOLG headquarter and district offices
          benefiting approximately 200 employees were purchased.
      •   Coordination between the MOLG departments of Gaza and the West Bank
          was improved through the setup and usage of video conference equipment,
          enhanced skills of IT staff at MOLG in network management and IT support,
          and basic IT training to MOLG staff.
      •   Implementation of an MOLG email system (format: info@molg.gov.ps) and
          activation of MOLG intranet, including training.
      •   Design and implementation of six managerial and financial training courses to
          enable the MDLF to deliver training to staff and managers at the pilot
          municipalities and MOLG departments and district offices to manage in
          accordance with the new financial and accounting principles and increase their
          ability to implement IFMIS. Courses covered accounting and financial
          management, revenues and cost analysis, accounting for non-accountants,
          communications skills, leadership skills and strategic planning for the
          employees of eight pilot municipalities in WBG and the MOLG headquarter
          and district offices’ employees.
      •   Installation of the Project Grant Management Information System (PGMIS) in
          2011 in MDLF, which improves the management of funds, grants and loans
          and automates the fund mobilization processes from donation to LGU
          allocation, and from project budgeting to payment tracking. It further
          automates the project management lifecycle from idea development to project
          budgeting, design, contracting, implementation and evaluation, enhances
          communication between MDLF and its stakeholders, including LGUs, donors,
          banks, central government and the general public. It is expected that all
          stakeholders will have electronic access to information and/or services specific
          to them through the MIS solution. The PGMIS also facilitates strict financial
          management controls by integrating fund management with project budgeting
          and accounting and provides more timely information to support better policy
          planning and financial risk management. The availability of historic project
          data will provide donors and policy makers with the analytic information
          needed to better target funds where the impact is high and the risks are low.
      •   Equipment for MDLF (computers, scanners, servers, software, furniture).




                                            25
   •   Development of a transfer mechanism for MDLF and providing the MDLF
       with a methodology and guidelines for its implementation (jointly with
       EMSRP II, a key international consultant was financed by LGCBP).
   •   Training to MOLG and MDLF staff on IFMIS, financial management, use of
       exchange servers, MS project, English, communication.
   •   Designing and Printing the building and licensing bylaw.

77.    The component further funded hiring of a number of consultants to assist in
various aspects of project implementation:

   •   Gaza Project Coordinator to strengthen the channels between the MDLF and
       MOLG/Gaza branch and different departments in order to ensure successful
       project implementation.
   •   Recruitment of 4 junior accountants at the Budget and Institutional
       Development Departments of MOLG mainly to improve the LG budgetary
       system and monitoring and supervision system.
   •   Capacity Building Advisor to assist MDLF and MOLG to coordinate the many
       project inputs, including the key inputs of other agencies and external
       consultants linked to LGCBP and to participate in: (i) developing the
       institutional framework for financial and administrative capacity building for
       LGUs, (ii) develop the financial system inter-linkage between the central and
       local governments, (iii) revising the reform activities at MOLG and address its
       application on the capacity building and infrastructure projects.
   •   Senior Institutional Development Advisor to assist MDLF with the design and
       implementation of the local government Financial Management Information
       System (FMIS) and institution building components of the project, specifically
       the development of a training program to build institutional capacity within
       the MDLF, local governments and other relevant entities.
   •   Procurement Officer to MDLF to ensure smooth project implementation.
   •   Local IT Specialist to analyze MOLG systems and hardware, advice on and
       implement IT solutions for a local area network, and implement an e-mail
       system, including training.
   •   Local MIS Specialist to advise MOLG’s IT unit on all aspects of the design,
       implementation and operations of information systems within MOLG.

78.     The scope of activities under this sub-component was changed from those
outlined in the original PAD to reflect the entry of other donors providing TA to the
MOLG, particularly after 2008. The Departmental capacity building strategy and
action plan was not implemented under the LGCBP, as other donors took over this
activity.

Component 4: Project Management and Operating Support

Appraisal cost: US$0.46 million. Percentage of appraisal cost: 5%.
Actual cost: US$0.81 million. Percentage of actual total project cost: 8%.

79.     The objective of the component was to coordinate, monitor and report on the
project.




                                          26
80.       Component outputs are as follows:

      •   Financing of equipment and training for the PCU, which was then transferred
          to the MDLF to make the entity fully operational.
      •   Financing of incremental operating expenditures for the MDLF (7 percent of
          project cost according to TFGA).
      •   Financing of training of MDLF staff on M&E.




                                          27
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

81.     The economic justification in the PAD is based on the LGCBP assisting in
establishing more efficient management of the local government system, particularly
in the areas of finance, accounting, management, planning and service delivery. The
PAD states that the direct economic and financial benefits of the proposed
interventions would be difficult to quantify, but rate them as significant, including:
increased municipal revenues, reduced costs and higher quality municipal services,
more efficient resource use and better resource allocation, reduced operating costs and
a more conducive environment for business development. The qualitative benefits
were also estimated as potentially considerable, including but not limited to better
public health outcomes and improved quality of life for the citizens of WBG.

82.     Given the difficulties quantifying the benefits correctly identified in the PAD
and the limited time passed since implementation, the evaluation of the efficiency of
the LGCBP for the ICR is focused on the IFMIS and carried out primarily by means
of cost-comparison and time-efficiency, and secondarily coupled with general
considerations of technical and allocation efficiencies introduced by the project as a
whole. Carrying out an actual cost-benefit analysis poses several problems due to the
non-physical nature of investments and difficulties quantifying and attributing
benefits from the technical and institutional changes introduced by the project, further
complicated by the recent implementation of activities which means that a measurable
benefit stream has yet to be established.

Cost Comparison
83.     Cost-comparison can be based on the overall approach (locally developed
software - LDSW vs. customized off-the shelf - COTS) and/or compare the selected
solution to cost of similar systems. In either case, the analysis should ideally compare
the cost of implementing the LGCBP IFMIS with the cost of implementing similar
systems under similar conditions. A recent World Bank study on Financial
Management Information Systems 7 (FMIS) does present some data for comparison,
but with the shortcoming for the purpose of this evaluation that the FMIS study only
concerned national treasury systems and government FMIS. The LGCBP is new in a
World Bank context in that no prior and directly comparable projects exist that has
implemented a LDSW or COTS IFMIS in a municipal project. The analysis should
thus be taken as indicative, but would still be telling of general efficiency trends.

84.      The LGCBP opted for a COTS since no supplier was available to provide
LDSW, and there was no real choice (the market has developed in the meantime). For
our purposes, the best information to evaluate cost-efficiency we get from the FMIS
study is a finding that in small-scale projects, where the FMIS users are less than 250
in total 8, total cost of FMIS solutions based on COTS and LDSW are comparable. For
larger projects with more users, LDSW comes out as the cheaper solution. In spite of
this comparison being between local and central government systems, it can be taken



7
  Dener, C., Watkins, J. A., and Dorotinsky, W. L.: Financial Management Information Systems. 25
Years of World Bank Experience on What Works and What Doesn’t. World Bank, 2011.
8
  The LGCBP has about 160 users based on 5 users per municipality in 32 municipalities.


                                              28
as indicative of the choice of COTS for the LGCBP IFMIS being relatively cost-
efficient compared to LDSW, given the limited number of users.

85.     Comparing cost of similar systems also provides an acceptable result. Costs of
similar systems (comparing only COTS) implemented in similar capacity
environments (Ghana, Moldova, and Uganda) and with low (for a government
system), numbers of users (400-800) have implementation cost per user of about
US$26,000. This compares to US$31,250 per user for the LGCBP IFMIS, not
unreasonable given the overall project environment, the double shift from manual to
automated and from cash-based to modified accruals-based accounting and the large
number of physical sites to implement the project, including difficult access to Gaza
and need to send Gaza municipal staff and consultants to Egypt to implement the
training.

86.     Contractual difficulties in this type of projects are quite frequent (rather the
norm in this type of projects combining technical and institutional changes) and so the
LGCBP was no anomaly in this regard. If, faced with technical and contractual
differences with the IFMIS contractor, the project had opted to change supplier and
gone for a different system (COTS or LDSW, as was considered at one point), this
would likely have resulted in additional software customization or development cost;
and given the technical specifics and local capacity constraints it is uncertain whether
another system could have performed better or even become operational. We take this
as an indication that project management choices made regarding IFMIS
implementation (sticking with the supplier in spite of contractual differences)
contributed to cost-efficiency.

Time Efficiency
87.     Analyzing time-efficiency again suffers from lack of directly comparable
projects, but nonetheless an indicative comparison can be made. The LGCBP took
7.25 years to implement. By comparison, the FMIS database maintained by the World
Bank Financial Management Systems Working Group shows that the current average
implementation time for a Bank-funded government FMIS project is 6.1 years. Again,
this is comparing implementation of central government systems with a local
government system implemented in many localities, under very challenging
conditions, and with very specific technical difficulties. The fact that the public sector
in WBG operates with multiple currencies without a base currency is unique on a
global scale, and did result in specific technical difficulties that no existing COTS can
handle without significant adjustments. Further, at least two years of project
implementation delay can be attributed wholly to contextual matters beyond the
control of the Implementing Agency (political split between the West Bank and Gaza,
closures in Gaza, difficulty for consultants to travel to WBG), so all in all it is not
unreasonable that the LGCBP took longer to implement (1.15 years more to be
precise) than projects working only at a central level and under more “normal?
conditions.

88.     In relation to time-efficiency, a parallel argument can be made to cost-
efficiency. Contractual difficulties being rather the norm in this type of projects, the
important aspect is whether problems are eventually solved. Again, had the project
opted for a different system following the contractual difficulties with the IFMIS
supplier, this would likely have extended project implementation by several years,


                                           29
and given the local capacity constraints it is uncertain whether the system could have
become operational. Together, we take this as an indication that LGCBP had
satisfactory time-efficiency and that the project management choices made regarding
IFMIS implementation contributed to this.

Technical and Allocation Efficiencies
89.     As a general consideration, budget reforms should add value to the resource
allocation process – that is, they should be designed to optimize the allocation
efficiency of the budget. The LGCBP introduced two major changes concurrently:
moving form cash based to modified accrual based and from manual to automated
accounting. Regarding the first change, cash-based accounting cannot contribute to
measures of efficiency in any meaningful sense. Modified accrual accounting can, by
providing measures of costs of service provided, which can then be compared with
measures of quantity and quality of output to produce measures of performance.

90.     Cost data are necessary for the pursuit of allocation and technical efficiencies,
and this is made possible by the new modified accrual-based accounting model, which
significantly diminish the difficulties in allocating service and administrative
overhead and identifying the true cost of providing local government services, adding
a new dimension to budgeting and increasing professionalism of the municipal
financial and budget departments. The municipal executive has been provided with
the means to receive financial reports on demand and follow up on budget
implementation, something that was not possible before the LGCBP. With the
adoption of modified accrual accounting, publishing budgets enable citizens to exert
oversight of local governments, and MOLG oversight of the budget process becomes
meaningful. Asset inventory has also contributed to proper maintenance, and it is
estimated that this is significantly more efficient than letting infrastructure assets
deteriorate and rehabilitate completely. This LGCBP contribution to both allocation
and technical efficiency is even more essential as resources and expenditure decisions
are decentralized.

91.     In order to compare costs with the benefits from the allocation and technical
efficiencies introduced by the project, we will hypothesize that a certain percentage
gain in service delivery will result from these efficiencies, which include increased
municipal revenues (from the Revenue Information Management System, now fully
integrated with the IFMIS), reduced investment and operating costs (from transparent
budget management, and benchmarking) more efficient resource use and better
resource allocation (from the fixed asset registers as well as budget reports), and
generally higher quality municipal services and a more conducive environment for
business development. The qualitative benefits also include increased possibilities for
participating in planning and overall improved quality of life for the citizens of
LGCBP municipalities (and in the longer run the whole of WBG with the roll-out of
IFMIS).

92.     With an investment of US$6.32 million in the IFMIS, RMIS and FARV,
including all software, hardware and training, annual staff plus hardware and software
maintenance cost of US$10,000 per municipality, average municipalities budget of
US$750,000 annually, and a discount rate of 10% (reflecting the opportunity cost of
capital) the efficiency gains would have to be around 6 percent in order to get a
positive net present value of the investment. While this is an exercise with very


                                           30
significant uncertainties, and a quite speculative way of quantifying benefits, it is not
without some realism. Gaining efficiencies of 6% would not seem unrealistic given
the virtual transformation of the way local governments work. And it should be noted
that once the system is developed, it is much less costly to roll it out to more
municipalities, as is already foreseen under the MDP II. This will further raise the rate
of return on the initial (LGCBP) investment.

Conclusion
93.     The above analysis of LGCBP efficiency should be taken as indicative given
the nature of the assumptions and the uncertainties involved, However, taking into
account the reservations expressed, the multiple criteria used (cost-efficiency, time-
efficiency, and technical and allocation efficiencies with estimative quantification of
benefits) all point towards a substantial efficiency of the LDCBP, and that project
management choices overall contributed to this.




                                           31
Annex 4. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes
(a) Task Team members
                                                                            Responsibility/
           Names                             Title                   Unit
                                                                              Specialty
Lending/Grant Preparation
Ibrahim Dajani                 Sr. Operations Officer               MNSTR TTL
Stephen Karam                  Sr. Urban Economist                   (*) TTL, EMSRP II
Kingsley Robotham              Urban Specialist, consultant          (*)
Sahera Bleibleh                Municipal Specialist, Consultant      (*)
Mihaly Kopanya                 Sr. Municipal Finance Specialist      (*)
                               Sr. Financial Management
Ayman Abu-Haija                                                       (*)
                               Specialist
Adel Fahed J. Odeh             Financial Analyst                      (*)
Abdallah Awad                  Information Officer                    (*)
Hisham Labadi                  Procurement Specialist, Consultant     (*)
Supervision/ICR
Ibrahim Dajani                 Sr. Operations Officer               MNSTR 1st TTL
Samira Hillis                  Sr. Operations Officer               MNSSP 2nd TTL
Soraya Goga                    Sr. Urban Specialist                 MNSUR 3rd TTL
Christianna Johnnides          Urban Specialist                     MNSUR ICR Team Leader
Meskerem Brhane                Sr. Urban Specialist                 EASIN TTL, EMSRP II
Lina Abdallah                  Operations Officer                   MNSUR
Khalida Seif El-Din Al-
                               Program Assistant                    MNCGZ
Qutob
Abdallah Awad                  Information Officer                  MNCGZ
Lina Fathallah Rajoub          Procurement Specialist               MNAPC
Hernando R. Garzon             Consultant                            ECSS6
Majd Laisoon                   Consultant                           MNAFM
Sana Mahmoud Mubarak           Consultant                           MNAPC
Adel Fahed J. Odeh             Operations Analyst                   MNCGZ
Ronald Points                  Consultant, IFMIS                    EASPR
Suhair M. Saah                 Consultant                           MNAFM
Alexander Wegener              Consultant                           AFTPR
Christian Eghoff               Consultant, Urban Specialist         MNSUR ICR Author
(*) Unit at time of appraisal not available.
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                         Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                        US$ Thousands (including
                                        No. of staff weeks
                                                             travel and consultant costs)
Lending (*)                              Not applicable             Not applicable
                            Total:                0                        0.00
Supervision/ICR (**)
                            Total:           Not available                 225.00
(*) All lending cost was charged to the EMSRP I. US$60,000 was provided by Denmark as
Bank-executed TF to carry out full project design, of which US$54,739 was disbursed.
(**) All supervision cost prior to the split off from the EMSRP II was charged to the
EMSRP II.



                                             32
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(N/A)




                                      33
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(N/A)




                                   34
Annex 7. Summary of Grantee's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR
Given the length of the Borrower’s ICR, it is presented below in summary.

(a) Summary of the Grantee’s ICR

Implementation Completion Report for Local Government Capacity Building Project
                                   (LGCBP)
                                    September 2012

Project Context: Why Was the Project Initiated

94.    In 2003 the Palestinian National Authority initiated the public sector reform
program as a response to the economic, social and political hardship that faced the
PNA after the Israeli incursion to most of the Palestinian cities in 2002 and the
massive destruction to the infrastructure. Local government was among the sectors
that were targeted by the reform program. In 2004 the Ministry of Local Government
with the support from the Japanese government through the UNDP issued the Local
Government Diagnostic Study and responded to the recommendations of that study in
an Action Plan. The LGCBP project was designed to assist MOLG in implementing
some of the actions listed in the diagnostic study and the action plan.

Key Factors Affecting implementation

Challenges and Obstacles Facing Project Implementation

95.     The challenges facing the implementation of LGCBP have resulted in delaying
a number of key activities (e.g. Integrated Financial Management Information System,
physical planning reform activities, etc.) and thus required extra time to accomplish
the activities of the project. Below are the main challenges:

Political and Security Challenges

96.     The conflict remains to be the main obstacle to achieve sustainable
development. Additionally for this project, the general conditions under which the
overall LGCBP has operated has changed dramatically between the period of
conceptualization in 2004 and throughout the implementation period, below are some
of the key changes :

       •   Local council elections took place during 2005, the year when the project
           started which shifted the attention and priorities to accomplishing the
           elections.
       •   Legislative council elections took place in 2006; Hamas party won the
           majority of the seats and formed the government.
       •   After that, most of the donor countries to the PNA suspended all foreign
           aid upon which the government largely relies on.
       •   The PNA fell in deep financial crisis which resulted in civil servants strike.




                                          35
          •   This political instability continued throughout 2007 when Hamas and
              Fateh were involved in clashes that finally resulted in the formation of two
              governments one in the West Bank led by P.M. Fayad and another in Gaza
              Strip let by P.M. Haniyeh.
          •   The current Palestinian legislative council has been inactive since its
              election (2006) due to imprisonment of a number of the elected council
              members by Israel, the political conflict between Fateh and Hamas and the
              postponement of the next elections. This resulted in an inability to pass
              new laws or amend existing ones, which is a major factor of a reform
              project.
          •   The Israeli military closures continued throughout the West Bank making
              mobility between the different areas hard. Moreover a total siege was
              imposed on Gaza strip making accessibility of experts and goods
              extremely difficult.
          •   In late 2008 there was an Israeli war against Gaza strip that resulted in
              hundreds of civilians killed and massive destruction to the infrastructure.
              The siege on Gaza also continued.
          Due to the above-mentioned reasons, virtually limited technical assistance to
          MoLG or municipalities could be provided due to the political situation.

97.       Management and Logistical Challenges

      •   The Local Government Capacity Building Project (LGCBP) agreement was
          signed in March 2005 with a total grant amount of US$2,474,000 and was
          planned to end in December 2008. The Grant amount was not amended before
          September 2008 to reach a total amount of US$10,037,396 and the new
          planned closure date became December 2010.
      •   In 2006 and after the MDLF was established, the implementation
          responsibility of the LGCBP was moved from MOLG to MDLF. This has
          caused some resentment from senior officials from MOLG who preferred that
          the project be implemented by MOLG.
      •   When the project was initiated it was part of the EMSRP project. Reporting,
          management and supervision missions were part of the parent project. Later
          LGCBP became a project by its own.
      •   The project witnessed change in management from all parties: The Task Team
          Leader (TTL) from the World Bank changed three times, and the project
          manager from MDLF changed three times throughout the project. The person
          following up the project from DANIDA has also changed three times. This
          made follow-up harder.

98.       Technical Challenges

      •   The nature of the project and its objectives to establish and introduce
          significant changes to the systems and procedures of the financial management,
          and physical planning practices that will dramatically impact the local
          government sector in Palestine including MoLG and LGUs, is not an easy or



                                             36
         quick journey as it requires sufficient time to accept the proposed changes in
         existing management and related systems.
     •   The Minister (leadership) at MOLG changed several times from 2005 till 2009,
         thus resulting in change of priorities and directions throughout this period.
     •   There were several donors working with MOLG on the reform Agenda such as
         GIZ 9, UNDP, BTC 10, USAID/CHF 11, DANIDA, etc. some of these donors
         had competing agendas and wanted to accomplish reform tasks with the
         ministry. This led to some duplication of efforts, or sending the request to
         perform a certain task to several donors. As a result some of the planned
         activities under the LGCBP were cancelled from the project since other donors
         were working on the same activities with the ministry.
     •   Due to the nature of the reform objectives of this project, the local and
         regional expertise in the targeted sectors mainly financial management and
         physical planning were limited. Some of the international experts had
         resentment to come to this country due to political instability and insecurity,
         others needed more time to grasp the local context and be able to customize
         the recommendations to suit the local needs. This resulted in making this
         project a learning experience for all parties thus the time slated for
         implementation was prolonged.

Assessment of outcomes

Assessment of the Achievement of the Development Objectives

99.      The reporting of the achievement of the development objectives was done
against the original PDO as well as the modified one. 12 It is worth noting that there
were assumptions and requisites that should be in place in order for the objectives to
be achieved. “The pursuit of these objectives presupposes that the PA will act
expeditiously on its commitment to decentralize the local government system, and
reflect this commitment in appropriate amendments to the LGL.? 13 Unfortunately and
as was mentioned in the previous section (key factors affecting implementation) the
PNA was not able to amend the local government law which is the bases under which
the MOLG and LGUs are operating.


Development Objective

                 To improve local governance and foster the efficient and sustainable
Narrative
                 economic, social and physical development of the urban and rural areas in
Summary
                 WBG

                 Original                                    Modified
Performance




9
  ICR editors note: German Technical Cooperation.
10
   ICR editor’s note: Belgian Technical Cooperation.
11
   ICR editor’s note: Cooperative Housing Foundation.
12
    ICR editor’s note: The PDO did not change. The PAD refers to a higher-level objective. The
comment here is referring to the results framework.
13
   LGCBP PAD page 8.


                                             37
Indicators         LG Laws revised, granting significant           1. Reform in financial and
                   autonomy to LGUs and providing for                 accounting systems for 34 14
                   increased public participation and                 municipalities put in place by
                   accountability.
                                                                      the end of Project;
                                                                   2. Reform in physical planning
                                                                      procedures for 4 clusters15
                                                                      of LGUs put in place, by end
                                                                      of Project;
                                                                   3. Indication of increasing
                                                                      interaction of the public in
                                                                      the LGU decision making
                                                                      process, by end of Project 16;

Achievement        • Although the LGL was not amended, MOLG and MDLF through the
                     developed manuals and policy notes mainly the Physical planning and
                     amalgamation manuals worked towards decentralization and increased
                     public participation.
                       -    The physical planning manual gave the responsibility of preparing
                            the physical plan to the LGU, thus empowering them to take
                            decisions related to the physical development under their
                            jurisdiction. Before that MOLG used to prepare the masterplan on
                            behalf of the LGU. Public participation also increased in the process
                            of preparing the physical plan.
                       -    With regard to amalgamation policy and manual, participation is
                            considered key to the amalgamation process, the manual specifies
                            when and how to participate the local stakeholders in the
                            amalgamation process. The notion of amalgamation empowers the
                            small LGUs to merge in a functional and efficient municipality. The
                            municipality will become entitled to collect local taxes and has
                            more capacity to manage and take decisions regarding development
                            under its jurisdiction.
                       -    Increased awareness of the importance of citizens involvement in
                            the LGUs decision is becoming more noticeable; the MoLG,
                            MDLF, and other stakeholders in the sector have endorsed a set of
                            policies and procedures that promote active public participation
                            including the newly developed SDIP policy and manual, citizen
                            participation manual of MDLF, amalgamation manual and the
                            physical planning manual.
                       -    Moreover, MDLF and other donors in the sector are enforcing the
                            involvement of the citizens through requiring the infrastructure


14
   Nablus, Qalqilya, Birzeit, BeitUmmar, Dura, Jenin, Ya’abad, Qabatya, Tulkarm, Anabta, Jaba’,
Kufrra’y, Al Yamoun, Baita, Qabalan, Jericho, Silwad, DeirDibwan, BaniZaid Al Sharkiya, Qatana,
Bidya, Biddo, Al Zaituna, Bethlehem, BeitSahour, Yatta, Al-Sammou’, Bani Naim, Surif, Tafuh,
Hebron, Rafah, Deir Al balah, Al Maghazi.
15
   Cluster one: Qabatya, Misilya, Talfit, AlShuhada, Al Kfir, Al Zababdeh; Cluster 2: Abu Dees, Al
Izariyeh, Al Sawahreh, Al Ziaem, Al SeikhSaad; cluster 3: Al Kafriyat (newly amalgamated
municipality from seven LGUs); Cluster 4: Al Itihad (an amalgamated municipality from 3 LGUs).
16
   ICR editor’s note: This indicator was part of the original results framework, not maintained for the
revised framework agreed in 2010. The ICR maintains the indicator as it remains relevant.


                                                  38
                          projects to be identified through proper citizen participation.
                 • The LGCBP project had fostered the economic and financial
                   development of the Palestinian municipalities by increasing the means
                   and tools for revenue generation. This is accomplished by providing a
                   number of municipalities with the integrated financial management
                   information system which provides the municipalities with a revenue
                   management system which enables municipalities to know the exact dues
                   to each citizen. The IFMIS also provides the municipalities with financial
                   information regarding the cost of services and thus gives them the option
                   to optimize service delivery in a cost effective manner. The system also
                   enables them to get information regarding their operational costs thus the
                   option to take decisions towards its rationalization. The preparation of
                   physical plans to a number of municipalities enables them to increase
                   their revenue base by issuing and managing building licences based on
                   the new masterplan. It also helps them to be entitled to benefit from MOF
                   project of property tax and facilitates the process of assessing the value
                   of the properties.


                 • The LGCBP fostered the social and physical development of the urban
                   and rural areas by providing them with new procedures to prepare the
                   physical plans. The new procedures take into account the social needs
                   from public services (including green areas, gardens, schools, and health
                   care services), economic development and environmental protection
                   needs.
                     -    A new financial and accounting system for Palestinian
                          municipalities was developed. The full package of the new system
                          was piloted in 31 17 municipalities in the West Bank and Gaza.
                     -    A unified chart of account was developed and circulated to
                          municipalities.
                     -    The project reformed the budgeting and financial planning
                          procedures in the municipalities by developing a unified template
                          for budget preparation as well as training municipalities on its use.
                          All municipalities are currently preparing their annual budgets on
                          time and according to a Unified Cart of Account, and unified
                          budgeting formats.
                     -    A financial and accounting policy note was developed.
                     -    A financial policy and procedures manual on modified accrual
                          basis, was developed and is in place in 32 municipalities.
                     -    The Integrated Financial Management Information System was
                          implemented in 31 municipalities in the West Bank and Gaza.
                     -    Fixed Assets Registration and Valuation (FARV) methodology was
                          developed.
                     -    43 municipalities in the West Bank and Gaza prepared their fixed
                          assets registration and valuation.



17
  ICR editor’s note: The number does not include Hebron municipality, which is running its own
system due to history of integration with e-government. The ICR considers that Hebron should be
included as it is adhering to the procedures developed under the LGCBP.


                                              39
                • There was a reform in the physical planning procedures. A procedure
                  manual was developed and launched in a ceremony attended by H.H.
                  Prime minister Dr. Fayad, H.E. the Minister of local government Dr.
                  Qawasmy, H.E. Minister of planning Mr. Abu Ramadan and the World
                  Bank Country Director Ms. Sherman. The manual was also piloted in 4
                  clusters. The manual is currently being used by the ministry and other
                  donors in preparing physical plans beyond the LGCBP pilot sites.
Assessment Although the LGL was not amended, the essence of the indicator was
     of     achieved through the above mentioned activities.
Achievement
Specific Objectives

Narrative       1. To improve the financial management and budgetary control capabilities
Summary               of MOLG, and of municipalities.

                2. To strengthen the capacity of the Ministry of Local Government (MOLG)
                      and the local government units (LGUs) in WBG to effectively guide,
                      manage and monitor the development of the urban and rural settlement
                      areas, and be responsive to the needs of citizens.

                3. To increase the capacity of MOLG departments to guide and manage a
                      decentralised local government system.

Performance Original                                    Modified
Indicators
                1.1. New MOF mandated
                     governmental accounting and
                     financial management system
                     in place and operational.

                                                        1.2. New computerized financial and
                1.2. New computerized financial              accounting systems operational
                     and accounting systems                  in 34 municipalities by end of
                     operational in selected                 Project.
                     municipalities.
                2.1. New and effective planning         2.1. Improved and effective physical
                     and management strategies,              planning procedures established
                     programs and systems                    at MOLG and implemented in 4
                     established at MOLG in a                clusters of LGUs by end of
                     significant number and                  Project;
                     representative sample of
                     LGUs.
                 3.1.Mandated         tasks      and     3.1.Technical        capacity building
                       operational procedures are              activities for MOLG departments
                       considerably improved when              and      district   office  staff
                       measured      against      the          implemented.
                       component baseline study.

Achievement     • Indicator 1.1. was cancelled because the MOF has developed through
                  another project a unified accounting system for the central government
                  and its related ministries (including the Ministry of Local Government).
                • 1.2. A new computerized financial and accounting system is operational


                                              40
                     in 31 municipalities 18.
                  • 2.1. Improved and effective physical planning procedures were
                    established at MOLG. The physical planning manual was piloted in 4
                    sites and clusters 19 under the LGCBP and in a number of other sites
                    under other projects (1 through the CHF, 2 through the LDP and 2
                    through MOLG)
                      -    The identification of the local urban planning practices and the
                          identification of needed activities to achieve the objectives have
                          been completed through a survey of the urban planning practices
                          and needs in WBG in Feb-2008.
                      -   Study tours were conducted to Jordan to learn from their experience
                          in physical planning. The tours targeted MOLG and municipality
                          staff.
                      -   The Physical Planning procedure Manual (PPM) has been
                          developed and piloted. The lessons learnt from the pilot sites were
                          used to update the manual. The updated version of the manual was
                          officially launched in June 2012.
                      -   Several training sessions have been conducted including on the
                          PPM.
                      -   A standard training material on (PPM) was prepared for trainees and
                          trainers, which takes a form of a course.
                      -   An institutionalization plan for (PPM) and its training was
                          developed.
                      -   A manual for roads and transportation standards was developed.
                      -   An amalgamation policy and an operational manual has been
                          prepared and delivered in June 2009. By end of 2010, MOLG had
                          announced the amalgamation of four clusters based on the
                          developed manual.
                  • Operational procedures at MOLG were considerably improved through
                    the LGCBP and mainly through initiatives of other donors such as the
                    CHF and GIZ. The project had therefore focused its intervention in
                    institutional development in the following areas:
                      -   Equipment and furniture were purchased for the MOLG headquarter
                          and district offices benefiting approximately 200 employees in
                          addition to the provided training.
                      -   Enhance the skills of IT staff at MOLG in network management and
                          IT support. One of the main goals was to enable the MOLG to
                          implement and use their own email systems (i.e. info@molg.gov.ps)
                          and activate their internal network.
                      -   Improve the coordination between the MOLG departments of Gaza


18
   Nablus, Qalqilya, Birzeit, BeitUmmar, Dura, Jenin, Ya’abad, Qabatya, Tulkarm, Anabta, Jaba’, Al
Yamoun, Baita, Qabalan, Jericho, Silwad, DeirDibwan, BaniZaid Al Sharkiya, Qatana, Biddo, Al
Zaituna, Bethlehem, BeitSahour, Yatta, Al-Sammou’, Bani Naim, Surif, Tafuh, Rafah, Deir Al balah,
Al Maghazi.
19
   Cluster one: Qabatya, Misilya, Talfit, AlShuhada, Al Kfir, Al Zababdeh; Cluster 2: Abu Dees, Al
Izariyeh, Al Sawahreh, Al Ziaem, Al SeikhSaad; cluster 3: Al Kafriyat (newly amalgamated
municipality from seven LGUs); Cluster 4: Al Itihad (an amalgamated municipality from 3 LGUs).


                                                41
                         and West Bank through the setup and usage of video conference
                         equipment
                     -   Enhance the capacity of more than 132 MOLG employees in
                         computer applications and related office skills.
                     -   Institutional development through supporting the ministry by
                         recruiting and hiring a number of staff mainly in the budget and
                         monitoring directorates.
                     -   Financial and Management courses training and English and
                         communication skills courses have been conducted to
                         municipalities, departments of the MOLG, and district offices.
                 - For MDLF:
                     -   Equipment and furniture were purchased
                     -   A Program and Grant Management Information System was
                         developed
                     -   A grant transfer mechanism was developed, (this grant transferred
                         mechanism was implemented through the MDP)
Assessment of
                 The three specific objectives and their indicators were achieved through the
Achievements
                 achievements listed above.


Challenges related to the implementation of project activities at the output level

100.    Component one
 •     The war broke out in Gaza in early 2009, which hindered the process of
       installing the IFMIS there.
 •     Limited capacity, lack of sufficient staff and overloaded staff at the
       municipalities.
 •     At the beginning of the project, unorganized and scattered financial data at some
       municipalities.
 •     The change management process at municipalities took more time than
       anticipated.
 •     Underestimation of needed budget to implement the IFMIS (When the software
       provider was contracted, the IT requirements of the system were very high).
 •     Technical and contractual problems with the software provider FreeBalance.
       The software was first piloted in 5 municipalities in the West Bank and faced
       major technical problems related to mainly report generation, ability to deal with
       multicurrency as well as the integrity and security of generated data. This
       created resentment at the pilot sites to accept the system. Negotiations between
       FreeBalance and MDLF started in April 2011 in order to overcome the technical
       problems and overcome the delays encountered in the implementation of the
       software at the pilot and roll out sites. An agreement between FreeBalance and
       MDLF was reached in May 2011.




                                            42
101.    Component two
 •     The implementation of the new approach (especially for preparing the spatial
       development framework) requires cooperation and joint work between the
       LGUs in the cluster which takes time
 •     Limited capacities at the municipalities in integrated planning
 •     The PPM adopted new approach in planning that was not commonly used in
       Palestine and the consulting firms needed time to grasp the approach.
102.    Component three
 •     The Minister (leadership) at MOLG changed several times from 2005 till 2009,
       thus resulting in change of priorities and directions throughout this period.
 •     There were several donors working with MOLG on the reform Agenda such as
       GIZ, UNDP, BTC, USAID/CHF, DANIDA, etc. some of these donors had
       competing agendas and wanted to accomplish reform tasks with the ministry.
       This led to some duplication of efforts, or sending the request to perform a
       certain task to several donors. As a result some of the planned activities under
       the LGCBP were cancelled from the project since other donors were working on
       the same activities with the ministry.
 •     After the implementation responsibility of the LGCBP was moved from MOLG
       to MDLF, this has caused some resentment from senior officials from MOLG
       who preferred that the project be implemented by MOLG.

Evaluation of MDLF’s performance at project stages with special emphasis on
lessons learned

103. Throughout the project the performance of MDLF was satisfactory. Despite all
the challenges and obstacles that faced the implementation of the project and the
reform complex nature of this project the MDLF was able to complete the planned
activities successfully and meet the project development goals.

104. The main lessons learnt from this experience: Reform and capacity
development projects have a long term perspective, therefore there should be patience
and realism with respect to the scope, timing and pace of change. Future projects
should take into consideration providing proper timing to accommodate the time
needed for change management.

Evaluation of World Bank performance

105. Throughout the project, the performance of the World Bank was satisfactory.
There were continuous follow up by the project team leader and Bank related staff on
the progress of implementation and on financial and management issues. In addition
the team leader, related staff and experts were involved in periodic missions. During
the missions, progress, technical comments, procurement and financial reviews took
place and comments were discussed with MDLF staff.




                                            43
Post-completion/Next Phase

106. It is worth mentioning that the outputs of the LGCBP project are being utilized
by other important projects taking place in the local government sector. Below are
some examples:

•   The MDP project is utilizing the capacity development packages that were
    developed through the LGCBP. The fixed assets registration and valuation and
    roll out of IFMIS are two packages that are rolled out under the MDP.
    Additionally development of a cash based financial procedure manual and budget
    preparation guideline under MDP are both built upon initiatives that were initiated
    in the LGCBP.

•   The fixed assets registration and valuation manual is also being used by other
    donors such as the CHF.

•   The amalgamation manual is being used by the amalgamation related projects
    such as the LDP I&II in Jenin area, the LDP III and the LGRDP.

•   The physical planning manual is being used by the ministry in clusters of their
    own financing in addition to being used by other donors such as the CHF.

-(b) Comments received from the government on draft Bank ICR

107. The following comments were received from the MDLF by email on
December 11, 2012 in response to the Banks’s request for comments on a full draft
version of the ICR. The MDLF comments were inserted directly into the draft ICR, as
comments to specific text segments. The comments are rendered here with reference
to the current paragraph number in the ICR:

    1) §17: “This point is not accurate, the technical and functional specification for
       IFMIS was based on consultation with the municipalities and all the
       requirements were reflected in the technical and functional specification
       (TOR). The multi-currency function spelt out clearly in the TOR and during
       the negotiation with the IFMIS supplier there was a long session explaining
       the multi-currency requirements and importance of this function based on the
       fact that municipalities dealing with different currencies and we don’t have
       national currency. Unfortunately the supplier showed full commitment during
       negotiation that he will comply with our requirement, but during the
       implementation he started arguing with us.? This is a comment to a statement
       in the draft ICR that participation of the beneficiary LGUs in definition of the
       IFMIS requirements might have unearthed problems with multi-currency
       accounting and post-dated checks early on. The final text has been amended to
       accommodate MDLF’s comment, given that consultation with beneficiary
       municipalities was in fact carried out prior to signing the contract with the
       IFMIS supplier, but the ICR concludes that this should have happened as part
       of project design.
    2) §20: “Again this is not acceptable. The problem is not in the specification the
       problem was with the IFMIS provider.? The comment goes to a statement in
       the draft ICR that it was not foreseen to involve the beneficiary municipalities


                                          44
   in the development of specifications of the IFMIS to a sufficient extent. The
   final text has been amended to accommodate MDLF’s comment with the same
   justification as point 1) above.
3) §21: “It’s not clear! If you mean the chart of accounts done by the UNDP
   consultant, then it’s true but please mention UNDP consultant.? Comment
   pertains to a statement in the draft ICR that the work on the chart of accounts
   was not of sufficient quality to serve as basis for the IFMIS design. In the final
   ICR the text has been revised to specify that the initial work on the chart of
   accounts was not carried out in the context of the LGCBP.
4) §35 (i): “The rollout will be implemented during the MDP II given that its
   demand driven and none of the municipalities requested the IFMIS package
   during MDP I.? Comment to the text in the draft ICR that IFMIS “has already
   been introduced in a representative sample (32) of LGs (and is being rolled out
   to another 50 municipalities under the MDP).? The text has been updated to
   reflect more precisely that roll-out will happen but is not yet ongoing.
5) §50: “This paragraph is not clear it needs more clarification.? Comment relates
   to a statement in the draft ICR that a main risk to PDO comes from lack of a
   clear government strategy on Help Desk and IFMIS roll-out, but that the risk
   is mitigated by strong pressure from donors and municipalities to add more
   municipalities (in the context of MDP II), which would also allow MOLG to
   carry out better budget follow-up due to the larger number of LGUs using
   IFMIS. The final text has been strengthened to better present the fact that,
   although the development of a strategy is part of clarifying the relationship
   and responsibilities between the MOLG and MDLF and hence is taking some
   time, the risk of a strategy not materializing in the short to medium term is
   limited given the good results and strong demand.




                                       45
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

The following was received from the DANIDA by email on December 6, 2012, in
response to the Banks’s request for comments on a full draft version of the ICR.

“Dear Christianna,

Hope this finds you well.

Overall I think the ICR is good and gives a good understanding of the project. I only
have some few comments/questions:

   -   It is mentioned in the ICR that no clear strategy was in place to assure the
       operation of the IFMIS – how will the WB make sure a strategy will be in
       place?
   -   In relation to that it is mention that MoLG and MDLF are in a process of
       drafting a strategy paper to address the future implementation of IFMIS – this
       was also mention during our mission in May. When do you expect MDLF will
       submit such a strategy paper?
   -   What is the status of PAs commitment to the future work in order to ensure
       IFMIS sustainability, helpdesk in MoLG, RMIS etc.? (Very much related to
       the above questions).

Best regards,
Amal?




                                         46
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


   •   Project Appraisal Document (December 14, 2004)
   •   Administration Agreement (December 23, 2004)
   •   Trust Fund Grant Agreement (March 22, 2005) and amendments
   •   Project Restructuring Paper (December 27, 2010)
   •   Project aide-mémoires
   •   Project Status Reports (PSRs)
   •   Implementation Status and Results Reports (ISRs)
   •   Annual Progress Reports (2006-2009)
   •   Financial Audits
   •   Government Project Completion Report




                                     47
Additional Annex 10. Timeline for LGCBP-related projects

First Municipal Infrastructure Development Project (MIDP, US$40 million IDA)

Effective July 24, 1996
Closed June 30, 2003

108. The MIDP focused mainly on infrastructure rehabilitation (US$30 million).
The summary of reform activities for the Local Governance sector include: (a) a new
local government law passed; (b) foreseen investment programming mechanisms not
developed by MOLG and MOF due to difficulties in finalizing staffing and consulting
arrangements; scaled back as reforms in the context of the crisis were deemed
unrealistic; (c) implemented Revenue Management Information System (RMIS): new
billing, collection and citizen information systems installed and operationalized in
nine out of the planned ten municipalities; and (d) did not succeed in implementing
accounting systems reform (FMIS); work on implementation was significantly
delayed, and was de facto terminated in early 2001, due partly to the fact that MOLG
was unable to prepare satisfactory terms of reference or provide effective technical
and consulting support, and partly to the onset of the crisis (second Intifada).

First Emergency Municipal Services Rehabilitation Project (EMSRP I, US$20 million
IDA, US$100 million total)

Effective January 22, 2003
Closed March 31, 2006

109. The EMSRP I focused mainly on municipal services through budgetary
support for non-wage municipal operating costs and creation of temporary labor-
intensive employment opportunities (US$18 million IDA). Noteworthy results for LG
reform are the design and set-up of the Municipal Development Fund (MDF – Later
Municipal Development and Lending Fund, MDLF, although lending is still not
implemented) which was made fully operational through the LGCBP.

Second Emergency Municipal Services Rehabilitation Project (EMSRP II, US$20
million IDA, US$70 million total)

PCN May 6, 2005
Effective February 28, 2007
Closed December 30, 2011

110. The project was first envisaged as a Municipal Management and Service
Delivery Project (MMSDP) with more focus on institutional reform, but due to the
crisis changed to a follow-up operation to the EMSRP I.

111. The project focused on providing assistance for mitigating further
deterioration in the delivery of essential municipal services in WBG through
financing of works in a number of sectors under municipal responsibility and also
funded non-wage recurrent expenditures to keep services operational. The project
further supported the creation of temporary job opportunities at the local level.
Regarding reform of the LG sector, the EMSRP II introduced a transfer allocation


                                        48
system formula with an element of equalization since it uses population and needs
(employment) as part of the formula (developed jointly with the LGCBP), which
financed a key consultant.

First Municipal Development Program (MDP I, US$12 million IDA, estimated
US$66 million total)

Approval September 17, 2009
Expected Closing April 30, 2013

112. Developed by the MDLF to operationalize the 2008-2010 Palestinian Reform
and Development Plan’s (PRDP) goals for promoting local development, the MDP I
contributes to the larger PRDP goal of strengthening local governments by enhancing
their efficiency and effectiveness and by moving them towards fiscal stability. The
MDP I is a multi-phase/multi-donor national program which provides municipalities
with a combination of technical assistance and annual performance-based grants for
sub-projects that improve service delivery. The formula for performance grants is
designed to create incentives for municipalities to progress towards creditworthiness.
The MDP I provides grant allocations to municipalities for capital investments and
service provision through MDLF, supports municipal innovations and efficiency by
promoting amalgamation, energy savings and responsiveness to citizens and provide
capacity building to municipalities and MDLF. The MDP I is expected to reach all
132 municipalities given that the MDLF has already demonstrated that it can
successfully support all of them.

Second Municipal Development Program (MDP II, estimated US$10 million IDA, co-
financing to be announced)

Estimated Date of Board Approval: October 29, 2013

113. This project is currently envisaged to provide financing through the same
windows as the MDP I. However, in keeping with the progression towards the
program level objective of the MDP and the goals of the 2011-2013 National
Development Plan (NDP), the project would also emphasize mechanisms to improve
service delivery, citizen engagement, revenue generation and municipal
responsiveness.




                                         49
                                                                                                                                                                                                             IBRD 33512R1
                                                                                                                                                                To                         35°30'E
                                                                                                              35°00'E                                         Nazareth

               WEST BANK                                                                                                           To Haifa

               AND GAZA
                 SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                        32°30'N                                                                                                                                   32°30'N
                 RIVERS                                                                                                                       Yamoun
                                                                                                                                                                    Jenin
                 MAIN ROADS                                                                                                                    Ya'bad
                                                                                                                                 Kaffeen
                 RAILROAD                                                                                                                                      Qabatia

                 ARMISTICE DEMARCATION LINES, 1949                                                                                                     JENIN
                 NO-MAN’S LAND AREAS,
                 ARMISTICE DEMARCATION LINE, 1949                                                  To Netanya               TULKARM
                                                                                                                                      Anapta                                     Tubas
                                                                                                                        Tulkarm                                                          TUBAS
                 JERUSALEM CITY LIMIT, UNILATERALLY                                                                                                                               Tammun
                 EXPANDED BY ISRAEL JUNE 1967;
                 THEN ANNEXED JULY 30, 1980                                                                                                             Mt. 'Eval
                                                                                                                                                        (940 m)
                 GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                          Nablus
                                                                                                   Qalqilyah
                 ADMINISTRATIVE BOUNDARY                                                                               QALQILYAH                              NABLUS
                                                                                           To                                                                                                                         To
                                                                                        Tel Aviv                                                                                                                    Um Qais
                 INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                 SALFIT
                                              34°30'E                                                                                     Salfit   West




                                                                                                                                                                                                    r
  This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.




                                                                                                                                                                                               Jordan Rive
  The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                       To
  shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                      Ramla
                                                                                                                                                                                                             JORDAN
  Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
  endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
32°00'N
                                                                                       To
                                                                                    Tel Aviv
                                                                                                                                                   Bank                                                        To 32°00'N
                                                                                                                                                                 Tall Asur                                    Amman
                                                                                                                                                                 (1,022 m)
                                                                                                                                       RAMALLAH                                          JERICHO

                                                                                                                                                     Ramallah
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Amman
                                                                                                                                                                                           Jericho
           Mediterranean
                                                                                                                                                        JERUSALEM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   To
                           Sea                                                                                                                                                                                    Amman
                                                                                                                                                        JERUSALEM


                                                                                                       To                                           Bethlehem
                                                                                                     Ashdod
                                                                          ISRAEL
                                                                                                                                                      BETHLEHEM
                                                                To
                                                             Tel Aviv
                                                                                                  To
                                                                                               Ashqelon                                                                                   Dead
                              JABALYA
                                    Beit Lahia                                                                                        (1,020 m)                                            Sea
                                                                                                                                     Hebron
                           Gaza City
                                                 Jabalya
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  31°30'N
                      GAZA CITY                                                                                                   HEBRON
   Gaza Nusejrat
                                                           To                                                                       Yattah
DEIR EL BALAH                     El Bureij             Beersheba
           Deir el Balah                                                                                          Zohar

      KHAN
      YUNIS
                                                                                                                                                                          To
                      Khan                                                                                                                                               Zofar
                      Yunis                                                          To
                                                                                  Beersheba
              Rafah
                           RAFAH                                                                                                                                                                JORDAN
                Abu 'Awdah
   To           (105 m)
El Arish
                  To                          WEST BANK
                  Elat                        AND GAZA

 ARAB                                                                                                     0        5        10     15 Kilometers

REP. OF
EGYPT                                                                                                     0             5            10            15 Miles

31°00'N                                                                                                                                                                                                           31°00'N

                                              34°30'E                                                           35°00'E                                                                     35°30'E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                 JUNE 2007
