Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24293
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(SCL-43800)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$10.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF LATVIA
FOR THE
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 25, 2002
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development
Europe and Central Asia
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective at Appraisal, June 1998)
Currency Unit = LAT
LAT I = US$ 1.69
US$ I = LAT 0.59
Exchange Rate Effective at Project Closing, December 2001
LAT 1 = US$ 1.57
US$ 1 = LAT 0.64
FISCAL YEAR
January I -  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL                  Adaptable Program Loan
BTB                  Baltic Transit Bank
EU                   European Union
GOL                  Government of Latvia
LAAS                 Latvian Agricultural Advisory Services
LAG                  Local Action Group
MLB                  Mortgage and Land Bank
NRDP                 National Rural Development Plan
QAG                  Quality Assurance Group
RDP                  Rural Development Project
SAPARD               Special Action Program for Agriculture and Rural Development
Vice President:  Johannes Linn
Country Director:   Michael F. Carter
Sector Director:  Laura Tuck
Task Team Leader:    Hoonae Kim



LATVIA
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                     I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry           1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              12
6. Sustainability                                                                  14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   14
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 16
9. Partner Comments                                                                17
10. Additional Information                                                         21
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                               22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               25
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               26
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              30
Annex 8. Status of Land Reform                                                     31
Annex 9. Summary of the Credit Component                                           33
Annex 10. Operational Modalities of the Special Credit Line                        35
Annex 11. Comparative Market Interest Rates                                        37
Annex 12. Beneficiary Survey                                                       40






Project ID: P044804                                      Project Name: RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Team Leader: Hoonae Kim                                  TL Unit: ECSSD
ICR Ty,pe: Core ICR                                      Report Date: June 27, 2002
1. Project Data
Nanme: RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                    L/C/TFNumber: SCL-43800
Country/Department: LATVIA                                             Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: AC - Agricultural Credit; AY - Other Agriculture
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD: 06/28/1996                              Effective: 10/30/1998         12/08/1998
Appraisal:  03/17/1998                               MTR: 06/30/2000           05/29/2000
Approval: 07/30/1998                              Closing: 06/30/2001         12/31/2001
Borrower/Implementing Agency: REPUBLIC OF LATVIA/MIMSTRY OF AGRICULTURE
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes F. Linn                         Johannes Linn
Country Manager:     Michael F. Carter                        Basil Kavalsky
Sector Manager:      Laura Tuck                               Kevin Cleaver
Team Leader at ICR:  Hoonae Kim                               Hoonae Kim
ICR Primary Author:  Stephen Bartoletti; Simon Davies
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: HS
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: H
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: S                     S
Project at Risk at Any Tinme: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Background
The Rural Development Project (RDP) was the second investment operation supported by the World Bank
for Latvia's rural sector. It followed a successful first operation, the Agricultural Development Project



(US$25 million), which was approved in 1994 and rated as "highly satisfactory" at closing, at the end of
1997 (ICR report No. 18025 dated June 10, 1998). The ADP contributed towards the revitalization and
commercialization of the Latvian agricultural sector by providing credit, along with parallel support to
strengthen the rural financial intermediary system, re-establish private ownership of land and develop a
functional collateral system. The RDP was designed to continue achievement of these goals. The RDP
was intended to be the first phase of a two-phase Adaptable Program Loan (APL), and was approved by
the World Bank Board on July 30, 1998, signed on September 9, 1998 and made effective on December 8,
1998. The loan for the first phase was for DEM18.6 million (US$10.5 million equivalent) and was fully
disbursed and closed on December 31, 2001.
Over the course of the RDP implementation period, the Government of Latvia (GOL) became able to
generate increasing resources from its own budget and able to gain access to the European Union's Special
Action Program for Agriculture and Rural Development (SAPARD). As a result, in early 2001, the GOL
formally informed the Bank that it no longer needed to borrow extemally to implement the second phase of
the RDP. Despite the decision, the Government has remained committed to continue the development
agenda initiated under the RDP.
Original Objectives
The development objective of the first phase was "to lay the groundwork for increasing income levels and
improving living standards of the rural population by promoting diversifi cation and growth of economic
activities in the rural areas, " with the following long-term development priorities: (a) strengthening
institutional capacity for formulating rural developing strategy and policy; (b) stimulating the flow of
commercial bank financing to rural clients by improving the efficiency and self-sustainability of the
financial institutions; and (c) facilitating rural business development and continuing support for land
reform.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives were not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
The project had the following three components:
A. Rural Development Policy Component
Al. Development of National and Regional Rural Development Strategies
A2. Development of Rural Development Strategies at the Local Level
B. Rural Finance Component
B 1. Commercial Credit Line ("Box A")
B2. Special Credit Line for Small-Scale Rural Enterprises ("Box B")
C. Institutional Development Component
Cl. TA for Institutional Capacity Development
C2. Land Reform and Creation of Land Market
3.4 Revised Conmponents:
The project components were not revised.
-2-



3.5 Quality at Entry:
The RDP was reviewed by the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) on January 21, 1999, shortly after Board
approval. QAG concluded that the positive aspects of the project were: (a) the fact that the project built on
an earlier successful experience with a rural lending operation; (b) the differentiated approach to
small-scale borrowers and more general borrowers; (c) the absence of excessively narrow targeting of
activities qualified for sub-loans; and (d) strong incentives for participating financial intermediaries to
engage in rural lending. The QAG panel raised some concerns about the provision of govemment subsidies
to small-scale borrowers and the inclusion of the state-owned Mortgage and Land Bank (MLB) as an
intermediary because of the potential for non-independent decision making. Nonetheless, the panel rated
the project as "satisfactory," and as demonstrated in this report, those concerns proved to be unfounded.
As discussed in section 4 of this report, concerns which were voiced in the review were fully addressed
during the implementation.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
AS discussed in detail below, the overall project objectives were fully achieved. In addition, as an APL, the
RDP had the following performance triggers for the second phase: (a) clear formulation of a rural
development strategy and supporting action program to achieve the stated objectives; (b) implementation of
policy reform, training and workshops and the establishment of a policy forum involving key ministries,
NGOs, think-tanks, and representatives of private interests; (c) completion of a privatization plan
acceptable to the Bank and successful initiation of the privatization of the MLB; (d) successful introduction
of commercial bank financing for rural clients by having at least two participating financial institutions
(PFIs) extending loans in rural areas; (e) 75% disbursement of the first phase credit line operation with
demonstrated financial viability of sub-projects and sound portfolio quality of PFIs; (f) a significant
number and diversity of activities financed under the Special Credit Line (minimum 500 sub-loans); (g)
establishment of a minimum of ten Local Action Groups (LAGs) and initiation of training for LAGs; (h)
maintenance of satisfactory agricultural policies and agricultural subsidy program with the Government's
commitment not to reverse its reform direction in the future; and (i) a review of the RDP credit guarantee
and capital grant schemes with a view to phase out or modify if appropriate.
Although the borrower has decided not to pursue the second phase, all the above triggers, with the
exception of one (privatization of MLB, as discussed below in 4.2, m. Institutional Development
Component), have been fully met.
Strengtheningpolicyformulation capacityfor rural development strategies at national, regional, and
local levels of government.
The project helped create the institutional and political foundation in the Government of Latvia (GOL) that
allowed the government to elaborate its rural development policies and strategy, which in tum, contributed
towards Latvia's EU accession efforts. In 1997, as part of project preparation, the GOL elaborated a
1 0-year National Rural Development Plan (NRDP), setting out its priorities for agricultural and rural
development. Under the leadership of the multi-ministerial working group, attention was focused on the
reduction of rural poverty and employment generation while supporting local community initiatives, by
creating Local Action Groups (LAGs). Since then, the GOL has prepared a long-term sector strategy
"Rural Development 2010," which became the basis for the National Rural and Agricultural Development
Program to implement the accession to the European Union. In addition, adoption of a participatory rural
development approach by stakeholders has increased ownership of, and commitment to, rural development
- 3-



at the community level. Given the range and diversity of stakeholder institutions with a rural development
focus, the formulation of a rural strategy, increased commitrnent to participatory processes in policy design
and implementation, and the creation of local institutional capacity has been impressive.
Latvia's efforts provided under the RDP have been recognized by the international community. In 1999,
Latvia hosted the (first) International Rural Development Conference in Riga, which was well attended by
national and international specialists. In 2000, Latvia's rural development efforts were lauded in the World
Bank/FAO sponsored EU Accession Workshop in Sofia, Bulgaria. Again in 2002, Latvia's effort to
realize land reform with strong linkages to the development of financial markets was a best case study at an
international workshop in Budapest, Hungary. On the participatory development front, Latvia's
achievements have also been highly recognized; for example, in late 1997 and 1998, as a result of the pilot
program, two LAG leader received a United Nations' Rural Animateur Award of Excellence for
community development.
Strengthening ruralfinancial intermediation and stimulating commercial bankfinancing of the rural
sector.
This goal was achieved by providing long-term credit and technical assistance (TA) to further improve
rural banking practices, while enhancing the flow of institutional credits to rural clients. Support for the
development of rural businesses was also provided under the project to increase the number of viable
borrowers and demand for credit while reinforcing the credit-borrower culture which started to emerge
under the first project, ADP. At closing, the RDP had three active, participating commercial banks, all of
which have achieved remarkable growth and capacity building for rural lending. These three banks have
active rural portfolios, including lending to small-scale borrowers. The rural portfolios of all three banks
continue to grow.
One clear outcome of the project is that the commercial banks are less averse to lending to small-scale rural
clients and are open to work with new groups of borrowers. The commercial banks saw the project as an
opportunity to diversify and develop new client bases. The borrowers, in turn, had the opportunity to access
long-term credit, establish their credit history, and become reliable clients that continue to work with the
commercial banks. This mutual cooperation has proved beneficial for both sides, as many special credit
line borrowers, upon repayment of the first loan, have become clients under the commercial credit line.
While not solely attributable to the project, the overall institutional reforms in Latvia's banking sector have
produced tangible results. In 2001, total bank loans grew 50.5%, derived from solid economic and legal
advances. Given more reliable collateral, mortgage lending jumped 112% in 2001; similarly, commercial
and rural lending benefited from the strengthening of land as collateral. Another sign of the banking
sector's strengthening is the increasing confidence in the sector as illustrated by the 41% increase in
deposits by private individuals in the same year. Another clear measure of the successful development of
the banking sector is the amount of foreign capital that it has attracted. At the end of 2001, ten of Latvia's
22 banks were majority foreign-owned, with over two-thirds of all paid-up bank capital sector-wide. The
largest investors are from Estonia (17%), Sweden (15%), and Germany (14%), with another 27% held by
Latvians, and 5% held by the government of Latvia. An independent study in 2000 confirmed that Latvian
bank supervision was "fully compliant" with 17 of the 22 BASEL Core Principles on domestic bank
supervision, and "largely compliant" with the remaining five.
Supporting the development of the rural enterprise and creation of land market through the legal
registration of land and real estate.
-4 -



Support for Rural Enterprise Development. With active participation of Lativan Agricultural Advisory
Services (LAAS) and private consultants, support services for rural enterprises have been improved.
National and donor financing has been allocated to support community-based business advisors who assist
potential and existing entrepreneurs in the preparation of business plans, marketing development and
improvement of customer service. For instance, the Latvian Business Consultant Association, with donor
support and in conjunction with local banks, has prepared the Business Plan Book A business plan
prepared according to these guidelines is included in the loan application package. At project completion,
access to business support services for existing and potential entrepreneurs was widely available from the
private sector, commercial banks, government-supported agencies and business associations /
representative organizations. The latter two continue to support businesses to prepare applications for
funding through the EU co-financed SAPARD program in Latvia.
Land Reform. Latvia recognized early on that a system for recording land ownership, market value, usage
and other land-related data are essential for a market economy to work properly. Less than eight years
after full-scale land reform was launched, Latvia has restored private ownership of property, refined user
rights and transfer rights, fiscally benefitted from collected land taxes, developed clear and simple legal
procedures for restitution, and developed measures that protect the right to sell, transfer, lease, and
mortgage property. The RDP supported the creation of a legal ownership registration system, The Land
Book, under the administration of the Ministry of Justice. Modernization of the Land Book is fully
completed. All regional Land Book offices are electronically linked, and on-line data storage, information
input, and access by authorized users throughout the country are in place. Accurate ownership and pledge
information is readily available, facilitating the efficient transaction of land and verification of collateral by
financial institutions. The Land Book, as an independent entity reporting to the Ministry of Justice, is
operating based on a full cost recovery principle.
4.2 Outputs by components:
I.     Rural Development Policy Component
Specific outputs of this component include elaboration of the long-term sector-strategy, "Rural
Development 2010," improvement of the strategy and policy development capacity of the national and local
governments, and enhanced vocalization of the concerns of local communities and other stakeholders. The
GOL obtained policy support from EU and bilateral donors which supported strengthening its rural
development strategy and programming capacity, promoting local initiatives, stimulating and facilitating
cooperation between local and regional authorities in Latvia. The GOL has incorporated principles of
'Joined-up" government in the elaboration of rural strategies and policies through establishing a Rural
Development Board, comprised of representatives from key-ministries, including non-governmental
organizations (NGOs). Through this effort, the GOL has prepared the National Rural and Agricultural
Development Program to implement the European Union's SAPARD program in Latvia. Accredited
institutional arrangements and project screening mechanism are already in place, and initial screening of
eligible projects had already started by early 2000.
Although some difficulties remain, particularly in generating effective collaboration with some
municipalities, throughout the project the GOL has sustained and promoted the participation of regional
and local groups and allocated budgetary funds for the "animation" of rural communities. Though still in
their infancy, in various guises and under a variety of names, LAGs exist throughout Latvia. A 2001
survey by the Ministry of Regional Development and Environmental Protection revealed that in the 19
respondent districts (pagasts), 46 local partnership initiatives existed for the preparation of local
development strategies and/or general SME/business development. LAGs established in Latvia's least
- 5-



developed region (Latgale), with UK bilateral support, are particularly active, have undertaken local needs
analyses and have prepared local development strategies to alleviate poverty. Some community-based
groups are even raising finance locally for the implementation of community action initiatives. Following
public consultation, the LAGs assist in the implementation of these community action initiatives in order to
achieve strategic objectives. Given the availability of donor grants supporting the same objectives and
goals that were consistent with RDP objectives, the GOL requested, and the Bank agreed, to reallocate the
original component financing of US$0.5 million to the Rural Finance Component.
II.    Rural Finance Component
This component provided two separate credit lines designed for distinctly different borrowers, which were
on-lent through three active commercial banks as participating financial institutions (PFIs). They were the
Mortgage and Land Bank (MLB), Parex Bank (Parex) and the Baltic Transit Bank (BTB).
The Commercial Credit Line (CCL) provided working capital and investment loans at prevailing market
interest rates and commercial terms. The beneficiaries were those rural enterprises with commercially
viable and bankable projects with adequate collateral, financial rates of return, and demonstrated
repayment capacity. These borrowers were labeled "Box A" clients. The CCL was denominated in
German Deutch Marks (DEM) and later converted into EURO in early 2002. At project closing, a total of
337 borrowers had borrowed 368 loans equivalent to 67% of the RDP credit line for a total of DEM 12.74
million (US$5.6 million equivalent). The average loan amount was about DM 41,000 (US$18,500
equivalent). The loan maturity consistently averaged around 4.5 years throughout the implementation
period.
The Special Credit Line (SCL) provided small-size loans for diversified rural businesses at prevailing
commercial interest rates to first-time borrowers. Although land privatization resulted in the creation of a
large number of landowners, most of them neither had the capacity nor the interest to work as farmers. The
overall trends of development in the country were that the number of employment in agriculture was
declining, mostly due to land consolidation and improvement in the agricultural productivity. With such
trends, the Government wanted, and the project supported, the creation of altemative employment and
income generating opportunities. Furthermore, the SCL was designed to provide access to credit for the
poorer groups of the population, and in order to ensure that the matching grant would support those truly in
need, the Borrower has established a set of eligibility criteria, that include: (a) collateral value of
landholding by a borrower does not exceed the proposed sub-loan amount; (b) a borrower does not own
more than 10 head of cattle (or equivalent); and (c) a borrower has a relatively high proportion of
production for self-consumption.
The SCL design included a matching grant scheme whereby up to 30% of the sub-loan amount would be a
grant to the borrower. The grant portion became effective as a balloon payment when the borrower fully
repaid the loan portion on time. Both the PFIs and beneficiaries confirm that this arrangement was
effective, as it provided opportunities to access institutional credits from commercial banks while providing
incentives to borrowers to repay their loans. Clients of the SCL were labeled "Box B" clients. The SCL
sub-loans were made in Latvia Lat (LVL) with an initial limit of about US$3,300 equivalent, which was
later raised to approximately US$4,800 per borrower. Under the SCL, the combination of a partial credit
guarantee scheme and a matching grant has made the loans more accessible for first-time borrowers
without credit histories, and it has also provided an incentive for commercial banks to expand their loan
portfolios and client bases.
Under the SCL, 1,411 sub-loans were made to small-scale farmers and rural entrepreneurs. The total
- 6 -



amount approved for the SCL amounted to LVL 2.69 million (US$4.32 million equivalent), of which LVL
1.59 million was disbursed from the Bank loan, LVL 0.4 million from the PFIs' own funds, and LVL 0.7
million was provided by the Government for the matching grants. Interest rate on the SCL in LVL
averaged around 13%, which was charged only on the credit portion of the sub-loan. With the 30% grant,
the effective interest rate was lowered to around 9.5% per annum but without affecting prevailing market
interest rates. On the govemment's own initiative, all SCL sub-loans received a partial risk guarantee on a
pari-pasu basis. The GOL provided a total of LVL 0.4 million (US$ 0.64 million) for the partial risk
guarantee scheme for the period of 1998-2001, which substantially increased lending under the SCL. At
closing, the guarantees had been evoked for less than one percent of the outstanding loans.
One of the most notable results of the SCL is that about half of the " Box B" clients, after repaying their
first loans, are borrowing again from the commercial banks as "Box A" clients. In addition to providing
first-time borrowers access to credit they would otherwise not have, the sub-component has also allowed
"Box B" borrowers to establish credit histories and build up adequate assets to become self-sufficient, and
become regular clients for the commercial banks. The following table provides a summary of the portfolio
results for each PFI.
Indicators                        MLB          Parex         BTB          Total/Average
Commercial Credit Line (EUR)
No of loans approved                      171           168           29           368
Amount Approved                      6,211,621     1,550,876     912,637      8,675,133
Amount Disbursed                     5,355,540     1,550,876      898,934     7,805,349
Amount Repaid                        1,742,693      663,508       39,798      2,445,999
Amount Outstanding                   3,612,842       887,368      872,839     5,373,049
Average Loan Size                       61,400        9,230        31,000        34,000
Average Maturity (years)                   3.4          4.0          5.3           4.0
Average Interest rates                    10.9         12.0         12.4           11.8
Repayment rate (%) **                    99.0          92.0         100.0         97.0
Special Credit line (LVL)
No of loans approved                      699           583          129          1,411
Amount Approved                      1,312,240     1,195,232      285,050     2,792,522
Amount Disbursed*                    1,210,333     1,195,232      285,050     2,690,615
Amount Repaid*                         410,660      535,616        68,466     1,014,741
Amount Outstanding*                    799,673      659,616       216,584     1,675,873
Average Loan Size                        1,960        2,050         1,540         1,850
Average Maturity (years)                  3.0           4.0          3.0           3.3
Average Interest rates (credit portion)   12.6          14.0         13.3          13.3
Repayment rate (%) **                    98.0          91.0         100.0         96.0
Total Portfolio Made (US$ equivalent)
No of loans approved                      870           751          158          1,779
Amount Approved*                     8,858,396     3,606,225    1,449,789    13,914,410
Amount Disbursed*                    7,764,429     3,606,225    1,434,900    12,805,554
Amount Repaid*                       2,553,577     1,581,841      153,290     4,288,708
Amount Outstanding*                  5,210,848     2,024,384    1,296,499     8,531,731
* The amount also includes PH and Government contributions.
** Repayment rates are calculated as a ratio of: interest and principal payments due and actually collected;
versus the interest and principal amount fallen due during the reporting period. Prepayment or rescheduled
loans are not included.
-7 -



Interest rates for DEM and LVL subsidiary loans were determined and reviewed by the government,
Technical Unit (the administrative arm of the Ministry of Finance), PFIs and the Bank on a semi-annual
basis. Interest rates to PFIs were positive in real terms. Inflation rate in 1997/98 was around 5% versus
average interest rates to PFIs of about 10% under the RDP. By closing, inflation and the interest rates to
PFIs had both declined to about 3% and 8% respectively. With the relative stability of the DEM and LVL
during the implementation period, the real interest rate remained around 5%, which is comparable to the
other emerging markets with similar economic situations in the region. During the same period, with
stabilization of macroeconomic conditions, differentials between DEM and LVL loans also declined to less
than 2% at closing. The costs of funding to PFIs were comparable (and greater) than other bench market
rates such as inter-bank rates, deposits rates, and comparable rates in DEM markets in OECD countries.
Similarly, both the cost of funds and the on-lending interest rates for the LVL subsidiary loans remained
positive and comparable to other LVL rates prevailing in the market In the beginning, average interest
rates to ultimate borrowers were about 15 percent, which declined to 11-13 percent at closing. Throughout
the implementation, RDP interest rates were relatively higher than the prevailing basket of interest rates
reflecting relatively higher risks associated with agricultural and rural lending. However, the relative
differences are expected to get smaller as commercial banks continue to diversify their portfolio and
become more familiar with non-urban clients.
Composition of the Loan Portfolio. One of the main goals of the RDP was diversification of the rural
economy. This was fully achieved. While the project supported traditional agriculture and forestry
investments, it also supported investments in the following industries: processing, including wood
processing, rural services, transport and warehousing, trade, hotels and catering and other types of rural
tourism activities, rural manufacturing, including hand-crafts, non-traditional agriculture. Overall, over
43% of the RDP credit lines supported non-agricultural activities in the rural areas.
Lending to Economically Depressed Regions. Another goal of the RDP was to increase rural income
levels and employment rates. This goal was achieved by providing support to relatively more depressed
areas, in particular, Latgale, located in the eastern region of Latvia. Latgale, the poorest part of the
country, was officially defined as a "depressed area" and therefore received special support from the
government. Overall, 34% of the SCL funds were provided to small-scale rural businesses in the
depressed regions of Latvia, while PFIs provided over 17% of the CCL fiuds to commercial clients in these
depressed regions.
Quality of the Loan Portfolio. Repayment rates of both credit lines remain high at around 96-98%, and
out of over 1,700 sub-loans, only twelve are rated as "problem loans" by PFIs. Details of the three PFI
loan portfolios are provided in Annex 10. The ICR mission carried out sub-loan reviews of all three PFIs
and concluded that the overall quality of their portfolios, loan appraisal procedures, and sub-loan files,
including fiduciary aspects such as environment, procurement, financial management, are satisfactory.
Economic Benefits. While it is difficult to precisely estimate the number of jobs created and additional
income generated, both the direct and indirect impacts of the project, particularly the Special Credit line
support in the most depressed areas of Latvia, are expected to be substantial. According to the PFIs'
monitoring records, the RDP's contribution was about 2,500 for new and direct employment, which would
be much higher if family members engaged in family run businesses were also taken into account. The
project also generated about US$6.5 million in annual incremental revenue, equivalent to US$2,600 annual
incremental value per employment created. All new entities were legally registered and paid taxes, which
would fully compensate the initial budgetary support for the matching grant by the Government of US$1.77
million equivalent during the RDP implementation.
-8 -



HI.    Institutional Development Component
Rural Business Development Support. Substantial donor-supported rural business development technical
assistance (TA) was provided under the framework of the RDP. In particular, TA was provided in order to
further strengthen the Latvian Agricultural Advisory Service (LAAS), which in turn supported the
continuing education of farmers, including vocational training. In addition, the government allocated
budget funds to 25.LAAS Advisors (5 per region) to continue to support the development of rural
businesses. In addition, the Peace Corps shifted its emphasis away from the development of traditional
agro-businesses to concentrate on the promotion of rural enterprises. During RDP implementation, more
than twenty volunteers supported the development of business support services in rural Latvia by providing
training of trainers, as well as hands-on business assistance to rural SMEs. Over the course of project
implementation, the agricultural employment decreased by around 15,000, while non-agricultural
employment in rural areas increased by 18,000 and service sector employment by 13,000. The agricultural
share of the GDP declined from 18% in 1995 to less than 4% in 2000, while its share of employment
declined from 18% to 14%, indicating that the labor productivity of the agricultural sector remains low.
The Ministry of Agriculture data (Latvia Overview 2001) indicated that among those employed in the
sector, only about 60% were full-time workers, and many of also had secondary non-farm jobs to
supplement their incomes. The rest have diversified into non-agricultural rural economic activities. The
project has facilitated this diversification process.
Institution Capacity Building for the Mortgage and Land Bank. The MLB received significant
technical assistance through multilateral and bilateral support for a wide range of areas which were
designed to improve the operational efficiency of the MLB. As a result, the MLB is a much stronger
financial institution with increased public confidence, credibility an expanding portfolio and growing
deposits. The TA provided to the MLB included:
*   support for the improvement of their asset and liability management (ALM) capacity, including
establishment of an ALM committee;
*   introduction of analytical processing schemes as well as modeling and reporting requirements;
*   guidance in the separation of their front and back office for foreign exchange operations;
* introduction of internally consistent procedures and controls;
*   enhancement of their strategic planning and budgeting capacity, including profit and cost centers
throughout the organization;
* introduction of transfer pricing, and the utilization of performance indicators to monitor the
performance of the separate centers;
*   expansion of banking products and services, including introduction of new products in line with the
bank's strategy;
*   improvement of the capacity of the marketing and customer service departments;
*   improvement of their credit portfolio management, including streamlining of the guidelines and
procedures for their lending operations, information flow related to the loans origination,
-9-



processing and control, preparation of guidelines for effective risk management; and
*   introduction of a credit scoring system.
One of the APL triggers for the second phase was for the Borrower to "complete a privatization plan
acceptable to the Bank and successfully initiate the privatization of the MLB " as a means to achieve a
sustainable rural financial system in Latvia. During project implementation, the government commissioned
an independent due diligence assessment of the MLB and decided to defer the privatization of the MLB
until at least 2005. The government does not dispute the potential benefits of privatization and plans to
eventually privatize the MLB. Based on the actual performance of the MLB to date, however, it is the
government's view that there were benefits during the RDP period of retaining MLB's mandate to lend to
the rural sector through maintaining the government ownership. Now, as commercial banks are gradually
becoming less averse to lending to rural clients, this mandate for the MLB will become less warranted in
the future. Until the privatization actually takes place, the MLB will continue to function as a commercial
bank, with full autonomy, responsibility and accountability for its financial, operational and management
results.
During the RDP period of 1997-2001, MLB's total loans increased by 580 percent from LVL12.5 million
to LVL86 million through an extensive nationwide network of 33 branches. The MLB's profitability over
the same period also increased by 187 percent from LVL3 10,000 to 857,000. Currently, MLB's capital
adequacy is 14 percent, well above the BASEL requirement. MLB operates independently without
govemmental interference, while maintaining a strict adherence to international prudential standards as its
core lending policy. This was confirmed by both an international audit under IAS and an FCMC inspection
under the BASEL standards. MLB has also led the industry by pioneering mortgage lending, including the
issuing of bonds. MLB mortgage-backed bonds are rated A-3 by Moodys. In short, the financial condition
of MLB is sound, and when ready to privatize, it will attract many investors.
Land Reform and Creation of a Land Market. Modemization of the Land Book has been completed.
The Land Book of Latvia is now fully equipped and functional, with a fully trained staff. There is a
nationwide network of online data entry and user access stations, and all information is fully linked and
accessible on-line with adequate safeguard measures in place. Fee-based income from users - commercial
banks, real estate brokers, private clients, and various govemment and inspection agencies concemed with
pledges and ownership verifications - is rapidly increasing and already fully covers the operational
expenses of the Land Book. The average cost per use is about LVLI.2 (about US$2). Local commercial
banks, as well as potential buyers and sellers of land and real estate have immediate, on-line access to
pertinent, up-to-date information on the status of the property. This service, in tum, has led to substantial
time and cost-savings for land and property transactions and loan processing. Results are verified by the
booming property and land markets. At an intemational land workshop in Budapest, Hungary, Latvia was
presented as a best case country, having successfully implemented a cost-effective and self-sufficient land
registration system. Over the implementation of the RDP (1997-2001), the number of properties registered
increased by more than four-fold, from about 130,000 to over 580,000, while the actual number of
transaction has increased almost five times, from 9,800 to 45,000, with the number of registered mortgages
increasing from a mere 3,800 to over 26,000. As these numbers increase, the market signals for property
values also move in a positive direction. See Annex 9 for more details.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Because of the demand driven nature of the project, it was not feasible to estimate a priori rates for returns
for the project at appraisal. Likewise, it was not attempted at closing. Instead, the project emphasized the
- 10 -



strengthening of the risk assessment capacity of loan officers and required PFIs to only make those
sub-loans that demonstrated sufficient rates of returns. Due to very limited distortion in the economy, there
were no significant differentiations between economic and financial returns, with the exception of the
treatment of taxes.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
The project was designed to support new, small-scale, private rural business, most of which were first time
borrowers. The actual repayment rates, approximately 96 - 98 percent, and healthy portfolio quality of all
three PFIs confirm the financial soundness of sub-loans supported under the project. Another indication of
the sound financial return of sub-loans, is the fact that more than half of the small-scale Box B clients
borrow again under the commercial Box A scheme.
4.5 Institutional developnment impact.
Public Institutions. The government at the national, regional and local level is actively involved in
defining consistent strategies and specific policy measures which will advance Latvia's accession to the
EU. Beginning in 2001, the Cabinet gave the MOA the responsibility to coordinate with other
key-ministries all rural development policies. In 2002, the Ministry of Agriculture coordinated the
preparation of an enhanced rural development strategy that will concentrate on non-agricultural enterprise
development to be implemented with LVLI 0 million of national financing. At the time of the ICR
preparation, the MOA was working with the "Agricultural Collaboration Council" (a board established by
organizations of farmers and supported by the MOA) in order to finalize the details of the program, which
is due to be finalized and presented to GOL in June 2002. In addition, the MOA is strengthening its
collaboration with the Regional Development Agencies that are being established in Latvia. Similar
"Collaboration Councils for Forestry and Fisheries" have also been established.
Commercial Banks. Three commercial banks were participating at project closing, and they continue to
on-lend the reflows from the RDP. All three banks have garnered strong public confidence, as reflected by
their high deposit levels. At closing, the sector-wide average of "deposits-to-total fimding" sources (i.e.,
Deposits/Liabilities + Equity) was 62%. In comparison, all three PFIs, MLB, BTB, and Parex achieved
ratios of 79%, 72%, and 81%, respectively. With respect to capital adequacy, the three banks have similar
ratios. The MLB and Parex have capital adequacy ratios of 14% and 12.5%, respectively, calculated on
the BASEL formula and exceeding the BASEL recommended minimum of 12% for transitional countries.
With respect to the BASEL formula, BTB is just shy of the 12% target at 11.5%; however, calculated on
the FCMC (Latvian regulation) formula, BTB is at 11.9%, comfortably above the FCMC minimum of
10%.
In terms of investment strategies, the MLB differs sharply from the other two PFIs. More than 80 percent
of the MLB's total assets are invested in loans, well above the sector-wide average of 47 percent. BTB
and Parex, in contrast, are more conservative than the industry, with loans accounting for only about 35
percent and 39 percent, respectively. Instead, these two banks have extensive investments in securities,
with almost as much invested in OECD accounts as in local loans. The more aggressive investment
strategy of the MLB partially reflects its ownership by the govermment and its mandate to provide
investment loans, which the MLB management supports. Liquidity is not an issue given growing deposits
and MLB's ability to mobilize multiple intemational funds. MLB is also taking a leadership role in
creating a secondary market for mortgages by securitizing and selling mortgage-backed bonds.
Considering the fact that the RDP became effective in the same year as the Russian crisis, the above
achievements are remarkable indeed. At project closing, December 2001, all three banks were financially
- 1 1 -



stable.
Beneficiaries. The Special Credit Line is a successful innovation that has had long term institutional
impact on beneficiaries, PFIs, and the Government. The "matching grant," a new development feature
designed for the SCL, has had the opposite effect of traditional government subsidies. Unlike traditional
subsidies, a borrower could only receive the grant once, and, therefore, did not become dependent on
continued governmental support. In fact, the beneficiaries had the incentive to develop the fiscal discipline
that would encourage them to make the timely repayment of the loan portion so that they could receive the
grant. In this manner, the grant gave the rural underemployed a one-time boost to assist them in
establishing viable business enterprises. At the same time, because the grant was a portion of a standard
commercial bank loan, the bank lending process effectively screened out applicants who were the least
likely to achieve financial independence. The fiscally responsible borrowers were further rewarded by
having established a credit record which enabled them to borrow again under conventional terms.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The 1998 Russian crisis profoundly affected the performance of the regional banking sectors, including that
of Latvia. Bank failure rates were high and there was strong mistrust of banks. Latvia, under the strong
leadership of the Central Bank, was able to overcome the impact of the crisis, but during the initial
implemnentation period disbursement of the RDP was slower than the appraisal estimate.
Latvia's strategic decisions are driven by its EU accession goal, as the government places a high priority on
this. Under the SAPARD, Latvia was allocated approximately 22 million Euros per annum until its
accession to the EU. The need to apply procedures required by the EU prior to accession placed greater
importance on the RDP during implementation of the first phase. The RDP second phase was, in part,
designed to assist Latvia prepare the rural policy environment to comply with the rural development
'acquis, 'and, therefore, became less critical in the presence of sizeable grant financing.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The Government has maintained its commitment to preparing for EU accession. This resulted in an equally
strong commitment to implementing the RDP in order to support the establishment of a functioning market
economy in the agricultural, food and rural sectors, as well as the capacity to cope with competitive
pressure and market forces within the EU. The Government continues to pursue policy, legal and
regulatory reforms, and places a strong emphasis on participatory, local community-based rural
development, which were core objectives of the RDP.
The Government's support for the Special Credit Line and for the Land Reform accelerated the
achievement of the project objectives. Even after the closing of the RDP, the Govemment has already
provided LVL220,000 for the matching grant in the 2002 budget and has indicated that it may continue the
support in following years as long as there is a need.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implermenting agency control:
Many financial intermediary projects that depend on PFIs as intermediaries experience slow disbursement.
Often, financial intermediaries sign on to Bank projects for the "prestige and international recognition" that
is associated with participation and often end up under-utilizing the credit funds. This did not happen in
the RDP, mainly due to the commitment of all three PFIs, which were carefully selected, monitored, and
- 12 -



supervised throughout the implementation period. With the MLB taking the lead, PFIs were open to Bank
team recommendations, flexible to modify their operations, and professionally competitive in their efforts to
produce sound financial results. All three banks participated actively and appropriately.
The ICR review of sub-loans revealed that sub-loan files are generally in good order with a few cases of
missing procurement or environmental documentation, and a limited number of examples of a miscalculated
or missing debt service ratio. But the general pattern among all three banks confirms a sincere effort to
comply with the letter and spirit of the project agreement. Most important, all three banks successfully
targeted the intended beneficiaries. For the SCL, first-time, rural borrowers, seeking small loans, were not
typical priority clients of commercial banks. Nevertheless, all three banks actively sought out such
borrowers with active community-level marketing. Much of the success of both RDP credit lines is,
therefore, largely attributable to the conscientious effort of the PFIs.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
During the project implementation, two reallocations were made from Components A and C to Component
B and at closing, the entirety of the IBRD loan was used to finance Component B for credit line operations,
while donors and the government financed the other two components. Component costs were also changed
from the appraisal estimates as follows:
(a) For Component A, Rural Development Policy: the final cost was increased from US$1 million
to US$3.8 million and fully financed by donors.
(b) For Component B, Rural Finance: the final cost was decreased from US$10.1 million to
US$8.15 million for the commercial credit line, and the special credit line for first time
borrowers was increased from US$5.4 million to US$6.09 million. This component was
cofinanced by the Bank, government, PFIs and beneficiaries.
(c) For Component C, Rural Business Development and Land Reform: for the Land Reform
sub-component, the government provided US$ 2.6 million from its budget as a substitute for
Bank financing of US$1.5 million. For business development, donors supported Latvia
Agricultural Advisory Services (LAAS), but this was done outside of the project financing.
At completion, the total project cost amounted to US$22.4 million, substantially larger than the appraisal
estimate due to the expanded scope of the technical assistance obtained by the Borrower from donor grants
and the government's own budgetary resources. The Bank loan of DEM18 million was fully disbursed. At
closing, the US$ equivalent of the Bank loan was reduced to US$9.1 million due to appreciation the US
dollar.
- 13 -



Project Costs, US$ million equivalent
At Ap raisal                    At Cl sing
Component           Total Indicative  Bank Financing  Total Costs  Bank Financing
costs
A. Rural Development Policy        1.0            0.5             3.8            0.0
B. Rural Finance                  15.5            8.0            14.4            9.1
C. Institution Development
Cl. Rural Business Support     0.5             0.5            1.6             0.0
C2. Land Reform                2.0             1.5            2.6             0.0
Total                             19.0            10.5           22.4            9.1
Notes:
. Original approved: DEM 18.6 million (US$ 10.5 million equivalent in 1998) and EUR 9.5 million equivalent in 2001.
. Actual disbursements: DEM 18 6 million (U$ 9.08 equivalent).
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
The project achievements to date are likely to be sustainable. The Government is firnly committed to the
economic, social, and political reforms, and continues to pursue the maturing process of legal, regulatory
and institutional development. The necessity to conform to the EU standards ensures that the Govemment
will continue the reform process. As required in the acquis, Latvia follows the participatory approach to
the generation and monitoring of rural development programs.
For the banking sector development, the project objectives and outcome are also likely to be sustainable.
RDP became effective the same year as the Russian crisis, 1998, and although the overall banking sector
suffered losses that year, it recovered the following year. The three banks participating in RDP
experienced consistent loan growth over the life of the project. All three banks have the financial and
institutional capacity to sustain rural lending. The entire banking sector has been strengthened from the
effort to meet EU and Basel standards, and from the improved legal environment, especially collateral
registration.
Sustainability is also evident from the successful institutionalization of the project principles. The
Government has fully embraced the concept that the grants under the SCL provide direct financial support
to the rural sector without creating dependency on subsidies, as the grant is for one-time access per eligible
borrower. Consequently, the GOL has already reviewed the project with the PFIs and has budgeted in
2002 to continue the SCL. PFIs are equally committed to implement the SCL. The PFIs, in tum,
discovered that sub-loans made in rural areas have achieved average repayment rates of 96-97 percent,
which are high and consistent with the rest of their portfolios. These PFIs remained committed to diversity
their portfolios and broaden their client bases. Having found economic rationale and an incentive for rural
lending, all three banks are continuing their marketing efforts in rural communities.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The transition process to regular operations is already assured in part by the Government's commitment to
implement the SAPARD according to the EU requirements. Donor support has been obtained to support
the development of participatory rural development actions to mid-2003 and the EU is proposing to
continue this capacity building in the immediate post-accession period prior to the implementation of its
- 14 -



regular community initiatives. In order to comply with the rural development acquis communautaire, the
MOA has put in place the procedures required for consultation and co-operation amongst Ministries,
regional authorities and stakeholder representative bodies.
For the rural financial market commercial banks increasingly rely on deposits and other internal resource
mobilizations. Some banks also float bonds in international capital markets, hence rely less on projects
such as RDP. This is a desirable and welcomed development outcome of the project.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank was able to process the project from identification (May 1997) to Board approval (July 30,
1998) relatively quickly as per the request of the Government. During the relatively short preparation
period, the Bank conducted a Rapid Gap Assessment to ascertain the real needs of the rural population.
This highlighted the most pressing problems of reduced rural incomes, rising (hidden) unemployment,
underemployment and poverty levels, reduced life expectancy, the development of an aging, dependant
population, and other social and psychological hardships associated with the transition process. A dialogue
was maintained with stakeholder organizations and NGOs throughout project preparation, and the Rural
Development Board established by the Government held regular meetings with stakeholders to build
ownership and commitment. Pilot LAGs were established and supported throughout project preparation.
The project design reflects innovative features based on actual conditions in the rural areas.
The RDP was fully consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), which was discussed and
approved by the Board in May 1998. Being consistent with the CAS, the project supported strengthening
the financial system, fostering economic growth and creating employment and income generating
opportunities in rural areas. These efforts, in turn, helped reduce the poverty while improving the living
standards of the rural population as confirmed by the updated survey of households and statistical basis
prepared by the GOL.
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank was able to maintain the same task team which helped prepare the project throughout the
implementation period. Supervision was carried out at least every six months and more frequently
whenever the need arose. In addition, the Bank team helped Latvia coordinate the first International Rural
Development Conference and assisted Latvia delegations during presentation/workshops in which Latvia
served as case studies.
7.3 Overall Bank perforniance:
Overall Bank performance is satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Government has been committed to rural development in general and the project in particular from
very early on. Following the successful outcome and results of the Agricultural Development Project, the
Cabinet of Ministers approved in September 1997 the Rural Development Concept, which was
subsequently endorsed by the Parliament. The Government then carried out a major campaign for the RDP
and as required by the Budget Law, fully included the entire amount of the RDP (phase I and II) for US$25
- 15 -



million in the "contingent liability" of the Government in the 1998 budget. In October 1997, the
Government established an Inter-Ministerial Working Group to coordinate the preparation of the RDP and
the GOL's rural development strategy.
Beginning in early 1996, the Government placed sustainable rural development on its priority agenda and
recognized that it would require a coordinated effort by the Ministries of Agriculture, Environmental
Protection and Regional Development, Economy, and Finance to achieve any real progress. The
Parliament also emphasized the need for a rural/agricultural development strategy and set March 1998 as a
target date for completing a strategy paper. The GOL also established the Rural Development Board, an
inter-governmental committee which coordinated the project preparation activities of the RDP.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Perfornance of the Government during implementation was equally satisfactory. The Government focused
on formulating rural strategy and policies and building institutional capacity at all levels of the population.
The Government provided adequate funds from the budget for the Special Credit Line and allowed PFIs
full autonomy in loan appraisal and approval.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
All three participating banks were fully committed to the project objectives and designs, and have executed
both Box A and Box B credit lines effectively and efficiently. During the initial inception period of the
project, PFIs provided concrete feedback to the Govemnent and supervision team, which led to
modifications that helped enhance the overall effectiveness of the project.
7.7 Overall Borrowerperforrmance:
Overall Borrower performance is satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
V First and foremost, macro-economic stabilization and market liberalization are prerequisites for
effective financial intermediary operations and these conditions are indeed met in Latvia.
V Four key elements of a successful rural finance project are: (a) legally based property ownership; (b) a
functional legal system; (c) functional financial institutions; and (d) a system of effective farm advisory
and business development support. All these were in place in Latvia.
V  Development of a property registration system, land markets, collateral registration, including
moveable collateral, and mortgages, are all prerequisites and should be synchronized for proper
development of physical assets and financial markets.
V Straightforward, simple written guidelines and instructions for banks, as well as promotional materials
for sub-borrowers, can improve promotion of the credit lines, especially at inception. Intensive support
during preparation and a pilot stage set a solid foundation for the RDP.
V A government can provide non-distortionary financial subsidy to the rural sector by introducing the
innovation of grant-loan hybrid. By restricting the grant-loan to first-time borrowers, both government
and borrowers understand that the subsidy is a one-time catalyst and not a recurring government
- 16 -



handout. Also, tying the grant to a bank loan has the effect of conditioning the sub-borrowers to the
discipline of loan payments and allows them to establish a credit history.
V  Grant-loan credit lines for small loans (like the Special CL), can effectively promote the establishment
of new businesses in rural areas, thereby diversifying the rural economic base.
/ The SCL grant can effectively entice banks to lend to borrowers they would normally avoid, that is
first-time, rural borrowers, seeking small loans, based on projections rather than historic income. The
grant not only reduces the credit risk to the bank, it also gives the bank something tangible in value to
attract new clients and reward their diligent repayment.
V  Lending to agricultural (and rural) businesses can be profitable with properly conducted due diligence
work by banks and by borrowers.
V A project should have multiple PFIs to create competition among banks and provide wider access to
credits by clients; ownership of a project by the borrower is an essential element for successful
outcome. Frequent government changes make building local ownership difficult and necessitate
increased effort in public relations.
v The establishment and consolidation of participatory rural development methodologies requires
considerable time, commitment and TA to fully embed the philosophy within the policy-making process
and to build sufficient local capacity to implement it.
V Continuous effort needs to be made to motivate poor rural populations to participate in
community-based local development activities. Empowering local beneficiary communities is
particularly difficult when the incidence of poverty and unemployment is high and has become
long-term.
V  Openness and transparency of the policy-making process is a prerequisite for the success of
participatory rural development. Resources need to be devoted to information dissemination (including
awareness raising and best-practice sharing) and communication between central government, regional
and local authorities and community based partnerships.
V A relatively high degree of continuity during project implementation, both on the Bank task team and at
the Latvia PMU, has largely compensated for frequent changes in the Government and was able to
provide a degree of stability to the project.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Borrower Contribution - Prepared by the Government of Latvia (June 2002)
1.     Project Background
The Rural Development Project (RDP) designed to support growth of economical activities in the rural
areas was intended as continuation of earlier World Bank operation - Agricultural Development Project
The RDP was the first phase of a two-phase Adaptable Program Loan (APL), which was approved by the
World Bank Board on July 30, 1998, signed on September 9, 1998 and became effective on December 8,
- 17 -



1998.
The loan for the first phase was for DEM1 8.6 million (US$ 10.5 million equivalent) and was fully
disbursed and closed on December 31, 200 1.
2.     Project Objectives and Design
The objective of the project was to lay the groundwork for increasing income levels and improving living
standards of the rural population by promoting diversification and growth of economic activities in the
rural areas. Specifically, the project aimed at: (a) strengthening institutional capacity for formulating rural
developing strategy and policy; (b) stimulating the flow of commercial bank financing to rural clients by
improving the efficiency and self-sustainability of the financial institutions; and (c) facilitating rural
business development and continuing support for land reform.
3.     Project Implementation
3.1.   Project Coordination and Management
The Project Management Unit (PMU) set up by the MOA in 1993 to monitor the implementation of ADP
took also responsibilities of monitoring the Rural Development Project. The State Treasury assumed full
responsibility over withdrawals from the Special Account.
Throughout the years of its existence the PMU has assured successful implementation of projects, as well
as coordination of work for institutions involved in the project, achieving irreversible reforms in the rural
areas of Latvia.
3.2.   Participating Financial Institutions
The program funds were on lent through three active commercial banks as participating financial
institutions (PFIs). They were the Mortgage and Land Bank of Latvia (MLB), Parex Bank (Parex) and the
Baltic Transit Bank (BTB). All three PFIs continue to on-lend the reflows from the RDP.
All three commercial banks have garnered strong public confidence, as reflected by their high deposit levels
and other indicators. The "deposits-to-total funding" ratio of all PFIs (79%, 72%, and 81% for MLB, BTB,
and Parex, respectively) was substantially higher than the sector-wide average of 62%. With respect to
capital adequacy, the three banks have similar ratios standing comfortably above the minimum 10% set by
the Banking Supervision of Latvia.
In terms of investment strategies, the MBL differs sharply from the other two PFIs. More than 80 percent
of the MLB's total assets are invested in loans, well above the sector-wide average of 47 percent. BTB and
Parex, in contrast, are more conservative than the industry, with loans accounting for only about 35 percent
and 39 percent, respectively. Instead, these two banks have extensive investments in securities, with almost
as much invested in OECD accounts as in local loans. The more aggressive investment strategy of the
MLB reflects its ownership by the govemment and its mandate to provide investment loans to Latvian
businesses. Liquidity is not an issue given growing deposits and MLB's ability to mobilize multiple
international funds. MLB is also taking a leadership role in creating a secondary market for mortgages by
securitizing and selling mortgage-backed bonds.
3.3.   Disbursement
- 18 -



The Bank loan of DEM 18.6 million was fully disbursed according to the Disbursement Schedule. At
closing, the US$ equivalent of the Bank loan was reduced from US$ 10.5 million to US$ 9.08 million due
to appreciation of the US dollar.
During the project implementation, two reallocations were made from Components A and C to Component
B:
(a) For Component A, Bank financing of US$0.5 million was substituted by donor and government funds,
and the Bank financing was reallocated respectively to Component B.
(b) For Component C, for the Rural Business sub-component, donor funds substituted the envisioned Bank
financing of US$0.5 million. For the Land reform sub-component, the Government of Latvia provided
funds from its budget and substituted Bank financing of US$1.5 million. The Bank financing in both cases
was reallocated to Component B.
3.4.   Procurement
Procurement procedures have been done and monitored by the PFI's according to the Guidelines for
procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and the Loan Agreement (43800LV) between Republic
of Latvia and IBRD dated September 9, 1998. Supporting documents for the procurement have been
retained at the PFI's.
3.5.   Technical Assistance
During the project implementation, TA was provided in the following fields:
(1)  rural business development support,
(2)  institution capacity building for the Mortgage and Land Bank.
Substantial donor-supported rural business development technical assistance (TA) was provided under the
framework of the RDP. In particular, TA was provided in order to further strengthen the Latvian
Agricultural Advisory Service (LAAS), which in turn supported the continuing education of farmers,
including vocational training. In addition, the Peace Corps shifted its emphasis away from the development
of traditional agro-businesses to concentrate on the promotion of rural enterprises. During RDP
implementation, more than twenty volunteers supported the development of business support services in
rural Latvia by providing training of trainers, as well as hands-on business assistance to rural SMEs.
The MLB received significant technical assistance through multilateral and bilateral support for a wide
range of areas, which were designed to improve the operational efficiency of the MLB. As a result, the
MLB is a much stronger financial institution with increased public confidence, credibility an expanding
portfolio and growing deposits. The TA provided to the MLB included:
-  support for the improvement of their asset and liability management (ALM) capacity, including
establishment of an ALM committee;
-  introduction of analytical processing schemes as well as modeling and reporting requirements;
-  guidance in the separation of their front and back office for foreign exchange operations;
- introduction of internally consistent procedures and controls;
-  enhancement of their strategic planning and budgeting capacity, including profit and cost centers
throughout the organization;
-  introduction of transfer pricing, and the utilization of performance indicators to monitor the
performance of the separate centers;
-  expansion of banking products and services, including introduction of new products in line with the
bank's strategy;
- 19-



-  improvement of the capacity of the marketing and customer service departments;
-  improvement of their credit portfolio management, including streamlining of the guidelines and
procedures for their lending operations, information flow related to the loans origination,
processing and control, preparation of guidelines for effective risk management;
- introduction of a credit scoring system.
4.     Project Sustainability
The project achievements to date are likely to be sustainable. The government is firnly committed to its
economic and sectoral reform program including support to the growth of rural economy.
The re-flows of the World Bank credit line are being actively on lent by all PFI's while maintaining the high
quality of loan portfolio and repayment performance.
The Government is planning to continue its support for the Special Credit Line in the following years. The
Government provided LVL220,000 for the matching grant in 2002 and plans to include a comparable
funding in the draft budget of 2003.
Mobilization of additional resources from Government's own budget as well as from European Union's
funds has contributed to sustainability of the rural reform of Latvia. The Govenmment of Latvia has
assessed its ability to continue the rural reforms without additional borrowings from extemal sources, and
subsequently made a decision to cancel the Second phase of RDP.
5.     Key Lessons Leamed
The main lessons from the Project are following:
*  Ownership of a project by the borrower is an essential element for successful outcome. Given the
frequent changes in the Government, continuity both on the Bank team and at the PMU is crucial
for success of the Project.
*  Macro-economic stabilization and market liberalization are prerequisites for effective financial
intermediary operations. A project should have multiple PFIs to create competition among banks,
and provide a wider access to credits by clients. Straightforward, simple written guidelines and
instructions for banks, as well as promotional materials for sub-borrowers, improve promotion of
the credit lines.
* Lending to agricultural and rural businesses can be profitable with properly conducted due
diligence work by banks and by borrowers. Four key elements of a successful rural finance project
are: (a) legally based property ownership; (b) a functional legal system; (c) functional financial
institutions; and (d) a system of effective farm advisory and business development support. All
these were in place in Latvia.
* A government can provide non-distortionary financial subsidy to the rural sector by introducing a
grant-loan hybrid scheme. Tying the grant to a bank loan has the effect of conditioning the
sub-borrowers to the discipline of loan payments and allows them to establish a credit history.
Grant-loan credit lines for small loans (like the Special CL), can effectively promote the
establishment of new businesses in rural areas, thereby diversifying the rural economic base.
*  The special credit line grant could effectively entice banks to lend to borrowers they would
normally avoid, that is first-time, rural borrowers, seeking small loans, based on projections rather
than historic income. The grant not only reduces the credit risk to the bank, it also allows the bank
- 20 -



to attract new clients and reward their diligent repayment.
*  Development of a property registration system, land markets, collateral registration, including
moveable collateral, and mortgages, are all prerequisites and should be synchronized for proper
development of physical assets and financial markets.
*  The establishment and consolidation of participatory rural development methodologies requires
considerable time, commitment and TA to fully embed the philosophy within the policy-making
process and to build sufficient local capacity to implement it. Continuous effort needs to be made
to motivate poor rural populations to participate in community-based local development activities.
Empowering local beneficiary commnunities is particularly difficult when the incidence of poverty
and unemployment is high and has become long-term.
*  Openness and transparency of the policy-making process is a pre-requisite for the success of
participatory rural development Resources need to be devoted to information dissemination
(including awareness raising and best-practice sharing) and communication between the central
government, regional and local authorities and community-based partnerships.
(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A
10. Additional Information
- 21 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome i Impact indicators:
(a) Improved policy formulaion capacity for  Comprehensive rural strategy, policy  Rural Development Program 2010 prepared
rural development through participatory  dialogues                         by the Govemment, ratified by the
approaches, induding establishment of a                                    Parliament, institutional arrangements in
permanent Institutional set up for continuous                              place for pre-accession activities; legislation
policy dialogue,                                                           and regultory framework consistent with
*aquis' also in place for most agricultural
activites
(b) strengthening human and institutional  Support for LAAS, private consultants  Financing to a broad range of rural off-farm
capacity in rural business development and                                 income generating activites
development of altemative income generating
opportunities;
(c) Improving access of rural population to  A signiflcant number of commercial banks  A significant number of commercial banks
banking services, continuing the restructuring maintaining an active lending portfolio In the  maintaining an active lending portfolio in the
and commercializaton of agricultural and  rural and agricultural sector    rural and agricultural sector - zero In 1997 to
nural sector through the provision of                                      three under RDP plus several more,
commercial credit and strengthening of the                                 including the Unibank, Hansa Bank, etc. In
rural banking system;                                                      2001
(d) further advancing the development of an  A working interactive Land Book registry  A working interacUve Land Book registry
emerging land and legal registration system  system available for use by commercial  system available for use by commercial
of private properties.                banks and other enties that allows private  banks and other entities that albws private
land to be practically used as collateral for  land to be practically used as collateral for
commercial loans                      commerdal loans
Output Indicators:
(a) acceptance of a comprehensive rural  Development of Rural Strategies   Rural Development Program fully In place,
strategy that Includes decentralized decision                              SAPARD payment agency in place, local
making wthh respect to local development,                                  govemment. NGO, LAGs fully informed and
and establishment of institutional capadty                                 trained
and procedures for rural strategy Impact
assessment;
(b) sound portfolio quality with acceptable  Repayment rates above 95%     Actual repayment rates are about 98%
repayment rates of at least 85%;
(c) demonstrated improvements in      High IRR                             High FRR confirmed by high repayment rates
producivity of major agricultural commodities
as estmated by analysis of sample modeling:
(d) improved business support services in  Increasing rural businesses     An Increasing number of legally registered
rural areas;                                                               private rural enterprises, farms, and a
number of private business development
consultants. The entire B box dients (1,400
and growing) were new enterprises wfth no
prior borrowing from banks.
(e) an Increase in the number and types of  Financing to a broad range of rural off-farm  Rural business support system in place,
activites financed to affect the target  income generating acUvites        number of small businesses in rural area
population;                                                                increasing, over 1 400 small-scale rural
entrepreneurs received loans
(f) the number of Local Action Groups  At least 20 LAGs                    Over 100 local groups, including LAGs
established and their operating success to
Indicate a level of nural parUdpaton
End of project
- 22 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million e uivalent)
Component 1: Rural Development Policy                 l.00           3.80            380
Component 2: Rural Finance                           10.10           8.15             81
(a) Rural Finance - Conunercial Credit
(b) Rural Finance - Special Support for Small Scale Rural  5:40      6.09            113
Entrepreneurs
Component 3: Institutional Development                0.50           1.60            320
(a) Institutional Development - TA for rural business
development, support to individuals, marketing, etc.
(b) Land Reform - for Ministry of Justice - TA and EDP  2.00         2.60            130
Equipment for Land Registry and Real Property Credit
System
Total Baseline Cost                                  19.00          22.24
Total Project Costs             19.00           22.24
Total Financing Required              19.00          22.24
- 23 -



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Component 1: Rural       0.50       0.00      05        0.0       0.00      3.80     0.0     0.0   76.
Development Policy
Component 2: Rural       6.00       0.00      4.10      6.55      0.00      1.60    109.2   0.0    39.0
Finance (a) Rural Finance
- Commercial Credit
(b) Rural Finance - Special  2.00   1:45      1.95      2.55      1.77      1.92    127.5   122.1  98.5
Support for Small Scale
Rural Entrepreneurs
Component 3: Institutional  0.50    0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.0     0.0    0.0
Development
(a) TA for rural business
development, support to
individuals, marketing, etc.
(b) Land Reform - for     1.50      0.50      0.00      0.00      1.22      1.38     0.0    244.0   0.0
Ministry of Justice - TA
and EDP Equipment for
Land Registry and Real
Property Credit System
Total                    10.50      1.95      6.55      9.10      3.00      10.30    86.7   153.8  157.3
Co-Financing figures include contributions from beneficiaries and PFIs.
- 24 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Because of the demand driven, credit line nature of the project, it was not feasible to estimate a
priori rates for returns for the project at appraisal. Likewise, it was not attempted at closing for
the entire project as aggregation of over 1,700 subloan results would be neither accurate nor
relevant. Instead, the project emphasized the strengthening of the risk assessment capacity of loan
officers and required PFIs to only make those sub-loans that demonstrated sufficient rates of
returns. Due to very limited distortion in the economy, there were no significant differentiations
between economic and financial returns, with the exception of the treatment of taxes. All three
participating banks have solid portfolios with high profits, hence confirming prudent lending
operations while diversifying their lending to the rural population, including small-scale
borrowers. The matching grant, designed to support the first time borrower, with limited
collateral, has also generated significant economic benefits to a relatively poorer segment of the
population.
The project's sound financial results are also confirmed by the actual repayment rates, which are
around 96 - 98 percent. The healthy portfolio quality of all three PFIs confirms the financial
robustness of sub-loans supported under the project. Another clear indication of the high financial
return from the investment made under the project is the fact that more than half of the small-scale
Box B clients are able to borrow again under the commercial Box A scheme without the grant as
they were able to become self-sufficient private entrepreneurs.
-25 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stdge 6f Project Cycle                 No. of Persons aid Specialty            Performance Rating
(e.g. 2.Economists, i FMS,,etc.)    Implementation Development
Month/Year    .Count-         Specialty             . .      Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
May 1997                    S    Economist, Agro-technical
Specialist, Extension Specialist;
Banking Specialist,
Agro-processing Specialist
(consultants)
September 1997               1   Banking Specialist (consultant)
November 1997                6   Economist, Agro-technical
Specialist, Operations Analyts;
Banking Specialist, Rural
Development Policy Specialist,
Community Development
Specialist (consultants)
Appraisal/Negotiation
March-April                 5    Economist, Agro-technical
1998                             Specialist, Operations
Analyts; Banking Specialist,
Rural Development Policy
Specialist (consultants)
Supervision
December 1998                2   Economist; Banking                 S             S
Specialist (consultant)
June 1999                    4   Economist, Agro-technical          S             S
Specialist, Operations Analyst;
Rural Development Policy
Specialist (consultant)
December 1999                3   Economist, Financial Specialist,   S            HS
Operations Analyst
March 2000                   2   Economist; Rural Banking           S            HS
Specialist (consultant)
June 2000                    4   Economist, Sector Manager,        HS            HS
Operations Analyst; Banking
Specialist (consultant)
December 2000                1   Banking Specialist                HS            HS
September 2001               1   Banking Specialist                HS            HS
ICR
May 2002                     5    Economist, Operations            HS            HS
Analyst; Financial Analyst,
Banking Specialist, Rural
Development Policy
Specialist (consultants)
- 26 -



(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                    ActuallLatest Estimate
.______________         _-, No. Staff weeks                   US$ (000)
Identification/Preparation                n/a                        201.7
Appraisal/Negotiation                     n/a                         112
Supervision                               n/a                         178
ICR                                       n/a                          65
Total                                     n/a                        556.7
-27 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                            O H   *SUOM        O N   O NA
? Sector Policies                           OH    * SU O M     O N   O NA
O Physical                                  O H *SUOM O N O NA
[ Financial                                 OH *SUOM ON ONA
F Institutional Development                 O H   O SU O M     O N   0 NA
OEnvironmental                              O H   *SUOM        O N   O NA
Social
F Poverty Reduction                  O H   OSU*M        O N   O NA
J Gender                             O H OSUOM O N * NA
O Other (Please specify)             O H   OSUOM        O N   * NA
O Private sector development                0 H   O SU O M     0 N   0 NA
 Public sector management                  0 H   * SU O M     0 N   0 NA
M Other (Please specify)                    * H   OSUOM        O N   O NA
Land Reform, Land Market Development,
Collateral
With regards to gender, being a credit line operation, the project did not specifically include gender equality
measures. In addition, commercial banks do not maintain loan data according to gender, therefore accurate
data is not available. However, field visits and the Beneficiary Survey results indicate that access to
commercial loans by women has significantly increased, from almost nil to now accounting for over
one-third of total borrowers.
- 28 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
? Lending                                           OHS*S        OU    OHU
9 Supervision                                       OHS OS       O u   O HU
Z Overall                                           OHS OS OU Q HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
Z Preparation                                       OHS OS       OU    OHU
X Government implementation performance             O HS Os      O U   0 HU
3 Implementation agency performance                 O HS O S     0 U   0 HU
[ Overall                                           OHS OS       O u   0 HU
- 29 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Project Appraisal Document - Latvia: Rural Development Project - Report No: 18158-LV
2. Agreed Minutes of Negotiations between the World Bank and the Government of Latvia
3. Loan Agreement - Latvia: Rural Development Project (Loan number 4380-LV)
4. Mid-term Review Report
5: Gap Assessment - Social and Economic Conditions in Rural Latvia, 1997
6. First International Conference on Rural Development Proceedings, Riga Latvia 1997
7. Local Action Groups - Field Data and Questionnaires, 1998-2000
8. Consultants Reports on the Mortgage and Land Bank - Technical Assistance, 1999 - Terms of
Reference (1998), Inception Reports (1999), Final Reports (2000)
9. Indepedent Assessment of the Mortgage and Land Bank - Privatization Options, 1999
110. UNDP Report on Latvia: Human Development, 2000 and 2001
11. Latvia- Agriculture and Rural Development: Overview 2001; Ministry of Agriculture
12. World Bank - Rural Development, Natural Resources and the Environment - Lessons of Experience in
Eastern Europe and Central Asia; 2000
13. EU Regular Report on Latvia - 2001
14. An Inventory of Technical Assistance - Current Activities 2001
15. Peace Corps Report - Latvia - May, 2002
16. Danish Projects Supporting Rural Development and SAPARD, 2000-2002
17. Ministry of Regional Development - Survey on Local Action Groups, 2001
18. Beneficiary Surveys - Commercial and Special Credit Line Client Surveys, 2002
19. Third EU Accession Workshop - Latvia: As a Best Case, Sofia, Bulgaria, Presentation Materials 2002
20. World Bank Land Workshop - Latvia: A Case Study, Budapest, Hungary, 2002
21. Land Reforms - Results and Assessment, 2002
22. Annual Report, Mortgage and Land Bank, 2001
23. Annual Report, Parex Bank, 2001
24. Annual Report, Baltic and Transit Bank, 2001
25. Norwegian Consultant Report on the Land Book, 1999
- 30 -



Additional Annex 8. Status of Land Reform
Year         Number of registration Number of Immovable Cumulative number of  Transactions (purchase       Number of mortgages
applications         properties registered, real properties     agreement, heritage, exchange registered
annually                                   contract, investment In
company share capital, etc)
registered
1993_                 474                  340                   340                           29                       7
1994t 13809                               9722                 10062                          678                     179
1995                32197                26368                 36428                         2105                     85E
1996                53988                43011                 79439                         4518                    1741
1997                79431 -              54090                133529                         9824 _                 3870
1998               113921                72252                205781                        14903                   8843
1999               174776               '117884               323645                        19718                  11261
2000  _221605                           139052                462697                        32212                   18317
2001               226625               121010                583707-                       44801                   26290
Land and buildings                                                     16916
Land                                            -                      16618
Buildinqs                                                               4739
Anartments                                                             81256
Other properties                                                         1423
Number of properties registered with the Land Book 1993 - 2001
700000a                                                                                 -.    .
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                                             *NJl-- ta]]d
400000 -k- t_s5 
300000          -                - ''    '          ;                                                I _rbl
o v-, h  .-  2  '  -  ,  $l  -  |  '  8- |            p            p                  d~M&Weid,anmk
p!  1 1994 1   1 1995 i       961119               1998 1 11999 1 F 2000 1       F 2001    
- 31 -



TRANSACTIONS 1993-2001
50000
45000.
40000-                                                                              ..--*--Transactions (purchase
agreement, heritage,
35000                                             -                                      exchange contract,
investment in company share
30000                                                                 -                  capital, etc) registered
25000                                                     9/-
20000
15000     -                            t                                            --,--Number of mortgages
10000  -                        ,Af o, #            ,,registered
5000
1993    1994   1995    1996    1997   1998    1999   2000    2001
-32-



Additional Annex 9. Summary of the Credit Component
DEM/LVL:     0.285
EURiDEM: 1.95583
1998 -
1999         2000        2001          Total
Sector
Total share of Agric. and Agric.-related sectors in GDP  2.6         2.6         2.5            n/a
Share of employed in agriculture (of total employed)   14.7         13.3        13.2            n/a
Average unemployment level in the country              9.1           7.8         7.7            n/a
Implementation
Creditline Implementation
Total Number of Borrowers, approved                    645           557         517          1,719
Total Number of Loans, approved, of which              667           557         526          1,750
Commercial loans (number)                              137           122         109            368
Number of borrowers, approved           115          122         100             337
Total amount aproved (DEM)         4,855,832    4,984,218    7,127,418     16,967,468
Total amount disbursed (DEM)       4,491,949    4,573,548    6,200,822     15,266,319
Average Loan size (DEM)              39,409        48,684      65,390         46,107
Average interest rate                  13.1          12.7        10.7           11.5
Average grace period (months)           5.1           4.9         4.3            4.5
Average maturity (years)                4.5           3.9         3.9            4.2
Special targeted support loans (number)                530         435.0         417          1,382
Total amount aproved (Lats)         914,764       829,188     849,256       2,593,208
Total amount disbursed (Lats)       866,706       775,578     849,486       2,491,770
Average loan size (Lats)               1,864        2,033       2,037          1,876
Average interest rate (on credit portion)  14.9      14.3        14.3           14.2
Average grace period (months)           3.7           3.6         3.7            3.7
Average maturity (years)                3.5           3.4         3.4            3.4
Total grants disbursed (Lats)       226,925       251,757     221,653        700,335
Total guarantees disbursed (Lats)   182,578       124,843      74,251        381,672
Total guarantees invoked (Lats)           0            0           0               0
Total Amount of Credit Disbursed (DEM)            7,410,060     7,137,996   8,004,086     22,552,142
Non-Performing Loans (number)                            1             3          15             19
Total Value (DEM)                     6,239        15,345     304,481        326,065
Total % of Credit Disbursed            0.08           0.2         3.8            1.4
- 33 -



Impact
Working capital loans approved (total number)           29           22           19             70
Total amount (DEM)                  330,427       836,120     462,995       1,629,542
Investment Loans approved (total number)               638          538          508           1,684
Total amount (DEM)                 7,693,618    6,786,304   9,537,936      24,017,858
Traditional Agriculture, Forestry       208          111         126             445
Approved       (number)
Total amount (DEM)                 2,595,092    1,094,034   3,490,953       7,180,079
Non-traditional agriculture (number)     31           97          48             176
Total amount (DEM)                   199,704    1,147,859     777,631       2,125,194
Fisheries (number)                       11            8           6              25
Total amount (DEM)                   177,653       56,513      49,064        283,230
Processing industry (number)            104           62          32             198
Total amount (DEM)                 1,868,561    1,954,054    1,469,439      5,292,054
Trade (number)                          106          111          107            324
Total amount (DEM)                 1,277,903      952,483    1,843,393      4,073,779
Manufacturing (number)                    0           13          11              24
Total amount (DEM)                        0       428,622     576,372       1,004,994
Hotels, Catering (number)                42           51          28             121
Total amount (DEM)                  574,197       494,352     198,740       1,267,289
Transport, warehousing (number)           9           17           8              34
Total amount (DEM)                   98,114       589,887     255,139        943,140
Services (number)                       127          144          150            421
Total amount (DEM)                  902,412      1,090,651   1,350,832      3,343,895
Number of new jobs created as a result of borrowing*  1,205          789         538           2,532
Net increase in production/service value (Lats)*    698,814     1,612,348   1,738,608      4,049,770
Recovery rate DEM loans                                             98.5        99.3            98.5
LVL loans                                            98.1        97.6           94.5
* Source: MLB, BTB and Parekss-Bank, based on data at the time of loan approval.
-34 -



Additional Annex 10. Operational Modalities of the Special Credit Line
B Box Loans, Annual Approvals, 1998-2001 LVL
1998-1999          2000            2001       01t01/02-04/1/02
All PFIs
Number              530             435             417              38
Amount           914,764         829,188        867,316          75,470
Individual PFIs
MLB                                                                _   .
Number              278             210             182              29
Amount           503,698         398,086        356,456          56,970
Parex
Number              252             151             180              0
Amount           411,066         333,769        426,537              0
BTB
Number                0              74              55              9
Amount                0           97,333         84,323          18,500
Cumulative number
of loans                       530               965           1,382           1,420
GOL Co-financing: Grants and Guarantees, LVL
I.     Grants
MLB          Parex         BTB            All PFIs
Total received by the PFIs       347,514      270,624         72,611          690,749
1998-2001
Total allocated for              295,230      314,773         59,130          669,133
sub-borrowers                              .
Total "written-off" for           30,320       57,886             0            88,206
borrowers
Total repaid by borrowers          4,409       28,498             0            32,907
Total surplus/(shortage) to       25,792      (15,652)        13,481           23,621
the PFI, 12/31/01
Total surplus/(shortage) to        2,793      (14,176)        13,481            2,098
the PFI, 03/31/02                                                    .
Grant provision from the budget, LVL:
1998:          7,950
1999:        262,582
2000:        271,217
2001:        149,000
TOTAL:       690,749
2002:        220,000
- 35 -



II.    Guarantees
MLB           Parex          BTB           AU PFIs
Total received by the PFIs       151,142      209,923         46,685           407,750
1998-2001
Total amount of guarantees       141,371       97,752         36,155           275,278
allocated (portfolio x 0.3)
Total guarantees invoked              0            0               0                0
Total surplus/(shortage) to       9,770       112,171          10,530          132,471
the PFI, 12/31/01
Total surplus/(shortage) to      13,726        95,542          13,872          123,140
the PFI, 03/31/02         1             1     ____I
Guarantee provision from the budget, LVL:
1998:         12,033
1999:        147,435
2000:        138,783
2001:        109.500
TOTAL:       407,750
Operational Modalities of the Special Credit Line
Final borrowers, upon presenting a sound, bankable project to a PFI, received a sub-loan, which consisted
of a 70 percent repayable credit portion and an up to 30 percent grant portion that was financed by the
Government of Latvia. A balloon payment of the 30 percent due on the final maturity date of the loan was
converted into a grant upon satisfactory repayment and compliance with all other loan conditions. In
addition, there was a 30 percent government-funded guarantee on the repayable portion of the loan. The
other features were:
* The beneficiaries were entitled to receive the grant only once;
* No interest was charged on the grant portion of the sub-loan, unless misuse of funds,
noncompliance with loan conditions, or default on the regular repayment on the credit portion of
the loan occurred;
*   In case of noncompliance or misuse of funds, or default on the regular repayment on the credit
portion of the loan, the full balloon portion of the 30 percent and interest accrued retroactively
on this grant portion had to be repaid;
* Only investment loans were financed under the Special Credit Line, with a minimum maturity of
two years;
* The initial maximum sub-loan amount was LVL 2,000, including the 30 percent grant portion,
which in the course of project implementation was increased to LVL 3,000, the difference
financed from the PFIs' own funds;
* Any working capital needs were satisfied from the PFIs' own funds; and
* A special, simplified loan application form, requiring the most necessary information, was
prepared for and used by the PFIs, for the Special Credit Line sub-loans
- 36 -



Additional Annex 11. Comparative Market Interest Rates
1998       1999      2000      2001
I. Foreign Currencies
1.1 Average cost of funds to the        4.7        4.2      5.1       5.9
PFIs, %, DEM
1.2 Average inflation, %                4.7        2.4      2.6       2.5
1.3 Average on-lending rate under      13.5       13.1      12.7      10.7
RDP, %, all PFIs, DEM
1.4 Average commercial lending         11.4       11.4      10.7      8.8
rate, %, long-term loans, foreign
currencies
1.5 Average interbank rate, %, over     8.0        7.5       5.9      6.6
3 months, foreign currencies
1.6 Average deposit rates, %,           5.9        6.3      6.7       5.6
long-term, foreign currencies
H. Latvian Lats
2.1 Average cost of funds to the        5.7        4.7       6.1       6.9
PFIs,%
2.2 Average inflation, %                4.7        2.4       2.6       2.5
2.3 Average on-lending rate under       14.8      14.9      14.3      14.3
RDP, %, all PFIs (credit portion
only)
2.4 Average commercial lending          13.1      13.6      10.5      10.4
rate, %, long-term loans
2.5 Average interbankrate,%,over        5.5        6.0       6.4       4.6
3 months
2.6 Average deposit rates, %,          7.0         6.7       7.4       6.8
long-term
- 37 -



Comparison of Market Interest Rates vs. RDP Rates (LVL)
16   -$dL4'*--     .      I.  t'.1s,~                         ..    .................. !.  .. S 
- .  - .- .  ,.t                                          -I , '* 
14 - 
*       i ;  .. ;tt'.i, *t,"                 o   4  Ii  7 6D 
I     *.              ''S  ."     * ' *     ,    ..  _ . - '" .
4 ~ ~    ~   ~    4 
103; --           > -  *-9-                         4 
_ e  ,~~~~~~~~4 ,  ,,,            V,. -.
6         J             i   r,,,,.r -  . -.A  ~ xI
0-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
.     ,-                t-a  - -   *,= _               ..-I4-
2           .        4 - _ , .---.-  -  -. _--  _-,
-I+ ,  *  $,  i,  " 'C S, . , ,,, * *  - Xi >*8 
>  ,t s- .       ,                 > ^4 ,, z   r            .-
1998                 1999                 2000                 2001
Year
-Average Inflation, %
--Average Interbank Rate Over Three Months, %
-Cr-Average Commercial Lending Rate, Long-Term Loans, %
--*-Average Deposit Rates, Long-Term, %
-El-Average On-Lending Rate for All PFIs Under RDP, Credit Portion Only
-0Average Cost of Funds to PFIs, %
- 38 -



Comparison Market Interest Rates vs. RDP Rates (Foreign Currencies)
16; -,                           .. -
A<.   ..-        .      .,           .   .  !     . I ',
12 r             ;-            .       -   . r
,. tA- ,                                                        .f.: l :
14-I
12
6 - 
4
2  -.-'-  -                                                               '  ' "
'~~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~     ~~  ~  ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ o  ,  ..4 1.. ,'- 
2 ,                             -    .        .        ,.  G'
O  s r      J     
0'
1998                1999               2000                2001
Year
--O-Average Cost of Funds to PFIs, %, DEM
--Average Interbank Rate, %, Over 3 Months, Foreign Currencies
-  Average Deposit Rate, %, Long-term, OECD Currencies
-K--Average Commercial Lending rate, %, Long-term Loans, OECD Currencies
---Average On-lending Rate under RDP, %, All PFis, DEM
- 39 -



Additional Annex 12. Beneficiary Survey
As a part of ICR preparation, in order to assess the results of the project, 26 clients who received loans
from the Mortgage and Land Bank (MLB) were surveyed.
The borrowers who founded their businesses in 1999 (30.8 percent) and 2000 (23.1 percent) accounted for
the major part of respondents. Out of the total number of questioned clients 15.3 percent founded their
enterprises in 1994 and 1998 (in each year), 11.5 percent - in 2001, 3.8 percent - in 1996. 46.1% of the
respondents founded their enterprises thanks to the loan.
The legal status of the enterprises of the questioned clients was as follows: 53.8 percent were individual
entrepreneurs, 26.9 - limited liability companies, 19.2 - farmer's households.
Ownership
All enterprises were 100% private.
Size of the questioned borrowers (total staff) was under 15 employees. 80.6 percent of the questioned
borrowers hire less than 5 employees in their enterprises. 19.4 percent - from 6 to 15 employees.
The principal activities of the questioned borrowers were as follows: 50% percent - were service providers
(including -hairdressing - 11.5%, health service - 7.7%, music service - 7.7%, education service - 3.85%,
publishing - 3.85%, dressmaking - 3.85%, accountancy - 3.85%, cafes - 3.85% and sporting activities -
3.85%), 23.1 percent - retail, 15.4 percent - nontraditional agriculture, 7.7 percent - manufacture of food
products, 3.8 percent - wood processing.
The borrower's balance sheet
The average questioned borrowers' balance sheet was 5889 lats.
Out of the total number of the questioned respondents, 73.1 percent have up to 5 thousand lats on their
balance sheet, 15.4 percent - from 5 to 10 thousand lats and 11.5 percent - more than 10 thousand lats.
Annual sales
The average amount of annual sales of the questioned borrowers was 7110 lats before borrowing. Out of
the total number of the questioned respondents 46.1 percent had no turnover and income from the business
before borrowing. 30.8 percent had annual sales of up to 5 thousand lats before borrowing, 7.7 percent -
from 5 to 10 thousand and 15.4 percent - more than 10 thousand lats. After borrowing the average amount
of annual sales of the questioned borrowers was 13870 lats. The average increase of the annual sales was
6760 lats.
The interest rate of loans is different depending on the year the loan was granted. The average interest rate
of all loans received by questioned borrowers was 14.73 percent. 57.6 percent of the respondents received
the loan with the interest rate of 16 percent and 42.4 percent received the loan with the interest rate of 13
percent. The loans granted in the year 1999 and early in 2000 had higher interest rates, and the loans
granted later in 2000 and in the year 2001 had lower interest rates.
The average amount of loan received by questioned borrowers was LVL 1784.62.
-40 -



Loan repayment
100 percent of the borrowers replied that they did not have problems with the repayment of loans.
Reasons for borrowing
Most respondents mark more than one reason for borrowing. 43.8 percent of the respondents borrowed to
provide job for themselves and improve the existing activity or business, 40.6 percent  to start doing
something they have always wanted, 30.8 percent - to improve their living conditions and income, 25
percent - to provide job for others and 9.4 percent - to develop new economic activity or product.
Evaluation of the contribution of the loan to the the implementation of the business plans
objectives of the questioned borrowers (specific weight!.
- 41 -



* substantial  * relevant  El limited  E minimal EIl non-influence
Solved working capital problem  -  -         - _                 _               _.
Diversification of business activiffes  _E                                      _
Obtained access to market                                               m_
Improved competitiveness                                                    R P M _
Improved quality of product/service  _  _       _     _
Increased output of product/service                                    _____
Purchase of equipment  _                        _                   | I     3
Creation of a new product/activity  _                   _E_
Creation of new jobs              _11al
Increase in profitability          _                    i
Increase in sales                                 ____
Improved business management
Improved business planning
0%    10%   20%   300/o  40%   50%   60%    70%o  800/a  900/o 100%
A detailed analysis shows that out of the respondents who indicated the substantial impact of the loan, the
majority tie it up with the purchase of equipment (69.2%), and improved competitiveness (53.8%),
improved quality of product or service (46.2%), obtained access to the market and creation of new jobs
(38.5% each). One third of the respondents indicated the substantial loan impact on the diversification of
business activities (34.6%), increase in profitability (30.8%), solved working capital problem (30.8%),
creation of new product or activity (30.8%) and improved business planning (30.8%). Only 19.2 percent
of the questioned borrowers mark that the loan had a substantial impact on the improvement of business
management.
Among the questioned borrowers one third (30.8%) evaluated loans' contribution as relevant to the
improvement of the quality of product or service and creation of new product or activity. 26.9 percent of
the respondents indicated a relevant impact on the obtained access to the market and increased profitability,
23.1 percent - on improved competitiveness, diversification of the business activities, 19.2 percent - on
increased sales, improved business management and improved business planning, 15.4 percent - on
creation of new jobs, 11.5 percent - on solved working capital problem and purchase of equipment.
26,9 percent of the questioned borrowers specified limited impact of the loans on the solved working capital
problem and improved business management, 19.2 percent - on creating new jobs, 15.4 percent - on
increased output of product or service, 11.5 percent - on obtained access to the market, increase of
profitability and improved business planning, 7.7 percent - on the diversification of the business activities
and increase in sales, 3.8 percent - on improved quality of product or service, creation of new product or
activity, purchase of equipment, creation of new product or activity.
- 42 -



A detailed analysis shows among the respondents who indicated the minimal imnpact, 11.5 percent tie it up
with the obtained access to the market, diversification of business activities, improved competitiveness,
purchase of equipment, increase in profitability, increase in sales and improved business planning. 7.7
percent - with improved quality of product or service, increased output of product or service, creation of
new product or activity and improved business management. 3.8 percent of the questioned borrowers tie it
up with solved working capital problem and creation of new jobs.
The respondents not indicating the loan' s impacts think the loan had no impact on the solved working
capital problem, creation of new product or activity, improved business management and improved
business planning (26.9%). 23.1 percent of the questioned borrowers think that the loan had no impact on
diversification of business activities and creation of new jobs. 19.2 percent - on increase in sales and
increase in profitability. 11.5 percent of the questioned borrowers did not mark the loan's impact on the
obtained access to the market, improved competitiveness, improved quality of product or service and
increased output of product or service. Only 3.8% cases admitted no impact on the purchase of equipment.
In summary, the questioned borrowers noticed that the received loans had greater contribution to
implementation of such business plan objectives as: purchase of equipment, improved competitiveness,
improved quality of product or service. The loans had less impact on improving the business management
and solving working capital problems.
30.8 percent of the questioned borrowers have borrowed subsequently. Among them 23.1 percent have
borrowed from LMLB and 7.7 percent - from leasing companies.
The matching grant was received by 96.2 percent of the respondents. All of them noticed that the grant
supported the implementation of their business plans' objectives. Most of the questioned borrowers
specified that the grant facilitated the repayment of the credit, but several of them noticed that the grant was
an inducement to start doing something that they had always wanted.
One of the respondents (accounting for 3.8 percent) did not receive the grant, because he had received
agricultural subsidies whose amounts were bigger than the matching grant.
Other project implementation possibilities considered by questioned borrowers before borrowing from the
project. A high proportion (69.2 percent) of the respondents sought other financing sources before
borrowing from the project. Among them - self-financing (46.1%), loans from relatives (38.5%), loans
from friends (15.4%) and loans from commercial banks (3.8%) prevail.
30.8 percent is the proportion of respondents who have never sought other sources of financing before
borrowing from the project.
The possibility of Project implementation without World Bank loans:
69.2 percent of the questioned borrowers replied to this question negatively, 30.8 percent considered that it
was possible, but would have been more difficult.
Recommendations provided by questioned respondents to World Bank were:
*  23.1 percent think that the amount of the loan should be larger, because several sectors require
larger capital investments,
* 11.5 percent think that the repayment period for the credit portion should be less than 2 years, if
-43 -



the financial situation has improved,
* 7.7 percent of the borrowers feel it is necessary get a working capital to increase the turnover.
*  57.7 percent of the questioned borrowers to the question, what the World Bank should have done
better or differently, had no suggestions or their opinion was that everything had been done very
well.
Recommendations provided by questioned respondents to LMBL were:
*  11.5 percent of the borrowers feel it is necessary to reduce the interest rates,
*  7.7 percent suggest not claiming an additional pledge,
*  3.8 percent suggest reducing the time for consideration of the project and loan,
*  3.8 percent feel it's necessary to give a grace period in the repayment schedules of the loans,
*  3.8 percent suggest not requesting quarterly reports and other additional infonnation about the
implementation of the project and finances if the client fulfils the liabilities of the loan,
*  69.4 percent of the questioned borrowers when asked about what should the LMLB have done
better or differently, had no suggestions or said that everything had been done very well.
Planning to borrow again in future. Most respondents (88.5 percent) plan to borrow again in the future.
Among them 73.1 percent plan to borrow from the commercial banks, 7.7 percent - from relatives, 3.85
percent - from friends and neighbors, 3.85 percent - from local money lenders. Only 3.8 percent of the
questioned borrowers do not plan to borrow in future, but 7.7 percent - have not thought about it.
-44 -



MAP SECTION






l  21>                                                              24)                                                                                     FIN_iD  IBRD 320247 SWE EN  >I
BASIC FACTS ABOUT LATVIA (2002)                                                                                                                                 SoIEjc   , ESTONIA
POPULATIO0N _2A4_J ETiinT.L1                                                                                                                             -
of which, RURAL 31%          \                                                                              E
of which, URBAN 69%                                                                                              S
GDP 4,333 million LVL  (,ry
-58-               AG. GRP 3.8%                                                                                                                                                 LAV
GDP PER CAPITA 1,243 LVL                                                                                          T. T-,,
GDP GROWTH 6 6%                                                                                                             A
UNEMPLOYMENT RATE 7 8%
AGRICULTURAL EMPLOYMENT 17%R.,r
. @ .                                                                                             EOLANDa CEAAOUS
G  u I fA                                                                                         RUSSIAN
21                                                                                                                                    Co4       *  iv,        is o 2ss
CDIR i                                                          a E                                            JuL KRE
lb.                        T  [t1
Ju,k.                                                                                                          T. 0-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VIky
CO                                                    JO-1.                 AS                                           LuTVA  LTHU NI
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Es KIs.p0ds  RURAL                       0 5 10 15 20 25 JORILOTEEITRS  TsPssEsSsEl,E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
Fi  I c
0  CII1ESANDTO  S  UREANA8EAS ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 5  10 IS 2000105 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~T
* 0 - - DISTRICT CAPITALS -  PAGAST-ROUNDARIES-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L,k
56-                                               LATVIA~~~~~~~~~~ ~Ao.n          5Ep5W055055OE
2I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0CM           2DTWN1RA0RAS.                              11011     1 IE
-DISTRICT CAPITALS  PAGAST BOUNDARIES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JU 20









I   IMAGING-
Report No..        24293
Type:    ICR



