Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 18158-LV
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US:510.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF LATVIA
'OR A
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 30, 1998
Rural Development and Environment Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 1998)
Currency Unit = LAT
LAT I = US $1.69
US $1= LAT 0.59
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADP - Agricultural Development Project
AFC - Agricultural Finance Company
APL - Adaptable Program Loan
CAS - Country Assistance Strategy
DEM  - Deutsch Marks
ECU - European Currency Unit
EU  - European Union
FSU - Forner Soviet Union
GOL - Government of Latvia
Ha - Hectare
IBRD - International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR - Implementation Completion Report
IMWG - Inter-Ministerial Working Group
LAAS - Latvian Agricultural Advisory Service
LAG - Local Action Group
M&E - Monitoring and Evaluation
MCO  - Mobile Credit Officer
MLB - Mortgage and Land Bank
MOF - Ministry of Finance
NGO - Non-Governmental Organization
NRDP - National. Rural Development Program
PAD - Project Appraisal Document
PFI - Participating Financial Institution
PHARE - Pologne, Hongrie assistance, reconstruction, economique
PIP - Project Implementation Plan
PMU - Project Management Unit
RCG - Rural Credit Guidelines
RDP - Rural Development Project
SME - Small and Medium Enterprises
SOE - Statement of Expenditures
TA  - Technical Assistance
TU  - Technical Unit
WC - Working capital
Vice President    Johannes Linn
Country Director     Basil Kavalsky
Sector Director    Kevin Cleaver
Sector Leader     Laura Tuck
Task Team Leader      Hoonae Kim



LATVIA
Rural Development Project
CONTENTS
A. Program  Purpose and Project Development Objective .................................................2
1. Background .................................................2
Macroeconomic Background .................................................2
Agriculture Sector .................................................2
Government's Long-Term Rural Develcpment Strategies .................................................3
Bank Group Supportfor Agriculture to Date ................................................4
Needfor Continuous Support .................................................5
Project Preparation Status to Date .................................................5
2. Program  purpose and program phasing .................................................5
3. Project development objective and key performance indicators ................................................. 6
B. Strategic Context                                          .........
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project .............................7
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy ...........................................................7
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the program and strategic choices ..................................................9
4. Program  description and performance triggers for subsequent tranche .......................................... 11
C. Project Description Summary ..................................... .                                         .  12
1. Project components..12
A. Rural Development Policy Component .12
B. Rural Finance Component .12
C. Institutional Development Component .14
2. Key policy and institutional reforms to be sought                 ..16
3. Benefits and target population .......................1  6
Project Targeting and Eligibility Criteria                 ..16
Institutional and implementation arrangements                   ..17
D. Project Rationale .....................................................               .. ....... ..19
1. Project altematives considered and reasons for rejection ..                                                  19
2. Major related projects financed by the EBank and/or other development ..                                     21
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design ..                                                  21
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ..                                                          22
5. Value added of Bank support in this project ..                                                               23
i



E. Summary Project Analysis ...                                                ......................o.                                    23
1. Economic Analysis ...........................                                                                                  23
2. Financial Analysis ...........................                                                                                  24
3. Technical Analysis ...........................                                                                                 25
4. Institutional Analysis ...........................                                                                              25
5. Social Analysis ...........................                                                                                    25
6. Environmental assessment 26
7. Participatory approach ...........................                                                                             26
F. Sustainability and Risks .............................                                                                                  27
1. Sustainability ...........................                                                                                     27
2. Critical Risks ...........................                                                                                     28
3. Possible Controversial Aspects ...........................                                                                     28
G. Main Loan Conditions ............................................................................................................28
1. Board Conditions .......................                                                                                       29
2. Effectiveness Conditions .......................                                                                                29
3. Other Conditions .......................                                                                                       30
H. Readiness for Implementation .......................                                                                                . 30
1. Compliance with Bank Policies ..............................                                                                            31
Attachment 1: Letter of Development Policy
Attachment 2: Supplementary Rural Development Policy Matrix
..



Annexes
Annex 1.     Project Design Summary
Annex 2.     Detailed Project Description
Annex 3.     Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.     Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary
Table 1     Summary of Financial and Economic Analysis
Table 2     Livestock Budgets
Table 3     Crop Budgets
Annex 5.     Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A     Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Table B     Procurement Inform ation
Annex 6.     Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 7.     Documents in Project File
Annex 8.      Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 9.     Country at a Glance
Annex 10.    Summary of Rural Survey
Annex 11.    Results of A Pilot Project
Annex 12.    Status of Land Reform
Annex 13.    Participating Financial Institutions - Eligibility Criteria
Annex 14.    Credit Line Operations
Annex 15.    Credit Guarantee and Grant Operational Guidelines
Maps:
IBRD 29570
IBRD 29571
iii



Latvia
Rural Development Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office
Rural Development and Environment Sector Unit
Date: June 30, 1998                                                  Task Team Leader: Hoonae Kim
Country Director: Basil Kavalsky                                     Sector Leader: Laura Tuck
Project ID: LV-PE-44804           Sector: Agriculture/Rural          Program Objective Category: Private Sector Development/
Poverty Reduction
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan                         Program of Targeted Intervention:          [1]  Yes      1    No
Program Financing Data
APL                            Indicative Financing Plan                      Estimated Implementation Period        Borrower
_________________      __________        ____________                    ~~~(Bank   FY)             _  _ _  _  _
IBRD                Others            Total        Commitment Date         Closing Date
US S million     %       US S million     US $ million
APL I         Loan/          10.5        42          8.5              19.0               1998                 2000           Government
Credit                                                                                                          of Latvia
APL 2         Loan /         14.5        58          11.6             26.1               2001                 2003           Government
Credit                          __ _ _ _ _ _      _ _ _ _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _of Latvia
Total                       25.0        100          20.1             45.1
Project Financing Data                          [']    Loan            [   Credit           [  Guarantee            [I Other (Specifyl
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US Sm/SDRm): S10.5 million
Proposed terms:                                      [ ]    Multicurrency           [']  Single currency, specify: DEM
Grace period (years): 5                []    Standard Variable        [    Fixed                   [VI   LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 17
Commitment fee: 0.75%
Service charge: %
Financing plan (US Sm):
Source                                          Local                   Foreign                Total
Government                                                                          1.0                                             1.0
Participating Financial Institutions (PFls)                                         3.8                      _                     3.8
IBRD                                                                                1.0                      9.5                  10.5
Donors (TBD)                                                                        0.6                      0.4                    1.0
Project Beneficiaries Self-Contribution                                             2.7                                            2.7
Total               9.1                      9.9                   19.0
Borrower: Govemment of Latvia
Guarantor: Govemment of Latvia
Responsible agency(ies): Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Environment Protection and Regional Development, coordinated by Inter-Ministeria
Working Group and supported by Project Management Unit
Estimated disbursements (Bank FYIUSSM):                    11999         2000           2001
Annual        3.0            4.5           3.0
Cumulative        3.0            7.5          10.5
Financing available without guarantee?:                              []     Yes                   [1]     No
If yes, estimated cost or maturity:
Estimated financing cost or maturity with guarantee:
Project implementation period: 30 months, from October 1, 1998  Expected effectiveness date: 10/1998    Expected closing date: 612001



A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective
1. Background
Macroeconomic Background
I.    When Latvia regained independence in 1991, it was left with a highly distorted production
structure, dependent on the protected markets of the former Soviet Union (FSU) and unable to compete in
world markets. Since then, Latvia successfully implemented a vigorous program of stabilization policies
which were complemented by a series of structural measures aimed at a fast transformation of the
economy. From the outset, most price and trade regimes were liberalized. These steps were
complemented by efforts to restructure the banking system, privatize the economy, and demonopolize
large state-owned enterprises. Such measures encouraged the development of the private sector and
allowed substantial reorientation of production away from the highly protected and distorted markets of
the FSU. These policies, which were supported by the IMF and the World Bank, allowed Latvia to
reduce macro-economic imbalances quickly and substantially and to accumulate a significant amount of
foreign exchange reserves. Tight fiscal and monetary policies led to near-balanced budgets through 1993
and a sharp decline in the annual rate of inflation--from nearly 1000 percent in 1992 to 13% in 1996 and
even lower at 9% in 1997. After years if stagnation, the economy has started to grow again, with GDP
recording rises of 2.8% in 1996, and nearly 6% in 1997.
Agriculture Sector
2.    Before independence, agriculture was the second largest sector in the Latvian economy,
accounting for nearly a quarter of the GDP and employing 18% of the labor force. While its relative
share in the economy has declined, the agricultural sector continues to be the main source of income and
employment and provides a valuable supplementary income to a large number of the rural population.
Despite falling production from the peak 1989 level, the agricultural and food sectors have become
increasingly important exporters, accounting for over 11% of the total value of exports in 1997--third in
value only to the forestry and textile sector.
3.    As Latvia pursued macro-economic reform policies, it has also undertaken rigorous reform-
oriented agricultural policies which led to significant restructuring of the sector. By mid 1995, Latvia
completed the most difficult tasks of transition, including: (a) near-complete liberalization ofprices; (b)
elimination of most agricultural subsidies, with only modest direct subsidization remaining; and (c)
privatization of most of the agro-processing and input-supply enterprises. In the area of land reform,
achievements were even more impressive; most of the land was returned to private individuals who either
farm it themselves or rent it to others. The number of private farms increased from just 7,500 in 1992 to
over 130,000, and the area occupied by these farms increased over 13 times. These farms, together with
household plots, accounted for over 80% of total agricultural production in 1997.
4.    While the overall reform momentum is still strong, the Ministry of Agriculture has initiated the
Agricultural Support Program totaling LAT 17 million equivalent in 1998. Specific support measures
include special grants to introduce modern technology and high quality breeding stock, a credit guarantee
scheme, and special support for non-traditional agriculture. While these measures could have potentially
positive externalities such as transfer of modern production systems, dissemination of new techniques and
2



know-how, the current system tends to favor large farmers while those who truly need government
support are often excluded. Specific modifications in the current support program will be sought at
negotiations. The Government has submitted a Letter of Development Policy which outlines, inter alia,
its commitment to maintain reform-oriented agricultural policies and provides for regular consultations
with the Bank.
5.    The Government of Latvia (GOL) has various credit guarantee programs under implementation
that are designed for different beneficiaries (such as small and medium enterprises (SMEs), agriculture,
rural poor) with different criteria and operational modalities. As a part of the project preparation, a
review of all of the guarantee programs has been carried out, and the GOL has agreed to work the Bank
to harmonize, or consolidate the different credit guarantee schemes for improved efficiency and
transparency, and for their eventual phasing-out.
Government's Long-Term Rural Development Strategies
6.    Latvia's impressive progress on the reform front has brought many benefits but it has also led to
other challenges. The closing of state and collective farms and large-scale agro-processing industries has
caused wide-spread hardship in many of the rural areas. A recent Rural Survey (Annex 10) highlights
some of the most pressing problems: reduced income, rising unemployment and poverty levels, reduced
life expectancy, an aging population, and other social and psychological hardships associated with the
transformation. Major income disparities exist between the well-off and the poor in rural Latvia, and
these disparities are increasing. The GOL recognizes these pressing problems and acknowledges that
rural development is critical for sustainable economic growth.
7.    The GOL has taken a concrete step towards rural development by drafting the National Rural
Development Program (NRDP) which specifies the Government's long-term vision and development
objectives for the rural sector. Many of the medium to long term aspects of the NRDP remain to be
defined. However, during the initial phase, the basis for the program to come will be established and the
institutional development achieved during this phase will contribute towards identifying the strategy for
the later phases.
8.    The NRDP envisages a development program that will be implemented over a period of ten years
or more with an aim of eventual European UJnion (EU) accession, compatibility with EU structures and
enhanced quality of life in the rural areas. 'Specifically, by the end of the 10 year period covered by the
NRDP program, the GOL would like to achieve at least 50% reduction in the income disparity between
rural and urban areas, a retraining of at least 5,000 redundant farm workers and the creation of at least
10,000 new jobs in rural areas. It also seeks to achieve improvement in the living standards of the rural
population as established by the annual Household Budget Survey.
9.    The GOL strives to achieve these goals by: (a) investing in the institutions necessary to
implement policy reforms; (b) providing the public infrastructure necessary to support private growth
both on- and off-farm; (c) ensuring adequate financing for agriculture and off-farm business
development; and (d) providing a framework for participatory community development that will
empower rural residents while reducing inoentives for urban migration.
10.   Initially, the GOL is committed to support the urgent need to strengthen institutional capacity,
enhance rural sector financing for income generation and job creation, and advance the transfer of land
assets to the rural population through further land reform. In a medium term, the GOL plans to improve
key rural infrastructure, telecommunications, market and distribution system, and other key rural service
3



necessary for a market economy. In a long run, the GOL will need to make investments to harmonize
infrastructure and services with those of the EU.
11.   With EU integration as an important goal, the GOL's stated objective is to harmonize the Latvian
rural development policies with the prospective EU policy goals while striving to achieve socio-economic
structures in the rural areas that are compatible with those of the EU, to have equitable regional income
distribution, to bring rural living standards reasonably in line with those in urban areas, and to develop
adequate rural infrastructure and services for a market economy. The Government emphasizes the need to
create new policy instruments and markets that are consistent with the EU, establish a regulatory
framework and the institutions needed to implement it so as to ensure output that meets EU quality and
phytosanitary standards. There is also a need to improve the legislative systems to ensure competition
along the lines of that in the EU.
12.   The EU's Agenda 2000: For a Stronger and Wider Europe presented at Amsterdam in July 1997
endorsed three basic goals for rural and regional development: (a) supporting the most backward regions;
(b) supporting regions that are undergoing the process of economic and social restructuring and have
high unemployment rates; and (c) developing human resources through promotion of education and
training, active employment policy and elimination of social outcasting. The proposed Rural
Development Project (RDP) reflects both the Government and the EU's agenda for rural development.
Specifically, during the first phase, the GOL's strategies focus on capacity building of policy makers and
private entrepreneurs, further advancing land reforms, and strengthening of rural finance system with
increasing participation of commercial banks while promoting economic growth and reduce poverty and
improve living standards in rural areas through accelerating the pace of the on-going commercialization
and diversification of the rural economy. During the second phase, the GOL will focus on strengthening
institutional and human capacities, including establishment of regulatory, legislative, quality control and
certification, marketing and information management system that are consistent and compatible with the
EU system.
Bank Group Support for Agriculture to Date
13.   In early 1993, with the financial assistance of the World Bank, the Government launched the first
investment project to support agricultural reformn. The Agricultural Development Project (ADP) (Ln. LV-
3695) was designed during a time of major economic and political change that allowed very limited
institutional or human resources to support the transition. The ADP (US $25 million loan) was designed
as a "stop-gap" measure to substitute for the lack of a financial intermediary to serve the newly emerging
private farms and entrepreneurs. A non-bank financial institution -the Agricultural Finance Company
(AFC) - was created to provide an institution that did understand the sector. AFC staff received intensive
training, and the credit line was implemented using credit delivery methodologies tailored to different
clientele based on newly created mobile credit officers (MCOs). The MCO concept was instrumental in
providing frequent interaction with clients that increased both lending volume and repayment
performances. The loan, now fully disbursed and closed, is considered by the Borrower and the Bank, to
be a highly successful rural finance project. The ADP, through prudent lending, has maintained a high
recovery rate of around 96% while facilitating the required restructuring of the sector. After three years
of successful operation, the AFC was merged with the Mortgage and Land Bank (MLB) which today
continues to on-lend the "reflows" from the ADP while maintaining a sound quality loan portfolio.
14.   The ADP also benefited from technical assistance for institutional and human resource
development in the agricultural sector, particularly in the area of land reform. Starting with only ten titles
registered in the Land Book in 1992, by the end of the ADP in 1997, the total number of titles exceeded
105,000, and a functioning land market had started to emerge. About 500 parcels of land and properties
4



are being traded per month and the number is increasing. Other important technical assistance (TA)
provided under the ADP included strengthening of marketing, extension, project management and rural
banking.
Need for Continuous Support
15.   While the ADP achieved its intended development objectives and successfully demonstrated that
agricultural financing can be commercially viable, and carefully selected technical assistance established
institutional and human resources that are better equipped to function in a market economy, the project's
design and scope was deliberately limited. Only about 3,000 sub-loans were made to about 2,200 private
individuals and enterprises, accounting for only about 20% of the total number of private commercial
farmers. Those who have benefited under the ADP were commercial farmers, processing, and service
enterprises with adequate assets and other collateral. Many farmers engaged in commercially viable
activities, but who lacked sufficient collateral and other assets to provide the required down payments,
were excluded.
16.   Furthermore, economic and sectoral restructuring since independence has led to mixed results.
While income levels have started to increase for many, a large segmnent of the rural population has not
benefited from the reforms. The rural population, traditionally agriculture-oriented, is lacking in skills,
information, and motivation to seek alternative employment. There is a need to stimulate a sense of
community in rural areas to encourage grass roots based development, diversify economic opportunities
and provide necessary financial and technical assistance support to realize these goals. The proposed
RDP is designed to provide this support.
Project Preparation Status to Date
17.   The GOL initiated in September 1997 a pilot project to test the effectiveness of reducing rural
poverty by providing credit and technical assistance to small scale rural entrepreneurs. A wide range of
diversified economic activities based on community initiatives were identified. By the end of February,
1998, a total of 37 sub-loans ranging between LAT 500 to 3,000 for a total of about LAT 70,000 (US
$120,000 equivalent) have been approved and at least 30 more sub-loan applications were under
consideration (see Annex 11 sub-loan list and description of participating Pagasts).
18. The initial experience with the pilot project provides valuable lessons. Repayment, although just
begun, shows timely payments of interest, and there seems to be a direct correlation between dynamic
local leadership and community sprit to active lending. The presence of mobile credit officers also
seemed to have improved communication between lenders and rural clients. In the areas with strong
leadership, communities are gradually overcoming difficulties relating to a lack of information, skills,
experience and access to credit and are actively developing strategies and funding proposals. Building
trust among the members of the Local Action Groups (LAGs) in rural communities, animating the rural
population, and increasing their ability for designing their own rural development strategies would
require carefully focused training, motivating, and sometimes, hand-holding.
2. Program purpose and program phasing
19.   The GOL is keen that the project be implemented as an Adaptable Program Loan (APL) in two-
phases, to provide long-term program support to transform Latvia's rural sector as stated in its National
Rural Development Program and described in earlier sections of this Project Appraisal Document (PAD).
The GOL believes that an APL gives it the opportunity to focus on the medium to long term
development needs and to prepare its support over this period in a systematic way, while at the same time
5



maintaining flexibility in defining future strategies and action plans. The GOL considers that processing
future projects under the APL is less costly and faster, therefore, suitable for this particular operation
rather than doing a stand alone or a series of investment projects. The APL enables the GOL to engage in
a long term policy dialogue with the Bank and has the added benefit that the APL format, with its trigger
points, increases its incentives to implement the agreed actions hence enhancing "discipline and
accountability" of the Borrower. This is an important aspect particularly where there is frequent political
pressure for backtracking and long term Bank support for the reform program helps the Government to
stay the course.
20.   With Latvia's objective of becoming an EU member, the proposed Program would provide long-
tern program support to transforn Latvia's rural sector into one compatible with EU standards in
recognition that such an ambitious agenda requires a number of years to implement and demands a
flexible approach. Development of rural policy formulation capacity that is consistent with the EU
requirements and that meets the Government's objective of comprehensive and balanced rural growth
requires: attention to maintaining consistency with the evolving EU policy environments; and adaptation
to Latvian conditions of participatory approaches to community-based rural development in an
environment where such approaches are both novel and untested. Moreover, expanding the coverage of
the present rural financial system to a broader range and large number of rural enterprises will require
considerable changes, and adapting policy measures and institutions to the changing needs of rural
borrowers. Both of these elements require development and testing of new approaches in the context of a
multi-year program that emphasizes flexibility and learning while doing.
21.   The Program (US $25 million) will have two phases. The first phase (US $10.5 million) will be
implemented during 30 months and will focus on three key areas of priority to the Government: (a)
strengthening institutional capacity to carry out policy reform and other critical public sector functions
through TA and training; (b) stimulating the flows of commercial bank financing to rural areas for
agricultural and off-farm business development and improving the efficiency and self-sustainability of the
financial institutions through TA and support for privatization of the most important bank serving the
rural clients, the MLB; and (c) continued support for land reform and transfer of real assets to the rural
population. The second phase (US $14.5 million) would further the policy and financing aspects and
would expand into support for investment necessary to ensure compatibility of Latvia's institutions and
services with those of the EU.
22.   TA support For rural development policy formulation during the first phase will help the
Government define specific transition measures to achieve long-term development objectives of the
Program. The second phase of the Program will build on the lessons learned during the first phase, and
will intensify and expand the Program objectives. Expansion of program activities under the second
phase of the project would be subject to an appraisal process aimed at examining in detail the results,
impact and the experience gained from the first phase. The learning process from the first phase will
guide the timing and design for the second phase.
3. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
23.   The development objective of the first phase project is to lay the groundwork for increasing
income levels and improving living standards of the rural population by promoting diversification and
growth of economic activities in the rural areas. The proposed project would achieve the stated objective
through: (a) strengthening policy formulation capacity for rural development strategies at national,
regional, and local levels of government; (b) introducing participatory approaches to rural development to
increase stake-holders' ownership and commitment; (c) providing credit and technical assistance to
generate employment and income earning opportunities in rural areas; (d) further strengthening rural
6



banking practices and rural business developmnent service network consistent with principles applied in
the EU; and (e) expanding support for the development of the emerging land market and legal registration
system of private land and real estate.
24.   Key performance indicators of progress towards the Program objectives will be monitored
through a monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system that seeks to measure (a) improved policy
formulation capacity, including establishment of a permanent institutional set up for continuous policy
dialogue; (b) increase in institutional lending to rural clients by commercial banks; (c) sound portfolio
quality with acceptable repayment rates of at least 85%; (d) demonstrated improvements in productivity
of major agricultural commodities as estimated by analysis of sample modeling; and (e) improved
business support services in rural areas. Oth er measurable indicators of success will include: the number
and types of activities financed to affect the target population and the number of LAGs established and
their operating success to indicate a level of riural participation.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project
25.   The Board discussed and approved the updated CAS for Latvia in May 1998. Since the 1996
CAS, Latvia has made substantial progress in macroeconomic stabilization and structural adjustment, and
is now entering the second phase of deepening such reforms. The latest CAS identifies the priority areas
for Bank assistance as: (a) strengthening the macro-economy and financial sector; (b) accelerating
development of the private sector; (c) reshaping the role of the State; (d) promoting environmentally
sustainable regional development; and (e) strengthening the financing and delivery of social services. It
also identifies poverty reduction as one of the key development objectives. The proposed project is
consistent with the CAS through its support for strengthening rural financial system, fostering economic
growth, creating employment and income-generating opportunities in rural areas, and reducing poverty
while improving living standards of the rural population.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy
26.   The following main sector issues have been identified and would be addressed under the Program
and the first phase project:
a) Rural poverty and worsening living standards. Economic restructuring since independence has
had mixed results and the benefits have not been equally distributed. Policies in general have been urban-
biased and the conditions in rural areas are getting worse, with ever increasing unemployment, poverty,
and declining living standards. Major incorne disparities exist in rural Latvia between rich and poor, and
these disparities are increasing. With continued downsizing of the agricultural sector, a trend which is
expected to continue, unemployment and underemployment in rural areas is serious. The rural
population, traditionally agriculture-oriented, is lacking in skills, information, and motivation to seek
alternative employment. Since early 1996, the GOL has placed sustainable rural development on its
priority agenda and recognized that it would require coordinated efforts by the Ministries of Agriculture,
Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Economy, and Finance to achieve any real
7



progress. A law on regional development has been drafted for debate in the Seimas. The RDP
includes a specific component to address the rural poverty issue.
b) Limited commercialization of the agricultural and rural sectors. Substantial changes
have taken place in rural Latvia, enabling the development of commercial farming, in conjunction
with land privatization and land restitution. However, only a very small portion of farms have
emerged as modern, commercially viable, and technically efficient. Additionally, many farm
and forest product processing businesses have collapsed, limiting the scope for value-added
activities in rural areas. The GOL has recognized that agricultural growth stimulates economic
growth in other non-agricultural sectors, which results in increased employment and reduced
poverty. Sustained non-agricultural growth, particularly in depressed areas, is not likely without
first addressing agriculture. In addition, the GOL also recognizes that adequate linkage of the
rural and urban economies through the food marketing system is essential in fostering growth
across the national economy, and sustainable growth in the rural economy. The RDP supports
diversification of the rural economy, hence contributing towards commercialization and
enhancement of competitiveness
c) Limited access to commercial credit. With the exception of relatively large-scale
commercial farms with adequate collateral, most of the small-scale private farmers and the newly
emerging rural enterprises cannot obtain loans from commercial banks. Commercial banks are
reluctant because: (a) typical loan size is too small and transaction costs are too high; (b) small
scale clients normally do not have adequate collateral; (c) lending to rural sectors is perceived to
be risky due to a lack of past lending history, accounts, and client information; and (d) the still
imperfect legal system to enforce loan recovery makes repossession and disposal of pledged
assets extremely difficult. Contrary to these concerns, the ADP experience demonstrated that
many of the new farms and rural enterprises have considerable potential for growth and for
income-generating investmnents, if they can provide sound business plans and propose bankable
investments. The RDP has been designed to address the constraints to the limited commercial
credit to the sector and also provide a window for making relatively small loans (maximum size
is set at LAT 2,000). This could enable farmers to buy quality inputs, or allow self-employed
individuals to engage in small-scale businesses in rural services, e.g. kiosks, tool shops, etc.
d) Incomplete land reform. Substantial progress has been achieved on land privatization and
the number of titles has increased substantially. However, there is a back-log between Cadastre
registration and the final legal title registration in the Land Book. In addition, in order for a
functioning land market to develop, appropriate valuation and pricing mechanisms need to be
developed. The recently passed amendment to the Land Law and a draft proposal on developing
mortgage lending would facilitate emergence of a functioning land market with competitive
pricing and leasing terms, and purchase and sale of agricultural land at market conditions. The
GOL places a high priority to expedite and complete the land reform. The RDP will continue to
provide financial and technical support to advance the land reform.
e) Need for effective service providers for rural enterprises. Most small- and medium-scale
agro-processing enterprises have been privatized and large-scale processing plants have either
been restructured and downsized or closed. There is a visible sign of re-growth in the industry,
but it continues to emerge slowly. Latvia still lacks a service sector that provides critical support
such as marketing, information, business support and business consulting services. The GOL
recognizes these bottlenecks and is actively pursuing technical and financial support to expand
the modernization of the processing industry and improve the quality of services of associated
industries. These efforts would then improve the value added by creating competitive markets for
primary agriculture and provide access to different input supply and marketing channels, which
8



would increase the profitability of both primary agriculture and processing industry. The RDP
includes a component to strengthen the rural business development service sector.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the program and strategic choices
27.   General. The Program supported by the project focuses on the issues of limited economic
activities in rural areas, and on the slow development of a financial system to serve the needs of the rural
community. Rather then a piece-meal approach, the strategy focuses on the delivery of an integrated
package of services (financial and technical support) aimed at improving productivity, including
information, advice, finance, and development of the institutional capacity to support changes that are
consistent with the EU approach. The strategy also calls for focusing support in most depressed areas.
Based on the outcome of these two initiatives, a subsequent program may be developed and be supported
by the Bank.
28.   The project would continue the initiatives launched under the ADP to provide commercial credit
to viable commercial farmners and rural entrepreneurs. In addition, the Bank and the GOL will earmark
part of the loan amount to provide special support to small-scale entrepreneurs who have not yet
benefited from commercial credit to the sectors. In order to ensure effective implementation, the design
of the RDP has been kept simple with special features (i.e. partial credit guarantee, transaction cost
support, complementary grant schemes) and applicable only to the Special Rural Finance component.
Through a combination of various schemes, the GOL hopes to demonstrate that lending to rural
enterprises can be profitable to banks, and banks' loan portfolio should be diversified to include rural
clients in order to reduce risks. More specifically, the RDP would address some of the most pressing
issues through focused and strategic choices of interventions, as follows.
29.   Policy Formulation. Recognizing the GOL's main objectives of reducing poverty in the rural
areas while fostering economic growth, the proposed RDP will establish a policy forum which would
coordinate and integrate different agendas of many ministries. At present, different ministries (i.e.
Ministries of Economy, Agriculture, Environment Protection and Regional Development, Welfare, and
Finance) have their own programs which are designed to support rural and regional development to fight
declining income and rising poverty. Such programs are being designed and implemented without
adequate coordination among Ministries. Recognizing potential redundancies or even inconsistency
among these programs, the GOL has established a Rural Development Board (with representatives from
key ministries) as a main authority to coordinate various programs. The project would pay special
attention that the emerging rural development policies and strategies are consistent with the stated EU
policies. The RDP would provide training for key policy makers and public and private leaders in
formulation of rural development strategies at national and regional levels.
30.   Rural Poverty Alleviation. Recognizing that rural poverty is a serious issue, the project has a
component to provide strategic intervention to address the rural poverty issue. Intervention measures
include provision of small size loans while focusing on commercial viability and sustainability of a rural
finance portfolio. Specific GOL support includes public funding support for a complementary capital
grant and a partial credit guarantee scheme. The capital grant scheme provides small-scale rural
entrepreneurs with the necessary initial equity required by commercial banks, hence increasing access to
commercial credit. The Credit guarantee scheme will also improve access to credit by those who
currently lack sufficient assets to pledge as collateral. These intervention measures provide an
opportunity for the GOL: (a) to consolidate various ad-hoc subsidies and improve fiscal management; and
(b) provide direct and transparent support schemes with clearly delineated expected results and
accountability. While the grant scheme is still a subsidy, this is less distortionary than credit or interest
subsidies which prevailed in the past. Through a fruitful policy dialogue, the Bank and the GOL had
9



reached an agreement to transform government support schemes into more transparent and less
distortionary measures. This particular component is consistent with such changes. The Bank Loan
proceeds will not be used to finance the Grant or Credit Guarantee as the Government is already
committed to consolidating various Government funds in order to finance the capital grants and the credit
guarantee scheme. This decision was reconfirmed by the latest Government decree issued in mid March
1998.
31.   Diversification of Rural Economy. Improving commercialization of the agricultural sector is
linked to diversification of the rural economy. Efficiency gain in agriculture requires downsizing the
agricultural labor force. This, in turn, necessitates the creation of alternative economic opportunities
outside of the agricultural sector. The proposed RDP, therefore, aims to broaden its focus from
agriculture to include the entire spectrum of rural economic activity, and provide coordinated financial
and technical assistance to diversify rural activities. This initiative will be based on a local participatory
approach by creating LAGs where stake-holders would have the right, as well as the responsibility, to
design their community development strategies and specific action plans. The LAG concept uses
community based economic development initiatives which have proven to be effective in EU countries.
The LAGs will play a critical role of "animateurs" to encourage ideas and provide hands on support. The
RDP will include TA to assist development of LAGs.
32.   Strengthening Rural Financial System. The absence of a well functioning financial system has
been especially serious in rural areas. The GOL places high priority on modernization of banking
infrastructure and strengthening of banking operations in the rural areas. As a part of such an effort, the
GOL has merged the non-bank financial institution which was created under the first Bank project, the
AFC, with the MLB. The GOL places a high priority on strengthening the MLB's capacity to lend to
SMEs, particularly those in rural areas. Eventually the GOL hopes to transform it into a universal bank
which will provide a wide range of services and loan products. EU PHIARE has already initiated a TA
program of ECU 300,000 for the MLB, and the Bank project team has closely liased with the PHARE
team, including preparation of terms of reference (TOR) for the TA. ][n addition, the MLB has received
German and Danish bilateral TA and additional TA support from other sources is being planned. Under
the proposed RDP, the GOL has pledged to privatize the MLB, and completion of detailed privatization
plan of the MLB will be one of the key trigger points for the APL second tranche.
33.   In addition, three commercial banks - Unibank, Parex Bank, and Savings bank - have expressed
interest in participating in the project. While commercial banks are slowly getting engaged in rural
finance, other legal, regulatory, and institutional changes are needed to enable a meaningful supply
response by commercial banks to the credit needs of farmners and rural entrepreneurs. The RDP will
provide necessary TA support to commercial banks which are willing to lend to the rural population, but
lack experience in doing so. Banks are receiving technical assistance that is designed to strengthen their
lending and accounting practices, improve the payment and MIS system, and strengthen management and
corporate governance.
34.   In selected areas, the project would also provide a valuable opportunity to strengthen a credit
union system in Latvia. Latvia has only 6 credit unions which are still at an infant stage. Qualified Credit
Unions will initially provide services to members to increase access to banks dealing with the RDP credit
line, but eventually they will be able to get wholesale loans to on-lend at retail terms to small-scale
entrepreneurs where commercial banks are reluctant to lend. The GOI, has recently revised the rules and
regulations on Credit Unions, and the initial capital requirements and the definition and eligibility of
membership have recently been modified. The principal benefit of such arrangements is to lower the costs
of financial intermediation sufficiently enough to make small-scale lending financially profitable.
10



35.    Completion of Land Reform. While substantial achievements have been made on land reform
and restoration of private ownership, systemic weaknesses common to rural financial markets such as
lack of traditional forms of collateral and infoormation barriers are still prevalent, particularly for small
farms and rural enterprises. The number of lLnd holdings registered in the Land Book is lower than those
registered in the cadastre due to capacity bottlenecks in the Land Book office in the Ministry of Justice,
and while land is an important collateral, valuation of land is still ad hoc, as the land market is still at an
early stage of development. Movable properly registries are still partial and imperfect. The project will
provide direct support to the Ministry of Justice to expedite the Land Book registration and support
emerging land markets. In addition, TA is being designed to provide a universal title registration which
could provide pertinent information to financial institutions on collateral value and the status of lien of the
concerned properties. In addition to improving collateral based on land, the RDP would also provide
support to expand the collateral basis to include non-land assets, e.g. warehouse receipts, moveable
assets, etc.
36.   Institutional Development Support for Rural Enterprises. The Rural Survey which was
undertaken during project preparation indicated that even when credit is available, many rural
entrepreneurs cannot get access to it as they lack basic business skills. Latvia still lacks a service sector
that can provide critical support to primary producers and agro enterprises. in the form of marketing,
information access, business support and consulting services. The RDP would provide financial and
technical assistance to alleviate these bottlenecks by improving quality of support services to rural
entrepreneurs.
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent tranche
37.   As described earlier in this PAD, the Program will have two-phases to provide long-term support
to transform Latvia's rural sector become compatible with EU standards. The Program includes:
(a) investing in the institutions necessary to iimplement policy reforms; (b) providing the public
infrastructure necessary to support private growth both on- and off-farm; (c) ensuring adequate financing
for agriculture and off-farm business development; and (d) providing a framework for participatory
community development that will empower rural residents while reducing incentives for urban migration.
Specificity of the medium to long terrn aspects of the Program remains to be defined.
38.   The first phase will focus on three key areas of priority to the Government: (a) strengthening
institutional capacity to carry out policy reform and other critical public sector functions through TA and
training; (b) stimulating the flows of commercial bank financing to rural areas for agricultural and off-
farm business development and improving the efficiency and self-sustainability of the financial
institutions through TA, and support for privatization of the most important bank serving the rural clients,
the MLB; and (c) continued support for land reform and transfer of real assets to the rural population.
The second phase would further the policy and financing aspects and would expand into support for
investment necessary to harmonize Latvia's institutions and services with those of the EU.
39.    A set of trigger points have been discussed and agreed upon as follows: (a) clear formulation of
rural development strategy and a supporting action program to achieve the stated objectives; (b)
conducting of policy reform, training and workshops and the establishment of a policy forum involving
key ministries, NGO, think-tanks, and representatives of private interests; (c) completion of a
privatization plan acceptable to the Bank and successful initiation of the privatization of the MLB; (d)
successful introduction of commercial bank rinancing for rural clients by having at least two participating
financial institutions (PFIs) extending loans in rural areas; (e) 75% disbursement of the first phase credit
line operation with demonstrated financial viability of sub-projects and sound portfolio quality of PFIs;
(f) a significant number and diversity of activities financed under the Special Credit Line (minimum 500
11



sub-loans); (g) establishment of a minimum of ten Local Action Groups and initiation of training for
LAGs; (h) maintenance of satisfactory agricultural policies and agricultural subsidy program with
Government's commitment not to reverse its reform direction in the fiiture; and (i) a review of the RDP
credit guarantee and capital grant schemes with a view to phase out or modify if appropriate.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components
A. Rural Development Policy Component (US $1 million)
A. 1 Development of National and Regional Rural Development Strategies.
40.   The component aims to assist the Government, through technical assistance, in the development
of a comprehensive rural strategy at the national, regional, and local levels. The Component would
provide training, workshops, study tours, organize policy forums, and help create new policy instruments
and measures through promoting and coordinating policy dialogues among ministries, the central
government and local level authorities and increasing public awareness and support.
A.2 Implementation of Rural Development Strategies at the Local Level.
41.   This component aims to strengthen, through technical assistance, the human resource capacity at
local levels to develop and implement their own rural development strategies, and provide feedback to
regional and national policy makers. Training will be provided at Pagasts level for LAGs. Several
Pagasts have already established LAGs. "Animators" will be placed in selected Pagasts to promote
community based development concepts and disseminate the concept through public relations support.
This component will closely coordinate with the EU supported "Rural Diversification Project" which
provides technical assistance in selected Pagasts.
B. Rural Finance Component (US $15.5 million)
B.1 Commercial Credit Line (Sub-component cost - US $10.1 million ) .
42.   This component will provide a credit line to eligible PFIs to lend for working capital and
investment loans at prevailing market interest rates and commercial terms. Intended beneficiaries are
those who have commercially viable and bankable projects with adequate collateral, adequate financial
rates of return and demonstrated repayment capacity. Borrowers applying for credit will have to meet
strict eligibility requirement related to their ownership, share holding, and management. Continuing with
the practice of the first ADP credit line operation for commercial clients, there will be no loan limits but a
system of prior review will be established to assure that eligibility criteria are being enforced. PFIs will
maintain full autonomy in selection of borrowers, approval of sub-projects, and determination of
lending terms (Annex 13 for eligibility criteria for PFIs, and Annex 14 for terms and conditions of credit
operations).
12



43.    Anticipated sub-projects would include, among others:
* on-farm investment for development of agricultural production, including the provision of
seasonal credit or initial working capital as appropriate;
*  investment (including permanent working-capital) for development of processing, storage,
packing, marketing, and other related agricultural and forestry service sectors;
* rural commercial activities that: have proven cash-flows supported by sound business plans
(e.g. small cafe, kiosks, hair salon, rural tourism, etc); and
*  eligible sub-projects will be located in rural areas (that include all of Latvia, excluding the
seven major urban centers - Ri ga, Daugavpils, Liepaja, Jelgava, Jumala, Ventspils, and
Rezekne).
B.2 Special Credit Line for Small-scale Rural Enterprises (Sub-component cost - US $5.4 million).
44.    This component will provided small size loans to private entrepreneurs in the rural areas.1
A maximum cumulative loan to one single borrower will be limited to LAT 2,000. A combination of a
partial credit guarantee scheme, a complementary capital grant, and transaction cost support will be
provided. This component will help overcome the problems of inadequate collateral by giving
individuals opportunities to accumulate assets for future collateral and encourage commercial banks to
lend to rural entrepreneurs.
45.    The partial guarantee is being provided to increase access to commercial credits for small scale
farmers and rural entrepreneurs who do not have adequate collateral. In designing the credit guarantee
scheme, consideration was given to: (a) minimize duplicative work on risk assessment; (b) minimize cost
of providing a guarantee; (c) maintain transparency and consistency in selection based on proper loan
evaluation; and (d) prevent misuse of the guarantee by borrowers or PFIs (see Annex 15 for operational
details of the Credit Guarantee scheme). CGiven the fact that guarantee scheme is a risk sharing
arrangement between PFIs and the Government, PFIs will be required to carry out the same due-diligence
risk assessment for guaranteed sub-loans. Moreover, PFIs will obtain the maximum collateral from
borrowers, and the final interest rates will be based on, inter alia, the availability of collateral. A
complementary capital grant up to 30 percent of the sub-loan amount will be provided to small scale rural
entrepreneurs. The grant is to encourage adoption of new techniques while improving access to
commercial credit by small-scale borrowers. All sub-loans will be on-lent at commercial terms and
interest rates. The Grant, Credit Guarantee, and transaction cost support to commercial banks will be
financed from the Government's budget.
46.    Operational Modalities of Special Credit Line2: Final borrowers, upon presenting a sound
bankable projects to PFIs, will receive a sub-loan which will consist of a 70% repayable credit portion,
and an eventual 30% grant portion. A balloon payment of the 30% due on the final maturity date of the
loan portion will be converted into a grant upon satisfactory repayment and compliance with all other
loan conditions. This arrangement is expected to enhance repayment performance. Other features are:
* the grant portion will be funded by the Government with no interest charged on the balloon
payment portion, unless misuse of funds, non-compliance with loan conditions, or default on
'A pilot project has already begun in September 1997 (Anmex 11 for details), which indicates that there is a strong demand for small sized, but
commercially viable projects.
2 Annexes 14 and 15 for details.
13



regular loan repayments occurs;
*  beneficiaries will be entitled to receive a grant only once;
*  in case of a non-compliance or misuse of funds, or default on the regular repayment of the
credit portion, the full balloon portion of 30% and interest will have to be repaid;
*  the repayable portion of the sub-loan will have a 30% GOL guarantee;
*  the Bank financed credit line will provide investment loans only with maturity longer than
one year up to the maximum of LAT 2,000 (including the grant portions);
*  any working capital loans should be granted from the PFIs own resources and there will be
no grant element for working capital loans;
*  for the special Credit Line component, a simplified and shorter version of the loan
application form requiring the most necessary information will be used by the PFIs; and
*  the transaction cost support to commercial banks will be calculated per sub-loan (not on a
percentage basis) to encourage banks to make small size loans. The scheme will be subject
to semi-annual review for adjustments as necessary.
C. Institutional Development Component (US $2.5 million)
C.  TA support for Institutional Developmet
47.   This component will provide technical assistance to strengthen rural business development,
marketing, and other private sector development support services in rural areas. Potential partners
include Latvian Agricultural Advisory Services, Small Enterprises development centers, NGOs, etc.
TORs have been prepared for this component.
48.   This project component will also provide institutional support to address constraints on credit
flows to rural sectors. Credit is not flowing to agriculture in part because: (a) banks lack adequate
experience or capacity to appraise and monitor agricultural projects; (b) transaction costs are high; and (c)
agricultural projects or small-scale rural businesses are perceived to be risky. In order to overcome these
constraints, the component will support institutional reforms in this area through:
*  Capacity building in the MLB - EU PHARE has initiated ECU 300,000 TA for institutional
development of the MLB covering areas such as strengthening lending operation, asset and liability
management, internal audit and control, management capacity, personnel management, MIS and
operational guidelines and manuals;
*  Strengthening of the institutional capacity of other PFIs (likely candidates are Unibank and possibly
Savings bank) for agricultural loan appraisal and supervision, and improved understanding of
commodity and collateral markets. Training will also include assessing commercial opportunities in
the agricultural sector and procedures to assure adherence to the GOL and Bank environmental
guidelines; and
14



*  TA and training to develop the registration of security interests in crops and other agriculture related
assets, including crop pledging mechanisms, warehouse receipts and accounts receivable.
C.2 Land Reform and Creation of Land Market
49.    This component will expand the already on-going land reforms in Latvia. Operations in the
Cadastre and Land Book will be expanded 1o expedite the title registration and reduce the backlog
between Cadastre and Land Book registration.
50.    TA support will be provided to improve the MIS system and the valuation of land, and to create a
"Real Property Registration and Credit Sysl:em" which can provide services to financial institutions on
collateral, liens, and other debt obligations of potential borrowers.
Project Components
Category    Indicative    % of     Bank-       % of
Component                                   Costs     Total   financing     Bank-
_____________________ _ _  (US $M)     (US $M)    financing
Component 1: Rural Development Policy     Institution
(a) Development of Rural Development Strategy  Building and  0.5      2.60      0.25        2.4%
and Policies                              TA
(b) Implementation of Rural Development   Institution
Strategies at Local levels and Animation of rural  building &  0.5    2.6%      0.25        2.4%
population to develop small scale business  TA
opportunities
Component 2: Rural Finance                credit            10.1     53.3%       6.0       57.1%
Rural Finance - Commercial Credit
Rural Finance - Special Support for small-scale
rural entrepreneurs                       credit            5.4      28.4%       2.0       19.0%
Component 3: Institutional Development
(a) Institutional Development - TA for rural    TA and      0.5       2.6%       0.5        4.8%
business development, support to individuals,   institution
marketing, etc.                           building
(b) Land Reform - for Ministry of Justice - TA   Institution
and EDP equipment for land registry and Real   building     2.0       10.5%      1.5       14.3%
Property Credit System                   ____
Total     19.0     100%       10.5       100%
15



2. Key policy and institutional reforms to be sought
51.   As discussed in Section B.2 and B.3 of this PAD, the RDP would assist in completing sector
reforms which are already at an advanced stage. The RDP would provide specific support to facilitate
continuous development of the private sector, deepen reforms in the legal and regulatory systems of land
reform, further strengthen the rural financial system, and initiate interventions aimed at alleviating rural
poverty and disparities in income levels among the rural population. In particular, as a part of the trigger
points, the RDP would strive for the privatization of the Mortgage Bank which is likely to be one of the
major players for the financing of rural business.
52.   At the end of December 1997, the Ministry of Agriculture issued a government decree detailing
the use of LAT 17 million equivalent from the 1998 budget to support the agricultural sector. Specific
support measures include special grant schemes to introduce modem technology and high quality
breeding stock, a credit guarantee scheme, and special support for non-traditional agriculture. In
addition, the Ministry of Economy, has established a parastatal non-profit organization - Regional
Development Fund - which will channel budgetary funds for various investment projects to promote
regional development. During project preparation, there has been a strong sense of cooperation and
coordination among different ministries which share common objectives in promoting economic
development in rural areas and improving living standards of the rural population. Such cooperative spirit
has subsided somewhat. With the policy component, the RDP would provide opportunities to coordinate
and rationalize various government programs to minimize duplication, and reduce the fiscal burden to the
Government.
3. Benefits and targetpopulation:
53.   The project would increase the provision of financial services to small farmers, small scale rural
entrepreneurs, and the unemployed, thereby enabling productive inveslments that generate income and
employment and improve living standards of the rural population. In addition to the poverty alleviation
effect, the project would: generate financial and economic benefits in the form of increased agricultural
productivity and output through credit-led modernization and continuous restructuring of the agricultural
sector; and increase incomes and employment opportunities through the diversification of economic
activities into non-agricultural sectors. The project would present a new approach to rural development
based on local participation, and create a pilot rural finance scheme which will be meant for those who
lack collateral or capital for self-financing hence providing access to credit to those previously excluded.
Project Targeting and Eligibility Criteria
54.   Beneficiary Targeting. With continuously deteriorating conditions in the rural areas, the GOL
has specifically requested Bank support for the rural population by building institutions that serve the
lower end of the financial spectrum that is normally too small or without sufficient collateral for
commercial banks. The project would seek to identify small-scale rural entrepreneurs (both for
agriculture and non-agriculture activities) who lack collateral and self-ifinancing but have specific
proposals for viable economic activities. The maximum size loans under the Special Rural Finance
Support would be around LAT 2,000 and sub-projects would be selected according to prudent evaluation
and risk assessment. Specific eligibility criteria for the these groups have been prepared by the GOL.
Additional criteria would also include having a functioning LAG, and a demonstrated willingness to
16



receive training and institutional development support. Eligibility Criteria of sub-borrowers under
Special Credit Line have been agreed at negotiations (Annex 14).
55.   Geographical Targeting. The GOL, has requested that the project areas and scope be as wide as
possible to include all economic activities in the rural areas. For administrative purposes of the credit
line, rural areas have been defined as all of Latvia excluding seven urban centers. For the Special Rural
Finance credit line to support small-scale borrowers, the GOL's "Most Depressed Areas" in eastern and
northern parts of Latvia will be considered as "priority" areas although other rural areas will not be
excluded. The GOL has passed legislation to provide special support to the Most Depressed Areas. The
project would be closely coordinated with this special program. Although the majority of the country's
rural poor are located in the Most Depressed Areas and, therefore deserve focused support, eligible
beneficiaries for the Special Rural Finance activities would not be restricted to the depressed areas, given
that pockets of poor households also exist in relatively well off areas.
Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation:
56.   Implementation of the Program will be over a five year period. The first phase will be
implemented over 30 months, with the subsequent second phase to be implemented over a similar time
period.
Institutional Arrangements for Implementation.
57.   Supervisory Committee: The Government of Latvia has established an Inter-Ministerial
Working Group on rural policy (IMWG) chaired by a Deputy Prime-Minister and consisting of the
Minister of Agriculture and representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Regional Development,
the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Justice,
the State Treasury, the State Land Service, the Mortgage and Land Bank, and the State Employment
Service. The main goals of the IMWG are to develop rural development strategies and identify specific
measures and appropriate institutional arrangements to be supported under the RDP. More specifically,
the IMWG will:
* prepare the Government's Rural Development Strategy, including objectives, methods and
responsibilities;
*  identify overlaps and gaps in current support programs for the economic and social
development in rural areas;
* facilitate information flow between Ministries and Government agencies;
* prepare specific policy proposals to coordinate activities between all relevant organizations,
including NGOs and local rural communities, and fill any identified policy gaps; and
*  identify methods to ensure effective local participation in the setting of priorities, design and
implementation of rural development programs including participation in funding decisions.
58.   Project Management: During implementation, a Project Management Unit (PMU) will
coordinate overall project implementation and report to the IMWG. In order to be effective in
coordinating several ministries, the PMU has merged with Technical Unit (TU) in the Ministry of
Finance (MOF). The PMU will serve as the main communication point with the Bank and will also
ensure that all requirements pertaining to the agreed Loan Agreement will be implemented on a timely
basis. It will oversee and coordinate project activities and ensure that project implementation is
consistent with stated project objectives. It will be responsible for preparing and overseeing
17



implementation of annual work programs, monitoring, evaluation and reporting project performance,
accounts and audits, operation of the special account and procurement of goods and services. It will also
be responsible for implementation of the institutional development component including coordination
with the Ministries of Agriculture, Economy, Regional Development, Justice, and Finance and other
donors.
59.   The PMU will also have responsibility for monitoring implementation of the Special Credit Line
for small-scale rural enterprises, and ensure that intended beneficiaries are receiving support. Business
support to rural clients will be provided through a network of service providers such as Latvian
Agricultural Advisory Services, Small Business Development Center, NGOs, private consulting
companies, and marketing and distribution companies, etc.
60.   Credit Component: The MOF would on-lend the credit line funds to eligible PFIs, which would,
in turn, extend sub-loans to the ultimate intended project beneficiaries. The PFIs would be selected
according to eligibility criteria (see Annex 13) which include full compliance with the Bank of Latvia's
regulations, capital adequacy, sound financial policies, and institutional capacity with professional staff
adequately trained and specialized in medium- and long-term investment lending, and a sufficient
network of branches in rural area. According to sub-borrower demand, the PFIs would lend in DEM (or
local currency), and they would bear the full credit risk. Initially, the project would start with two or
three PFIs, however, participation will remain open to all interested banks which meet the eligibility
criteria. Subsidiary Loan Agreements will be signed between the MOF and each PFI that spell-out the
terms and conditions for the loans to the PFIs, and for the sub-loans to the final borrower (Annex 14).
61.   On behalf of the MOF, the PMU will monitor implementation of the Credit Component.
Specifically, the PMU under the supervision of the TU and the MOF, will be responsible for:
*  maintenance of the data base on the Loan Account and the Consolidated Project Accounts;
*  consolidation of withdrawal applications received from PFIs and preparation of Statement of
Expenditures (SOEs) for MOF approval and submission to the World Bank, ensuring that funds
are channeled to PFIs, and maintenance of adequate records of all project related expenditures;
*  compliance with audit requirements, in coordination with MOF and the PFIs;
*  channeling of funds to the PFIs for the grant portion of the special support and maintenance of
adequate records on the lending activities carried out by PFIs under the grant portion;
*  maintenance of adequate records on the credit portion of the special support guaranteed by
Government, and authorize, in coordination with MOF, payments to be effected to PFIs on
account of the guarantee; and
*  provide the MOF and the Bank of any information on the above activities according to agreed
reporting formats and requirements.
62.   Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements: The PMU, with the MOF, will
maintain separate project accounts and records for project related expenditures in accordance with sound
and accepted accounting practices. The PMU will be responsible for the preparation of SOEs and
preparation of financial reports. Accounts would be audited annually according to international audit
standards by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and the Government. Audit reports would be
submitted to the Bank within six months of the end of the fiscal year.
18



63.   Monitoring and Evaluation: The PMU will have the primary responsibility for monitoring and
evaluation (M&E) of project implementation including specific output and impact indicators to be
monitored will be identified and agreed duririg appraisal. It will design and implement a simple M&E
system for the activities of the advisory centers, the PFIs, the institutional development component, and
the beneficiaries supported by the project. The M&E results would be reviewed quarterly and would be
consolidated into semi-annual progress reports and submitted for Bank's review. The M&E system will
play a key role in providing the lessons learned and experience gained that are needed for the design of
the second phase of the project.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
64.   Directed Credit. A general credit line to be channeled through commercial banks was
considered as an alternative. This option was not selected because a survey of commercial banks during
preparation has confirmed that, in general, banks are still reluctant to lend to farmers, or small-scale rural
entrepreneurs due to perceived high risks, relatively high transaction costs associated with making small
loans, and their lack of understanding of agriculture or rural sectors. Alternatively, a special financial
support for small farmers and small-scale rural entrepreneurs was selected (with parallel TA support) to
address the current constraints that prevent commercial banks from lending to rural clients and mobilizing
savings in rural areas.
65.    Financial Intermediation. Under the first project, a non-bank financial institution - AFC- was
created to on-lend the Bank credit line. This option is no longer applicable for Latvia; first because the
AFC has been merged with a commercial bank (Mortgage and Land Bank) and continues to serve the
rural areas; and second, the status of the bankcing sector in Latvia is at a level where commercial banks
need to diversify their lending activities to include rural clients. The project would include as many
eligible commercial banks as possible and provide necessary TA to enable them to overcome the
"m isperception" and actively lend to rural clients. The project would help diversify portfolios of the
Mortgage Bank and other commercial banks and strengthen corporate governance and management and
loan appraisal skills. One of the expected outcomes of the project at the end of the APL program would
be a fully privatized MLB, and other commercial banks engaged in diversified lending activities to a wide
spectrum of clients in rural areas.
66.   Collateral Choices and Alternatives. In Latvia, banks' lending in general is based primarily on
physical collateral. This practice precludes clients who lack sufficient collateral, self-financing, or
established business track record, hence it creates a barrier to start-up business or small scale individual
private enterprises, including farming. In order to overcome this barrier, alternatively, the project will
provide a special credit line support to previously excluded client groups by combining a Bank credit line
resource with a government funded partial credit guarantee and a complementary capital grant support.
This type of support will be more transparent, directed to those who truly need it, and results can be
measured for accountability.
67.   Poverty Alleviation Program through Special Rural Financing. The Government has
recognized that it does not have comparative advantages in selecting investments which will help
alleviate poverty in rural areas. The GOL, instead, will earmark a specific Loan amount to provide
special support to small-scale entrepreneurs and rely on the commercial banking system to appraise,
19



approve, and supervise investment loans. As incentives to commercial banks to lend to rural poor, the
GOL will provide additional incentives to PFIs as mentioned above, such as partial credit guarantee,
transaction cost support, and complementary grant schemes. The project would complement the Bank
supported Social Safety Net Project which is designed to improve provision of social services and public
administration capacity. The RDP would support economic activities, and through creating jobs and
increasing income, would help reduce the rural population's dependence on govemment provided social
welfare support.
68.   Credit Guarantee Schemes and other Special Support Schemes. Past experiences with credit
guarantee schemes were not positive nor sustainable. They were either too expensive to maintain, or
demand was often too low due to duplication of risk assessment and other bureaucratic impediments.
Rather than creating a separate Credit Guarantee Agency, the RDP will introduce a simplified version of
a credit guarantee scheme in which the funding source (i.e. Government) will hold an earmnarked account
in PFIs which will provide funding for credit guarantee (if warranted) and capital grant support. These
accounts and project portfolios will be regularly supervised and audited by international auditors. PFIs
will be fully responsible for risk analysis, approval, and supervision of sub-loan and maintaining detailed
information on each sub-loan which receives special support.
69.   Rural Development Policy Formulation. Different Ministries have been pursuing separate
programs of support to rural and regional development. While some programs have been effective in
achieving their objectives, these separate programs were not coordinated, and often were inconsistent.
The GOL, has altematively, decided to pull their financial and administrative resources together and
pursue a coordinated approach to rural and regional development. In order to do that, the GOL will need
training and technical assistance to strengthen policy makers, and public and,private sector leaders. The
project will provide such support at national, regional, and local level govemments. An inclusion of the
Policy component under the RDP was in part driven by the GOL's medium-term objective to harmonize
Latvia's rural development strategies with the EU policy. The policy framework and TA assistance in
this area will be designed with the EU participation.
70.   Decentralized and Community-based Rural Development. In the past, the Central
Govemment traditionally designed and implemented top-down rural and regional development strategies
with different ministries pursuing their own agendas. Now, together with the Bank, the GOL will initiate
a community based rural development program. Based on EU experience, LAGs will be formed at local
community levels with members representing both elected officials and leaders of the community (e.g.
farmers, teachers, etc). LAGs will interact with all local authorities and local organizations in their
community for the development plan for income and employment generation activities. These plans
would be based upon a local mutually agreed strategy through a process of engaging the participation of
all segments of a rural community; the identification of potential development ideas; the setting of
priorities; implementation plans and resources required to undertake the proposed development activities.
The LAG concept is being tested in selected few districts, and with lessons learned and experience, it will
be expanded to broader areas.
20



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies(completed, ongoing
andplanned):
Sector issue                       Project               Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-fnanced projects only)
Implementation    Development
Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Agriculture (AM)                      Agricultural Development           HS               HS
(FY94) - Completed
Banking sector                        Enlerprise/Financial               HS               HS
Restructuring (FY95)
Critical import support (ME)          Rehabilitation (FY93) -            S                 S
Completed
Macro issues                          SAL (FY97)                         S                 S
Other development agencies
EU-PHARE                              Ag Sector Program                   S                S
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposedproject design:
71.    The lessons learned from the experie:nce of the Bank and other donors have been incorporated in
designing of the RDP. The following points lprovide a point of departure for structuring the RDP:
*  macro-economic stabilization, market liberalization and privatization are all pre-requisites for
effective financial interventions. These basic conditions have been met in Latvia;
*  rural credit projects often face difficulties because: (a) profitable opportunities for lending are rare:
(b) PFIs are unaccustomed to rural lending and do not know the clientele; (c) the risks are high,
particularly if the PFI concentrates lending only on agriculture and/or in a limited geographical
area; and (d) the transactions costs of rural lending are high relative to other lending opportunities.
The RDP will address these difficulties in part by providing technical assistance to PFIs and
strengthening business support services aimed at creating profitable lending opportunities;
*  credit unions could also provide a valuable service in bringing prospective borrowers and the PFIs
together hence reducing the transaction cost;
*  selection of PFIs in the project will emphasize banks that are diversified and have the capacity to
undertake agricultural and non-agricultural lending in the rural areas in the context of a balanced
portfolio both from a sectoral and geographical perspective;
*  training of PFI staff in appraisal and supervision, and improving the environment for secured
lending, will help mitigate the higher costs and risks of agricultural and rural lending;
*  in rural finance, the main emphasis should not merely be to provide credit, but to stimulate savings
as well, and be based on a broad-based clientele - PFIs under the RDP will be banks with large
21



networks of branches in rural areas which mobilize resources from multiple sources, including
savings;
* excessive constraints put on PFIs do not necessarily improve efficiency, and PFIs should have
multiple sources of funds to reduce their cost of funding;
* there should be multiple PFIs involved in a credit project to increase competition among banks and
reduce the cost of borrowing to ultimate borrowers- at least three PFIs are expected to participate
in the RDP;
* a credit line operation must be accompanied by complementary TA support to enhance risk
assessment by loan officers and other institutional development support for PFIs, as well as support
to clients in developing "bankable" projects - therefore a comprehensive TA support is being
included in the RDP; and
* improvement of a collateral system based on legal ownership of property is a prerequisite to a
successful credit operation. The RDP will continue to provide TA and financial support to advance
land registration as did the ADP, and registration of other collateral.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
72.   The Government's strong commitment has been demonstrated by a series of actions that have
already taken place.
* While the ADP was under implementation, in May 1996, the Government of Latvia formally
requested (Minister of Finance Kreituss and Acting Minister of Agriculture Krasts) the World
Bank's further assistance in the financing of the development of the private agriculture and rural
sectors in Latvia. Upon his appointment, on June 7, 1996, the new Minister of Agriculture sent a
letter to the Bank restating the GOL's request for a Rural Development Project. The GOL
established a Project Preparation Unit (PPU) to coordinate all preparation related activities in April
1997.
* A Rural Survey was carried out in January 1997 and the results were discussed and disseminated
widely. The Survey has been formally published in Latvian and in English.
* In early September 1997, the Cabinet of Ministers endorsed the RDP concept paper which was also
endorsed by the Parliament.
* On October 8, 1997, the GOL established an Inter-Ministerial Working Group to co-ordinate the
preparation of the Rural Development Project and the Government of Latvia's Rural Development
Strategy, and Deputy Prime-Minister Gorbunovs reiterated, in his letter to the Country Director,
the Government of Latvia's commitment to the Rural Development Project and its desire to borrow
from the World Bank to assist in its implementation.
* The GOL has carried out a major media campaign on the RDP, and the authority to borrow US $25
million from the World Bank for the RDP has already been included in the 1998 budget.
* The PMU has been actively pursuing various aspects of project preparation, and launched a "Pilot
Poverty Alleviation Program" in early September, 1997. Results from the Pilot program were
incorporated in the design of the RDP.
22



5. Value added of Bank support in this project
73.   Since the Bank's operations commenced in Latvia in 1993, the Bank has been supporting the
Government in its analysis and design of development strategies, and their realization through specific
operational support. On the non-lending activities, the Bank has completed the Agricultural Sector
Review (FY 94) and a follow-up Agriculture Policy Update (FY97). On the project front, the ADP
(FY94) has been successfully completed ancl the RDP has been included in the CAS (FY99). The RDP
would be a combination of a line of credit to continue support to commercially viable rural activities, and
a special program to generate income earning activities in rural areas, thus facilitating the downsizing of
the agricultural sector while mitigating economic hardship.
74.   The Bank has drawn upon its extensive experience in poverty alleviation and natural resources
management in other countries, but most recently on its success in Brazil. The Bank will also play an
important coordinating role with donors, particularly EU-PHARE, in designing rural development
strategies and institutional capacities that are compatible with the EU practices and requirements.
E. Summary Project Analysis (See Annex 4)
1. Economic Analysis:
75.   Because of the demand driven nature: of the project, it is not possible to set out a priori the sub-
projects which will be financed through the line of credit. No attempt has been made to estimate overall
financial and economic rates of return of the project. According to the lending guidelines for PFIs, each
loan approved would be required to demonstrate adequate rates of return.
76.   Economic evaluation methodology: Alternatively, the economic analysis was carried out on a
series of farm and enterprise models typical in Latvia. Eight models have been chosen. Each model
compares "with and without project" situations and illustrates possible changes induced by the project on
costs and productivity.
77.   Results of the Rural Survey which identified "most likely" investments that rural entrepreneurs
hope to undertake have been included in the analysis.
78.   Randomly selected representative models of farms of different sizes, processing enterprises for
typical products, non-agricultural rural business (e.g. small scale marketing, hair salons, retails shops,
small-scale tool shops, etc.) have been developed.
79.   Key Assumptions of the Economic Analysis: (a) Discount rate: 12 percent; (b) Time horizons:
15 years; (c) Prices: constant. Financial prices were adjusted by removing taxes and any other transfer
payments. Border prices were calculated for major tradable outputs and inputs and market prices used for
non-traded goods. There are few distortions on agricultural inputs and outputs as both markets are
liberalized and increasingly competitive and bear limited taxes and subsidies.
80.   Differences in financial and economic analyses are mainly due to relatively lower Latvia farmn-
gate prices than international market prices of the same goods and similar quality, and differences in fuel
and energy prices, and imputed value of labor. Labor intensive activities such as a retail shop shows
23



relatively higher economic returns as economic cost of labor in Latvia is r elatively cheaper. Whenever
possible, actual export/import prices adjusted for transportation were used in the economic analysis.
81.    Results: NPV's for the various farm and enterprise models range from LAT 8,253 for a small
farm to LAT 46,427 for a relatively large farm of 100 Ha. ERRs range from 19% for a large grain farm
model to 51% for a retail shop model.
2. FinancialAnalysis
82.    The overall financial rate of return and NPV for the project are not available as this is largely a
credit line operation.
83.     The main findings of the crop and livestock budgets and the financial analysis are: (a) gross and
net returns per hectare and per head increase significantly for each of the crops and livestock as a result
of receiving credit and technical assistance; (b) the individual financial NPV's for the farm models and
rural enterprises tested are positive, indicating the potential viability and attractiveness of farming and
small scale rural business; (c) the degree of profitability varies considerably between sub-projects. A
standard project analysis model has been developed including the sensitivity analysis which have been in
use since the first Agricultural Development Project. Loan officers will continue to receive training in
loan appraisal and monitoring financial performance of sub-loans.
84.    Results: NPV's for the various models range from LAT 4.716 for a small farm to LAT 40,229
for a meat processing rehabilitation project. IRRs range from 19% for a flour mill to 31% for a retail shop
start-up based on self-employment.
85.    Sensitivity analysis: A sensitivity analysis was prepared to calculate the impact of changes in:
(a) revenues (either from output prices or yields); (b) operating costs; (c) investment costs; and (d)
investment lag of 1 year. The main findings are: a large-scale farming enterprise is very sensitive to
changes in revenue or costs. Labor intensive operations like a retail shop or a furniture repair were also
sensitive to revenue changes.
86.    Financial analysis of PFIs: Each PFI will be subject to a due-diligence evaluation before they
can be qualified to participate in the project. Details of the eligibility criteria for PFIs are in Annex 13.
Selection of banks for participation in the project will be based on: (a) the competence and independence
of the bank's management and the adequacy of its lending polices; (b) the reliability of its reporting; (c)
its financial position, including the health of its portfolio; and (d) compliance with audit requirements.
Based on preliminary analysis it is likely that three to four banks will initially qualify to participate in the
project. PFIs' eligibility will have to be maintained throughout the pro'ject implementation. Each PFI will
be subject to an annual audit by an international auditing firm, which will include a review of the
portfolio.
87.    Fiscal impact: The project calls for government's co-financing for the proposed Credit
Guarantee and Complementary Capital Grant supports for rural poor. The GOL has committed that from
year 1999, such support will be included in the Budget, but for the current year of 1998, some of the
budget already allocated to the Ministry of Agriculture and Ministry of Economy will be redirected to
support the proposed schemes. In such a case, the Project will have a neutral fiscal impact. Total
government financing during the threeyear implementation period is expected to be about US $1 million,
which is less then 0.2 percent of Government Budget for 1998. This is considered to be a minor
24



expenditures which would be partially balanced from the expected government revenues through tax
receipts on incremental revenue generated by rural enterprises.
3. TrechnicalAnalysis
88.   PFIs will receive training in the technical appraisal and supervision of sub-projects. Under the
Project, a private business support network will include Latvian Agriculture Advisory Services (LAAS),
agricultural universities, colleges, the technical department of the Ministry of Agriculture at central and
regional levels, plus a network of private techinical specialists to support adoption of appropriate
technologies for potential clients.
4. InstitutionalAnalysis
89.   Executing agencies: The Credit Line operations will be executed by eligible PFIs. The MLB,
which absorbed the AFC, has the entire AFC staff working in the Credit Department and understands the
Bank and Government's development and project objectives, and has a proven track record for quality
implementation under the ADP. Unibank, another PFI, is a participating bank under another Bank
financed Credit operation in Latvia and has maintained and is expected to maintain prudent and quality
lending operations.
90.   Project management: The PMU is the same unit which has successfully implemented the first
project ADP. It has experienced staff who are well versed in Bank rules and requirements, including
procurement, disbursement and environmental guidelines. The PMU has satisfactorily submitted
required reporting (i.e. Semi-annual progress reports) and has provided quality and timely information
and data as requested by the Bank. The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) of the Agricultural
Development Project identified the professional and efficient project management as one of the main
factors for success. This same PMU will serve the RDP.
91.   Financial Management: During appraisal is was ascertained that current financial management
practices for the project meet Bank requirements, in accordance with OP 10.02 (August 1997). The
principal project implementations agencies - the PFIs, are being audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank and the State Treasury of MOF, which will be responsible for managing the loan,
subsidiary loans and project accounts has many years' experience in project accounting and has submitted
in the past unqualified audit opinions on Bank-financed project. Specific covenants and instructions,
relating to the project have been included in subsidiary loan agreements and Rural Credit Guidelines.
The PMU will be responsible for monitoring that beneficiaries comply with Bank procurement
guidelines.
S. SocialAnalysis
92.   As a part of Project preparation, a Rural Survey was undertaken. This involved a random sample
household survey, in-depth interviews, focus group discussions and stakeholder workshops. The survey
results have been published and broadly distributed. The main findings of the Survey were that actual
unemployment is much higher than official statistics; many farmers, particularly with small land
holdings, have reverted to subsistence farming for self-consumption; and psychological and social
problems are the result of limited alternative job opportunities within the rural sector. These problems are
a particular burden for rural women who receive little or no assistance. The lack of local job
opportunities is also causing despair among youth. On the brighter side, the rural population felt that they
wanted to stay in their areas and want to find work. Many rural people are optimistic that, with some
25



assistance, they can help themselves rather than relying on governmental support. In summary, the Rural
Survey has confirmed the need for project initiatives, particularly for information, financial and
management advice and credit. Targeting of vulnerable groups will be done through a process of
animation/awareness raising among these groups, followed by responses to their demands for services
that could lead to small-scale commercial activities (Annex 10 for Summary of Rural Survey).
93.   Some of the risks that the RDP may face: (a) rural apathy may prove to be difficult to overcome;
(b) training, and institution building may require a longer period; and (c) efforts to reach rural poor may
be resisted by the rural elite, and the latter may try to re-direct available assistance.
6. Environmental assessment: Environmental Category   []A   f"JB  [IC
Major: None
Other: No major environmental issues are expected, but, given the somewhat unpredictable outcome of
a participatory process, some minor issues may develop during project implementation, including the
need for building permits, etc.
94.   The project has been rated as environmental screening category "B." The proposed operation is
expected to have positive environmental effects through the promotion of improved land use practices,
farming methods, and agricultural product processing. The proposed project is consistent with the
Latvia's environmental assessment procedures and the provisions of Operational Directive 4.01
'Environmental Assessment.' The project would help strengthen local capacities in environmentally
sustainable approaches to agricultural development. Each sub-project will be subject to review based on
an environmental checklist. Loan officers of PFIs, PMU and LAAS staff will receive training courses on
environmental screening of loan applications based on Bank's Environmental Guidelines for Financial
Intermediary Loans. In addition, a leaflet on the use of agricultural chemicals will be distributed to PFIs.
Ex-post evaluation of sub-projects during supervision will include an evaluation of the exact nature of the
activities financed by the Credit Component.
7. Participatory approach
95.   Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups: The primary group of project beneficiaries
consists of rural people who at the start of the project are barely, or not at all, involved in any commercial
activity. Other target groups consist of farmers, processing, and service entrepreneurs in need of credit
for developing their farm business.
96.   Name and describe groups, how involved, and what they have influenced. During preparation,
participation by local groups has strongly been encouraged. Active dissemination of information
regarding project preparation has been conducted through the Media, through local organizations and by
the PMU, directly approaching local authorities in depressed rural areas. Primary project beneficiaries
include farmers, rural entrepreneurs, and workers, self-employed small business owners, commercial
banks and the network of independent service providers. These groups participated in the project design
process in the following ways:
*  field visits to each category of primary beneficiary were undertaken to consult the
beneficiaries on priorities for project action, project design options and to test project
concepts;
*  a Rural Survey was carried out in two pagasts to assess priority needs and obtain feedback on
project design concepts; and
26



* meetings were held with commercial banks, involving explanation of project objectives.
These meetings determined priorities to be addressed through the financing component and
contributed to project design and the arrangements for implementation of the component.
97.   When the pilot program was initiated as a part of the project preparation, local government and
action groups were consulted and the broad objectives of the proposed project were explained, and they
were invited to submit proposals for the pilot project. All local authorities and local organizations in their
community were invited to submit, for review, brief outline plans for the development of income and
employment generation activities. These plans were to be based upon a local mutually agreed strategy
for development through a process of engaging the participation of all sections of a rural community. A
meeting was also held in Riga in mid May 1997 to which representatives of these communities, interested
NGOs, and academics were invited. Some 11 local authorities or communities were represented, together
with representatives of:
* a local credit union;
* the World Wildlife Fund;
* the Latvian Institute of Women's Rights;
* the Farmer's Federation;
* the Latvian Rural Tourism Association;
* the Association of Biological Agriculture;
* the Association of Private Forestry; and
*  the Dean of the Faculty of Economics of the Latvian University of Agriculture.
F. Susitainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
98.   The project is the result of an urgent need for action in depressed rural areas that have not yet
received any tangible benefit from the transiformation of the economy. The concept has been well
received in most rural areas in Latvia. Sustainability of the project would depend on multiple factors: at
the sub-project level, financial analysis should confirm sustainability of each sub-project, and PFIs must
maintain a quality portfolio through prudent operations. Appropriate TA will be provided to enhance the
sustainability. At the policy level, consistent and well designed rural development policies need to be
implemented in a coordinated manner with all concerned agencies. At the local level, sustainability of
the project would be linked to improvement in labor productivity and job opportunity, and the project's
participatory approaches to promote community involvement would enhance the sustainability. In
addition, the principle of rural development which broadly fits with the concept of rural development of
depressed areas in the EU has been accepted by the GOL. The GOL's commitment to provide
counterpart funding for the special support for small-scale entrepreneurs is likely to ensure a high level of
sustainability of sub-project benefits.
27



2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in thefourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                           Risk Rating   Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objective"
Lack of govemnment commitmnent to sustainable             M         Policy dialogue/supervision
agricultural policies and to rural development
Other Government schemes aimed to either subsidize        N         Policy dialogue/supervision
agriculture or the rural business
Macro stability (changing exchange rate)                  N
Availability of TA                                        M         Supervision/dialogue
Annex 1, cell "from Components to Outputs"                          Supervision/dialogue
Lack of economic growth                                   N
Lack of interest of rural population                      N         Animation
Overall Risk Rating      N
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible ControversialAspects:
Risk                      Type of   Risk Rating  Risk Minimization Measure
Risk
Governance - role of the Govermment              G            N                 TA support
Management capacity                              M           M                  TA support
Type of Risk - S (Social), E (Ecological), P (Pollution), G (Governance), M (Management capacity), 0 (Other)
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk),
G. Main Loan Conditions
99.    Prior to Negotiations, the Government provided:
a) its financing commitments (sources and amounts) for the credit guarantee and grant schemes for the
first phase of the RDP;
b) a financing commitment for RDP loan financing for TA in the firsit phase (for a total of US $1
million) or seek donor financing for TA;
28



c) elaboration of land reform program and the assurance that necessary support will be provided; or
agreement that there will be RDP loan firnancing for the land reform component (for a total of US
$1.5 million);
d) an inventory of technical assistance support by all donors for rural development and diversification
including support for local initiatives, and identification of suitable financing sources to replace Bank
loan financing where possible;
e) a detailed Project Implementation Plan (PIP) and clearly defined implementation schedules for each
project component including TA;
f) confirmation of the specific performance indicators and benchmarks for triggering the second phase
as required under the APL;
g) a written commitment that the Government will maintain the PMU with adequate staffing and
funding support during project implementation;
h) its final position on the currency choice and extending local currency loans; and
i) a letter of development policy outlining the Government's continuous commitment to move forward
with reformed-oriented agricultural polices and not to reverse its policy direction in the future; and
submission of specific modifications to the present subsidy schemes by the MOA.
During Negotiations, agreements were reached on:
* modification of agricultural subsidy policies;
* discussion on future policy direction as stated in a Development Policy letter;
* loan currency choice and amount;
* project cost, financing arrangement, and counterpart funding commitment;
* foreign exchange risk for Special Credit Line;
* eligibility criteria for PFIs, Sub-borrowers, and types of investments to be financed;
* sub-loan appraisal methodologies and simplified appraisal for Special Credit Line for SMEs;
terms and conditions and on-lending arrangements for Subsidiary loans from the Ministry of
Finance to the PFIs and from the PFIs to sub-borrowers;
* cumulative loan limits of LAT 2,000 to any one sub-borrower under the Special Credit Line;
* loan limit for prior review by the Bank;
* terms and conditions, and operational modalities of Credit Guarantee and Complementary
Grant Schemes as stated in Rural Credit Guidelines; and
1. jBoard Conditions:
100.  The GOL has satisfactorily fulfilled the Board condition by submitting specific modifications of
the on-going agricultural subsidy program.
2. Effectiveness Conditions:
101.  Standard Conditions; Subsidiary Loan Agreement signed with at least one Participating Financial
Institution.
29



3. Other Conditions:
102.  Accounts and Audits: Standard auditing covenants will apply. GOL will open and properly
maintain a Special Account, and carry out an audit according to intemational standards and submit to the
Bank within six months from the closing of the fiscal year.
103.  Management: Project Management Unit will be maintained with adequate staffing and funding
support by the Borrower.
104.  Monitoring, review and reporting: Standard reporting covenants will apply. To ensure adequate
planning of project activities, the PMU will prepare and fumish to the Bank for review and approval an
annual work program that includes:
* implementation targets for Special Credit Line sub-component;
*  policy capacity building technical assistance requirements and training to be undertaken during
the reporting period; and
* an in-depth review of achievements, results, and impact will be carried out no later then
December 2000 as part of the preparation for the second phase of the program.
H. Readiness for Implementation
I The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. [1] Not applicable.
[ ] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. [1] Not applicable.
[/] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
30



I. Complia:nce with Bank Policies
This project complies with all applicable Banlk policies.
Task Team Leader: Hoonae Kim
Seg  o   er-aura tuck
Country Director: Bas G. Kavak
3 1



Attachment I
I of 10
May 1998
Mr. Johannes Linn
Vice President
Europe and Central Asia Region
The World Bank
Dear Mr. Linn
Ref: Latvia Rural Development Project
A Letter of Development Policy
1.    Economic restructuring in Latvia since independence has had mixed results, and the
benefits from transition to a market economy have not been equally distributed with the gap in
living standards between urban and rural areas widening. With the continued downsizing of the
agricultural sector, a trend which is expected to continue, unemployment and underemployment
in rural areas becoming a serious concern.
Entrepreneurial activities in rural areas are underdeveloped, the rural population. traditionally
agriculture-oriented, lacks skills. information, and motivation to seek alternative employment.
The Government of Latvia has recognised that solely through free market as an economic and
social institution, it is impossible to solve all problems in rural areas, and it does not reduce the
necessity for the Government's interference. At the same time, the GOL understands that
agricultural growth stimulates economic growth in non-agricultural sectors, which results in
increased employment and reduced poverty. Sustained non-agricultural growth. particularly in
depressed areas, is not likely without first addressing agriculture.
2.    Against the above background, the Govemment of Latvia attaches high priority to the
development of rural areas, and also to continue the reform of agriculture as an integral part of
the rural development policy. Since early 1996, the Government has placed sustainable rural
development on its priority agenda recognising that the achievement of any real progress would
require coordinated efforts by the Ministries of Agriculture, Environmental Protection and
Regional Development, Welfare. Economy, and Finance.
3.    In order to achieve the above challenging goals, the Government is interested to work
together with the World Bank to revitalise the rural economy while continue to pursue reform
1



Attachment 1
2 of 10
oriented policies for agricultural and rural sector development. Following a very successful
Agricultural Development Project which the World Bank has financed, the Government has
requested a Rural Development Project (RDP). We are eager to see the project starts as soon as
possible as the first project was completed more than six months ago.
4.    During implementation of the first project, the Government has established a strong
collaborative policy dialogues with the World Bank. We recognise that rural development is an
integrated notion and it involves several ministries, therefore in order to develop and manage the
rural development policy, we need to establish a policy forum which would coordinate and
integrate different agendas of many ministries. The proposed RDP will provide such
opportunity, and training for key policy makers and public and private leaders in formnulation of
rural development strategies at national and regional levels.
5.    As a part of the RDP preparation, a Rural Survey was carried out, which highlighted the
worsening conditions in rural areas particularly those for women and youth. The Survey results
has deepened policy makers' understanding of the actual conditions of the rural population and
resulted in specific designs of the RDP which includes a special support for the most vulnerable
faction of the population. In September 1997, the GOL has initiated a Pilot Rural Poverty
Alleviation Project to explore the feasibility of sustainable interventions which targeted the most
depressed areas in Latvia. Specific government support includes public funding support for a
complementary capital grant and a partial credit guarantee scheme to increase access to credit by
those who currently lack assets to pledge as collateral. Lessons learned from the currently on-
going Pilot Project have been incorporated into the RDP designing. Rural poverty alleviation
program also provides an opportunity for the Government to consolidate various ad-hoc
subsidies and convert them into more transparent support schemes with clearly delineated
expected results and accountability.
GOL commitmentfor Rural Development Policy
6.    The Government, through issuing a Decree, has established an Inter-ministerial Working
Group (IWG) chaired by Mr. Anatolijs Gorbunovs, Minister of Environment and Regional
Development, with the specific tasks to elaborate the Rural Development Programme, setting out
rural development strategies for Latvia, and supervise implementation of the RDP. The GOL has
embarked upon elaboration of rural development strategy for Latvia, commissioning the specific
task to the above mentioned IWG. The Rural Development Programme has been elaborated by
the Ministry of Environment and Regional Development, in cooperation with the Ministries of
agriculture, Economics, Education and Science, Transport, Welfare, and Culture, representatives
of the World Bank/European Union Project Management Unit, scientists, local authorities and
other organisations involved with the rural development issues.
7.    The specific goals of the Rural Development Programme are as follows:
2



Attachment 1
3 of 10
*  To encourage development of natural resources friendly agricultural and forestry production
and processing, boosting Latvia's competitiveness and export potential.
*  To suppolt development of entrepreneurial activities in non-farrning and servicing sector as
important components of rural economy, which create new (alternative) jobs, and income
from these activities. thus providing inflow of money resources in rural areas.
*  To promote channelling of capital to the rural areas.
*  To promote development of less developed regions and areas.
*  To preserve population in rural areas, rural environment and scenery for the purpose of
recreation, tourism and for the sake of future generations
*  To encourage cooperation and coordination of activities among the various ministries
involved.
*  To publicise rural development policy in Latvia both domestically and abroad, achieving its
acknowledgement by the public and the government as well as by intemational structures
(EU institutions, governments of the EU member states, intemational organisations) thus
demonstrating effectiveness of the policy and the competitive edge of Latvia acceding the
EU.
*  To prepare Latvia for absorption of EUJ Structural and Cohesion Fund resources, and
implement the Rural Development Programme and projects to confir maturity of Latvia to
use such funding efficiently.
8.    This task proves to be difficult, requiring specific expertise and cooperation between
various public and private sector organisalions, including non-governmental bodies. Although
with commencement of the work on the Rural Development Strategy some of the issues faced by
those living in rural areas have already been addresses, this task is very new. Therefore, in order
to provide for maximum effectiveness and conformity with the EU requirements, bearing in mind
Latvia's wish to accede the EU, this work will be coordinated with the respective institutions of
the EU memberstates. Taking into account the complexity of the task, immediate support to the
policy building capacity under the RDP is required.
9.    In the Government's view, agriculture is a very important and integral component of the
rural development strategy. The elaborated Rural- Development Strategy sets forth the following
objectives of the agricultural sector policy:
*     To facilitate the development of agriculture by using potential of Latvia's nature and
social economy:
*     To develop agriculture into an industry which is able to integrate into the common
European market and to produce goods to be able to comply with the requirements of the
world's market bv competing with the quality and production costs of goods produced in
other countries;
*     To ensure a certain living standard acceptable to farmers, especially by increasing income
of persons engaged in agriculture;
*     To promote the development of multi-functional agriculture, thus creating new jobs in
rural areas.
3



Attachment 1
4 of 10
10.   In order to achieve the above mentioned objectives, systematic and simultaneous work is
needed in the following three areas:
* modernisation of production technology with the requirements of environmental protection in
view;
* to ensure quality system for the whole process of production and sales;
* increase of sales possibilities for products.
11.   As it was discussed with the World Bank representatives, the existing Agricultural
Subsidy Programme in its present form provides more support to those who have already gained
under the previous programmes of commercialisation of the agricultural sector, thus increasing
the gap between commercially viable agricultural producers and those receiving only marginal
income from fanning activities. The Government agrees with the World Bank's view that it is
necessary to modifv the current Subsidy programme in order to increase support to those groups
of rural population who have not until now benefited from these programmes due to shortage of
state budget funding. Implementation of the RDP we see as the best remedial measure to promote
economic activities of the above mentioned groups of rural population. Due to political and
economy reasons, immediate changes in the Subsidy Programme may not be feasible. However,
the Government commits for successful implementation of the project:
(a) In order to allow a larger number of potential beneficiaries to access the subsidies, the
Government is committed to reduce the existing subsidy amount limit and will introduce a
ceiling on an aggregate subsidy amount that an individual, private or legal person, can receive
over a three year period.
(b) By end of calendar year 1998, the current structure of the subsidy programme will be
revised, the necessary modifications made, and a new structure introduced.
(c) For future agricultural subsidy support, the Government will continue to ensure that such
programme will be elaborated based on the principles of: (i) equal and fair access; (ii) clear
justification of individual's need for special government support; (iii) demonstrated positive
impact of such subsidy - through increase in productivity, positive externality such as
introduction of modem technology, breed, competitiveness, etc.; (iv) dissermination of positive
results to a wider range of potential beneficiaries, etc.; (v) improved financial accountability by
the beneficiaries as well as the Government officials (national and regional) that subsidies are
indeed utilised for the said purpose and generated concrete results; and (vi) to establish a clear
monitoring indicators to measure all aforementioned benefits and performance, and disseminate
the results to the public for transparency.
12.   The GOL also takes upon a commitment, through improved sector policy coordination,
that the future agricultural policy will be consistent with the on-going reformns, and throughout
the RDP implementation the GOL will consult with the World Bank on enhancement of the
agricultural policy.
4



Attachment I
5 of 10
13.   The Government also foresees a gradual reduction of special support programs such as
credit guarantees and grants for the Special Targeted Support group. The Government sees such
measures as temporary to provide very needed credits to those who lack sufficient collateral and
own resources to borrow, but otherwise have viable project proposals. These are the people who
have not yet benefited from the earlier commercial credit line operations. To be consistent with
the overall reform policy direction, the GOL, during the project implementation will review
comprehensively with the World Bank the credit Guarantee and grant schemes, with an aim to
phase them out. If an earlier phasing down is warranted, the GOL is fully committed to
withdraw the support as soon as possible, probably, even before the RDP has been fully
completed.
14.   The GOL would like to stress again the urgency and priority it attaches to the World
Bank Rural Development Project, and reiterate the necessity to start the Project as soon as
possible. The first World Bank for the as;ricultural sector in Latvia has contributed significantly
to restructuring and commercialisation of the Latvian agriculture. The GOL expects that sirmilar
positive results will be achieved under the Rural Development Project with a broader agenda of
promoting rural development.
II-e7~ ~~~~C
AnatnaX Gorbunovs                       Andris Ra?ing
/Minister                        Minister of Agriculture
of Environmental Protection and             Republic of Latvia
Regional Development
Republic of Latvia
5



Attachment I
6 of 10
1998. gada< .9fnaijs
Johanness Linna kungs
Viceprezidents
Eiropas un Centralazijas regions
Pasaules banka
Cienijamais Linna kungs,
Latvijas Lauku attistibas projekts
Politikas veidosanas vistule
1.    Pec neatkaribas atgusanas Latvija sakas politisks un ekonomisks
parstrukturesanas process, kas sobrid devis valstij nopietnus makroekonomiskus
panakumus. Tacu pareja uz tirgus saimniekosanu un no tas guto ienakumu nevienmernga
sadale ir radijusi ieverojamas dzives limena at9kiribas, jo Ipasi starp pilsatu un laukiem.
Saimniekosanas parstrukturesana laukos ir saistita ar lauksaimnieciskas razosanas sektora
saruksanu un sim procesam turpinoties - si tendence, sagaidams., saglabasies - bezdarbs
un sleptais bezdarbs laukos klust par nopietnu problemu.
Uziemdjdarbibas aktivitates laukos ir vaji attIstitas, lauku iedzivotajiem, kuri tradicionali
ir nodarbojusies ar lauksaimniecibu, trakst iemanu, inforrnacijas un motivacijas
altemativu nodarbosanas veidu atrasanai. Latvijas valdiba apzin3is, ka brivais tirgus ka
ekonomisks un socials institfits nevar atrisinat visas lauku attistibas problamas, ka tas
nemazina nepieciesamibu pec valsts regulejosas lomas. Vienlaikus valdiba apzinas, ka
lauksaimnieciskas razosanas pieaugums ir stimuls ari nelauksaiumieciska sektora
attistibai, nodarbinatibas pieauguma un dzives limena paaugstinasanai laukos. Tapec
Latvijas laukos bultiska ir gan primaras lauksaimnieciskas ralosanas un parstrades
attistisana, gan saimniekosanas dazadosana, gan valsts un pasvaldibu atbalsta pasakumi.
2.    Saja konteksta Latvijas valdiba sava regionalaja politika pieslFir augstu prioritati
attistibas veicinasanai lauku re,,ionos, ka arl lauksaimniecibas - ka lauku attististibas
politikas neatiiemamas sastavdalas - reformnas turpinasanai. Kops 1996. gada salkuma
Latvijas valdlba uzskata ilgspdjlgu lauku attistibu par prioritati sava darbu saraksta,
atzistot, ka reala progresa sasniegsanai ir nepieciesamas koordinetas pulles un sadarbiba
starp Zemkopibas, Vides aizsardzibas un regionlals attistibas, Labklcjibas, Ekonomikas
un Finansu ministrijam.
3.    Lai sasniegtu augstakrninetos saregitos merkus, valdiba ir ieintereseta stradat
kopa ar Pasaules banku, lai atjaunotu ekonomikas izaugsmi laukos, vienlaicigi turpinot uz
reformrm orientetas politikas kursu lauksaimniecibas un lauku attistibas jomas. Ka
turpinajumu loti veiksmigajam Lauksaimniecibas attistibas proje]ctain (LAP), kuru
1



Attachment I
7 of 10
finanseja Pasaules banka, valdiba ir pieprasijusi Lauku attistibas projektu (LAP II). Mas
loti veletos projekta pec iespejas atraku uzsaksanu, jo pirmais projekts tika pabeigts pirms
vairak ka sesiem menesiem.
4.    Pirma projekta ieviesanas laika valdiba nodibinaja nopietnu sadarbibas politikas
dialogu ar Pasaules banku. Mes apzinaimies, ka lauku attistiba ir integrets jedziens un ta
skar vairaku ministriju kompetenci, un tapec mums lauku attistIbas politikas izstradasanai
un vadisanai jaizveido politikas forums, kurg koordinetu un integretu dazado ieintereseto
ministriju darbu. Ieteiktais LAP II dos sadu iespeju, ka ari apmdclbas politikas
veidotajiem, un valsts un privata sektora lideriem lauku attistibas politikas formulasana
naciondla un ret,iondld limeni.
5.    Gatavojot LAP II, tika veikts pa.rskats par situaciju Latvijas laukos, kura skaidni
atspogulojas arvien pasliktinosies apstakli laukos. jo ipasi sievietem un jauniesiem.
Veikta situacijas parskata rezultati ir padzilinajusi politikas veidotaju izpratni par
faktiskajiem apstakliem, kuros dzivo lau],u iedzivotaji, kas savukart lava izveidot ipaso
LAP II koncepciju, kas paredz specialu atbalstu visvieglak ievainojamam iedzivotaju
grupam. 1997. gada septembri valdiba uzsaka pilotprojektu dzives limenla izlidzinasanai
laukos, lai izpetitu dazadu intervences strategiju (valdibas pasakumu) piemerotibu mazak
attistitajos Latvijas reAionos. Ipas valdlibas palidziba ietver valsts finansejumu
davinajuma veida, ka ari ipasu dai}ju kreditgarantiju programmu, lai padaritu aizdevumus
pieejamakus tiem, kuriem sobrid nav nepieciesama kreditnodrosinajuma. Sobrid joprojam
notiekosaja pilotprojekta giutas atzin,ias ir iek}autas LAP H koncepcija. Lauku dzives
limeqa izlidzinasanas programma arI noclrosina valdibai iespeju apvienot dazadas sobnid
speka esosas subsidiju programmas un p;arverst tas caurspidigakas atbalsta programmas
ar skaidri noteiktiem sagaidamajiem rezultatiem un atbildilbas jomam.
Valdibas saistibas lauku attistibas politikas veidoand
6.    Latvijas valdiba, izdodot MK Lemumul, izveidoja Starpministriju darba grupu
(SDG), kuru vada Vides aizsardzibas un reriondIas attistibas ministrs Anatolijs
Gorbunova kungs, un kurai tika uzticeti konkreti uzdevurni izstradat Lauku attistibas
programmu, nosakot lauku attistibas strat6ijas Latvija, un parraudzit PB Lauku attistibas
projekta (LAP II) ieviesanu. Latvijas valdiba ir uzsakusi Latvijas lauku attistibas
stratetijas izstradasanu, konkreto uzdevumu uzticot augstak minetajai SDG. Latvijas
Lauku attistlbas programma ir sagatavota Vides aizsardzibas un re&iondlds attistibas
ministrija, sadarbojoties ar Zemkopibas, Ekonomikas, Izglitibas un zinatnes, Satiksmes,
Labkajibas un Kultuiras ministrijam, Pasaules bankas un Eiropas Savienibas Lauku
attistibas projekta vadibas vienibas parstavjiem, zinatniekiem, pasvaldibam un citam
lauku attistibf iesaistitajam organizacijam.
7.    Latvijas Lauku attistibas progranmmas merk,i:
2



Attachment I
a of 10
1)    Sekmat dabas resursus saudzejosu lauksaimnieciskas tin mezsaimnieciskas
razosanas un parstrades attistibu, kapinat Latvijas lauksaimniecibas konkuretspeju
un eksporta potencialu.
2)    Atbalstit nelauksaimniecisku uziamejdarbibu un pakalpojumu sektoru ka lauku
ekonomikas svarigu sastavda}u, kas rada jaunas (alternativas) darbavietas,
nodarboganos un ienakumus arpus lauksaimnieciskas razosanas un parstrades, un
veicina naudas ieplusanu laukos.
3)    Veicinat kapitalieguldijumu novirzisanu uz laukiem.
4)    Veicinat vaj.k attistittu regionu un novadu attistibu.
5)    Saglabat lauku apdzivotibu, lauku vidi un ainavu sabiedribas atputai, tuarismam,
nakamajam paaudzem.
6)    Veicinat sadarbibu un ricibas koordinaciju starp ministrija&n.
7)    Publiskot un popularizet Latvijas lauku attistibas politiku gan iekszeme, panakot
tas atziganu sabiedriba un valdiba, gan starptautiska meroga  (Eiropas Savienibas
instituicijas. Eiropas SavienIbas dalibvalstu valdibis, starptautiskas organizacijas),
apliecinot politikas efektivitati un Latvijas konkurajosiis prieksrocibas,
iekaaujoties Eiropas Savienibi.
8)    Sagatavot Latviju Eiropas Savienibas Strukturalo un Kohezijas fondu lidzek}u
izmantosanai, istenot lauku attistibas programnmu un projekrus, kas apliecin;tu
Latvijas gaEavibbu efektivi izmantot sos lidzeklus.
8.    Sis uzdevumns ir gruits, un ta veiksanai nepieciesamas specifiskas zinasanas, ka ari
sadarbiba starp da2dam valsts un privata sektora organizacijam, taja skaita ari
nevalstiskajam organizacijam. Lai gan, uzsakot darbu pie lauku attistibas strategijas
izstradcianas, dazam problemam, ar kuram saskaras lauku iedzIvordji, jau tiek rasti
risindjumi, veicamais uzdevums irijauns, tf veiksanai nav nepieciesamas pieredzes.
Tadejddi, lai nodrowindtu maksimalu darba efektivitafi, un, Lernnot vera Latvijas velrmii
iestaties ES, atbilstibu ES prasIbam, si darba veiksana tiks koordinara ar attiecigajanm
institucijam ES dallbvalstds. ?Eemot vera uzdevuma sarelgitIbu, buru nepieciegarna
tfllIteja palidzIba politikas izstraddlanas kompetences uzlabosanai anl LAPII ietvaros.
9.    Latvijas valdiba uzskata lauksaimniecibu par loti butisku un neatzlemamu lauku
attIstibas strategijas komponenti. Iztradataja Lauku attistibas programma noteikti sekojosi
lauksaimniecibas nozares politikas galvenie merki:
1)    veicinat lauksaimniecibas attistribu, izmantojot Latvijas dabas un socidlas
ekonomikas sniegtas iespejas;
2)    izveidot lauksaimniecibu par nozari, kas spetu integreties vienotaja Eiropas
koptirgul, un razotu pasaules tirgus prasibam atbilstosu precu produkciju,
konkurejot ar citu valstu ralojuumiem kvalitates un razosanas izmaksu joma;
3)    nodroginat lauksaimniekiem piernemamu dzlves standartu, it ipasi palielinot
lauksaimnieciba nodarbinato personu ienakumus;
4)    veicint daudzfunkcionalu lauksaimniecibu, tada cell palielinot nodarbinatibas
iespeju rasanos lauku apvidos.
3



Attachment I
9 of 10
10.   So merk,u sasniegganai nepieciesams sistematisks un vienlaicigs darbs sekojosos
virzienos:
-     razosanas tehnoloAiska modernizacija, ieverojot vides aizsardzibas prasibas;
-     kvalitates sistemas nodrosinasana visa raioganas un realizacijas procesa;
-     produkcijas realizacijas iespeju paplasinasana.
I1.   Ka jau tika apspriests ieprieks ar Pasaules bankas parstavjiem, esosa
Lauksaimniecibas subsidiju programma sava pasreizeja forinm sniedz lielaku atbalstu
tiem, kuri jau ir guvusi labumu no iepri.ek9djam lauksaimniecibas nozares
komercializacijas programmam, t&dejadi palielinot atsk,iribu starp komerciali
dzivotspejigiem lauksaimnieciskas produkcijas razotajiem, un tiem, kas no
lauksaimnieciskam aktivitatem iegust loti nelielus ienakumus. Tade} Lauksaimniecibas
subsidiju programma ir nepieciegamas izmail,as noliika palielinat atbalstu tiem lauku
iedzivotaju slaniem, kuri nepietiekamo valsts budzeta finanseto programmu de} nav lldz
sim neko guvusi. Tiesi LAP II realizacija mes saskatam vislielakas iespejas lidz Kim
neatbalstito lauku iedzivotaju ekonomiskai aktivizesanai. Politisku un ekonomisku
iemeslu del, tulitejas izma*ias subsidiju programma saja finansu gada nav iespejamas.
Tomer, lai nodrosinatu projekta sekmigu ieviesanu, mes gribetu parliecinat PB, ka diks
veikts sekojosais:
(a)   lai subsidijas padaritu pieejamas pec iespejas lielakam skaitam potencialo
sanemeju, Latvijas valdiba uzpemas saistibas samazinat eksistejoso maksimalo subsidiju
apjomu vienam sa;emdjam un ieviest ierobelojumu kopejai subsidiju summai, ko
iespejams sairemt tris gadu laika. Tas attieksies gan uz privatam, gan juridiskam
personam.
(b)   lidz 1998. kalendara gada beigaim tiks parskatita esosa subsidiju programma, tiks
veiktas nepieciesamnas izmai*as, un ieviesta programmas jauna struktura.
(c)    attieciba uz subsidiju programrnam nakotne, Latvijas valdiba turpinas nodrosinat
mineto programmlu pilnveidosanu, balstoties uiz sekojosiem principiem: (i) visiem
vienlidzigu un godigu pieeju subsidijam; (ii) skaidrs pamatojums katras personas
nepieciesamibai pec valdibas atbalsta; (iii) pieraditas katras sadas subsidijas pozitivas
sekas - palielinot razigumu, ieviesot miodernas tehnologijas, jaunas lopu skSimes,
konkuretspeja utt.; (iv) iespeju nodrosinasana pozitivos rezultatus gut pec iespejas
plasakam subsidiju sanemeju lokam; (v) uzlabota finansu uzskaite gan no subsidiju
sazemeju, gan valsts instituciju puses, ar mernri nodrosinat to, ka subsidijas patiesam tiek
izmantotas minetajiem mdr1yiem un dcd konkretus rezultatus; un (vi) tiek noteikti skaidri
uzraudzibas raditfji, lai izvertetu visos iepriekejos punktos minetos ieguvumus un
darbibas sasniegumus, ka arI par rezultatiem tiek zin,ots plasai publikai caurspidiguma
nodrosinfianai.
4



Attachment I
10 of 10
12.   Veiksmigak koordinejot nozaru politiku, Latvijas valdiba an nakotne nodrosinas
lauksaimniecibas politikas saskanotibu ar notiekosajfm reformran, ka ari ta konsultesies
ar PB par lauksaimniecibas politikas pilnveidosanu visa projekta ieviesanas laika.
13.   Latvijas valdIba ari paredz pakapenisku ipasa atbalsta programmu, piem.,
kreditgarantiju un davinajuma palidziba mazajiem lauku uzame-jiem, samazinasanos.
Valdiba uzskata sos pasakumus par islaicigiem, lai dotu iespeju saiiemt kreditus tiem,
kuriem nav pietiekama kIlas nodrosinajuma un pasu lidzdalibas finansejuma aizdevuma
piemranai, bet ir ekonomiski dzivotspejigi projekti. Siem cilvekiem nav bijusi iespeja gut
labumu no ieprieksejas kreditlinijas. Lai nodrosinatu atbilstibu kopejam uz reforrnam
orientetas politikas virzienam, Latvijas valdIba kopa ar Pasaules banku, visa projekta
ieviesanas gaita, veiks vispatverosu kreditgarantiju un davinajuma programmu analizi, ar
mrtnri pakapeniski atteikties no siem pasakumiem. Ja bus iespajarna ftraka pasakumu
samazinasana. valdiba ir apnimusies partraukt go atbalstu pec iespejas drizak, iespejams,
pat pirms pilnigas LAP II ieviesanas.
14.   Latvijas valdiba gribetu velreiz uzsvert to nozimibu un neatliekamibu, ko ta
piesk,ir Lauku attistibas projektam un atgadina par nepieciesamrlbu uzsakt projektu, cik
dniz vien iespejams. Pirmais PB projekts lauksaimniecibas sektoram Latvija,
Lauksaimniecibas attistibas projekts (LAP), ir devis nozimlgu ieguldijumu Latvijas
lauksaimniecibas parstrukturesana un komercializacija. Valdiba paredz, ka lIdzigi pozitivi
rezultati tiks sasniegti ari Lauku attistibas projekta, vel plasak veicinot lauku attistibu.
liarbunovs                               X
Anatolijorbunovs                          Andris Raviig
Vides aizsardzibas un reAionalas         Zemkopibas ministrs Latvijas
attistibas ministrs                       Republika
Latvijas Republika
5



Attachment 2
I of 4
SUPPLEMENTARY NOTE TO THE LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
The Government of Latvia has prepared a draft National Rural Development Program that
specifies the Government's long-term vision and development objectives for the rural sector. The
main objectives of the NRDP is to develop Latvia's rural sector with socio-economic structures
that are compatible with the EU, to have equitable regional income distribution, to bring rural
living standards reasonably in line with those in urban areas, and to develop adequate rural
infrastructure and services for a market economy. The GOL endorses three basic goals for rural
and regional development: (a) supporting the most backward regions; (b) supporting regions that
are undergoing the process of economic and social restructuring and have high unemployment
rates; and (c) developing human resources through promotion of education and training, active
employment policy and elimination of social outcasting.
The rural development concept is relatively new in Latvia and the NRDP provides a basic
foundation for developing future strategies. Many of the medium to long term aspects of the
NRDP still remain to be defined. However, the Government of Latvia has identified four areas
which will receive immediate and urgent support. They are:
(a) development of strategy/policy fornulation capacity for rural development through
participatory approaches;
(b) strengthening human and institutional capacity in rural business development and
development of alternative income generating opportunities;
(C) improving access of rural population to banking services, continuing the restructuring
and commuercialization of agriculture and rural sector through provision of commercial
credit and strengthening of the rural banking system; and
(d) further advancing the developrnent of an emerging land market and the legal
registration system of private properties.
For each objective, the Governnent has already undertaken specific actions and future
actions to be undertaken during a medium term have been identified and summarized in the
attached matrix. Specific features and directions of Latvia's future strategies are critically linked
to the outcome of the policy formulation capacity building that the Rural Development Project will
provide.
Anatolijs Gorbunovs
Deputy Prime Minister
Head of Latvian Negotiations Delegation
June 9, 1998



LATVIA
Rural Development Program Matrix
Drafted National Rural Development Program      Organization of National Rural Development Policy  Adoption of EU compatible rural
forums, workshops, and training for policy makers  development/ diversification strategies with
Established Regional Development Council        (minimnumn 4 sessions by end 1999)                 public and private institutions equipped to
X       4| s |  |  |   S     |(supervisory board), and Inter-Ministerial Working                                                 function in the EU
|     , |  | |   g0 |Group (IMWG) on Rural Development     Final formulation of detailed rural developmentV
diversification strategies by the IMWG endorsed by the    Final policy formulation on rural
X              - |  |  |    |  | | Initiated Government debates and seminars on rural    Government by mid-I 999.         development with a self-standing
X- | |  |  g    g  3  issues                                                                                        government document widely disseminated
X        .]>" |  l                                                         Development of specific and detailed sub-programs to be   for increased public awareness
m  X   |    g   g    Increased public awareness through regular public  supported by Government funding based on the principles
E~. |  |      8    E  |dissemination of information through media        of sustainability, fiscal soundness, and accountability to    Increased public support for rural issues
implement the above strategies by end 1999.
Increase in tax revenues through improved
. l  E l                                                 Enactment of necessary legal changes to implement the  economic activities in rural areas by at
strategies                                         least 5 %
Initiated community-based rural development program   Establishment of at least 10 LAGs, and expansion of LAG   Well-established institutional capacity at
i   E   sbsdcAcoGu    G frn concept to wider areas and provision of training (inin. 2  local levels with close linkage to
_____~~~~ ~   ~   Established Local AcinGroups (LAGs) frmaking    sessions/year)                                      communLity members, leaders, NGOs, and
~~~.  ~    dciios ylocal population                                                            an  ainladvarious levels of governments
W W l= ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Establishment of netwvork between IAGs and national and
Implemented a pilot program based on LAG led    regional policy-making entities                    Established information and monitoring
S         l=         i    community development                                                             .          and evaluation systems through
AllocatFostering ecor-c rh based                                                                    cny participatory  computerized network and WEB site (at
|: g Allocated budget for rural development planning at    approach by locally communities                             least 20 LAGs to be connected)
lcllevels
Improving communuication and knowledge sharing through  Diversity of the community development
Allocated TA funding support for LAGs           electronically connected network and promoting good  activities undertaken by LAGs and their
community development ideas through competition   success in animating the development of
new business development in their areas
o  E, 
*1 >



3v~        Carried out a Rural Survey (published in Latvian and   Development of special Governunent support for  Preservation of social welfare, improved
English and registered in the Library of Congress)  unemployed (category targeting), low income (income  quality of living standards and prevention
targeting) and those in "depressed areas" (geographic  of "de-population" in rural areas (as
Established criteria of support for "Depressed Areas"   targeting) with sunset provisioins           measures by stabilization of rural
population)
"" |  ; | | . |     . Enacted Govenunent decree for special support for  Provision of increased funding support for irnproving
rural poor                                      infrastructure and communication facilities in rural areas   Improved rural income and employmnent
levels (and reduce the rural-urban income
'n| 4. . f| | Committed government budget support for    poor   Promoting channeling of investmient capital to rural areas   gap by at least 50% by end 2000)
_ __hby improving incentives of conmercial banks to lend to
1                                                                    ruadAsnral clients, improving collateral, reducing transaction  Reduction in rral unemployment by at
. .ducedpledges.lien,mortge costs by enhancing roles of credit unions                               least IO%
lInproved rural infrastructure - 'e.g. roads,
communications, schools, etc.
Ap CieaaiLIit.viioM g adn|                                                                          |    least 2
ownersip by  id 199
Cradoted Commerngciallg Bank ang LAwsocitinif tiaigpiaiaino   otaeadLnandadsFuAytleasg2%afthed MBi private meca
Triggered commercial banks to start lending towershioby md 199
Strengthen ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~otoi adiceae  opeiina
Esalsed bolanksuervi-bsedlniong capaconsMinteanceofysrictbankngnsgrvsionandtiquiatio
IEstablished apmodges,lin fortagicluale            Fuladpioseaditono otn  tonmoveabbnknlsprvsonadeontrn
~~~~  apete Bxadd antra  n scrt
..~~~~~~  Created                                                                      Fully ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~einteratio  aed priat moebco llnarcial,
anking college and   Association of  Standards                      b~~~~ankin     rcits n acut
,..' ..,.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rcial



,,.Strengthened Latvia Agricultural Advisory Servie  Continuation of TA provision to strengthen business  The quality of formnal and informal training
E    E g =  S  |   (LAAS)                        development, marketing, and other private sector    and advisory services provided to potential
development support services in rural areas         or existing rural entrepreneurs or their
Established Small and Mediu    ' Enterprise Support                                                  labor force by rural business support
.     . i i  |  l  l   Centers (SME centers)                            Strengthening of institutional and legal support to protect   organizations including government
private business initiatives and property rights (e.g.  agencies and non-government
Provided TA for LAAS, SME, banks, NGOs,          NGOs, Unions, Women Farmers Federations, etc.)      organizations.
'~~~~ ~individuals
Promoting community services and sharing of knowledge
Improved communication and information           by experienced business leaders in less developed areas
dissemination                                    (e.g. VOCA, NGOs, SOROS, Cross-Border Support
AEstablished various training and education c-enters for Prga,Tcnalakset.
~. .....    s~r private business development
Adopted Land Laws and related legislative acts on  Further advancement in cadastre registration through  Fully functioning land market and
i   titling, property transactions, and mortgage     additional funding support by the Government        opportunities to utilize land as collateral,
X l.X,.l. registration
I Reducing delays in registration in the Land Book through   Improved valuation of land and pricing
Established GIS cadastre system                  TA support to the Ministry of Justice and introducing the   based on market conditions
electronic information system
Set up proto-type of MIS system for property and land                                                Creation of a Central Registration system
information system (LIS)                         Modifications in Land Laws to accept electronic     for easy public access, accuracy and
information as legal basis                          reliability based on self-generated financial
C Created modern Land Book (legal ownership title                                                         resources for sustainability
|  r | lregistration)                                  Establishment of regulations on land consolidations, and
improvement in regulations on transformation for    Improved information provision to financial
Provided budget support for expanding lad reforms    different uses                                  institutions on pledges, lien and other
collateral
l~ ./.'~  ~' iJ~j  Introducing a nmicro-credit operation to finance
cadastre/registration costs by individual           Efficient Land Book registration system
Strengtheniung of a mortgage financing systemn and  Completion of on-going cadastre and land
institutions                                        registration by the end of 200 1.
Preparation of land policies consistent with the EU
Capacity building in property valuation, land tax levying
and collection through TA



Annex 1
Rural Development Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary                         Key Performance Indicators             Monitoring and Evaluation               Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS goal include:                     Indicators of the CAS goal include generic   Method for verification includes:  (Goal to Bank Mission)
(a) the development of a viable rural and (private)  criteria including:                     (a. 1) income statistics              The primary assumption is a solid
agriculture sector;                                  (a.1) Rural income                      (a.2) farm production efficiency (cost  commitment by the Govemment of
(b) fostering economic growth and creating employment and   (a.2) Efficiency of agricultural sector  structure and yields)         Latvia to foster policies that
income-generating opportunities in rural areas; and  (b. I) Rural employment                                                       strengthen rural development and
(c) the establishment of property rights and a functioning land  (b.2) Increase in rural businesses  (b. I) rural employment statistics  private land ownership.
market
(c. 1) Land registration               (c.1) Land registration statistics
(c.2) Sales and other transactions     (c.2) land sales statistics.
Project Development Objectives include:               (a.) Comprehensive and dynamic rural   (a.l) Policy and implementation       (Objective to Goal)
(a) development of strategy/policy formulation capacity for   strategy                       documents from participating ministries;  Central and local governments are
rural development through participatory approaches;                                          (a2) Monitoring and progress reporting   committed to support comprehensive
by PMU                               rural development
(b) strengthening human and institutional capacity in rural
business development and development of altemative income                                    (bl) performance records of service
generating opportunities;                             (b.) access of rural people to rural   providers
advisory/self help services.           (b.2) rural survey tools              b. A basic interest on the part of rural
(c) improving access of rural population to banking services,                                (c.1) performance records of          people to improve their conditions.
continuing the restructuring and commercialization of  (c. 1) access of rural people to commercial   participating rural bank branches
agriculture and rural sector through provision of commercial   banking/credit unions etc. in rural areas                           c. No reduction of rural banking
credit and strengthening of the rwal banking system; and                                                                           services during the project period.
(d. I) land registration               Statistics and narrative information from
(d) further advancing the development of an emerging land                                    bank loan officers and rural survey.
market and legal registration system of private properties.  (d.2) Cost and tum-around time of land                                d. commitment of Govemment to
registration                                                                 continue present land policy.



(Outputs to Objective)
Outputs of the project include:
(a.) acceptance of a comprehensive rural strategy that  (a) rural strategy and its implementation.  (a. 1) Rural strategy/policy      a. Lack of Government commitment
includes decentralized decision making with                                                 documentation
respect to local development, and establishment of                                          (a.2) Implementation as monitored by
institutional capacity and procedures for rural                                             PMU                                    b. availability of adequate TA
strategy impact assessment
(b. I) performance of rural advisory
(b.) increased awareness of rural people about         services.                                (b. I) business ideas and plans compared
commercial opportunities                                                                    to baseline data collected in April 1997.   (c. 1) macroeconomic stability
(c.l) access to, and performance quality of,                                  (c.2) equitable exchange rate
(c.) availability of fnancial/banking services to rural  financial services in rural areas.     (c. I) successful utilization of credit line,  (c.3) stability of banking sector
people in terms of:                                                                         and evaluation of savings accounts and
1. lending to commercial farmers                                                            loan portfolio of participating rural
2. lending to rural business                       (d.) modem and well performing land and    finance institutions;
sales transaction registration system.  (d.) statistics and PMU reports
(d.) Functioning land registration and land market
Project Components/sub-components:                                                                                                    (Components to Outputs)
(a.) Development of a National and Regional Rural Strategy   Actual progress of developing coordinated    Process indicators such a number of  a. Economic growth in agriculture and
and Policy                                             rural policies                          workshops, attendance records,         rural sector
1. Workshop                                                                                  dissemination of visit reports.
2. Study tours and or short intemships                                                       Impact indicators such as active
(international)                                                                                participation in the rural development
3. Study tours and training (regional)                                                       process and application of lessons
leamed.
(b.) Rural animation/awareness-raising through         Awareness about program and about
contracted services of local advisory institutions and/or  opportunities.                      Survey data
NGOs;
1. Support for national publicity campaign (media such as
radio, TV, etc.)
2. Training of trainers in rural animation/facilitation
3.) Training in rural animation through formal training,
LAG to LAG exchange etc.
Number and ouality of business plans    Overall increase in rural economic
(c.) Development of rural business concepts through                                            submitted to rural banks               activity
contracted services of local advisory institutions and/or
NGOs:
I. Further training of animator/evaluators in rural
business development, through regional campaigning
and through contracted local rural intermediaries
(such as LAAS, Macs etc.) in pro-active
seeking, and evaluating of business plans
(d.) rural finance
1. Credit line for agriculture
2. Credit line for small rwal businesses
3. Credit guarantee                                  Disbursement                            Disbursement and loan quality data
4. Support for credit union development              Impact of lending on rural development
5. TA for further MLB improvement
(e.) land reform: further upgrading of regional Landbook
databases and improving accessibility



Annex 2
Rural Development Project
Project Description
Project Component 1: (total cost of component - US$ 1 million)
A. Rural Development Policy Componenit
A. 1. Development of National and Regional Rural Development Strategies.
The component aims to assist the Government, through technical assistance, in the development of a
comprehensive rural strategy at the nationall, regional, and local levels. The Component would provide
training, workshops, study tours, and organize policy forums and help create new policy instruments and
measures through promoting and coordinating policy dialogues among ministries, the central government
and local authorities and increasing public awareness and support.
A.2. Implementation of Rural Developmen: Strategies at the Local Level.
This component aims to strengthen, through technical assistance, the human resource capacity at local
levels in developing and implementing their own rural development strategies, and provide feedback to
regional and national policy makers. Training will be provided at Pagasts level for Local Action Groups
(LAGs). Several Pagasts have already established LAGs. "Animateurs" will be placed in selected
Pagasts to promote community based development concepts and disseminate the concept through public
relations support. This component will closely coordinate with the EU supported "Rural Diversification
Project" which provides technical assistance in selected pagasts.
Project Component 2: (total cost of component - US$ 15.5 million)
B. Rural Finance Component.
B. 1. A Commercial Credit Line
This component will provide a credit line to eligible participating financial institutions (PFIs) to lend for
working capital and investment loans at prevailing market interest rates and commercial terms. Intended
beneficiaries are those who have commercially viable and bankable projects with adequate collateral,
adequate financial rates of return and demonstrated repayment capacity. Borrowers applying for credit
will have to meet strict eligibility requirement related to their ownership, share holding, and management.
Continuing with the practice of the first ADP credit line operation for commercial clients, there will be no
loan limits but a system of prior review has been be established to assure that eligibility criteria are being
enforced. PFIs will maintain full autonomy in selection of borrowers, approval of sub-projects, and
determination of lending terms (See Annex 13 & 14 for eligibility criteria for PFIs, subprojects, and termns
and conditions).



Anticipated sub-projects would include, among others:
*  on-farm investment for development of agricultural production, including the provision of seasonal
credit or initial working capital as appropriate;
*  investment (including permnanent working-capital) for development of processing, storage, packing,
marketing, and other related agricultural and forestry service sectors;
*  eligible subprojects will be located in rural areas (i.e. outside of seven major urban centers of Latvia -
B.2 Special Rural Finance Component of small-scale entrepreneurs in rural areas
This Component will provide small size loans to small-scale private entrepreneurs in the rural areas. The
maximum cumulative loan amount to one single borrower will be limited to LAT 2,000. A combination
of a partial credit guarantee scheme, a complementary capital grant, and transaction cost support will be
provided. This Component will help overcome the problems of inadequate collateral by giving
individuals opportunities to accumulate assets for future collateral and encourage commercial banks to
lend to rural entrepreneurs.
A partial Guarantee scheme is being provided to increase access to commercial credits by small scale
farmers and rural entrepreneurs who do not have adequate collaterai. The Credit guarantee scheme is
designed to: (a) minimize duplicative work on risk assessment; (b) to minimize cost of providing a
guarantee; (c) to maintain transparency and consistency in selection; (d) to avoid "moral hazards" by end-
borrowers hence enhance repayment of the loans (see Annex 15 for operational details of the Credit
Guarantee scheme).
The complementary capital grant is being provided to improve affordability of commercial credit by small
scale rural entrepreneurs. All sub-loans will be on-lent at commercial terms and interest rates.
Operational Modalities:
* Borrowers, upon presenting a sound bankable projects, will receive a sub-loan which will be
constituted of the 70% credit portion subject to regular repayment, andL a grant portion of 30% of the total
sub-loan amount. A balloon payment of the 30% due on the final maturity date of the loan portion will be
converted into a grant upon satisfactory repayment and compliance of all other loan conditions. This
arrangement will enhance repayment performance;
* The grant portion will funded by the Government with no interest charged on the balloon payment
portion, unless misuse of funds, non-compliance with loan conditions, or default on regular loan
repayments occurs;
* In case of a non-compliance or misuse of funds, or default on the regular repayment of the credit
portion, the full balloon repayment of the 30% and interest will be imposed;
* The repayable sub-loan will have a 30% GOL guarantee;
* The Bank financed credit line will provide investment loans only with maturity longer than one year
up to the maximum of LAT 2,000 (including the grant portion);



* Any working capital (WC) loans should be granted from the PFI's own resources and there will be no
grant element for WC loans;
*  For the Special Rural Finance component, a simplified and shorter version of the loan application
form requiring the most necessary information will be used by the PFIs
Eligible subprojects and sub-borrowers would include:
*  rural enterprises located in "depressed areas" will get priority;
*  small scale loans up to LAT 2,000 to individual entrepreneurs in rural areas who have participated in
training of new skills and basic financial management including cost-accounting
*  Eligible Beneficiaries. Eligible beneficiaries should meet the following criteria:
(i) first-time borrowers from financial institutions
(ii) permanently reside at their locality
(iii) total landholding (owned, leased or in use) not exceeding 10 Ha
(iv) do not own more than 10 head of cattle (or equivalent)
(v) if engaged in farming activities, high proportion of production is for family-consumption
(vi) sub-projects sustainable with respect to utilization of natural resources.
Eligibility Criteria for Sub-projects. Any investment in an economic activity (agriculture, small-scale
industry, trade and commerce, rural tourism, and services) that is considered economically and financially
viable and can generate sufficient income to sustain the beneficiary and permit servicing the sub-loan.
Proposed Operating Procedure Provision of Investment Grants and Credit Guarantees - (Annex 15)
Investment Grants
Investment grants will be financed from the budget. Currently, it is proposed that all investments financed
from the special credit line will be eligible for a capital grant, provided that the beneficiaries meet the
strict eligibility criteria that have been established.
Beneficiaries will be required to finance 10'Yo of investment costs from their own funds and will receive a
loan equivalent to up to 90 % of total costs. The sub-loan will comprise two portions (a) 70% of the
sub-loan amount ("the loan portion") (financed from the World Bank credit line under the RDP ) will be
repayable with interest in accordance with the repayment schedule specified in each sub-loan agreement,
and (b) "the grant portion" equivalent to 30% of the sub-loan amount, will be included in sub-loan
agreement and the will be considered as a 'standing loan" (balloon payment) due for payment on the last
maturity date of the loan portion under (a) above. Until repayment date this grant portion will not bear
interest and will be written off (converted into grant) on the maturity date, provided that the beneficiary
has made correct and timely repayments on the loan portion and has complied with all other conditions of
the loan agreement. In case of non-compliance with the conditions of the sub-loan agreement, misuse or
disposal of the investment goods financed, etc. the "standing loan" will become a part of the loan portion
and will be repayable with interest.
The grant financing from the budget will be withdrawn by the PMUITU from the MOF and deposited
with the PFI in a separate non-interest bearing "grant financing account".



Withdrawals will be made simultaneously with withdrawals from the World Bank Loan Account in
accordance with SOEs submitted by PFIs. PFIs will not bear any lencling risks on the "grant portion" but
will be required to make "best efforts" to collect the grant portion from beneficiaries in cases when they
become due for payment.
When PFIs will enter into the subsidiary loan agreement with MOF relating to the World Bank loan, a
separate agreement relating to the "grant financing" will also be signed. This agreement will stipulate the
eligibility criteria and the conditions to be met for converting the "standing loan" into a grant and the
responsibilities of the PFIs for collection, when necessary, and the fees payable for PFI services
Credit Guarantee
It has been agreed that Government will provide a partial credit guarantee of up to 30% of the "loan
portion" mentioned above (i.e. 70 % of the sub-loan amount). Lending risks will be shared between
Government and the PFI in the ratio of 3:7 ("pari-passu").
Government has two options for providing financing of its share in the lending risks: (a) Government
assumes a contingent liability ( to be covered from future budgets) when guarantees are invoked), or (b)
Government deposits up-front in an interest bearing account with PFIs funds to cover future obligations
of the Government under the guarantee arrangements. A mix of (a) and (b) is also recommended. The
guarantee will apply to all sub-loans made under the RDP, as mentioned above, that meet that specific
eligibility and other criteria agreed upon for the project and this will be included in the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, which will also specify how and when PFIs will be authorized to invoke the guarantee.
There will be no need to establish any separate administration for the guarantee arrangements. PFIs are
responsible for appraisal, loan approval and loan servicing and for ensuring that sub-loans made under
the project meet the agreed criteria and comply with the terms and conditions of the Loan Agreement
between Government and the Bank and between MOF and the PFI. No further checks, reviews, loan
appraisals etc. by MOF or its representatives, or PMU, etc. are required at the time a loan is made. All
reporting requirements for the project will at the same time also cover what could be needed by MOF for
determining likely funding requirements to cover Government's guarantee. Verification that criteria
have been complied with would openly be made after a PFI invokes the guarantee for a specific loan
made under the RDP and before actual payment or reimbursement for loan losses is made to a PFI under
the guarantee scheme.
Project Component 3: (total cost of component -US$2.5 million)
C. Institutional Development Component
C. 1. TA support for Institutional Development
This Component will provide technical assistance to strengthen rural business development, marketing,
and other private sector development support services in rural areas. Potential partners include Latvian
Agricultural Advisory Services, Small Enterprises development centers, NGOs, etc.
This Component will also provide institutional support to address constraints on credit flows to rural
sectors. Credit is not flowing to agriculture in part because (a) ban'ks lack adequate experience or
capacity to appraise and monitor agricultural projects (b) transaction costs are high, and (c) agricultural
projects or small-scale rural businesses are perceived to be risky. In order to overcome these constraints,
the Component will support institutional reforms in this area through:



* Capacity building in the Mortgage and L;nd Bank (MLB) - EU PHARE has initiated ECU300,000
TA for institutional development of the MLB covering the areas such as
strengthening lending operation, asset and liability management, internal audit and control, management
capacity, personnel management, MIS and operational guidelines and manuals;
* Strengthening of the institutional capacity of other PFIs (likely candidates are Unibank and possibly
Savings bank) for agricultural loan appraisal and supervision, and improved understanding of commodity
and collateral markets. Training will also include assessing commercial opportunities in the agricultural
sector and procedures to assure adherence to Latvia and Bank environmental guidelines;
*  TA and training to develop the registration of security interests in crops and other agriculture related
assets, including crop pledging mechanisms, warehouse receipts and accounts receivable.
C.2. Land Reformn and Creation of Land Market
This component will expand the already on-going land reforms in Latvia. Operations in the Cadastre and
Land Book will be expanded by expediting the title registration and reducing the backlog between
Cadastre and Land Book registration.
TA support will be provided to improve valuation of land and MIS system, and to create a "Real Property
Registration and Credit System" which can provide services to financial institutions on collateral, liens,
and other debt obligations of potential borroNwers



Annex 3
Rural Development Project
Estimated Project Costs
Project Components                           Local                  Foreign    X          Total
--       -   -(inUS$millions)---------
Rural Policies and Implementation.            0.4                     0.6                  1.0
Rural Finance - Credit Line                   8.0                     7.5                 15.5
Institutional Development                     0.7                     1.8                  2.5
Total                                         9.1                     9.9                 19.0



Annex 4
Rural Dievelopment Project
Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
Background
As Latvia emerges from the post Soviet era, it has experienced economic growth of 2.8 percent in
1996 and nearly 6 percent in 1997. However, this growth has been uneven across the various economic
sectors. The urban population, particularly around major cities, has participated in and benefited from the
recovery. However, the rural population conltinues to face the stagnation of the past. The GOL has
recognized this situation and understands thal: the rural areas are critical to sustainable economic and
social growth. A major constraint of this growth is the limited access to capital in order to start and
maintain small businesses. Under the project, investment capital will be made available to small business
ventures in rural areas allowing to develop and grow. By stimulating small-scale business, the GOL
hopes to create employment and further increase business development within the rural sector, increasing
the standard of living and allowing those outside the urban area to also participate in the growth of the
Latvian economy.
The project would contribute toward the creation of a.sound rural financing system while
complementing the Bank's on-going effort in banking sector reforms. The project would, through
continuous policy dialogue and a wide range of technical assistance activities, alleviate keey policyand
institutional constraints that hamper the adjustments necessary for complete transition to a market economy.
The credit line provided under the project would finance private economic activity and stimulate a supply
response. Improved productivity and environmental management of primary and processing enterprises are
another consequence of the project, together with increased competitiveness and enhanced marketability of
Latvian products. The project would, at a grass-roots level, provide support for identification of alternative
income opportunities and the corresponding training to pursue those opportunities. Such efforts would
combat the growing rural poverty and unemployment which disproportionately affects women. After a
successful pilot period, this program would be expanded nation-wide. Other benefits include improvements
in marketing capacity, linkage between research and extension, and training in business and management
skills.
Methodologies
Because of the demand driven nature of the project, it is not possible to set out a priori the sub-projects
which will be financed through the line of credit. According to the lending guidelines for PFIs, each loan
approved would be required to demonstrate acdequate financial rates of return. Thus the approach chosen for
the financial and economic analyses was to develop a series of farm and enterprise models typical of the
farming situations in Latvia. Eight models have been chosen. The models have been chosen following
technical analysis and the likely impact of financial, managerial, economic, and social influences of the
proposed credit line and technical assistance support. Each model compares with and without situations
and illustrates possible changes induced by thle project on costs and productivity. No attempt has been
made to estimate overall financial and economic rates of return of the project as whole.
Pilot Projects. Early results, produced by the pilot project, demonstrate profitable small-scale
projects in rural areas that are viable and can be successful. In addition, of the loans already made under
the pilot project, the repayment schedules are being met in a timely manner. The pilot project has allowed



several lessons to be learned in a cost effective way so that improvements may be made for the overall
efficiency of credit delivery within the scope of the project.
Crop and livestock budgets. Several crop and livestock budgets have been prepared for the
purpose of evaluating the financial condition of farms. The most comrmon crops that were included are
winter wheat, rye, barley, spring wheat, oats, flax, and potatoes. The livestock budgets include
production of milk, beef, and pork. The cropping patterns are taken from typical representative farms;
however, a high degree of disparity exists among the three classes of farms profiled.
Farm models. Of the large farms which average over 200 Ha., the predominant activity is grain
and crop production based on highly mechanized means. For the mid-size farms (50-100 Ha), a
combination of livestock and grain production is found to be the most important source of income. At the
lower end are small family plots (<10 Ha), which are mainly involved in livestock production and
vegetable gardens for personal use and small-scale direct marketing. Farm inputs consisting of seeds,
fertilizers, agrochemical, mechanization and transport, and labor inputs for each crop have been estimated
to reflect realistic requirements. Prices of agricultural outputs and farm inputs have adjusted to reflect
1997 farm-gate prices and kept constant for IRR estimation.
Small scale rural business. A sample analysis of typical small-scale rural business investments
that the project would support was carried out. They include a retail store startup, a furniture repair shop,
a small-scale sausage maker, and a small fishing boat for capture fishing and recreation. The investment
required range from LAT5,000 to LAT 12,000 which reach full production potential usually after 3 years
in business with the intemal rates of return ranging from 19% to 31%. Other typical investment includes
leasing shop space, purchasing small-scale milling and woodworking equipment, an initial inventory of
raw wood material, and a small trailer to haul the finished product to buyers, etc.
Financial Analysis
The financial analysis concentrated on the financial viability of farms and enterprises and cash-
flows including debt-payment capacity. Detailed cash flow and IRR cailculation models are available in
the project file and the main results are summarized below. All the models show substantial increases in
profits with an IRR between 19% and 31% and NPVs from LAT 4,716 (a small farm) to LAT 45,922 (for
a large -scale farm). In addition to the built-in safeguards of the satisfactory financial viability which each
sub-project must demonstrate, TA on established demonstration farms and margin analysis confirmed that
Latvia is a relatively cost-efficient producer of agricultural and forestry goods, and there are good export
potentials. By 1997, exports of agricultural and processed food stuff was the third largest export item
accounting for more than 11 % of total exports.
Economic Analysis
The Government of Latvia has made considerable progress both on macro-economic and sector
policy fronts which in turn provides an adequate policy environment to facilitate development of private
activities in rural areas. Prices are completely deregulated, and there is virtually no government intervention
in marketing and distribution. Agricultural trades are allowed with acceptable tariff rates with an exception
of a very few items. The sample analysis shows that economic rates of return varies from 19% to 51% with
NPVs ranging from LAT 8, 253 to LAT 46, 427.
Differences in financial and economic analyses are mainly due to relatively lower Latvia farm-gate
prices than international market prices of the same goods and similar quality, and differences in fuel and
energy prices, and imputed value of labor. Labor intensive activities such as a retail shop shows relatively



higher economic returns as economic cost of labor in Latvia is relatively cheaper. Whenever possible,
actual export/import prices adjusted for transportation were used in the economic analysis.
The actual economic benefit of the project could be considerably higher than what can be
quantified if the benefits of the economic transformation, sectoral restructuring, and institutional capacity
building to which the project will contribute were included. Moreover, one of the most noteworthy
benefits of the project could be the behavioral changes that it has induced for banks, policy makers, and
end-borrowers and that are necessary to compete in a market based economy.



Table I of Annex 4\,
Rural Development Project
Financial and Economic Project Analysis
Financial Analysis
ase Case                                    Sensflvity Analysis
Revenues              Costs            Investment          Investment
Decline 5'b        Increae 5%          Increase 5%          Lag 1 Year
Prolect                                                 NPV    IRR (55)    NPV    IRR 1%)    NPV    IRR (%)    NPV    iRR (V.)    NPV    IRR i%)
Fiour MIg Rehabilitation                               21,044     19%      6,308       14%     10,061      16%     18,343     18%      16,720     19%
Retail Store Startup                                   10,746     31%        16        12%      1,089      14%     10,210     29%      9,027      31%
Fishing Boat Investment                                29.973     23%      22,076     20%      26,074     21%      27,473     21%      24,557     22%
Met Proceing Machinery Replacement                     40,229     21%      12,849      15%     18,744      17%     36,345     20%      32,669     21%
Furniture Manufacturing Statup                          8,967     29%       379        13%      943        14%      8,476     28%      7,512      29%
450HiA. LargeScaleWheatFarm                            45,922     22%      (24,337)    6%      (21,811)    7%      41,904     21%      13,834     15%
50HA. SmallScaieUvestockFarm                            4,716     24%       (168)      12%      291        13%      4,493     23%      3,118      20%
100 HA. Medium Size Mixed Farm                         39,149     28%      30,634     25%      33,930      26%     37,810     27%      29,223     25%
Economic Anaiysis
Base Case                                   Sensitivity Analysis
Revenues              Costs            Investment          Investment
De!ine 5%          h rea-e5'h%         nCr.esaa 5%        Lag I Year
NPV    IRR          NPV    IRR (%)    NPV    IRR (%.)    NPV    IRR (%)    NPV    IRR (%)
Flour Mill Rehabilitation                              26,507     21%      11,771      16%     15,797      17%     23,806     20%      21,447     20%
Retall Stor Startup                                    21,690     51%      10,960     31%      12,581     34%      21,155     48%      18,510     51%
Fishing Boat Investment                                33,958     24%      26,061     22%      30,259     23%      31,458     23%      28,471     24%
Meat Processing Machinery Replacement                  42,870     23%      15,489      16%     21,517      18%     38,986     21%      39,875     23%
Fumiture Manufacturing Startup                         20,658     56%      12,070     36%      12,984      38%     20.167     53%      17,950     56%
450 HA. Large Scali Wheat Farm                         38,232     19%    (34,027)      5%      (31,695)    5%      32,214     18%      1,451      12%
50 HA. Small Scale Uvestock Farm                        8,253     32%       3,368     21%       4,004      22%      8,029     31%      6,265      28%
100 HA. Medium Size Mixed Farm                         46,417     30%      37,901     27%      41,561     28%      45,077     29%      35.690     27%



TabIl 2 of Annex 4
Rural Development Project
Livestock Budgots
(Is)
10 Cow Dairv Herd    20 Beef Fattening Operation  I 20 Sow Pig Operation   1100 Pia Fattening Operation
Unit    Quant.  Price Amount Quant. Price    Amount   Quant. PriCe  AMount I Ouant.   Price  Amount
Herd Composition
CowslSteerslPlgs                     10.00                 20.00                                                  100.00
CalfslPiglets                         8.50                                            20.00
Revenues
Milk Sales           kg      60,000   0.10  5.700
Meat Sales           kg       2,000   0.36    720   9.600   0.44       4.224                              10.000    1.05 10.500
Catf/Piglets     kglnumber      350   0.45    158   (700)  0.45         (315)   200  20.00      4.000      (1.700)   1.20 (2.040)
Subsidy             total                     240
Wet Organic Matter    t          30   4.60    138      40   4.60         184      60   8.96       538        170    8.96  1,523
Dry Organic Matter    t          50   5.60    280      80   5.60         448
Total                                        7,236                     4.541                    4,538                     9.983
inpu! Coete
Feed Concentrate     kg                                                       10,500   0.15     1.575     23.500    0.13  3,055
Barley               kg      12,000   0.10   1,200  18,800   0.10      1.880
Wheat(Bran)          kg
Potatoes             kg
Oats                 kg
Mineral              kg
Calcium              kg
Chalk                kg
Soybean Meal         kg       3.000   0.19    570                              1.100   0.19       209      7.300    0.19  1,387
Fish Meal            kg                                                          600   0.30       180
Fodder Beets         kg      25,000   0.01    300  22.920   0.01         275                              33,800    0.01    406
Hay                  kg      15.000   0.03    375  16,740   0.03         419
Silage               kg      50.000   0.02   1,000  52,940   0.02       1,059
Pasture              kg     160,000   0.01    800  62,280   0.01         311
MIlk                 kg                             9,000   0.08         720
Skim Milk            kg                             12,000   0.03        360                               3,300    0.03     99
Minerals             kg        730   0.42    307
Bedding              kg       3.650   0.01     18   4.000   0.01          20   9,000   0.01        45      6.000    0.01     30
Testing             unit                      120
Replacement         unit      1.500   0.45    675
Al                  unit         21   8.00    168
Vet                 unit                      600                                                 340                       300
Total                                        6.133                      5.044                   2.349                     5,277
Net Income                                                    1,103                      (503)                   2.189                     4.707
Source: Latvian Agriculture Advisory Serviee



Table 3 of Annex 4
Rural Development Project
Crop Budgets
_IPd
Winter Wheat        Rye            Barley        Spring Wheat        Oats            Flax          Potatoes      Suparbeets
Unit Price Quant. Amt    Quant. Amt    Quant. Amt          Quant. Amt       Quant. Amt    Quant. Amt    Quant. Amt   Quant. Amt
Yield                           mt          2.5              2.5             2.0              2.0             2.0             2.0            12.0           20.0
Revenues
PriceofOutput        mt          120             100             100              127              115             60              65              28
Product Value        mt               300              250            200              254              230             120             780            560
By-Product          unit               14               35              13               12              13              44             100             60
Total Value                           314              285             213              266             243             164             880            620
Variable Cost
Seeds               unit               26               29              31               32              31              33             480              15
Ferilizer
Nitrogen           kg  0.09    200   17         200   17       200   17         200   17         200   17       100    9         250   22       300   26
Phosphorus         kg  0.08                                                                                     200   16         150   12
Potassium          kg  0.09                                                                                     100   19         150   29       200  120
Complex           kW
Seed Pretreatment   unit                7                7               7               7                7                                              0
Herbicide           unit                8                8               5               5                5               5                             25
Fungicide           unit
Retardant           unit
Insecticide         unit
Other               unit                 1               1               0                0               1
Total Variable Cost    Ls              59               62              60               62              61              82             542            186
Gross Profit                    Ls               255              223             153             204              183              82             338            434
Total Fixed Cost                Ls               115              110             119             119              119             126             177            379
NetincometoLabor               Ls                140              113             34               85               63             (44)            161             55



Annex 5
Rural Development Project
Procurement and D)isbursement Arrangements
Procurement
1.   Procurement of goods would be done in accordance with World Bank Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD
Loans andIDA Credits (published in January 1995, revised January and August 1996, and September 1997).
Consulting services, technical assistance and training would be procured in accordance with the Guidelines - Selection
and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, published in January 1997, and revised September 1997.
The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents, Request for Proposals and Forms of Consultants' Contract would be used.
Goods and technical assistance to be financed by the government/co-financiers would be procured in accordance with
the public procurement regulations or the regulations and practices of each co-financier. Since it is not intended to
conduct sub-project appraisal in advance, a table showing procurement arrangements has not been prepared. These
procurement arrangements would be revised, as necessary, for the second phase project.
Responsibility
2.   A pro3ect launch workshop would be held in September 1998, close to effectiveness and would include training
sessions on procurement specifically for the staff of the PMU, LAAS, and the PFIs. The PMU would be responsible
for ensuring that the PFIs and sub-borrowers adhere to Bank procurement guidelines. For sub-projects financed under
the World Bank's credit line and executed by sub-borrowers, procurement procedures would follow the commercial
practices acceptable to the Bank. Procurement would be the responsibility of sub-borrowers who would have access to
support from PFIs and PMU. The PMU would have at least one experienced procurement officer fully trained in
procurement under Bank-financed projects.
Methods
3.   Goods and works. Funds from the credit line would be utilized by a large number of sub-borrowers for
procuring various sizes of goods, equipment, and civil works. The review of sub-loans would be based on the
procedures described in Annex 14 and 15. Due to the variety of goods to be procured, grouping or orders in bid
packages would not possible. Goods expected to be procured and financed under the project would include
agricultural machinery, livestock, building materials, processing equipment, seeds, fertilizer, pesticides, and other farm
inputs.
4.   In order to allow sub-borrowers the use of comimercial practices in procurement of goods and works, the Bank
has reviewed the procurement practices in Latvia and has determined that acceptable commercial practices are applied
by the private sector and that Latvian private investors do seek competitive prices from different suppliers. Therefore,
for the credit line, contracts up to US$ I million per contract will be procured following the normal commercial
procurement practices.
5.   For goods and services outside of the credit line,
(a)  National shopping for minor office equipment would be used for contracts up to US$75,000 per contract;
(b) International Shopping would be used for contracts up to US$300,000 per contract,
(c)  ICB would be used for contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of US$300,000 or more per contract. For ICB,
the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for Goods would be used.
6.   The project would also provide technical assistance for rural development strategy building and institutional
development consisting of training, workshops, and training of trainers, through several consultant contracts.



Consultant contracts under rural strategy development and implementation component estimated to cost less than
US$100,000 will be procured based on the Least Cost selection. Consultant services under institutional development
component up to an aggregate amount of US$500,000, to be contracted on an individual basis (about 20 contracts
estimated to cost an average of US$25,000) will be contracted in accordance with provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through
5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Prior Review
7.   All ICB contracts and the first contract procured through International Shopping (IS) would be subject to prior
review by the Bank. In addition, each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of US$300,000 or more and to be
procured in accordance with the commercial practices will be subject to prior review by the Bank. All sub-loans would!
include a summary procurement table, showing description of goods and works to be procured, procurement methods
to be applied, and a procurement timetable. All other contracts would be subject to ex-post review by the Bank.
8.   With respect to Services, prior Bank review would be required for all terms of reference, irrespective of the
contract value. For contracts with consulting firns estimated to cost more than US$50,000 will be subject to Bank's
prior review. The individual consultants costing US$50,000 or more the qualifications, experience, terms of reference
and terms of employment shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval. All other contracts would be
subject to ex-post review by the Bank.
Disbursement
9.    Disbursements would be administered by the PMU under supervision of the MOF. The PIU would collect and
compile the necessary documentation for withdrawal of the funds from the credit line from the PFIs. The proposed
Bank loan of US $10.5 million would be disbursed over a period of 30 months with the expected project closing date
of June 30, 2001.
10.   Disbursement Ratios. The maximum amount to be withdrawn by the borrower and made available to the
PFIs would be as follows: 100% of eligible sub-loans approved until December 31. 1999 and 80% of eligible sub-loans
approved in the remaining period of project implementation. These disbursement ratios are justified because some of
the financial intermediaries expected to participate in the project would not be in a position to raise internal long-tern
resources at the inception of their lending operations under the project, and because some already existing institutions
are in the process of building up their capital base. With the build-up of equity and with other funds becoming
available during project implementation, the intermediaries' share would gradually increase up to at least 20% of sub-
loan amounts to be approved. Agreement was reached during negotiations that the disbursement percentages would be
stipulated in the subsidiary loan agreements to be signed between the Borrower and each PFI. Disbursements for the
TA component would follow donors' own regulations.
11.   Withdrawal Application. All withdrawal applications for Category I (i.e. Credit Component) would be made
on the basis of certified Statements of Expenditures (SOEs), except for contracts above US $300,000, for which
withdrawals would be based on full documentation. For consulting services, SOE thresholds would be established as
follows: each contract for consulting firms greater than $200,000 and for individual consultants greater than $50,000
would be reviewed by the Bank prior to making disbursement. All supporting documentation would be retained by the
PFIs for at least one year after receipt by the Bank of the audit report for the year in which the last disbursement was
made. The documentation would be made available for review by the auditors and by visiting Bank missions. The
minimum application size for direct payments will be 20% of the current amount of authorized allocation to the Special
Account.
10.   Special Account. To facilitate project implementation, the Borrower would establish a Special Account in one
of the major commercial banks on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank to cover the Bank's share of
expenditures. The initial allocation to the Special Account would be limited to US $700,000. However, when the



aggregate disbursements under the Loan have reached the level of US $3 million, the Authorized Allocation could be
increased to US $1.0 million (the maximum amount authorized) by submitting the relevant Application for withdrawal.
Applications for replenishment of the Special Account would be submitted monthly or when one-third of the amount
has been withdrawn, whichever occurs earlier. Documentation requirements for replenishment would follow the
standard Bank procedures. The terms and conditions of the establishment and operation of the Special Account have
been agreed upon at negotiations.
11.   Retroactive Financing. An agreement was reached at negotiations that up to US $1 million would be
financed retroactively for eligible sub-loans approved and disbursed by PFIs starting from May 1, 1998, provided all
lending criteria and procurement guidelines were followed. Retroactive financing would be justified since: (a) PFIs
under considerations are active in lending but lack long-term credit sources; (b) training program for PFIs is already in
place, and several potential investment proposals submitted during project preparation are under review. Evaluation of
these proposals, although not guaranteed to receive credit through the Bank loan, would provide important hands-on
training opportunities.
Table A: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category        Amaunt in US$million    Financing Percentage
Category 1: Credit Line                     8.0          100% of sub-loans until
December 31, 1999;
80% thereafter
Category 11: Institutional Development      2.5          100% of foreign
expenditures;
80% of local expenditures
Total         10.5



Annex S
Table B
Rural Development Project
Procurement Information
.______________                                *S ti    . :.1: ProcuremientReview*  ____________
Element (Goods/Works)             ICB             NCB              S IS           NS               Other methods
1. Procurement method thresholds  >$300,000       n.a.            <$300,000       <$75,000        Credit Line - commercial
practices <$1,000,000
2. Prior Review                   All             n.a.            first contract  n.a.             Yes (>$300,000)
Element (Consultant Services)     QBCS            QBS             Least Cost      Individuals      Other methods
3. Procurement method thresholds  n.a.            n.a.            <$100,000       n.a.             n.a.
4. Prior Review                   Yes             n.a.            >$50,000        >$50,000         n.a.
5. Ex-post Review                 Explain briefly the ex-post review mechanism:
The Bank will monitor procurement activities, contract management and project record keeping during
I periodic supervision missions. All contracts not subject to prior review will be subject to ex-post review
.ectio~SCtin2apacty4 teIpeetlp    E       iuAec in Procure ment adTehical Assistance requiremenX  fXts a(:  t0 A; 
6. Brief statement:
Primary responsibility for overseeing implementation of procurement procedures will rest with the staff of the PIU.
7. Country Procurement Assessment Report or Country Procurement Strategy Paper    8 Are the bidding documents for the procurement actions
status: Country Procurement Strategy Paper confirmning acceptable procurement  of the first year ready by negotiations?  No
1practices has been issued in 1995.
-; t i -iSe   Setion 3 Taiing, Iuop=mat^eind  eeonpmeton rorement      ^     iX  0 a zQ       fS
9. Estimated date of Proiect   In. Estimated date of    11. Irndicate if contracts are    i2. Domestic  13. Domestic Preference
Launch Workshop: Sept. 1998    General Procurement      subject to mandatory SPN in   Preference for  for Consultant Services:
Notice publication      Development Business:  No   Goods/Works:      No
June 1998                                           for goods only
14. Retroactive financing Yes, effective May 1, 1998                      15. Advanced Procurement    No
16. Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System and Information System:
PIU will develop a monitoring/reporting system for timely implementation of procurement under the project.
;ji.ementStalXing<;    l yl0;\2g02OeStaffing-
17 Indicate name of Procurement Staff as part of Project Team:        Division: ECSRE       Ext.32182
Snezana Mitrovic, Procurement Analyst
18. Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in Procurement:
Field Office will provide back-up on procurement issues to project tean.



Annex 5
Rural Development Project
Procurement Information
I           _ _       2           3              4             5                                          s timated Sche lule
No.slicesAitemat             Procurement                        Document    Invitation to   Contract    Contract
DtescritioA                           TviD      subnackaeel  Estimated Cos    Method        Prequalification    Prenaration      Bid    I  Sienine    ComDletion
Equinment                                                                                                                               I
Reeional Luldbrook Offices               G           2           Sl.OOO.O        ICB              na             Mar-99          through r    lfe  
Nabional Land book Database     _        G                         S130.0Q0      iS               na             Mar-99        Apr-92       Mav-99        Jun-99
National Database System                 G           3                          ]...00  IS/NS     na           AMr-99          Mav-99       Aug-99       Nov-99
Additional Equipment                     t,          IIsAr99 S120.00    IS                                         D
S15tlOD_                                        __                                       _
Consultants
Rural Development Stiategy Development   CF                        S250.000      LC               na             Apr-99        tiroueh .roiLv lfDe0
Rurai Deveipumeni Siniu;gy img;emicunii  CF..        3             S25.0         ! .               a             A't 9a          thrmnih n iet life.     Der-cno
Istitutional Develooment                 Cl          20            S500.000      IND              na             Apr-29          through roiect life     Dec-00
Credit Line                              _3    ___   __ 
TOTAL                                    _10_500.00_
NOTES:
'Name of Package
Indicate CW (for civil works); S&l (for supply and install); TK (for trnkey); CF (for consultant firms): CI (for Individual consultants); TR (for training).
The type is related to the use of the relevant standard bidding documents.
31f known, indicate number of slices, major items or subpackages in the package
'Expressed in USS
Indicate ICB, LIB, NCB, IS, NS, DC (for direct contracting), FA (for Force Account), MW (for Minor works), SLF (for short-listing of consultant finns);
SLI (for short-listing of individual consultants); SSF (for Sole sourcing of consultant firms); SS1 (for sole sourcing of individual consultants),
Other (for recurrent costs procured on the basis of administrative proceduresbased on a schedule and budget acceptable to the
Bank);



Annex 6
Rural Development Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                     Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Preparation                                      162.2               162.6
Appraisal                                        101.1                61.2
Negotiation                                       8.2                 9.4
B. Project Schedule                            Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)            04/15/97             05/15/97
Appraisal mission departure                    03/30/98             03/27/98
Negotiations                                   07/13/98             05/25/98
Planned Date-of Effectiveness                  10/15/98             09/25/98
Prepared by: Govemment of Latvia - through Project Preparation Unit
Preparation assistance: PHRD Consultanits, EU PHARE consultants, local consultants, NGOs
Bank staff who worked on the project incDiuded:
Name                                 Specialty
Hoonae Kim                           Economist/Task Team Loader
Tjaart Schillhom                     Technical
Jacob Intrator                       Rural Finance
Michael Nelson                       Project Assistant
Alex McCalla                         Rural Board Director
Jacob Yaron                          Rural Banking
Michel Petit                         Rural Development Policy
Joseph Goldberg                      Sector Leader



Annex 7
Rural Development Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
* Project Implementation Plan prepared by the Government of Laltvia
* Rural Development Project - Project Preparation Plan
* Rural Development Project - Preparation Action Plan
* Progress Report on Project Preparation - various
* Description of Economic Characteristics of Districts
* List of Territories and Their Unemployment Characteristics
* List of Territories, and Advisory Service and Financial Window Infrastructure
* Income Forecasts for 1998 for different Districts
* A Rural Survey - English and Latvian
* A Pilot Program - Progress Report
* Description of Field Visits
B. Bank Staff Assessments
* Project Infornation Document 5/23/97
* Environmental Data Sheet 7/8/96
* PID minutes & comments
* Project Concept Document
* Aide Memoires and BTOs
* Implementation Completion Report for ADP (Ln, 3695 LV)
C. Other
* Audit of the Mortgage and Land Bank 1997
* Audit of the Agricultural Finance Company 1996/7
* Bank of Latvia - Quarterly Report, 4th 1997
*  PHRD Proposal and Budget
* EU-PHARE TOR for the Mortgage and Land Bank Technical Assistance
* EU-PHARE TA for Rural Diversification
*  EU-PHARE TA program for Latvia Agriculture
* Subsidiary Loan Agreements
* Sample Project Summary Sheets for Prior Review
* TORs for Institutional Development Components
* An Inventory of Credit lines available in Latvia
* Government Decrees (Various)
* TOR for Local Action Groups
* Rural Credit Guidelines
*including electronic files.



Annex 8
Statement of Loans and Credits
Status of Bank Group Operations in Latvia
IBlD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfoio
Difference
Between expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                  and actual                Last ARPP
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                    disbursements a/    Supervision Rating b/
Project ID     Credit      Year               Borrower            .        Purpose
No.                                                                           IBRD        IDA     Cancellations  Undisbursed  Orig    Frm Rev'd    Dev Obj            Imp Prog
Number Of Closed Loans/credits: 2
Active Loans
LV-PE-8526    IBRD 38900  1995  REPUBLIC OF LATVIA                  JELGAVA DIST. HEAT           14.00        0.00             0.00          5.77        .61       0.00       HS            S
LV-PE-8533    IBRD 38140  1995  GOVT OF LATVIA                      LIEPAJA ENVIRONMENT           4.00        0.00             0.00           .55       -.26       0.00       HS            HS
                a-PE-8529    IRRD 37961  1995  GOVT. OF LATVIA     ENTERP. FINANC. SECT          5.00        0.00             0.00           .84      13.20       0.00       NHS           NS
LV-PE-8529    IBRD 37960  1995  GOVT. OF LATVIA                     ENTERP. FINANC. SECT         10.00        0.00             U.00          5.39      13.20       0.00       HS            nS
LV-PE-8529    IBRD 37950  1995  GOVT. OF LATVIA                     ENTERP. FINAHC. SECT         20.00        0.00             0.00          6.29      13.20       0.00       HS            HS
LV-PE-34584   18RD 39640  1996  REPUBLIC OF LATVJA                  MUN. SERVICES DEV.           27.30        0.00             0.00         17.94      10.54       0.00       S              S
LV-PE-35807   IBRD 41540  1997  REPUBLIC OF LATVIA                  WELFARE REFORM               18.10        0.00             0.00         16.83       3.25       0.00       HS            HS
LV-PE-8532    IBRD 41450  1997  REPUBLIC OF LATVIA                  HIGHWAY                      20.00        0.00             0.00         16.64       1.01       0.00       S             S
LV-PE-44123   IBRD 41260  1997  REPUBLIC OF LATVIA                  SAL                          60.00        0.00             0.00         33.44      42.24       0.00       S             S
LV-PE-40553   IBRD 42860  1998  REPUBLIC OF LATVIA                  SOLID WASTE MGMT.             7.95        0.00             0.00          7.95       0.00       0.00
Total                                                                                           186.35        0.00             0.00        112.15      96.99       0.00
Active Loans         Closed Loans            Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                  63.98                66.86              130.84
of which has been repaid:                   0.00                0.00                0.00
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                 186.35                66.86              253.21
Amount sold                      :                 0.00                0.00                0.00
Of which repaid               :                0.00                0.00                 0.00
Total Undisbursed                :              112.15                 0.00              112.15
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced (HS - highly Satisfactory, S - satisfactory, U - unsatisfactory,
HU - highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



Annex 9
Latvia at a W1ance                                    _                       U17/
Europ &   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           Central  middlet
Latvia     Asia  ncome        Deveopmt samon
Poptintionmld-199(Smi(ions)                           2.5       478    1.125
GNPpercapita 1996 (USS)                             2.370      2,200    1,740               Lir     cif
GNP 1996 (bilions USS)                                 5.9    1t00    1,962
Average annual growth, 1os046
Poplatbon (%)                                         -1.2       0.3      1A      GNP                               Grous
Labor fo()                                            -1.1       0.5      1.7     Pa                              pimelY
Most recnt etimate astyearavaable since 1900)                                                    \               nr/ien t
Poverty: headcount nbdx (% ofpopuatn)
Urban population (% oftolalpopula6n)                   73        66        56
Lf3e expeanc at birth (years)                          70        66        67
Infant motlty (per 10oo fie blfl)                     15        24        40              Amen to safe war
Chld matnutrition (% ofdWVen under 5)
Acoess to safe waW (% ofpopulaton)                       ,                 75
lilteracy (X ofpopulIaon age 15+)                       ..        ..       20
Gross prmy enrolmen (% of whool-a  populatn)           89        100      104                Lowem
emle                                                 91       101       107
Female                                               as        100      tot       _  _  _ _  _  _  __  _  _  _  _ _  _
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS nd LONG-TERM TRENOS
1975    19"        1995    1996
Econob n tioe
GDP (bfions USS)                               _        ..       4.9      50
Gross donestic inveamnVGDP                            35A       17.6     18.7
Expors of goods and awVeGDP                              ,      46.9     46.5             Opnnessofeconomy
Grdom  tic  vinga/GDP                           .    35.3       15.2      9.8
Oas natonal sangGDP                            _.
Cumnt account belclGP                                   .       -3,2     .7.0
Intes pameteGDP                                 .                 .3      0.3  J    vS7                        lnvrent
Total deWGDP                                             .       9.4      94
Toet debt ervc por.                                     ..       1.6      2.7
Prea_n value of debtGDP                             . .                   8.S
Present vau of deb ports                        .       ..        ..    18.3                  Inde
1S754   1t6         1191      1996  11745
verwae annuw gowt)                                                                    -     Lebl
GDP                                  3.7    -8.0    -0.          2.       5.0                                  
GNPpercpa                            3.1     -7.3      0.        3.5      5.8
Export of good  nd                    ..    -17        3.0      27.0      6.7
STRtUCTURE of the ECONOMY
Nod6DPJ                                     1675    19"        199      1t6        Growth rets ofoutpu*t andh Inve ent 
A     gtre                                      .    21.6       10.6      9.1      10D
Industry                                       _      43.2      33.2     32.7      so
MantafacWurng                                 _     37.1      22.4     22.0         _ _             _     _ _
Ser*ea                                         _      35.2      56.0     583                                            so
Private consnptbon                                    55.6      62.6     70.4    .1e
Genal govent con_umplin on9.0                                   22.2     19.8                     GN       O  GDP
Import of goods nd  rces                        ,       .       49.3     55,A 
1376.  11646          196      1996
(overage annua grwth)                                                              Owth rate of exports and Impeoe (%)
Agrcultre                                     5.5     -6.8      10.3      -9.5    e4
Industry                                     3.0    -13.6        0.2      3.2      e       I0
20
ManufacAuring                               2.9    -12.3      -0.5       3.0     1e
SW*"                                         3.2      -1.8      -3.3      4.9       a
Pdveleonabumption                            20      -10.6     .11.1      0.3    -U
Geea govenrit coneunplion                     5.2      2A        7.7      3.0     4e
Gra domestic       - Iwaset                    .5    -24.7     -30.5     10.0   4.
Import of goods end                                  -11.6     -10.3     31.0                   E        -i
Gros naol pout                                3.7      7.9      .0.6      2.4 
Note: 199 data apro   nayeimnates.F F higrIan teforyw  othrtu tospecHfd.
* The damonds ehow fur key Iictosin the outnb  cmpad wp      b vA  h_come-goup aveg. fda  a  mlei,   1  ond w
be Incorplete.



Latvia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976     1985      1995     1996
Dom"e cprkes                                                                       Infladon  )
(X change)                                                                         1.0D0.-
Consumer prices                                                 25.0      17.6      ooa
Impicit GDP deflator                         -0.6     -2.5      16.0      14.6      0oo
400
Government finance                                                                  200]
Xof GDP)                                                                             o
Cunmntrevenue                                                   37.2      39.0             91   92   93   94   56   so
Current budget balance                                           -2.3      0.4
Overal surplus/defiIt                                           -3.5      -1.4                    GMw dF
TRADE
1975     19ii5     1995     199I
(mi/Ions US)                                                                       Export and Import levels (milL US$)
Totgl exports (fob)                                             1 36     1 511     2,00
n.a.
n.s.200
Manufactures                                                                     2,00
Total Imports (Ci)                                              1947    2.440                                ill  
Food
Fuel and energy                                                                    WC
Capita goods                                  ..
Export price Index (1987.100)                  ..       ..        ..                     go  DI  92  93  94  95  9e
Import price Index (1987-100) J                                                                  Export    a imports
Tenes of trade (1087- 100)                                                                      o .,       * Irp-
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1985      1995     1096
(mnlns US$)                                                                        Current account balance to GOP redo ()
Exports of goods and services                                  2,088    2,335
Imporbt of goods end services                                  2336    2.781
Resource balance                                                -248      -446     2
Net Incomne                                                       19         1     0 _
Netcurrenttransfers                                               71       95      2g    9e1  92  93   9    9    96
Cuffent account balance.
beore odfia cpIal transfe                                      -159     -350            
Finandng ems (net)                                                61      599      J 
Changes in net reserves                                           98      -249     4
Memo:                                                                                         _-
eerves indcudIng gold (mfMl. USS)              ..       ..       623      778
ConversIon rate (bc0lltUS$)                                      0.5       0.8
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1078     1085      1995     1994
emaons US$)                                                                        Composition of total deb 19O  (niwiL US$)
Total debt outsftnding and disbursed                             463      472
IBRD                                                            55       75                   G          A
IDA                                                              0        0                   44         75
Total debt service                                                34       65
IBRD                                          .        .         4        4
IDA                                           .        .         0        0
ComposItIon of net resource sows 
Otfdalgrants                                                    24       41                                    130
Oftial creditor                                                 23       40             E
Private creditors                            4.                           3
Foreign direct Investment                                      180      328
Portfollo equIty                                       .         0        0a
Worid Bank prgrenm
Commitments                                                     18       87       A - IBRD                   E- Biaei
Disbursements                                                    9       24       B- IDA   0D oter rnlu      F. PdnVb
Prindp rep yments                                                0        0      C - IMF                     0- Short-term
Netfios                                                          9       24
Intrest payments                                                 4        4
Net frafrs                                                       5       20
Development Economics                                                                                               6/17196



Annex 10
Rural Development Project
Summary Of The Rural Survey Undertaken For
The Government Of Latvia And The World Bank For
The Preparation Of The Rural Development Project
L    Introduction
1.   Latvian agriculture, and consequently rural life, have undergone substantial changes during the
nineties. Within a decade the rural scene was changed from a collective farm - and state- controlled
system to private land and farm ownership, and to diversification of production systems, but also to rural
unemployment and associated problems such as poverty and alcoholism. The Latvian Household Budget
Survey of 1996 indicates that, compared to their urban counterparts, rural residents have lower disposable
incomes and tend to be surviving on their own production. The United Nations Development
Programme's (UNDP) Human Development Rleport for Latvia in 1996 highlighted the severe problems in
the rural Latgale region of eastern Latvia, characterized by low incomes, lower life expectancy and a
more aged and less well educated population.
Previous studies, however, contain little information to develop a strategy to assist the rural population.
Consequently, as part of the preparation of the second project to be supported by the World Bank a study
was undertaken to identify appropriate measures to design pertinent, well-timed and effective assistance
to promote rural economic development. The main objectives of the study were to briefly
i)   describe the present status of economic dlevelopment in the rural areas of Latvia and the principal
constraints which inhibit development;
ii)  identify the development needs of Latvia's rural population in general and of specific groups
such as the unemployed, women and young adults; and
iii)  assess the institutional development needis of organizations involved in rural or agricultural
development.
2.   Methodology: The study was undertaken in two rural districts: (i) Bauska, selected as being
indicative for a relatively more prosperous district and (ii.) Preili as indicative of the situation in
relatively poor district. A combination of focus groups and direct surveys was used. Focus groups were
interactive sessions where participants were encouraged to discuss key topics to learn and understand
their perceptions of their situation. The surveys included 415 households and 62 businesses This
combination yielded richer results than the use of either technique alone.
II.  Results from the Focus Groups and Feedback Meetings
3.   Problems: Participants in the Preili focus groups indicated that there is a vicious cycle of rural
poverty from which few can be expected to escape without assistance. Farmers in Preili suggested that
small farms, inadequate farm buildings and machinery and low farm product prices resulted in low
incomes from farming. This in turn resulted in a low demand for farm inputs and consumer goods and
services. Farming activities are, apparently, ma:inly undertaken to fulfill the consumption needs of their
own families. Rural women also indicated that their main activity is trying to ensure their household's
survival through subsistence farming activities. The lack of cash resources has caused them to substitute
their own labor for other inputs and they have little or no time left to undertake any other activities. The
greater part of many household incomes is committed to rent and heating before any other basic
necessities such as food have been purchased. Participants in the focus groups, however, also indicated
concerns regarding the privatization of their apartments.
4.   There is a high rate of young adult migration from the area, especially of better educated young
adults. Many of those that remain feel despondent and neglected by the govemment. The lack of
employment opportunities, inadequate educational and skill bases and the out-migration of the better



educated, more motivated, young adults has resulted in a significant proportion of the rural population
becoming stranded in a semi-subsistence existence. Problems of alcohol abuse are also common amongst
young people in the area.
5.   Opportunities.   Despite the overall problems many of the farmners that participated in the focus
groups are ambitious and are making every effort to develop their businesses despite the major difficulties
that they face. Farmers and small rural business owners see the provision of credit at reasonable rates as a
prerequisite for developing their businesses but commercial banks have, however, so far failed to serve
them and other credit programs have only been able to assist a very small proportion. It was believed that
some farmland could be made available for farm enlargement if those households which were mainly
using small areas of land for family subsistence could be assisted to find new employment. They would
then no longer need to grow their own food. It was further believed that this would allow some farms to
increase in size so that they can at least gain sufficient economies of size for successful production.
6.   The Pagast officers in Preili, especially the Pagast agricultural consultant, have reportedly played a
key role in the front line support offered to rural households on a wide range of matters. The Pagast
office acts as a one-stop-shop, which enables people to gain access to informnation and support from a
single place. Where private mobility is limited and public transport expensive, the existence of this
constellation of services at a single place is important.
7.   Problems: The focus groups participants from the business community in Bauska were highly
conscious of the limited scope for expanding their businesses perceived to be related to a lack of local and
national buying power. They were critical of government policy and specifically criticized taxation,
import policies, regulatory changes and the lack of incentives.
8.   The women in Bauska were aware of the emergence of a new entrepreneurial class they saw no
widespread benefits arising from this. Rural women are reportedly relied upon to hold homes together
socially, and engage in subsistence farming and gardening activities. At the same time they of have to
cope with the problems of male unemployment. Middle aged women in particular felt over-burdened.
These difficulties facing rural women in Bauska apparently affects both professionally qualified women
and those with fewer employment options.
9.   The young people in Bauska felt a distinct lack of institutional support for their difficult situation
and observed a growing division between those that were the survivors and those that were slipping
further behind. New business opportunities were believed to be quickly taken up by established
entrepreneurs, and much less likely by new entrants due to the latter's relative lack of skills and
experience. This creates an apparently growing gap between thosei that are prospering in rural areas and
those that are having difficult surviving.
10.  Opportunities: an entrepreneurial group of farmers and other land-based businessmen and of
service providers is clearly emerging in Bauska. The business community comprised a very varied group
of service and land based firms, some of which were operating effectively, in spite of the current
economic difficulties. Many of these people had acquired skills in the former regime and had adapted
them successfully to the new conditions. A number of these businesses were quite substantial employers,
who had made use of credit to assist their business expansion and who demonstrated a good
understanding of the market environment. Some of the younger people valued their own community and
saw themselves as having a long-term role as a community members. The women's group also recognized
the need to take control of their own actions and, in one particular case, showed the benefits from new
training and personal development courses which had been given through her employment.
m.  Results from the Household Survey
11.  Unemployment amongst the potentially economically active resident population was estimated to
be 35% in Bauska and 55% in Preili. These estimates significantly exceeded the official unemployment
rates of 5.7% in Bauska and 23.2% in Preili. In Bauska unemployment is more prevalent amongst people



over 30 whereas in Preili unemployment is highest amongst people in their twenties. It was higher among
groups without higher education and more prevalent amnongst those individuals that were or had been
State and Collective farm workers, drivers, janitorial service personnel or construction workers.
12.  The main type of employment was in frrming or in the provision of services. In Preili, for example
26% are self-employed farmers or farm workers and 9% are employees of farmers In Bauska, of the 264
households interviewed only 14 households (5%) were found to be running their own businesses and
eleven of these 14 businesses were farms. In Preili 13 of the 151 households interviewed (9%) were
found to be running their own businesses all of which were fanns.
13.  Average household incomes are low at 103 Lats per month in Bauska and 79 Lats per month in
Preili, but 56% of households in Bauska and 66% in Preili claimed to have less than the average
household income. In the majority of cases household incomes do little more than cover the households'
housing and heating costs and essential food purchases. For many, however, their incomes do not even
fulfill these basic needs.
14.  Potential new businesses: About 18% of the households would like to start their own businesses
and a further 4-9% were interested but unsure. Prospective business people identified business advisors
and the Latvian Agricultural Advisory Service as being particularly important in helping them establish
their businesses. Assistance with the preparation of business plans and loan applications was particularly
sought.
15.  Household subsistence: The survey results confirmed the impressions presented in the focus
groups that, in order to survive, the vast majoriity of households and individuals are undertaking food
providing subsistence activities - in Bauska 84Yo of households and 60% of adults and in Preili 95% of
households and 67% of adults. This is possible because 90% of households in Bauska and 96% of
households in Preili have access to land. The production from these areas is mainly used for household
subsistence; there is -ittle marketable surplus.
lY.  Results fromn the Business Survey
16.  Existing businesses: In Preili, the few existing businesses were those related to transport (fuel
stations etc.) and retail establishments. In Bauska, the number is larger and shows greater variety. In
addition to those related to transport and retail establishments, there were agricultural suppliers, agro-
processing, large farms and those undertaking novel production activities and timber processing in
addition to transport and retail services. Several business people in Bauska were, however, reluctant to
participate in the suivey due to fears that it was a disguised way for organized crime or government to
gather information on their businesses. Hence, only 42 business people were interviewed in Bauska..
17.  Employent: The surveyed firms in Bauska on average had around 37 employees per business. In
contrast, the surveyed businesses in Preili on average had less than five employees per business Since
1994 employment in the surveyed firms in Bauska has more than doubled and women in particular have
been benefiting from the increased employment. Female employment in the surveyed firms went up over
four times although even in 1996 females were only around one quarter of the total workforce. Over the
same period, employment in the surveyed firms, in Preili only increased 38% and male employment went
up relative'y more than female employment.
18.  Positive influences on businesses: In contrast to the participants in the focus group, the business
survey indicates that, in general, business people in Bauska believe that national and local demand are
positive influences on their businesses. Their own availability of capital, the cost and reliability of labor,
business location, and their own market knowledge and information have also been positive influences on
their businesses. In Preili, business people identified fewer factors as being beneficial for their
businesses. Most notable are the cost and reliability of labor, business location, and market knowledge
and information.



19. Negative influences on businesses: Despite the fact that many business people thought that the
availability of their own capital had been a positive influence on their business many also identified the
limited availability and cost of credit as being detrimental to business growth. They also believed that
their small business size, the availability of skilled labor, the machinery and buildings they have available,
and the road and telecommunications infrastructure are limiting the performance of their businesses.
20.  Marketing problems: Marketing problems, especially low prices was identified as a common
problem. These low prices probably result from the second most commonly cited problem which was
low purchasing power. Other problems commonly cited were delays in payment, lack of transportation,
and small batch size, and, in Preili, inadequate storage space.
21.  Limited assistance for businesses: Existing businesses in both Bauska and Preili received little
assistance in the establishment of their businesses other than from Pagast officials. However, they would
like to receive assistance from more specialist business advisors and credit organizations to help them
develop their businesses. The types of assistance identified as being useful included advice on technical
and production aspects and on a range of business management and marketing issues. The methods by
which the business people would like to receive the assistance are, mainly, training courses, direct
consultancy advice and one-off business reports by experts, visits to other businesses and, in Preili,
through producer organizations.
22.  Past business borrowing: Of the 43 businesses surveyed in Bauska only 9 had borrowed from a
bank or similar organization, mainly for land or capital equipment puirchases, whereas 16 of the 19
businesses sampled in Preili had borrowed for land and capital equipment purchases and working capital.
The business people interviewed in Preili indicated that they were more likely than those in Bauska to use
short and long term commercial loans to fund future investment in their businesses. They also, however,
are slightly more likely to use their own savings in contrast with Bauska where most are unwilling to use
their house or land as collateral in the main because they believed this to be too risky.
V.   Summary conclusions
-  People in both districts faced problems of unemployment and despair. Because of the lack of money,
many have resorted to a semi-subsistence existence, based on small farms or household plots and the
arable land appears to be a buffer and cushion in poverty.
- Despite the difficult circumstances in these rural areas, many people indicated that they realized that
they must take control of their own destinies. Self motivation, both at a business and household level
was recognized as essential in household and business survival and development.
*  A relatively large proportion of the households in the rural communities surveyed wished to start their
own businesses. Such business development would, however, require the provision of additional
assistance.
* Amongst all groups interviewed, it was clear that there was a marked lack of faith in the ability of
existing public institutions at a local and national level to provide the support required.
* A notable exception to this was the Pagast officials who were highly regarded and offered an
important service to many farm and other rural households. In the absence other appropriate
institutions to catalyze change at a local the Pagast office is often the principal or only mechanism of
institutional support for most rural households and businesses. The complex challenges of
restructuring, however, are beyond the capacity of Pagast officers at present, but the Pagast office
remains a vitally important access point to wider institutional help
* These results indicate that the provision of services to assist business development in, and the
economic regeneration of, rural areas should be as decentralized as possible and local development
networks should be established at the level of individual or, possibly, groups of pagasts.



Annex 11
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Results of the Pilot Program
Example of first 30 sub-loans approved
No  Client     District      Pagasts    Date of   Maturity  Amount  %           Loan                                      Purpose
I___________                Approval    date       LAT    rate  residual
I  A          Liepajas       Virgas    30.09.97.   28.02.00.    500     12      500    Purchase of motor-saw, and registration of property with the Land Book (lats 121)
2  B          Liepajas       Virgas    07.10.97.   30.11.00.    500     12       0     Strawberry production
3  C          Liepajas      Vecpils    11.11.97.   20.10.03.   2000    12        0     Renovation of building (reconstr. of cattle-shed, renov. of roof, etc)
4  D            Cesu       Veselavas   11.11.97.   20.11.00.   2500    11      2500   Setting up of a wood-processing facility
5  E           Preilu       Rozupes    11.11.97.   15.08.00.   1800     11    1381.27  Installation of power lines, construction of sauna
6  F            Talsu        Abavas    15.11.97.   15.10.02.   2500    12        0     Purchase of second-hand tractor and other equipment
7  G           Dobeles      Lielauces   15.11.97.  30.11.00.    1990    10     1249   Purchase of a cash register, display shelves, phone set, and vehicle
8  H          Dobeles    Augstkalnes  15.11.97.   30.12.00.   3000      10       0     WC (Lats 500) for veterinary shop, I (Lats2500)-for heating equipment & vehicle
9  1          Tukuma         Vanes    15.11.97.   10.11.01.   3000    10       2500   Purchase of woodprocessing equipment
10 J          Valmieras       Diklu     15.11.97.   20.12.02.   3000    10      1000   Construction of green-house
l l K          Limbalu      Ungurpils   15.11.97.   20.12.98.   1500    12      1500   WC for starting veterinary practice
1)  T-          C~su        Straupcs    15. 1.97.  20.12.98.    500     ii      500    WC for woodprocessing
____________ ________   15.11.97.  20.10.00.   2000                1266.19  INV, opening awoodprocessing unit, purchase of a truck
13 M          Gulbenes       Daukstu    15.11.97.   25.05.00.   2000    10      400    Purchase of refridgerating equipment
14 N          Kuldigas      Alsunga    19.11.97.   15.10.02.   2000    12       2000   Purchase of hairdresseres inventory
15 0          Limbadu        Staicele   25.11.97.   20.12.98.   2000    12     2000   WC, forestry
16P             Talsu        Lubes    25.11.97.   15.10.99.    300      12       0     WC
P      I25.11.97.   15.10.01.    700                                 _        0      NV, purchase of agricultural equipment, i.e., milk cooler, etc.
17 Q            Ogres       Birzgales   01.12.97.   30.10.99.   1100    10       0      WC
IQ      __01.12.97.   30.12.02.   1900                                        0     INV, purchase of tractor, mushroom growing technology
18 R          Kuldfgas      Alsunga    02.12.97.   15.12.04.   3000     12       0     Construction of green-house
19 S          Kuldigas     Gudenieku   02.12.97.   15.12.00.   1000    12       500    Purchase of woodprocessing equipment
20 T          Valmieras      Rencenu    12.12.97.  20.06.99.    1600    12       0      WC-growing of mushrooms
T                                   12.12.97.  20.12.00.   1400               0     INV, purchase of vehicle
21 U           Madonas      B6rzaunes   15.12.97.   20.12.02.   2500    12      600    Opening of a laundry
22 V           Tukuma       DRikstes   10.12.97.  30.09.98.    900      10      700    WC-vegetable production
V       _                           10.12.97.   30.11.01.   1000            1000   INV, purchase of avehicle
23 W          Valmieras      Rujienas   09.12.97.  25.12.98.    500  1 12        0      WC-rabbit-breeding
W W                                 09.12.97.  25.12.00.   2500               0    I INV, purchase of a second-hand truck
24 X            Valkas       Valkas    09.12.97.   20.11.00.   1100    12        0      Starting entrepreneurial activities (artificial insemination)
Summary Total loans approved (2/28/98)                     37
Total amount approved                           La 70,787
Average size of sub-loan                        LA  1,913



Annex 12
Rural Development Project
Progress of Land Reforms in Latvia and Future Requirements
Since regaining independence, Latvia has vigorously pursued to restoration of private
ownership of land and properties. The Government established the State Land Services (SLS) in
1993, and since then land reforms in Latvia has progressed considerably. The necessary
legislative and judicial systems are in place, and the country has a sufficient number of skilled
surveyors and other staff who have received appropriate training. The rules on transfer of land
are regulated by the Land Registration Act, based on the Civil Code. The cadastral part of
subdivision and amalgamation procedures is governed by the regulations on National Property
Cadastre. The legal system of land registration and transfer is at an advanced stage of
development.
Properties are registered in the Cadastre Register after a survey or demarcation of
property boundaries are completed and recorded. The cadastral registration is the main task of
SLS Regional Cadastre Departments. The C'adastre contains technical information about each
property and land parcel, including ownership (or user rights), land use, buildings, and value. The
cadastre register is computerized; ORACLE,-based registration is under implementation on a
regional level and will be completed in 1998.
The Land Book Register is a legal ragister of property ownership defines rights on the
property and records changes to property ownership. It contains information about rights on
property - owner, encumbrances, servitude, mortgages, sale and purchase, parcel boundaries.
Entry into the Legal Register is not compulsory; registration is done by client claim. However, a
transaction of property has legal status only if it is registered in the Land Book. Legal registration
of properties is the task of the regional Land Book offices which are managed by local judges.
Tlhe Land Book had been a paper-based system in which titles are physically recorded in a book.
An ORACLE-based electronic Real Property Legal Registration system for the regional level has
been developed and will be implemented in regional Land Book offices during realization of the
EU-PHARE-funded project "TA to land privatization and registration."
Latvia has received substantial technical and financial support from various bilateral
donors and EU-PHARE. The first World Bank Project, Agricultural Development Project, also
provided $2.2 million to supplement various technical assistance by donors to advance the land
reform. As a result, the number of properties registered in Cadastre and Land Books is growing
rapidly and a land market has started to emerge with more than a thousand land/properties being
traded legally per month. The largest share of transactions, as well as registrations itself, has
been in Riga city and Riga region. The land registration process and land markets have been also
quite active in Liepaja, Jelgava and Ogre Regions. Further activities were reported in regions
which are close to the State boundary, like Aluksnes, Balvu, Ludzas regions.



Summary of Land reform Activities (as of Dec. 1997)
-1993- : -199;4      .      -19-1996                 -~.- -19-11)Total
Cadastre            n/a      n/a    58 008   44 832        S5 119        157 959
Land Book           193    9 605    16 421   29 372        48 848        104 439
Transactions in     n/a      n/a       n/a     7 635       12 041         19 676
Land Book                                                     _
November 1, 1997, was set as a final deadline for submission of claims for land
privatization through restitution in rural areas. It is still possible to apply for land in urban areas.
A total of 447,700 applications were submitted to Land Commissions as of December 1, 1997;
positive decisions were made in 222,300 cases. By December 1, 1997, 71% of claims were
processed and registered in Cadastre, 47% are registered in the Land Book. The latter concerns
mainly properties intended for sale or used as mortgage collateral.
Impressive progress continues. As of April 1998, the progiress in land reforms can be
summarized as below:
* 447,729 claims to restitute ownership received
* 194,478 properties surveyed
* 157,900 properties registered in cadastral register
* Cadastral mapping proceed for 17,942 properties with validation done for 98,820
* Legal ownership rights recorded in the Land Book reached 121,344 properties
Further needs for support of property registration and development of land markets.
Despite the substantial and impressive progress made to date, much work is still needed
before the land reform can be considered complete. Land policies and development of an
integrated rural development policy and national land policy should be integrated and
coordinated. In order to facilitate the emerging rural finance and mortgage financing systems,
further support is needed.
Real estate collateral is generally recognized as an important element of any market
economy. If conditions for secure long-term mortgage lending do not exist, properties cannot be
used as an asset for facilitating development financing and real estate market transactions.
Real estate mortgage lending requires not only legislation on mortgage, but also a sound and
transparent information system and specialized mortgage institutions either connected to
commercial banks or based on cooperation among lenders. As such the following needs have
been identified:
1.   Development of central data base of real estate registrattion. This database will further
facilitate land registration and transactions, and would provide a service to financial institutions,
as well as courts, municipalities, and other users. Further work on development of the central
database should be built on achievements of ADP and PHARE funded projects. The system
should meet users' requirements and be easily accessible. A cost recovery system should be
designed as well.
This work will, in part, be supported by EU PHARE under the heading of "Creation of
computerized national real property registration system, that will be guaranteed by the state and
will be the only official information source for real property."



So far only selected regional systems have been developed and tested. They have been well
received by end-users, and meets their main requirements. The current system allows the
cadastre and Land Book sub-systems to be computerized in a single data base, and information
originating from both sub-systems is visible for all the applications. A working system will be
implemented country-wide by November 1, 1998.
In the development, improvement, and implementation of the system, it has become clear
that there are still some outstanding issues in the Legal Land Registration part and particularly in
Land Book offices which need to be addressed:
* support and additional training of Land Book staff;
* data conversion;
* system and data maintenance;
* development and implementation of central data base (National Land Book);
* development of system for client services.
2.   Maintenance of regional registers, data conversion and development of client-
oriented central database of real propertlr registration system. The regional data systems are
operating at varying levels (depending on resources and on the interest of local land judges), but
there is still a back log of hand-written documents and files in older data systems that need to be
updated and entered. The quality and consistency of the databases remains to be verified.
These are essential activities that require large start-up investments; however, estimated
revenue after system implementation is expected to be rather high.
3.   Required financial and technical assistance:
The needs for the final conversion and updating are: (a) equipment and works, estimated at $2.4
million, and (b) technical assistance for system design and system audit funded by SIDA,
Sweden, and Govemment of Norway.



Annex 13
Rural Development Project
Eligibility Criteria and Procedures for Selection
of Participating Financial Institutions (PFI)
and
Principal Terms and Conditions of
Subsidiary Loan Agreement
I. Eligibility Criteria and Procedures for Selection of Participating Financial Institutions
(PFI).
1. In order to be a PFI, banks have to meet at all times a set of financial and management
criteria and have signed a Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Potential PFI are individually appraised
by the Technical Unit (TU), with particular attention given to their overall lending capabilities,
and financial and loan portfolio performance. The evaluation focuses on: (i) capital adequacy;
(ii) asset quality; (iii) management effectiveness; (iv) earnings performance; and (v) liquidity.
These standards are also applied when evaluating the continued eligibility of current PFI.
2. For participation in the Project, a potential PFI will be required to meet the following criteria,
namely, that such institution:
(a) is in compliance with all banking laws and regulations including the regulatory and reserve
requirements of the Bank of Latvia;
(b) has undergone an annual audit, by external auditors, covering the most recent year of
operations, and that was conducted in accordance with international accounting and auditing
standards;
(c) is operating pursuant to investment and regulatory requirements and procedures which the
Bank of Latvia and the World Bank have judged acceptable, and has undertaken to maintain the
said policies and practices;
(d) has a satisfactory management and financial structure, determined, inter alia, on the basis of
satisfactory risk-based capital adequacy, satisfactory asset quality and lending performance;
liquidity position, and has the organization, management, technical staff and other resources
required for the efficient carrying out of its operations, including an adequate network of branch
offices in the rural areas;
(e) has a sound business plan and has appropriate budgeting and budget control procedures;
(f) has sound lending policies and procedures, and satisfactory internal control and audit
procedures; and, its internal reporting and management information systems provide sufficient
information necessary for managing its operations, performnance and risks; and
(g) its Council sets overall bank policy and performs appropriate oversight of the bank's
operations.



II. Principal Terms and Conditions of Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
3.  Principal Amount. The principal amount of a Subsidiary Loan which shall be due and
repayable by a PFI shall be equivalent, in DEM or Lats, as the case may be, of the aggregate
amount of withdrawals made by the PFI from the Credit Line, in accordance with instructions in
para.8 below.
4. Interest Rate and Repayment Terms. The Subsidiary Loan shall be charged, on the principal
amount thereof, withdrawn and outstanding from time to take, a variable (floating) interest rate
based on the interest rate payable by the Borrower to the Bank in accordance with the Loan
Agreement. The interest rate on the portion of the Subsidiary Loan denominated in DEM will be
equal to the prevailing interest rate as stipulated in the Loan Agreernent and subject to revision
every six months, plus a spread of I (one) percent, to compensate the Borrower for the
commitment fee payable to the World Bank, its costs associated with administration of the Loan
and the subsidiary loans and the maintenance of the TU and PMU. The interest rate charged and
payable on the portion of the Subsidiary Loan denominated in Lats will be equal to the rate
payable on the DEM portion plus an additional risk premium, determined by MOF and subject to
revision every six months, to cover the foreign exchange risks borne by the Borrower.
5. The principal amount of the subsidiary loan shall be repaid by PFIs over a period of 15 years,
inclusive of a grace period not exceeding 3 years. Any amount of principal repaid by sub-
borrowers on account of sub-loans made under the project, which is not immediately needed for
repayment of the subsidiary loan to MOF, would be kept by PFIs in separate "rollover accounts"
(separate accounts for each currency and for each sub-component). The funds from these rollover
accounts should be utilized by PFIs to finance additional sub-projects aimed at pursuing the
objectives of the Project, and which conform to the agreed terms, conditions and eligibility
criteria for the Project as detailed in the Subsidiary Loan Agreements and the RCG.
6. Periodically, the MOF will notify the PFI of the interest rate payable for each six-months
interest period promptly upon determination thereof.
7. Maximum Financing Share (Declining Percentages). The maximum amount to be made
available by the Borrower to each PFI out of the proceeds of the Credit Line will be equivalent to
100% of sub-loan disbursements made by the PFI until December 31, 1999. Thereafter, the
maximum amount made available to the PFIs will not exceed 80% of'sub-loan disbursements
made by the PFI.
8. Withdrawals from the Credit Line. Periodically, as agreed between the PFI and the PMU,
PFIs will prepare Statements of Expenditure (SOE) and submit SOEs to the PMU for review and
clearance. PMU will consolidate SOEs received from PFIs and transrnit them to MOF for further
processing, accompanied by PMU's authorization to disburse funds from the Credit Line to the
PFIs. Upon withdrawal of funds from the Credit Line, MOF will transfer the funds to the
respective accounts of PFIs, as were indicated in the SOEs, and debit the Subsidiary Loan
accounts of the PFIs accordingly. It should be noted that withdrawals from the Credit Line may
only be made for expenditures that have been made not earlier than 120 days prior to the date on
which the World Bank shall have received the withdrawal application mentioned above. The
aggregate amount that may be withdrawn by PFIs during any one-year period for financing of
working capital sub-loans under sub-component A of the credit line will not exceed 20 % of total
withdrawals made by the PFI during that one-year period. For each PFI the first year shall
commence on the date of signature of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
9. Accounts. MOF and the PFIs will maintain separate subsidiary loan accounts in the
respective currencies (DEM or Lats) for each portion of the Credit Line withdrawn by the PFIs.



Annex 14
Rural Development Project
Eligibility Criteria, Approval Procedures and Principal
Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans and
General Conditions applicable to all RDP Sub-loans
I. Eligibility Criteria, Approval Procedures and Principal Terms and Conditions of Sub-
loans.
A. Sub-component A. - Commercial Credit.
1. This sub-component will finance regular sub-loans for investment and working capital at
prevailing market interest rates and commercial terms.
2.. Eligibility Criteria for Sub-projects. In order to achieve the Project objectives, eligible sub-
projects would include:
(a) on-farm investments for development of agricultural and livestock production, including the
provision of seasonal working capital credit, as appropriate;
(b) investments (including permanent working capital) for development of processing, storage,
packing, marketing and other related agricultural and forestry service sectors;
(c) investments (including permanent working capital) in any other economic activity in the rural
areas, including industrial, commercial, tourism, handicrafts, etc. enterprises, provided that the.
potential sub-projects are supported by sound business plans and can demonstrate satisfactory
cash-flows and loan repayment capacity.
3. The purchase or lease of land, dwelling construction or improvement, or the refinancing of
any existing debts would not be eligible for financing from the Credit Line.
4. PFIs, when evaluating sub-project proposals for off-farm economic activities in the rural
areas, should accord priority to sub-projects that are expected to generate additional employment
opportunities and to proposals that include "innovative" ideas to utilize locally available raw
materials.
5. Eligible Beneficiaries. Eligible beneficiaries would include farmers, small- and medium
scale (SME) agricultural processing, marketing, and service enterprises, operating as joint stock
companies, farmers' associations, cooperatives, partnerships or individuals, and any other private
SMEs or entrepreneurs engaged in economic activities in the rural areas, as described in
paragraph l(c) above.
6. Criteria for Selection and Appraisal of Sub-projects. PFIs are responsible for identifying
prospective sub-borrowers and for determining the type of sub-project to be financed, and for
following the eligibility criteria for investments and sub-loan beneficiaries described in the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements and the R'CG. Except as indicated in paragraph 20 below regarding
free-limit sub-loans, PFIs would have full autonomy in sub-loan approval and would bear the
lending risks. Sub-loans shall be made for sub-projects, selected by PFIs on the basis of detailed
feasibility studies and careful appraisal by the PFI, which would cover the following:



(a) verification that sub-projects are technically feasible and economically, financially and
commercially viable, and designed with appropriate health, safety and environmental standards,
in full compliance with all laws and regulations of the Republic of Latvia.
(b) the economic justification of the proposed investment, including an assessment of the
competitiveness of the end-product compared to imports;
(c) an evaluation of the proposed scale of the sub-project, the need and adequacy of the civil
works and equipment to be procured, the location of the enterprise, its layout and design, and the
estimated costs in domestic and foreign currencies, and an assessment of compliance with
pollution control and other environment laws, regulations and guidelines set by the local
authorities;
(d) an evaluation of the borrower's ownership structure, creditworthiness, organization,
management and financial position, and an evaluation of the technical staff and know-how
available for implementing the sub-project and its operation;
(e) certification from the relevant local or national authorities that the proposed sub-project
meets all environmental laws and standards in force in Latvia, and that no safety hazards or
environmental deterioration would result, directly or indirectly, from the investment sub-project
to be financed from the Credit Line under the Project.
7. Simplified appraisal procedures could be applied to sub-projects with an estimated cost not
exceeding US$ 100,000 equivalent for replacement of machinery and equipment, or for
modernization, rehabilitation or small expansion of existing enterprises. Such simplified
procedures should include, as applicable:
(a) review and assessment of the viability and financial soundness of the potential borrowing
enterprise and its capacity to service the sub-loan; and
(b) the technical verification that the equipment, materials, spare parts, etc. to be procured are
appropriate and are intended to be used in the existing production process to alleviate any existing
production bottlenecks, increase efficiency of the existing process, cor contribute to improving
quality and meet higher product standards.
8. Sub-borrower's Participation. Sub-borrowers should be required to make the following
contributions from their own resources towards sub-project costs: no less than 15% in cash or in
kind for individual farmers and small-scale rural entrepreneurs (excluding sub-loans financed
under sub-component B as described below); and no less than 20% in cash or kind for all other
types of sub-borrowers. of For new investment sub-projects, the self-contribution, in cash or in
kind, would be no less than 30%.
9. Repayment Terrns and Interest Rates of Sub-loans. Repayment schedules of sub-loans
financed under the Credit Line would have termns of up to 12 years, inclusive of grace periods of
up to 3 years. Grace and amortization periods would be based on the type of investment financed
and the projected (estimated) cash-flow, and would be commensurate with the repayment
capacity of the borrower. However, in no case would repayment periods exceed the useful life of
the investment financed. In this connection it should be noted that appraisal projections made by
the PFI should demonstrate a debt service coverage ratio of at least 1.3 over the life of the sub-
project, calculated on the basis of the borrower's total debts. Sub-borrowers are expected to repay
the sub-loans (principal and interest) in the currency in which it was rmade.



10. PFIs should charge interest on the principal amounts of sub-loans outstanding from time to
time at the prevailing interest rate under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement (cost of World Bank
funds based on the variable interest rate plus MOF spread and foreign exchange risk premium,
where applicable) and a market-based spread determined by the PFI which would be based in
each case on PFI's risk assessment, lendiing costs and other banking considerations.
11. Choice of Currency of Sub-loans. PFIs would make sub-loans to beneficiaries denominated
and repayable in either Lat or DEM, as determined by each sub-borrower at the time of signing
the sub-loan agreement with the PFI.
B. Sub-component B - Special Credit Support for Small-scale Rural Entrepreneurs
(Special Sub-loans).
12. This sub-component will provide special sub-loans for investments by small-scale private
entrepreneurs in the rural areas. The maximum cumulative amount of sub-loans to one
beneficiary will not exceed Lat. 2,000 (including the grant component as described in Annex 15).
13. Eligibility Criteria for Sub-projects. Any investment in an economic activity (agriculture,
small-scale industry, trade and commerce, rural tourism, and services) that is considered
economically and financially viable and can generate sufficient income to sustain the beneficiary
and permit servicing the sub-loan. Exceptions listed in paragraph 3 above equally apply to
special sub-loans.
14. Criteria for Selection and Appraisal of Sub-projects. PFIs are responsible for identifying
prospective sub-borrowers and for determining the type of sub-project to be financed, and for
following the eligibility criteria for investments and for sub-loan beneficiaries described in the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements and the Rural Credit Guidelines. PFIs would have full autonomy in
sub-loan approval and, would bear 70% of the lending risks, as described in Annex 15. PFIs
would be required to carefully appraise sub-projects, in accordance with procedures appropriate
for this type of lending and loan size, generally applying simplified appraisal procedures similar
to the procedures described in paragraph 7' above.
15. Eligible Beneficiaries. Eligible beneficiaries should meet the following criteria:
(i) first-time borrowers from financial institutions
(ii) permanently reside at their locality
(iii) total landholding (owned, leased or in use) not exceeding 10 Ha
(iv) do not own more than 10 head of cattle (or equivalent)
(v) if engaged in farming activities, high proportion of production is for family-consumption
(vi) sub-project sustainable with respect 1o utilization of natural resources.
16. Sub-borrower's Participation. Sub-boirower's should be required to contribute from their own
resources, in cash or in kind, no less than 10% of the estimated cost of sub-projects.
17. Repayment Terms and Interest Rates of Sub-loans. Generally, sub-loans will comprise two
components - (i) a credit portion subject to regular repayment with interest, and (ii) a GRANT
portion, which will be a balloon payment dlue on the final maturity date of the credit portion.
(Annex 15).
The grant portion will not exceed 30 % of the sub-loan amount and is included in the maximum
sub-loan amount of Lat. 2,000 indicated above. The credit portion will bear regular prevailing
commercial interest rates, as determined by the PFI, in accordance with paragraph 10 above.
Grace and amortization periods for the credit portion of the sub-loan would be based on the type
of investment financed, the estimated cash-flow and should be commensurate with the type of



beneficiaries financed and their repayment capacity. As sub-component B would finance only
investments, the repayment period for the credit portion should be no less than 2 years.
18. Currency of Sub-loans. Unlike sub-loans made under Sub-component A, all sub-loans under
sub-component B be will be denominated and repayable only in Lats.
II. General Conditions applicable to all RDP Sub-loans (Sub-components A and B).
19. Eligible Area. All sub-projects eligible for financing under the ]'roject have to be located
outside the official municipal boundaries of the following seven major cities of Latvia: Riga,
Daugavpils, Liepaja, Jelgava, Jurmala, Ventspils and Rezekne.
20. Approval Procedures for Sub-loans above the Free-limit. Each PFI will be required to submit
to the World Bank, through the PMU, the first two sub-project proposals, under sub-components
A and B, irrespective of the amount of the proposed sub-loan and any sub-loan proposal in an
amount exceeding US$ 250,000 equivalent. For that purpose, PFIs will furnish to the PMU for
review and submission to the World Bank, an application, which will include (a) a description of
the Beneficiary including financial information, (ii) information on the appraisal of the sub-
project, including a detailed description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the
proceeds of the credit line, (iii) the proposed terns and conditions of the sub-loan, and (iv) any
other infornation that the PFI considers useful for the review of the sub-project proposal.
21. Accounts and Record-keeping. PFIs will establish in their accounting systems appropriate
accounting codes to permit identification of sub-loans made under the Project. Separate codes
will be introduced for sub-loans under each sub-component (A and B) and for sub-loans
according to the currency of denomination. PFIs will retain, until alt least one year after the World
Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
Line account was made, all records pertaining to the subsidiary loans and sub-loans made by each
PFI including accounts, contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents evidencing
sub-loan expenditures.



Annex 15
Rural I)evelopment Project
Investment Grants for Special Sub-loans under
Sub-component B and Partial Loan Guarantee.
1.   The "Grant" Portion of Sub-loans. The grant portion of special sub-loans will not exceed
30% of the total sub-loan amount (loan and grant portions). Disbursement by PFIs of the grant
portion will be made after beneficiaries have submitted to the PFI original invoices from
reputable suppliers or manufacturers' authorized agents certifying the type and quantities of goods
purchased, and provided that goods are new and considered by PFI necessary for the approved
sub-project.
2.   Collateral provided by the beneficiary to the PFI will include a pledge (lien) on all the
goods financed from the sub-loan (including the grant portion).
3.   Beneficiaries will be entitled to rezeive the investment grant only once.
4.   Financing of the Grant Portion. The grant portion will be funded by MOF out of special
budgetary resources allocated for that purpose. The PMU would be responsible for administering
the accounts relating to the grant portion and for channeling funds to the PFIs as required for
disbursement to sub-loan beneficiaries
5.   Similar to procedures regarding the withdrawals of funds from the Credit Line, PFIs will
periodically submit to the PMU separate "Statements of Expenditure for disbursements made, or to
be made, for the Grant portion of sub-loans under sub-component B. The PMU will make the
necessary arrangements with MOF for the transfer of funds requested to the respective PFIs.
Funds received by PFIs will be credited to a special MOF deposit account to be maintained by
each PFI - named "RDP Investment Grants." This account will not bear interest because funds
from this account were used for financing the grant portion of sub-loans, which, equally, do not
bear interest.
6.   Conversion of Balloon Payment into Final Grant. Upon full and timely repayment of the
credit portion of the special sub-loan, and full compliance with all other conditions of the sub-
loan, PFIs will be authorized to credit the sub-loan account with the grant portion (the balloon
payment), debiting the MOF deposit mainlained in accordance with paragraph 5 above, in the
respective amount.
7.   In case of non-compliance by the sub-borrower with conditions of the sub-loan agreement,
or a misuse of funds, or default on the regular repayment of the credit portion, beneficiaries will
be required, in accordance with conditions to be included in the sub-loan agreement, to repay,
with interest, the full grant (balloon) portion of the sub-loan.
8.   PFIs will not bear the lending risk on the grant portion of the sub-loans. However, in cases
when the grant portion becomes due for repayment in accordance with paragraph 7 above, PFIs
will make their " best efforts " to collect the amounts of principal and interest due from
beneficiaries. Any amount collected will be credited by PFIs to the MOF deposit (paragraph 5).
9.   PFIs will be entitled to receive from MOF a commission for their work and efforts in
collection of the grant portion of the sub-loan. The amount or rate of commission would be
subject to negotiation between the MOF and the PFI.



Partial Loan Guarantee on Special Sub-loans
10. Partial Loan Guarantee. In order to increase the access of intended beneficiaries under
sub-component B (who generally will lack adequate collateral), and to mitigate the lending risks,
a risk sharing arrangement will apply to the loan portion of all special sub-loans made by PFIs.
Govemment (the "Guarantor") will bear, pari passu, the lending risks up to a maximum of 30% of
the principal amount of special sub-loans (sub-loan amnount less grant portion) disbursed by PFIs
and financed from the credit line for sub-component B. The actual loss on any guaranteed sub-
loan will be shared between the Govemment and the PFI in the ratio of 30 to 70. PFIs will not be
required to pay to the Guarantor any fees for the guarantee, neither will PFIs be required to share
with the Guarantor the lending margin included in the interest rate payable by beneficiaries on the
credit portion of sub-loans. The guarantee arrangements would remain in effect until final
repayment of the Subsidiary Loan (which financed special sub-loans under sub-component B has
been made by the PFI to MOF). Separate instructions on the procedures for invoking the
guarantee, and for the transfer by MOF of funds required to cover non-collectible sub-loans will
be issued by MOF.



NIAP SECTION



IBED 29570
FINLAND ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2-27~
21'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
AJIDAN  N~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~USA
FE                     Spar~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FDRTO
20
LATVIA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~USA
OFFICIAL PECENTAGE OFDISTRicr BONARI ES556 
FIDA.EM  EM.,                                           -  -~~~~~~2    INAERNTIOA BOUNDARIES
10-15  DISTRICT BOUNDARIES~~~~BE ARU
N.IE~~~~~~~~~~~A  20   I         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~24~                                                       5   10   15  20Me6                                         27~
JULYID19



WEBE~    FrLAI ID    . /                                . -. j                                                                   24                                                                                                                                                          2 27  IBRD 29571
WLCEN 5  -  Ii eI FlillanJ<v>.   -  (                       a                                       T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2"  i27
5E   IG LSIONIA                                                    .-  -     [.   -J.iti
_    3AVIA   I                                         /
281
N-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c
*t*dty ~        ~         ~        ~        NCM   LEVEL-4BY  PAGASTEUDRS                                                                                                                                                t        s 
PER YEAR (N LATS)      NATIONAL CAPITAL~~FEDE ATIO
/  35(1 400                      PAGAST ROUNDARIES       ~       ~       ~       ~      ~      IG
WoLIJ   L_,   !                                ~~~~~~~~400-500         -    -  DISTRICT BOUNDARIES                                                                                                       w.. w- 
FFIs.&F"Yawfx,~~~~~~SO  700                                     _        . _   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                    0 510  I5 20 25 30  Sinaehr   =S
Oepo<EoIEI*    R/                                              7001500                                                                                                     o       n       m 5J
ocpo el of,i, DL    \                                PAver CTD=562.IT                                                     24;A5
_   t  . .  N                                                                                                                                                                                                             JULY 1 99~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Uf19



