Page  1
October
10, 1996
His Excellency
Roberts Dilba
Deputy Prime Minister/
Minister of Agriculture
2
Republic Squares
Riga, LV
1981
Latvia
Re:
Grant for Agricultural Development II Project
Grant TF029689
Excellency:
I am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development
(the Bank) to indicate the Bank
’s agreement, as administrator of grant
funds provided by Japan to make a grant in an amount not exceeding five hundred
thousand Dollars
($500,000) (the Grant) to the Republic of Latvia (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex
to this Letter Agreement. The Recipient hereby confirms its request that the Bank 
carry out the activities described in paragraph
1
of the Annex to this Letter
Agreement, and represents that it is authorized to contract the Grant for the said
purposes and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement. Upon 
receipt by the Bank of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this
Letter Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
/s/
Paul Seigelbaum
Acting Director
Country Department IV
Europe and Central Asia Region
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF LATVIA
By
/s/
Roberts Dilba
Authorized Representative
Date:
October 18, 1996
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms and Conditions of the Grant
1.
The technical assistance activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is 
given are as follows:
(a)
Rural Banking
Technical and financial support in realizing the merger of the Agricultural
Finance Company
(AFC) with the Latvian Land and Mortgage Bank and a substantial 
institutional development Program, both to facilitate privatization of the new bank.
(b)
Project Management
Training of Latvian staff in project management and other relevant skills.
Page  2
(c)
Farm Survey
A comprehensive survey of farms and rural entrepreneurs to identify actual
conditions and constraints in the rural sector.
(d)
Rural Business Development Center
Development of statues, business plans, and operational guidelines for a new
rural business consulting agency, and preparation of training materials and a first
round of training for local consultants, farmers, and rural entrepreneurs in the
preparation of business plans and feasibility studies.
(e)
Institutional and Human Resources Development Component
Identification and preparation of terms of reference for an institutional and
human resources development component to be included in a proposed project.
2.
The Grant shall be used to finance 100% of the cost of consultants
’
services
required for the Activities.
3.
The Bank shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipient. The 
Recipient shall cooperate with the Bank to the extent necessary to permit the Bank to
carry out the Activities promptly and effectively and in evaluating the results
thereof.
The Recipient shall indemnify the Bank against any costs or liabilities
incurred by the Bank as a result of claims against the Bank in connection with the
Activities, except those resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of
its staff or external consultants.
4.
The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the Consultants) required to 
assist in the carrying out of the Activities shall be the responsibility solely of the
Bank and shall be done according to the Bank’s applicable procedures.
5.
The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied by, or in 
the territory of, the Republic of Latvia on the Consultants or any of the Consultants’ 
personnel
(other than nationals or permanent residents thereof)
in connection with the
Activities.
6.
The Recipient may at any time request the Bank in writing to terminate the 
Activities. Whether or not the Recipient has made such a request, the Bank may at any 
time suspend or, after consultation with the Recipient, terminate the right of the
Recipient to receive Grant funds for the Activities if any of the following events has
occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to perform any of its 
obligations under this Letter Agreement; or
(b)
the right of the Recipient, or any
other entity to which the Bank has made a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to
make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank shall have been suspended.
7.
The Bank is not an agent of or trustee for the Recipient and shall not have any 
fiduciary relationship with the Recipient. The Recipient shall have no right to any 
portion of the Grant that is not expended by the Bank pursuant to this Agreement.
8.
The technical assistance activities described in paragraph of 1 above are 
expected to be completed by December
31,
1997.
