Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4380 LV
Loan Agreement
(Rural Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF LATVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated September 9, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4380 LV 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated September 9, 1998, between REPUBLIC OF LATVIA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A)  the Bank has received a letter dated May 29, 1998, and an 
attachment thereto dated June 9, 1998, from the Borrower describing a program of 
policies and actions (the Program) designed to enhance the development of rural areas, 
and declaring the Borrower’s commitment to implementation of the Program;
(B)  the Borrower has requested the Bank to support the execution of the Program 
through extension to the Borrower of Loans up to the equivalent of $25,000,000 over a 
period of five (5) years; and
(C)  the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, as modified 
through December 2, 1997, (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Beneficiary” means a recipient of a Subloan under Part B of the Project;
(b)
“Deutsche Mark” and “DEM” means the lawful currency of the Federal 
Republic of Germany;
(c)
“Eligible Investments” means, as defined in the Rural Credit Guidelines 
and as may otherwise be agreed upon from time to time between the Borrower and the 
Bank, any investment, including the working capital requirements thereof, for on-farm 
activities, or agribusinesses and related agricultural and forestry services or other 
rural economic activities;
(d)
“IMWG” means the Inter-Ministerial Working Group, established by the 
Borrower to develop strategies for rural development;
(e)
“Lat” or “LVL” means the currency of the Borrower;
(f)
“MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance;
(g)
“PFI” means a participating financial institution to be selected for the 
provision of Subloans under Part B of the Project in accordance with the criteria and 
procedures set forth in the Rural Credit Guidelines;
(h)
“PMU” means the Project Management Unit, established by the Borrower 
under MOF;
(i)
“Rural Credit Guidelines” means the rural credit guidelines dated June 9, 
1998, adopted by the Borrower to govern the provision and management of Subloans under 
Part B of the Project, as the same may be amended from time to time with the agreement 
of the Borrower and the Bank;
(j)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(k)
“Subloan” means a loan to be provided by a PFI to a Beneficiary for 
purposes of Part B of the Project, in accordance with the Rural Credit Guidelines and 
the provisions of Part B of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(l)
“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means any of the agreements to be entered 
between the Borrower and the PFIs in accordance with the provisions of Part B (2) of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement, and the term “Subsidiary Loan” means the loan provided 
under any Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
(m)
“Special Subloan” means a Subloan to be provided to a small entrepreneur 
on such terms as defined in the Rural Credit Guidelines.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to eighteen 
million six hundred thousand Deutsche Mark (DEM 18,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
Page  3
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of: (i) the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for Parts A and C of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; and (ii) withdrawals made by a Beneficiary 
of a Subloan under Part B of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Deutsche Marks a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure 
and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this 
Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in for value the 
first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring 
on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage 
per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 
of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable May 15 and November 15 
in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
Page  4
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out Part A and C of the Project through the PMU and Part B of the Project through the 
PFIs, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial, 
engineering, administrative and rural credit practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan allocated under 
Category (1) of the table shown in Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the provision of 
Subloans under Part B of the Project to the PFIs under subsidiary loan agreements to 
be entered into between the Borrower and the PFIs, under terms and conditions which 
shall have been approved by the Bank, including those set forth in Part B.2 of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants’ services required under the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to 
ensure the continued achievement of the objectives of the Project and the Program; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such 
Page  5
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause each PFI to maintain records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its 
operations and financial condition.
(b) 
The Borrower shall cause each PFI to:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of its 
financial statements for such year as so 
audited; and (B) the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records, accounts 
and financial statements and the audit thereof as the 
Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
the Rural Credit Guidelines shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated 
or waived without the Bank’s prior consent; and
(b)
a situation shall have arisen, which shall make it improbable that the 
Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any of the events specified in 
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
Page  6
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that a Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on 
behalf of the Borrower and at least one PFI.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
1 Smilsu Street
Riga, LV-1919
Latvia
Facsimile:
371 7820010
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Riga, Republic of Latvia, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF LATVIA
By /s/ Roberts Zile 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Page  7
By /s/ Basil G. Kavalsky 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
DEM Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Subloans under
14,100,000
100% of amounts disbursed
Part B of the Project
by the PFIs on or before
December 31, 1999, and
80% of amounts of
disbursed thereafter
(2)
Goods under
 2,700,000
100% of foreign
Parts A and C of
expenditures,
the Project
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 80% of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally
(3)
Consultants’
 1,800,000
100%
services under
Parts A and C of
the Project
 _________
TOTAL
18,600,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals in an amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
DEM 1,750,000 may be made for payments made under Category (1) of the table set forth 
in paragraph 1 of this Schedule before that date, but on or after May 1, 1998; and (b) 
payments on account of a Subloan under Part B of the Project unless such Subloan has 
been provided in accordance with the provisions of the Rural Credit Guidelines and the 
relevant provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods and works under contracts 
costing less than DEM 530,000 equivalent each; (b) services of consulting firms under 
contracts costing less than DEM 175,000 equivalent each; and (c) services of 
individual consultants under contracts costing less than DEM 85,000 each, all under 
such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
Page  8
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project constitutes a part of the Program which has the objective of 
increasing income and employment levels in rural areas through policy, regulatory and 
investment finance measures, designed to promote the diversification and growth of 
economic activities in such areas.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modification 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Rural Development Policy
1.
Implementation of measures to strengthen the capacity of IMWG and other central 
agencies of the Borrower in the formulation and management of policies for rural 
development, including: (a) provision of advisory services; (b) organization of policy 
training workshops and study tours; and (c) preparation of regulatory instruments to 
promote policy coordination.
2.
Provision of technical assistance and training to local bodies to strengthen 
their capacity in the development and implementation of strategies and programs for 
rural development.
Part B:
Rural Finance
Provision through the PFIs of Sub-loans to Beneficiaries for the financing of 
Eligible Investments.
Part C:
Institutional Development
1.
Provision of technical assistance, equipment and training to strengthen the 
capacity of PFIs in the appraisal and supervision of subloans for rural development.
2.
Provision of technical assistance, equipment and training to strengthen the role 
and capacity of private agencies and associations concerned with rural development. \0c 
3.
Expansion of on-going land reform program through the implementation of measures 
to expedite title registration, establish a land registry system and an information 
system to provide to financial institutions and other interested parties information 
on land registration, land titles and other rights on land.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Date
(Deutsche Mark)*
November 15, 2002
555,000 
May 15, 2003
570,000 
November 15, 2003
580,000 
May 15, 2004
590,000 
November 15, 2004
600,000 
May 15, 2005
615,000 
November 15, 2005
625,000 
May 15, 2006
635,000 
November 15, 2006
650,000 
May 15, 2007
660,000 
November 15, 2007
675,000 
May 15, 2008
690,000 
November 15, 2008
700,000 
May 15, 2009
715,000 
Page  9
November 15, 2009
730,000 
May 15, 2010
745,000 
November 15, 2010
755,000 
May 15, 2011
770,000 
November 15, 2011
785,000 
May 15, 2012
800,000 
November 15, 2012
815,000 
May 15, 2013
835,000 
November 15, 2013
850,000 
May 15, 2014
865,000 
November 15, 2014
885,000 
May 15, 2015
905,000
____________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Deustche Marks to be repaid, 
except as 
provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and in September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto, related to preference for domestically manufactured goods, shall apply to 
goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and procured in accordance with 
the provision of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
International or National Shopping
1.
Goods under Part A or Part C of the Project, estimated to cost less than 
$300,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $425,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international 
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Procurement Guidelines.
2.
Goods under Part A or Part C of the Project, estimated to cost less than $75,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $75,000 equivalent, 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Commercial Practices
Goods and works under Part B estimated to cost the equivalent of less than 
$1,000,000 per contract may be procured at competitive prices in accordance with 
established commercial practices of the respective Beneficiaries, provided that such 
practices involve obtaining quotations from more than one supplier or contractor; and 
with due account being taken, in addition to prices, of other relevant factors such as 
time of delivery and efficiency and reliability thereof and availability of 
maintenance and spare parts therefor.
Page  10
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (a) each contract for goods and works to be procured in 
accordance with the procedures referred to in Part B of this Schedule; (b) the first 
contract to be procured in accordance with the procedures referred to Part C.1 of this 
Schedule; and (c) each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more 
and to be procured in accordance with the procedures referred to Part C.3 of this 
Schedule the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Procurement Guidelines shall 
apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for Rural Strategy Development and Implementation Components under 
Parts A and C of the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
Page  11
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
Part A:
Project Management
The Borrower shall assign the general responsibility for management of Project 
implementation to the PMU, and shall, at least until completion of the Project, 
maintain the PMU with such facilities and resources and under such terms of reference 
as shall be required for performance of said responsibility, which shall include, 
inter alia:
1.
by November 30 in each year, the preparation and furnishing to the Bank, for its 
review and comments, of an annual work program for the Project;
2.
recommending to MOF, based on the criteria set forth in the Rural Credit 
Guidelines, the selection of an institution as a PFI under the Project;
3.
maintenance of the Project financial records and accounts and arranging for the 
audit thereof;
4.
preparation of applications for withdrawal of the proceeds of the Loan;
5.
coordination and supervision of the preparation of bidding and contract 
documents under the Project, including coordination of the recruitment of foreign and 
local consultants required for Project implementation; and
6.
preparation and furnishing to the Bank, starting in January 1999, of semi-annual 
reports on the status of Project and Program implementation, based on the indicators 
set forth in the Program.
Part B:
Subloans under Part B of the Project
1.
The PFIs: A banking or a financial or a cooperative institution may be selected 
by the Borrower, with the agreement of the Bank, as a PFI under the Project based on 
satisfaction by such institution of the eligibility criteria set forth in the Rural 
Credit Guidelines.
Page  12
2.
The Subsidiary Loan Agreement:  The Borrower, acting through its Ministry of 
Finance, shall conclude a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with each PFI under terms and 
conditions agreed upon with the Bank which shall include:
(a)
the obligation of the PFI to use the amount of the Subsidiary Loan 
exclusively in the provision of Subloans under Part B of the Project;
(b)
the denomination of the amount of the Subsidiary Loan either in Lats or 
in DEM;
(c)
the obligation of the PFI to repay the amount of the Subsidiary Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding over a period not exceeding 14 years and with interest at a 
rate to be determined at such level as shall ensure a reasonable spread for the PFI in 
relation to the interest rate applicable to the Subloans provided by it;
(e)
the obligation of the PFI to use amounts repaid to it under the Subloan 
contracts and not required to meet the PFI’s debt service obligations under the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in the provision of further Subloans under Part B of the 
Project; and
(f)
the undertaking of the PFI to apply the Rural Credit Guidelines in 
determining the terms of Subloans provided by it under the Project.
3.
The Subloans:
(a)
Subloans shall be provided in accordance with the terms and conditions 
set forth in the Rural Credit Guidelines, as the same may be amended from time to time 
with the agreement of the Borrower and the Bank.
(b)
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:
(i)
Subloans shall be provided on the basis of standard contracts 
agreed upon with 
the Bank which shall include terms, including rates 
of interest, consistent 
with the requirements set forth in the Rural 
Credit Guidelines and shall 
specifically require the 
Beneficiaries to procure goods and works to be 
financed from 
the proceeds of the Subloan: (A) in accordance with relevant 
commercial practices, as described in Part C.3 of Section I of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement; or (B) with respect to Contracts estimated to cost the 
equivalent of DEM 1,750,000 or more, under competitive bidding procedures 
as 
described in Part B of said Schedule.
(ii)
The PFIs shall each obtain the Bank’s prior approval of the first 
three 
Subloans proposed by it and subsequently any Subloan 
proposed to be provided 
by it in an amount equivalent to DEM 530,000 
or more and shall, for this 
purpose, furnish to the Bank an 
application including: (A) a description of 
the Beneficiary and an 
appraisal of the Subproject, including a description of 
the 
expenditures proposed to be financed from the proceeds of the Loan; (B) 
the proposed terms and conditions of the Subloan, including the schedule of 
amortization of the Subloan; and (C) such other information as the Bank shall 
reasonably request.
(c)
The PFIs shall each furnish to PMU quarterly summary reports listing the 
Special Subloans provided by it in the preceding quarter and evidencing compliance of 
the terms on which such Special Subloans were provided with the requirements set forth 
in the Rural Credit Guidelines.
(d)
The Borrower shall ensure the adoption by the PMU of operating procedures 
satisfactory to the Bank to monitor adherence by the PFIs to the requirements of the 
Rural Credit Guidelines in the provision and administration of Subloans under Part B 
of the Project.
Part C:
Monitoring and Evaluation
The Borrower shall:
Page  13
(1)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in the Program, the 
carrying out of the Project and of measures included in the Program;
(2)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank, on or about September 30, 1999, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (1) of this Part 
C, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project and the Program during 
the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended 
to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the Program and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(3)
review with the Bank, by December 31, 1999, or such later date as the Bank shall 
request, the report referred to in paragraph (2) of this Part, and, thereafter, take 
all measures required to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
Program and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (3) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
DEM 1,750,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to DEM 1,235,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of DEM 5,300,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to para\1fgraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
Page  14
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and 
other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal 
from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the 
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent 
that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in 
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments 
for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
Page  15
