Report No. PID4180
Project Name                     Latvia-Rural Development Project (+)
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Agriculture/Rural
Project ID                       LVPA44804
Borrower                         Republic of Latvia
Implementing Agency              Government of Latvia
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                December 12, 1997
Date PID Updated                 July 30, 1998
Projected Appraisal              April 1998
Projected Board Date             July 30, 1998
1.     Country and Sector Background   Since Latvia regained independence in
1991, it has successfully implemented a vigorous program of stabilization
policies which were complemented by a series of structural measures aimed at a
fast transformation of the economy. From the outset, most price and trade
regimes were liberalized. These steps were complemented by efforts to
restructure the banking system, privatize the economy, and demonopolize large
state-owned enterprises. These policies, which were supported by the IMF and
the World Bank, allowed Latvia to reduce macro-economic imbalances quickly and
substantially and to accumulate a significant amount of foreign exchange
reserves. Tight fiscal and monetary policies led to near-balanced budgets
through 1993 and a sharp decline in the annual rate of inflation to 9% in
1997.
2.     Agriculture Sector   Before independence, agriculture was the second
largest sector in the Latvian economy, accounting for nearly a quarter of the
GDP and employing 18% of the labor force.   While its relative share in the
economy has declined, the agricultural sector continues to be the main source
of income and employment and provides a valuable supplementary income to a
large number of the rural population. The agricultural and food sectors have
become increasingly important exporters, accounting for over 11% of the total
value of exports in 1997--third in value only to the forestry and textile
sector.
3.     As Latvia pursued macro-economic reform policies, it has also undertaken
rigorous reform-oriented agricultural policies which led to significant
restructuring of the sector. By mid 1995, Latvia completed the most difficult
tasks of transition, including: (a) near-complete liberalization of prices;
(b) elimination of most agricultural subsidies, with only modest direct
subsidization remaining; and (c) privatization of most of the agro-processing
and input-supply enterprises. In the area of land reform, achievements were
even more impressive; most of the land was returned to private individuals
who either farm it themselves or rent it to others. The number of private
farms increased from just 7,500 in 1992 to over 130,000, and the area occupied



by these farms increased over 13 times. These farms, together with household
plots, accounted for over 80- of total agricultural production in 1997.
The Project
4.     Introduction      The project is the first of a two phase Adaptable Program
Lending (the Program) and follows the first Agricultural Development Project
(ADP) that the Bank has approved in 1994. The ADP has been completed with
successful outcome. The Program is designed to help transform Latvia's rural
sector become compatible with EU standards. The Program includes: (a)
investing in the institutions necessary to implement policy reforms; (b)
providing the public infrastructure necessary to support private growth both
on- and off-farm; (c) ensuring adequate financing for agriculture and off-farm
business development; and (d) providing a framework for participatory
community development that will empower rural residents while reducing
incentives for urban migration. While the details of the first phase project
are well defined, specificity of the second phase of the Program remains to
be defined during the implementation of the first phase project.
5.     Objectives   The development objective of the first phase project is to
lay the groundwork for increasing income levels and improving living standards
of the rural population by promoting diversification and growth of economic
activities in the rural areas. The proposed project would achieve the stated
objective through:(a) strengthening policy formulation capacity for rural
development strategies at national, regional, and local levels of government;
(b) introducing participatory approaches to rural development to increase
stake-holders' ownership and commitment; (c) providing credit and technical
assistance to generate employment and income earning opportunities in rural
areas; (d) further strengthening rural banking practices and rural business
development service network consistent with principles applied in the EU; and
(e) expanding support for the development of the emerging land market and
legal registration system of private land and real estate.
6.     Description   The project has three components as follows:
A. Rural Development Policy Component (US $1 million)
7.     The component aims to assist the Government, through technical
assistance, in the development of a comprehensive rural strategy and human
resource capacity at the national, regional, and local levels. The component
would provide training, workshops, study tours, organize policy forums, and
help create new policy instruments and measures through promoting and
coordinating policy dialogues among ministries, the central government and
local level authorities and increasing public awareness and support. This
component will closely coordinate with the EU supported "Rural
Diversification Project" which provides technical assistance in selected
Pagasts.
B. Rural Finance Component (US $15.5 million)
8.     This component will provide a credit line to eligible participating
financial institutions (PFIs) to on-lend for working capital and investment
loans at prevailing market interest rates and commercial terms. Intended
beneficiaries are those who have commercially viable and bankable projects
with adequate collateral, adequate financial rates of return and demonstrated
repayment capacity. Borrowers applying for credit will have to meet strict
eligibility requirement related to their ownership, share holding, and
- 2 -



management. PFIs will maintain full autonomy in selection of borrowers,
approval of sub-projects, and determination of lending terms
9.     This component will have a sub-component which will provided small size
loans to private entrepreneurs in the rural areas. A maximum cumulative loan
to one single borrower will be limited to LAT 2,000. A combination of a
partial credit guarantee scheme, a complementary capital grant, and
transaction cost support will be provided. This component will help overcome
the problems of inadequate collateral by giving individuals opportunities to
accumulate assets for future collateral and encourage commercial banks to
lend to rural entrepreneurs.
C. Institutional Development Component (US $2.5 million)
10.    This component will provide technical assistance to strengthen rural
business development, marketing, and other private sector development support
services in rural areas. Potential partners include Latvian Agricultural
Advisory Services, Small Enterprises development centers, NGOs, etc. TORs
have been prepared for this component.
11.    This component will also provide institutional support to address
constraints on credit flows to rural sectors through capacity building in the
Mortgage and Land Bank (MLB), strengthening of other PFIs, and TA and training
to develop the registration of security interests.
12.     A sub-component will expand the already on-going land reforms in Latvia.
Operations in the Cadastre and Land Book will be expanded to expedite the
title registration and reduce the backlog between Cadastre and Land Book
registration. A related TA will be provided to improve the MIS system and the
valuation of land, and to create a "Real Property Registration and Credit
System" which can provide services to financial institutions on collateral,
liens, and other debt obligations of potential borrowers.
13.    Financing  The total project cost of the first phase project is US $19
million which will be implemented during 30 months. The project financing
includes a Bank loan of US $10.5 million which will be complimented by US $1.0
million from the Government of Latvia, US $3.8 million from PFIs, US $ 1.0
million from prospective donors, and US $2.7 million from beneficiaries self-
contributions. The financing plan for the second phase project (US $14.5
million) will be determined at a later stage.
14.     Implementation   The Ministry of Finance (MOF) will on-lend the credit
line funds to eligible PFIs, which in turn, will extend sub-loans to the
ultimate intended project beneficiaries. During implementation, a Project
Management Unit (PMU) will coordinate overall project implementation and
report to the Inter-Ministerial Working Group. The PMU will: (a) serve as the
main communication point with the Bank and will also ensure that all
requirements pertaining to the agreed Loan Agreement will be implemented on a
timely basis; (b) oversee and coordinate project activities and ensure that
project implementation is consistent with stated project objectives; (b) be
responsible for preparing and overseeing implementation of annual work
programs, monitoring, evaluation and reporting project performance, accounts
and audits, operation of the special account and procurement of goods and
services and; (c) be responsible for implementation of the institutional
development component including coordination with the Ministries of
-3 -



Agriculture, Economy, Regional Development, Justice, and Finance and other
donors.
15.    The PMU will also have   responsibility for monitoring implementation of
the Special Credit Line for small-scale rural enterprises, and ensure that
intended beneficiaries are receiving support. Business support to rural
clients will be provided through a network of service providers such as
Latvian Agricultural Advisory Services, Small Business Development Center,
NGOs, private consulting companies, and marketing and distribution companies,
etc.
16.    Sustainability   Sustainability of the project would depend on multiple
factors: at the sub-project level. For the credit line component, financial
analysis should confirm sustainability of each sub-project, and PFIs must
maintain a quality portfolio through prudent operations. Appropriate TA will
be provided to enhance the sustainability. At the policy level, consistent
and well designed rural development policies need to be implemented in a
coordinated manner with all concerned agencies. At the local level,
sustainability of the project would be linked to improvement in labor
productivity and job opportunity, and the project's participatory approaches
to promote community involvement would enhance the sustainability. The
concept has been well received in most rural areas in Latvia. In addition,
the principle of rural development which broadly fits with the concept of
rural development of depressed areas in the EU has been accepted by the GOL.
The Government of Latvia (GOL)'s commitment to provide counterpart funding for
the special support for small-scale entrepreneurs is likely to ensure a high
level of sustainability of sub-project benefits.
17.     Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector.
- Bank experience with rural development projects indicates that centralized
and top-down approaches to rural development often fail; the RDP is based on a
bottom-up participatory approach in which the local population would have a
voice.
- Directed Credit to a specific sector often fails, and often benefits
relatively well-off farmers rather than the poor. The RDP would have an
earmarked credit support for small scale rural entrepreneurs who would
otherwise not have access to commercial credit.
- A matching grant approach to local and community-driven development with
built-in flexibility, participatory, and cost-effective features are effective
(e.g. Northeast Brazil) - focused poverty alleviation schemes such as credit
guarantee schemes to increase access to credit and possible investment capital
grant schemes are being incorporated in the RDP.
- A community based approach to resource allocation, enforcement, and
maintenance has proven successful (e.g. Burkina Faso, Egypt, Brazil) - the
Local Action Group (LAG) design under the RDP is consistent with this
principle.
- In rural finance, the main emphasis should not merely be providing credit,
but to stimulate savings as well, and be based on a broad-based clientele -
PFIs under the RDP will be banks with large networks of branches in rural
areas which mobilize resources from multiple sources, including savings.
- 4 -



- Excessive constraints put on PFIs do not necessarily improve efficiency
(e.g. the Latvia ADP with the Agricultural Finance Company) and PFIs should
have multiple sources of funds to reduce their cost of funding.
- There should be multiple PFIs involved in a credit project to increase
competition among banks and reduce the cost of borrowing to ultimate
borrowers- at least three PFIs are expected to participate in the RDP.
- A credit line operation must be accompanied by complementary TA support to
enhance risk assessment of loan officers and other institutional development
support for PFIs, as well as support to clients in developing "bankable"
projects - a comprehensive TA support is being included in the RDP.
- Improvement of collateral system based on legal ownership of property is a
prerequisite to a successful credit operation. The RDP will continue to
provide TA and financial support to advance land registration as did the ADP.
- The Government has recognized that it does not have comparative advantages
in selecting investments which will help alleviate poverty in rural areas.
The Government will, instead, earmark a specific loan amount to provide
special support to small-scale entrepreneurs and rely on the commercial
banking system to appraise, approve, and supervise investment loans.
- As incentives to commercial banks to lend to rural poor, the Government
will provide partial credit guarantees, transactions cost support, and
complementary grant schemes. Past experience with credit guarantee schemes
were generally too expensive to maintain, or demand was often too low due to
duplication of risk assessment. Recognizing this, rather than creating a
separate Credit Guarantee Agency, the RDP will introduce a simplified version
of a credit guarantee scheme.
18.    Poverty Category   This project belongs to a program of targeted
intervention to reduce poverty. Economic restructuring in Latvia has had
mixed results and the benefits have not been equally distributed. Policies in
general have been urban-biased and the conditions in rural areas are getting
worse, with ever increasing unemployment, poverty, and declining living
standards. Major income disparities exist in rural Latvia between rich and
poor, and these disparities are increasing. A special program is included in
the RDP to train rural unemployment or underemployed people in alternate
skills, and help them start their own businesses, as well as providing
increased access to credit.
19.    Environmental Aspects   The project has been rated as environmental
screening category "B." No major environmental issues are expected. The
proposed operation is expected to have positive environmental effects through
the promotion of improved land use practices, farming methods, and
agricultural product processing. Each sub-project will be subject to review
based on an environmental checklist. Loan officers of PFIs, PMU and LAAS
staff will receive training courses on environmental screening of loan
applications based on Bank's Environmental Guidelines for Financial
Intermediary Loans. In addition, a leaflet on the use of agricultural
chemicals will be distributed to PFIs. The proposed project is consistent
with the Latvia's environmental assessment procedures and the provisions of
Operational Directive 4.01 'Environmental Assessment.'
20.    Program Objective Categories   The Board approved the updated CAS for
Latvia in May 1998. The latest CAS identifies the priority areas for Bank
- 5-



assistance as: (a) strengthening the macro-economy and financial sector; (b)
accelerating development of the private sector; (c) reshaping the role of the
State; (d) promoting environmentally sustainable regional development; and (e)
strengthening the financing and delivery of social services. It also
identifies poverty reduction as one of the key development objectives. The
project relates directly to the Bank's objectives in supporting private sector
and financial sector development. The targeted program would alleviate rural
poverty by creating alternative income generation opportunities through
training, enhanced information flows for business opportunities, and provision
of investment credit.
19.    Project Benefits  The project would increase the provision of financial
services to small scale farmers and rural entrepreneurs, and provides
alternative job opportunities to unemployed which in turn help generate income
and employment and improve living standards of the rural population. In
addition to the poverty alleviation effect, the project would: generate
financial and economic benefits in the form of increased agricultural
productivity and output through credit-led modernization and continuous
restructuring of the agricultural sector; and increase incomes and employment
opportunities through the diversification of economic activities into non-
agricultural sectors. The project would present a new approach to rural
development based on local participation, and create a pilot rural finance
scheme which will be meant for those who lack collateral or capital for self-
financing hence providing access to credit to those previously excluded
20.    Project Risks      Some of the main risk that the project may face are: (a)
recurrent macro-economic instability and possible reversal of sectoral
policies; (b) possible political instability; (c) market and exchange rate
fluctuations; (d) weakness of the emerging financial sector; and (e) financial
risk inherent in new, private farming, i.e. farmers' limited capacity to repay
credit. Although political instability is beyond the control of the proposed
operation, given a commitment by the Government of Latvia to continue economic
reform, as evidenced by the currently effective agreement with the IMF on an
Extended Fund Facility (EFF) and the on-going policy dialogues with the Bank,
the policy risks would be somewhat mitigated. The strengthening of financial
intermediaries' institutional capacity to assess credit risks and market
analysis, as well as farm and business management advisory services, would
counteract some market and financial risks.
Contact Point:
Hoonae Kim, ECSSD
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 473-2550
Fax No.: (202) 614-0140
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending August 14, 1998.
- 6 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it is
prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental
Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public Information Document
(PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.
-7-



