                                                                                                                                  92521
Diverse Economic Activities Help Fight Rural Poverty                                                                           April 29, 2004

Marta Rībele, reporter, exclusively for WB

Before Latvia regained her independence, agriculture ranked  second as major sector of national economy accounting for 1/4 of the GDP
and providing employment to 18% of the country's population. In 1997 the aggregate GDP share of agriculture, hunting and forestry
dropped to 7%, yet the proportion of those employed in this sector persisted at almost the same level, and  more than a half of all people
residing in the countryside were engaged in agriculture. This explicitly demonstrates that the sector failed to guaranty adequate income to
the rural population, while other branches of rural economy did not compensate for it.

In order to reduce poverty and unemployment, and to support the development of rural economy and expansion of alternative income
earning opportunities, the World Bank and the Government of Latvia launched the Rural Development Project late 1998. The total
project cost  was USD19 million, of which 10.5 million is the loan from the World Bank. The rest is financed through Government 
subsidies, by finance institutions involved in the project (Baltic Transit Bank, Parex Bank and  Latvian Mortgage and Land Bank), donor
grants and beneficiaries. The project is the second agricultural project supported by the WB after  the 1994 Agriculture Development
Project.

The largest project component is a credit line for rural projects. Under the Agriculture Development Project only commercial credits were
issued, while the goal of the second project is to give assistance also to those who need special support  to access commercial credits for
the first time. A small loan up to LVL 2000 (USD 3175) is being provided, mixed with a matching investment grant. "Rural people often
lack opportunities to access such mini credits, as they are not remunerative from the point of view of economic efficiency. Those people,
however, have psychologically lost appropriate perception of life, and a slight "push" is just what can assure them that something can still
be done. So they afterwards become commercial borrowers," says Inesis Feiferis, Board Chair of the Mortgage and Land  Bank (MLB). In
addition, the Baltic Transit Bank and the Parex Bank  are also servicing  this credit line.

"Our rural counterparts working in the same area  are afraid of taking credits and launching their own businesses, but it is necessary and
we have long been considering it," Evita and Tony Leitani, owners of the Dobele veterinary clinic, are saying. They took their first credit of
LVL1,200 (USD1905) to  renovate the premises and purchase part of the needed equipment. In their opinion, the credit terms are
favorable. Both hope that in the future they will be able to develop and expand their business, and another credit is already on their minds.

Agris Smelteris from Jaunpils, owner of the individual farm "Livas", also hopefully contemplates the expansion of his own, so far
successful business activities. A credit of DEM 62 thousand enabled him to purchase equipment for the plastic window production facility ,
which gives employment to 28 workers and earns him half of the income, the other half being earned by keeping a cafe and two shops
(both in part  launched also thanks to a credit). The businessman is content with the borrowing terms. "The idea of launching my own
business came to me a long time ago. Plastic window frames can be manufactured in Jaunpils and sold across the entire territory of
Latvia," emphasizes A. Smelteris. He describes his business as an average one and does not conceal his satisfaction with successful
sales. "There are no bad businesses in the countryside, and there are some budding farmers as well. The heart of the matter lies in the
fact that entrepreneurial activity is going on. I have got 20 hectares of land. When I started I faced two alternatives - to take more land or
to start another type of business.  I chose the latter," he concludes.

Another Jaunpils farmer Vairis Stolcers, owner of the individual farm Bramani, took a credit of  DEM 42 thousand, and now is developing
his own rural recreation business. "I have always wanted to stay in the countryside, hence I had no problems how to succeed in starting a
rural business," he notes. Back in 1994 V.Stolcers was considering two areas deeming them more profitable than others - cattle breeding
and rural tourism. As the former required significant investments, he selected the latter. Having started with offering sites for camping, he
has gradually built and accommodated a guesthouse, frequented by the people from the capital. "This is a business the growth of which is
in my own hands. Everything will depend on my skill to get on with the people," explains the businessman. This is not the first credit in his
life, and previously borrowed funds had been spent on the purchase of agricultural machinery as he is still engaged in cattle breeding and
grain farming. "When considering the second credit, I visited numerous banks. All declined my business plan, and only the Mortgage Bank
found it acceptable; besides interest rates of other banks were also too excessive," he recalls. At present he is considering how to expand
his business, yet does not open "all of his cards". According to him, recreation business is closely related to the general living standards: if
you invest heavily into it, you have to raise the prices, but at presently  low purchase power it would not be affordable for the people. The
businessman does not deny that large numbers of rural dwellers fall into despair, but he is convinced that everything must be done by the
people themselves, and that nobody is supposed to come and to show what to do and how. It must be his nature that  made him
understand this truth and accept it.

As of  end August, 2001,  over 1, 200 such small loans were made with over 40% for the service sector (such as hairdresser's, sewing-
shops, medical services, etc.), 23% for trade, 19% for agriculture and forestry. In addition, over 330 commercial loans have been issued.
Today all these commercial banks – MLB, BTB and Parex – are active.

Repayment problems have been incurred only in 9 cases (accounting for 0.43% of the total disbursed funds). According to MLB Board
Chair, explanation for so successful repayment, particularly of the small financing, is as follows: "When we started implementation of this
project, we conducted a serious information campaign. Entrepreneurs were warned that this might be their last chance to improve life,
hence the project must be well-thought, funds well-invested and properly repaid." Both the project and the bank management describe
entrepreneurs' perception of the project as satisfactory.

Alongside with the credit line, financing under the Rural Development Project is assigned also to drafting  the rural development policy and
has been used in building a national integrated computerized land register . The project closes this year, but according to Aigars
Stokenbergs, manager of the Rural Development Project, it is clear at this point that its objectives have already been attained: in 1997 
54% of all economically active in the countryside  were engaged in farming, but in 2000 - only 37 percent . "It is clear that further, even
greater efficiency of economic activities in the rural areas shall be ensured through new forms of employment, and the question is what
financial resources should support the attainment of it," he remarks. Significance of this project and the need to proceed with it is also
emphasized by the MLB Board Chair who notes that this project of micro crediting may grow into a poverty elimination program for the
entire  countryside.

 
