Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
Report No.: AB1739  
Project Name 
Third Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC-2) 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
 
Project ID 
P078619 
Borrower(s) 
GHANA 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning 
Date PID Prepared 
July 7, 2005 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
April 25, 2005 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
August 4, 2005 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Ghana’s key development objectives are outlined in the 2003-2005 Ghana Poverty Reduction 
Strategy (GPRS).  These objectives include maintaining macroeconomic stability and enhancing 
equitable growth, improving human development indicators, especially in deprived areas, and 
strengthening governance and public sector management.  Ghana is a low-income country of 
about 20 million inhabitants and a per capita income of US$380 (2004), which is about one-fifth 
below the average of US$490 for Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA).  Despite progress in raising per capita 
income and improving indicators of human development over the last twenty years, there are still 
large regional disparities within the country.  While just under 60 percent of the population lives in 
rural areas, these areas account for three-quarters of those living on one dollar or less a day.  There 
are also large differences in provision of human services between urban and rural areas, which are 
reflected in a one-to-five difference in the ratio of doctors to the overall population, and a female 
school enrollment that is one-quarter lower than the country average.   
 
The Bank supported the launching and the first year implementation of the GRSP through 
PRSC-1 and PRSC-2, and PRSC-3 would support the third year of implementation of the 
strategy through continued quick-disbursing assistance, providing predictable resources for the 
implementation of the 2005 budget.  Through its PRSCs, the Bank has established a credible 
framework for supporting the GPRS, with increasingly close collaboration with other donors.  
Bank support through PRSC-3 would be crucial to maintaining macroeconomic stability, and 
funding of human services in deprived areas, making possible progress toward meeting the MDG 
targets and the GPRS objectives.   
Page  2
Proposed objective(s) 
 
PRSC-3 would support the government in making progress toward key GPRS objectives.  By 
providing financing for the budget, including additional external financing, it would support the 
government in maintaining a sound macroeconomic framework.  A stable macroeconomic 
framework would be ess
ential for achieving the economy’s growth potential and reducing 
poverty as targeted under the GPRS.  The operation would furthermore aim at enhancing growth 
potential by supporting measures to improve the business environment, facilitate trade, increase 
energy supply, develop the rural economy, and improve the management of natural resources.  In 
the education sector, the operation would aim at increasing access, completion and quality in 
basic education in deprived regions, and at ensuring sustainable financing for the delivery of 
education to the poor.  In the health sector, PRSC-3 will focus on bridging the equity gaps in the 
access to health care services in deprived regions.  In areas of social protection, PRSC-3 would 
support the development of a comprehensive social protection strategy, as well as interventions 
to help contain the spread of HIV/AIDS, especially among high risk groups and in areas of high 
prevalence.  Similarly, in the areas of safe water and sanitation, PRSC-3 would support the 
development of a comprehensive sector policy, allowing better targeting of investments, and 
supporting deprived districts in preparing water and sanitation plans to guide these investments.  
Furthermore, to reinforce the programmatic links of the budget with the GPRS, the operation 
would support key public sector reforms aimed at (i) laying the ground work for better service 
provision at the local level; (ii) enhancing the efficiency and transparency of public spending; 
and (iii) building the capacity to monitor and evaluate policy outcomes.   
 
2. Preliminary 
description 
 
To support progress toward GPRS objectives, PRSC-3 would support policies under three 
broadly-defined components: promoting growth, income and employment; improving the 
delivery of human services, and strengthening governance and public sector management.  
Policy reforms under the first component include measures to create a more diversified financial 
sector, opening room for increase credit to the private sector, and measures to strengthen the 
business environment through the expansion of energy supply services and the removal of 
administrative barriers for business development.  This component also supports measures to 
improve the performance of the rural sector through policy actions aimed at strengthening 
government’s support to agriculture, and at improving the management of forestry resources.  
Actions under the second component include measure aimed at assisting Ghana reach the MDG 
goals by improving service delivery in education, health, social protection, and water and 
sanitation.  Measures to improve service delivery in education focus on increasing access and 
completion of quality basic education, particularly in the three most deprived regions (Northern, 
Upper East and Upper West), and on improving the efficiency and equity of education financing, 
with greater attention to the poverty impact.  Measures to improve the delivery of health services 
center on bridging the equity gaps in the access to health care services in deprived regions 
(Northern, Upper East, Upper West and Central), and at reducing the spread of HIV/AIDS.  
Measures to improve social protection concentrate on actions supporting the vulnerable and the 
excluded, such as the people living with HIV/AIDS, orphans, the homeless, and street children.  
Measures to expand the provision of safe water and sanitation include the development of a 
comprehensive sector strategy that addresses issues ranging from existing coverage, sector 
Page  3
implementation capacity, technology choices, and the incidence of water-born diseases.  Action 
envisioned under the third component center on moving ahead with a medium term agenda for 
public sector reform that includes decentralization, improving public sector performance, the 
modernization of the fiduciary framework and public expenditure management, and 
strengthening the capacity to monitor and evaluate the policy agenda.   
3. Environmental Aspects 
 
The proposed operation has been rated a development policy credit, requiring that the 
program document identify possible negative environmental outcomes arising from activities 
supported by the leading operation, and there are none
.
The team working on the preparation of 
this operation acknowledges that Ghana is aware of the importance for poverty reduction to meet 
the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) of ensuring environmental sustainability
,
and the 
cross-sectoral nature of the environment and its direct and indirect linkages to economic growth 
and poverty reduction agenda have been taken into account in the preparation of the GPRS.  The 
GPRS builds on Ghana’s robust environmental institutional framework and considerable 
capacities to set, regulate and enforce environmental management standards.  The main 
frameworks are the 1991 National Environmental Policy, the 1992 National Environmental 
Action Plan, and the 1994 Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Act.  This framework laws 
give an adequate reflection of the national environmental policy objectives, seeking to reconcile 
economic development and natural resource conservation.   
 
4. Tentative financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECEPIENT 0 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
125 
 Total 
125 
 
5. Contact point 
Contact: Carlos Cavalcanti 
Title: Lead Economist 
Tel: (202) 458-9076 
 
(233-21) 22 96 81 
Fax: (233-21) 22 78 87 
Email: ccavalcanti@worldbank.org 
 
wb22579 
C:\Documents and Settings\wb22579\My Documents\Ghana\PRSC 3- PID July 7 2005.doc 
07/08/2005 3:12:00 PM
 
