Dommt of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6452
PROJEMT COMPLETION REPORT
EGYPT - NEW VALLEY PHOSPHATE ENGINEERING PROJECT
(LOAN S-14-EGT)
October 20, 1986
Industry Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washinton. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Mt of Div.ctat-GAei
Op"&tmns EvuAt,on
October 20, 1986
MEWp(NM T THE 1=UMIVE DIRW30RS AND THE PRBSIDENM
SUBJWT: Project Ccapletion Report: Egypt - New Valley Phosphate
E,gineering Project (Loan S-14-EGr)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report: Egypt - New Valley Phosphate Project
(Loan S-14-EGr)" prepared by the Industry Department.  Under the
modified systen for project performance auditing further evaluation
of this project by the Operations Evaluation Department has not been
nade.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offcial duties. Its contents MaY not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OMCIuL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EGYPT-NEW VALLEY PHOSPHATE ENGINEERING
AND
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN S-14-ErCYPT)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE ...................*,*., .....                                   i
BASIC DATA SHEET ................                                       ii
HIGHLIGHTS ................                                             iv
I.    INTRODUCTION         ........................                      1
II.   PROJECT BACKGROUJ.qD   ......................                      1
A.  Project Origin, Appraisal and Loan Approval............   1
B.  Project Objectives and Description....................... 2
III.  PROJECT IPLEMENTATION ANDMANAGEMENT .....................   3
A.  Achievement of Project Objectives ...................... 0    3
B.  Project Management                ......... .   5
C   Implementation Schedule....... ...*....... . o........... .    6
D.  Performance of Consultants, Contractors, and Suppliers.   6
E . Dis bursement s . . . . .0    . 6*0**0000*0. 0. 060. 40. 000. * ......... 0      7
IV.  CONCLUSIONS *...................... . ......................   7
A.  Overall Assessment .................... ................   7
B.  Lessons Learned  ...............                       ..... . 7
Attachment:  Comments Received from Borrower ........ .............   9
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EGYPT - NEW VALLEY PHOSPHATE ENGINEERING
AND
TECHNICAL ASSITSANCE PROJECT
(LOAN S-14-EGT)
PREFACE
Loan S-14-EGT for the New Valley Phosphate Engineering and
Technical Assistance Project, in the amount of US$11.0 million, was signed
on May 25, 1979, and became effective on October 19, 1979. After two
extensions of loan closing date, the loan was closed on January 10, 1986,
with US$7.9 million disbursed.
The main objective of t.he loan was to assess the prospects for
developing an integrated phosphate project in Egypt comprising mine,
beneficiation plant, down stream processing facilities and supporting
infrastructure for exploiting the New Valley phosphate deposits.
The Project Completion Report has been prepared by the Industry
Department based on information on project files and knowledge of staff in
the Industry Department who were associated with this project. No Bank
mission visited Egypt for the purpose of preparing the completion report.
Comments received from the Borrower have been taken into account, as
appropriate, in finalizing the report and are reproduced as an attachment.
This project has not been audited by the Operations Evaluation
Department.



- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EGYPT - NEW VALLEY PHOSPHATE ENGI'IEERING
AND
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 3-14-EGT)
BASIC DAT¶A SHEET
Key Project Data
Item                                      Appraisal Estimates        Actual
Project Cost (US$ million)
Experimental Mine                                 10.5                  N.A.
Laboratory & Pilot Rock Testing                    0.7                  N.A.
Prefeasibility Studies                             0.6                  N.A.
Feasibility Study                                  1.2                  N.A.
Total Financing Required                          13.0
Financing (US$ million)
IBRD                                              11.0                  7.9
Government                                         2.0                  N.A.
Cumulative IBRD Loan Disbursement (US$ million)
FY80   FY81   FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86
Appraisal Estimate            9.6   10.7   11.0      -       -      -      _
Actual                        7.4    7.7    7.7    7.8    7.8    7.8    7.9
Project Implementation                     Appraisal Estimate         Actual
Experimental Mine                                03/80                  01/81
Laboratory & Pilot Rock Testing                  12/79                  06/80
Preafeasibility Study of
Downstream Processing Facilities               06/80                  08/81
Preafeasibility Study of Mine                    10/81                  11/82
Feasibility Study                                12/81                    not
completed



- {ii -
Other Data
Project Appraisal                            11/78
Board Approval                               05/01/79
Loan Signing                                 05/25/79
Loan Effectiveness                           10/19/79
Loan Closing                                 01/10/86
Borrower                                     Government
Executing Agency                             INC
Fiscal Year of Borrower                      01/01 to 12/31
Mission Data
No. of      No. of
Mission              Month/Year      Days        Persons       Report Date
Appraisal              11/78           6            4
Negotiation            03,'79        7-10           4          04/03/79
Supervision I          07/80          6             2          08/11/80
Supervision II         05/81          6             3         06/04/81
Supervision III        05/82          6             3         06/30/82
Supervision IV         06/83          7             2         06/23/83
Supervision V          01/84          5             2         02/03/84



-iv -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EGYPT - NEW VALLEY PHOSPHATE ENGINEERING
AND
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN S-14-EGT)
HIGHLIGHTS
The project was conceived as a technical assistance to the
Government in their effort to develop the phosphate deposit at New Valley
near the El Kharga oasis in the Western Desert (para. 1).
The New Valley phosphate deposit, estimated at several billion
tons, offered an opportunity to develop scarce natural resources. The
deposit was subject to a feasibility study by a joint venture of French and
Swiss consultants in 1975-1977, and the report presented in 1977 envisaged
an export-oriented project producing seven million tons per year of
beneficiated rock, six million tons for export and one million tons for
domestic consumption. This was considered as a first stage and the
capacity was to double in a second stage (para. 3).
The New Valley phosphate project (the main project), was the
number one project submitted to the Consultative Group Meeting for Egypt in
June 1978. Because of the complexity and size of the proposed main
project, members of the Consultative Group asked the Bank to review the
existing documents in order to help potential donors assess its viability.
The review revealed that the proposed main project designed for rock
export, appeared uneconomic and vulnerable to substantial market risks.
After further discussions the Borrower agreed in November 1978 to
investigate the technical and economic viability of converting the rock
into phosphoric acid and other phosphate intermediates as a possible
alternative to exporting rock. Based on this agreement, the New Valley
Phosphate Engineering and Technical Assistance project was approved in May
1979 (paras. 4 and 5).
Besides establishing an experimental mine at the site of the
phosphate deposit in the New Valley, the other project components consisted
of laboratory and pilot rock testing program, studies of location,
infrastructure requirements, capital and operating costs of a phosphoric
acid plant, and a feasibility study of an integrated full scale project if
such a study was justified by the results of all other components (para.
7).
The objectives of the project were largely achieved, but with
considerable delays. As of loan closing date, three components, namely the
experimental mine, the rock testing program, and prefeasibility studies had



been completed. However, the Bank and the Borrower were not able to reach
agreement, within a reasonable time frame, on a realistic market forecast
determining the scope of the main project to be studied under the
feasibility study. This resulted in prolonged delays in commencing a full
feasibilire' study. After two extensions, for one year and two years
respectively, the loan was closed on January 10, 1986 before a full
feasibility study was commissioned (para. 8).
Overall, the project made an important contribution in the
assessment of a major investment decision.   Although a final decision has
not been .ade, the main project now being examined by the Egyptian
Government is significantly reduced in scope from the original one and made
in line with medium- and longer-term market trends (para. 24).
An important lesson learned from this project is that
inadequacies in implementation arrangements should be addressed before and
during project negotiation, as attempts to rectify such inadequacies
halfway through project implementation might prove ineffective. Where two
or more agencies with possible conflicts in viewpoint are involved, a
single project coordinating committee must be set up before the project
becomes effective to provide for effective implementation of the project.
In this case failure to set up such a committee resulted in long and
unnecessary delays in project implementation (para. 25).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EGYPT-NEW VALLEY PHOSPHATE ENGINEERING
AND
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN S-14-EGYPT)
I. INTRODUCTION
1.        The New Valley Phosphate Engineering and Technical Assistance
Project (the Project), was designed to investigate the economic and technical
feasibility of converting the New Valley phosphate rock into phosphoric acid
and other phosphate intermediates and evaluate the prospects of an integrated
phosphate project in Egypt for exploiting the huge reserves of phosphate
deposit at New Valley (also known as Abu Tartur) near the El Kharga oasis in
the Western Desert. This objective would be achieved by establishing an
experimental underground mine, carrying out laboratory and pilot rock testing
program, and conducting several studies which, depending on results, could
lead to a feasibility study for the first stage of the main project.
2.        Egypt is a country with relatively limited endowment of natural
resources. It is therefore of paramount importance for Egypt to investigate
and to take advantage of any resources discovered which could contribute to
the country's economic development and have the potential of generating
substantial foreign exchange earnings. The New Valley phosphate deposit has
potential reserves of several billion tons and therefore establishing the
feasibility of exploiting it economically could offer attractive export
prospects. In this context the New Valley Phosphate Project (the main
project) was given the highest priority among the projects the Egyptian
Government submitted to the Consultative Group in June 1978. Apart from the
benefits expected to accrue from potential exports of phosphate products, the
main project was envisaged by the Government to help open up Upper Egypt and
thus attempt to decongest the heavily populated Nile Valley.
II. PROJECT BACKGROUND
A. ProJect Origin, Appraisal and Loan Approval
3.        The Executive Organization for Industrial and Mining Complexes
(IMC), an autonomous agency under the aegis of the Ministry of Industry, had
for several years been responsible for the feasibility study of the New
Valley Phosphate project. Based on the feasibility report prepared by IMC's
consultants, the proposed main project was originally designed to produce
seven million tons of beneficiated rock in the first stage, of which six
million tons were to be exported and one million tons would be consumed in
Egypt. The capacity of the project was to double in the second stage.
Because of the complexity and the size of the proposed main project,
estimated to cost above US$1 billion including infrastructure, the Bank was
asked by the Consultative Group to review the existing documentation on the
proposed main project in order to help potential donors assess its viability.



-2-
4.        After reviewing the existing studies, the Bank came to two main
conclusions: (i) assumptions on market demand for phosphate rock and
prices were much too optimistic, particularly when taking into account the
changing trade patterns in phosphate products; and (ii) the quality and
unique characteristics of New Valley rock would make it difficult for
processing in existing phosphate fertilizer plants, thus severely limiting
the markets where it could be exported directly as rock. In view of these
conclusions, the Bank informed the Egyptian Government that the original
plan for a project designed to export in excess of six million tons of
phosphate rock was uneconomical and unduly risky.
5.        At the Egyptian Government's request, further discussions took
place during late 1978 as to the possible use of the New Valley phosphate
deposit and agreement was reached between the Government and the Bank that,
because of the relatively high cost and the difficult quality of the New
Valley phosphate rock ard its questionable market prospects, it was
imperative to assess the scope and viability of extracting and processing
this rock to produce phosphoric acid and possibly other phosphate
intermediates within Egypt largely for export. As a response to the
Egyptian Government's request for Bank financial assistance to carry out
further assessment, the New Valley Phosphate Engineering project was
conceived.
6.        As the feasibility study of the main project had been proceeding
for several years, much of the preparation work for the project was already
underway when the Bank became involved.  Pilot plant work on beneficiation
and processing characteristics of the rock was being carried out in France,
and delivery of equipment for the experimental mine was already scheduled.
Generally, project preparation work was satisfactorily carried out by IMC
and its consultants.   The project was appraised in November 1978.
Negotiations were held in Cairo in March 1979. A loan of US$11.0 million
for the project was approved on May 1, 1979. The loan became effective on
Octobet 19, 1979.
B.   Project Objectives and Description
7.        The project was designed to asspss the prospects for developing
an integrated phosphate project in Egypt v.omprising a mine, a beneficiation
plant, production facilities for phosphoric acid and/or phosphate
intermediates as well as the supporting infrastructure. Specifically, the
project consisted of the following parts:
-    The establishmeat and operation of an experimental mine at
the site of phosphate deposits in the New Valley to determine the
feasibility of producing during the first stage up to 3.5
million, and ultimately up to 7 million, tons of beneficiated
phosphate rock per year through longwall and/or other mining
techniques;



-3-
-    The laboratory and pilot testing of the suitability of phosphate
rock for manufacturing phosphoric acid and phosphate
intermediates and for establishing design data for full scale
beneficiation and processing;
-    studies of the location, infrastructure requirements, capital and
operating costs of phosphate fertilizer manufacturing facilities
as well as the capital and operating costs of a full scale
phosphate mine; and
-    carrying out a feasibility study for producing and converting
phosphate rock, mined under the first-stage, into phosphoric acid
and other phosphatic intermediaries which was contingent on the
findings of the other project components.
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND MANAGEMENT
A.    Achievement of Project Objectives
8.        The objectives of the project have been largely achieved, despite
the prolonged and unjustified delays in the later stage of implementation.
As of loan closing date, work on the experimental mine, laboratory and
pilot rock testing, and prefeasibility studies related to full scale mining
and downstream processing had been completed. However, major differences
of opinion between the Bank and the Borrower's agencies regarding the
overall scope of the main project to be studied could not be reconciled
within a reasonable time frame. Consequently, after a delay of three
years, the loan was closed on January 10, 1986 before a full feasibility
study was commissioned.
Experimental Mine
9.        The experimental mine was operated using longwall mining method.
The other alternative mining system, the room and pillar method, was also
tested at the mine, but the longwall method proved to be better suited for
this deposit. The experimental mining confirmed the results of the
geostatistics. The longwall behavior was found to be normal and the
experienee gained has enabled the optimal design of future longwall faces,
each of 150 m in face length and having a capacity of 750,000 tpy.
Experience with the double ranging drum shearer and ore transport equipment
installed proved to require higher ratings than originally anticipated.
Problems related to the yield of self-advancing supports were studied and
this will allow a better definition of design parameters. It was found
that high temperature in the mine due to oxidation of the ore caused
problems in the performance of the electronic devices. Examination of the
undulations between the phosphate seams and variegated clays allowed
estimates to be made of anticipated dilution rates in future mining
operations. Testing results indicated that longwall mining method could



lead to an overall recovery of 75% of the ir-situ ore with about 5% of
dilution and 25% P205 in ROM ore. Other issues relating to ore
transportation, galleries and ventilation were studied and recommendations
hate been made for design purposes.
Rock Testing Program
10.       Comprehensive tests were carried out by four international
laboratories. After the optimization of operating conditions on the
laboratory scale, the pilot plant tests were carried out which confirmed
the technical feasibility of using New Valley phosphate rock in a full
scale processing plant. One of the major problems in processing the rock
is the presence of about 3% iron sulphide. Because of the very small
particle size of this material which remains in the interstices of the rock
particles, it is not po-sible to remove it during beneficiation. No
problems were experienced with the iron sulphide w'hich was found to be
inert even under the acid conditions of the phosphoric acid reaction.
However, in order to obtain a commercial grade phosphoric acid, additional
filtration and clarification facilities will be needed. In view of this
disadvantage, it was concluded that the rock would be best processed in
specially designed plants in Egypt to increase its exportability.
Prefeasibility Study
II.       A prefeasibility study tc review the alternative configurations
and marketing prospects for phosphate fertilizer production facilities
downstream of the mine was carried out by a consulting company.  This study
was of a broad conceptual nature designed mainly to assess and determine
the optimum size and scope of a project to mine and process phosphate rock
in Egypt. Several important conclusions were derived from this study.
First, it was found that the New Valley phosphate rock uould be unsuitable
for nitro phosphate production which would limit its use in both Egypt and
export markets. Second, the tests carried out under the study confirmed
the work of other laboratories who carried out the rock tests and indicated
that phosphoric acid production using New Valley phosphate rock would
require about 40% more filtration area and there would be acid
clarification problems which would require further investigation. Third,
the study forecast that by 1987 the total demand for New Valley rock would
be only 900,000 tons of which only 200,000 tons could be sold as rock; even
by year 2000 the total demand for New Valley rock would only be 3.4 million
tons per annum. Based on the above findings, the study recommended that
the scope of the project contemplated by the Government of producing 3.5
mtpy by 1987 and 7 mtpy by 1995 would be clearly uneconomic from market
considerations and must be significantly reduced to be in line with
potential domestic and export demand for its products.
Feasibility Study
12.       After reviewing all the studies carried out under the project,
the Bank reached the conclusion that the final feasibility study should be
geared to a fully integrated project of a reduced output level. However,



-5-
difficulties were found in reaching consensus with the Egyptian authorities
on realistic market forecasts and consequently the scope of the project to
be studied under the feasibility study.
13.       The phosphate rock/fertilizer sector in Egypt is very small and
fragmented. Domestic phosphate consumption was 170,000 tons P205 in
1983/84. Phosphatic fertilizer production is currently based on phosphate
rock produced at Sebaiya in the Nile Valley and in the Safaga area on the
Red Sea. Single superphosphate remains the main phosphate fertilizer
used. At the time when the feasibility study of the initial New Valley
phosphate project was initiated, IMC, the project executing agency, did not
have adequate in-house expertise and relied heavily on its consultants. In
this context and due to lack of knowledge about the structural changes in
the world phosphate industry, IMC viewed the New Valley phosphate project
as a mining operation comprising a mine, a beneficiation plant and
supporting Jnfrastructure. This preconception was enhanced, to a certain
extent, by the feasibility report prepared by IMC's consultants which did
not highlight some of the major issues which needed to be addressed from
the very beginning, i.e., the quality of the rock which would limit its
export potential and the changing structure of international phosphate
trade. IMC was reluctant to agree to changes in the conceptual design aild
scope of the main project out of concerns that any project concept
extending beyond the beneficiation plant would dilute their control of the
project since study and planning for downstream use of phosphate rock was
entrusted to another agency, i.e., the General Organization for
Industrialization (GOFI), and a mining operation of reduced scale could not
justify the large infrastructural investment requirements. This resulted
in prolonged and unjustified delays in carrying out the feasibility study.
B. Prolect Management
14.       The project was implemented by the Executive Organization for
Industrial and Mining Complexeo (IMC), an autonomous agency under the aegis
of the Ministry of Industry re§ponsible for the implementation of major
industrial projects.
15.       With respect to the experimental mine and rock testing program,
the day-to-day management of technical tasks required by the project was
carried out satisfactorily. However, the project executing agency,
although being made well aware of the constraints facing the conceptual
design of the main project, failed to appreciate and respond to the Bank's
recommendations in an effective and timely manner. This resulted in
considerable delay in the implementation of the project.
16.       One of the main reasons for this delay was the inadequacies in
project implementation arrangements. On many occasions, the Bank
reiterated the importance of establishing a project coordinating committee
representing the various organizations concerned (e.g., IMC, GOFI, and
Egyptian fertilizerZcompanies as well as the Egyptian Railways and the
Egyptian Electricity Authority) to define the parameters and supervise the



-6-
feasibility study of an integrated project. Finally, a committee was set
up in late 1983 to meet the condition for the second extension of the
loan's closing date, but it was an pro forma gesture as the committee was
unrepresentative and ineffective.
C. Implementation Schedule
17.       The implementation of the project encountered tremendous delays
and the loan closing date was extended twice, for one year and two years,
respectively. The experimental mine started operation in January 1980,
nine months behind the lnitial schedule mainly due to delays in equipment
delivery and interface problems encountered in commissioning the equipment
from different suppliers. The rock tests were completed in August 1980,
about 10 months from the receipt of rock sample which was in line with
appraisal estimate. The commencement of the prefeasibility study was also
considerably delayed. A crash prefeasibility study on market prospects and
configuration optimization of an integrated project was commenced in June
1981 and completed in two months. The Egyptian authorities rejected the
conclusions of the prefeasibility report because they felt the market
projections were too low. In June, 1982, the Bank extended the closing
date of the loan by one year in order to enable all parties concerned to
review the mine studies prepared by IMC's consultants and agree on the
appropriate scope of an integrated project. The mine studies were
completed in November 1982 which again deviated from the integrated project
approach. Because of the personal intervention of the Minister of
Industry, discussions were held in Cairo in June 1983, agreement was
reached between the Bank, the Egyptian government and IMC on the scope of
feasibility study of an integrated project. However, little progress was
made during the following 20 months. It was only in April 1985 that a
contract for a market study was signed and a preliminary report of this
study was completed in December 1985. The feasibility study component was
not commissioned.
D.   Performance of Consultants, Contractors and Suppliers
18.       During most of the implementation period, IMC has depended
heavily on consultants.
19.       For the experimental mine, a foreign consultant provided support
in procurement, supervision and training, while local contractors undertook
the underground development work under its supervision. Generally, IMC
appear to have been satisfied with the work carried out by the consultant
in the development of the experimental mine and preparation of the scheme
for the main project. Although lacking in experience initially, the local
contractors generally performed well.
20.       The performance of the laboratories who carried out rock tests
was very satisfactory and consistent results from all four laboratories
closely defined the conditions necessary to optimize the processing of the
rock.



-7-
21.       The consultant company who carried out the prefeasibility study
on marKet potential and configuration optimization of an integrated project
had to put a major effort into this study at short notice in order to
complete the study in two months. Overall, it did a satisfactory job in
line with the terms of reference. The market forecasts in the report were
in line with other leading analysts' views at that time. However, the
borrower was reluctant to accept the conclusions of the report and
expressed their dissatisfaction with the consultant's recommended scale of
production. The performance of the consultant who completed a separate
market sLudy in December 1985 was considered satisfactory.
22.       Although there were some delays in delivery of equipment, no
major issues were identified regarding the performance of suppliers.
E. Disbursements
23.       Disbursements were made against 100% of foreign expenditures for
contracts awarded for equipment, rock tests and studies. During the first
year of project implementation, disbursements proceeded relatively fast,
reaching US$7.5 million representing nearly 70% of the total loan amount.
Subsequently, disbursements were very slow, totalling US$7.9 million at the
time the loan was closed five years later. The undisbursed amount of
US$3.1 million was cancelled.
IV. CONCLUSIONS
A.   Overall Assessment
24.       In summary, the project made an important contribution in the
technical and economic analysis of a major investment decision for the
exploitation of the New Valley phosphate deposit. Considering the impact
the project had on the scope and design of a main project, the project is
fully justified. Although a final decision has not been made, the main
project now being examined by the Egyptian Government is significantly
reduced in scope from the original one and made in line with medium- and
longer-term market trends. l/
B.   Lessons Learned
25.       On the part of the Bank, two lessons can be taken from this
project. First, in the case of the project which is designed to enter an
export market but does not offer clear comparative advantages, it is
imperative to carefully examine the technical and economic viability of the
project concept and reduce project risks as far as possible before major
I/ The Borrower has informed the Bank that an official committee is now
evaluating all studies completed under the Project and will submit
recommendations to the Ministry of Industry by the end of November 1986
(see Attachment).



-8-
expenditures are made. It is in this context that the Bank can, when
called upon, play an important role in guiding the borrower through this
effort particularly in a situation where there are major differences with
the borrower regarding project scope and concept. Through a well-designed
engineering loan, the Bank can provide the borrower with advice not readily
available elsewhere, and highly specialized expertise can be brought in to
help the borrower in examining and redefining the appropriate project
parameters. Second, successful project implementation depends more on
institutional arrangements than on influences of individuals. Inadequacies
in implementation arrangements should be addressed and satisfactory
solution sought before and during project negotiation as attempts to
rectify such inadequacies at a later stage might turn out to be
ineffective. Where two or more agencies. with possible conflicts of
interest are involved, a single project coordinating committee must be set
up before the project becomes effective to provide for effective project
implementation. The question may also be asked whether it was appropriate
to extend the loan closing date by three and half years because of the
personal intervention of high level government official while major
differences remained unsolved at working level.
May 28, 1986



- 9-                 ATTACWGNT
ZCZC DIST6336 RCA9651
OEDD2
REF S TCP D.S.
COMEMS RECEIVED FROM BORROWER
02731 09-09 0337P EDT
TLX 71249423 249423 WORLDDANK
BT               . .
1-009994A252 09/09/86
ICS IPMRYNL R"C
02321 RENO NV 09-09 1208P PDT RYNK
ICS IPHUOWS
1-1369526252 09/09/86
ICS IPMIIHA IISS
IISS F M RCA 09 1358
PMS WASHINGTON DC
WUD9026 EYU583 S1489
URAX COl UNCA 110.
ASWhi 110 4 1140 NFfAT
DATE :I 3/9/1986
ATT. HR  . GEORGE C .  MANIATIS
INTBAFRAD l) S A
WASHINTON
REFERENCE YOUR LETTER DATE 6/8/1986 INFORM YOU THAT AN
OFFCIAI COMMITTE (S NO)W EVAILUATING ALL PRFVXOUlS STUDIES
STOP BY THE END OF NOVFMPFR 1986 THEY WILL. SUBMIT THEIR
RECOMMEDATInNS 'rlO THE MINISTRY O1  INDMlSTRY STOP ACCORDINCLY
THF FRAME OF THE INTFFRATFD PROFFCT WILL OF DFFINED T
STOP SOME FIGURES IN THE A/M I.ETTFR DEVIATES FROM THOSE
STATED IN PREVIONS STUDIES STOP n1.  FARAG WAS IN PENSION 3  YFARS
AGO MR    ELMEHELMY DIEO STfOP THE '.;ZE OF THE PRO.JECT SHALL
iN ACCORDANCE WITH THF LAST STUDY OF MARKET FORECAST
KIMANILE
N N CHAIRMAN AND MANAGING DIRFCTOR
ENG.A A, AKIEE_
COl3/9/1986 6/8/1986 1986 A/M 3
NNN
1401 EST
1420 EST
=09101452
ALT RFDt FROM:UE2M
NNNN



