Document of                  FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2510-EGT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR THE
NEW VALLEY PHOSPHATE ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
April 19, 1979
This document hss a restricted distibuton and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwse be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Official Rate 1/
1 Egyptian Pound (LE         -     US$2.56 or SDR 2.118
1 US Dollar                  =     LE 0.391
Parallel Market Rate l/
Until February 1976:
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)        -     US$1.70
1 US Dollar                  =     LE 0.59
From February to May 1976:
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)        =     US$1.56
1 US Dollar                  =     LE 0.64
From May 21, 1976:
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)              US$1.47
1 US Dollar                  =     LE 0.68
From December 1, 1976:
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)        =     US$1.43
1 US Dollar                  =     LE 0.70
1/ As of January 1, 1979, all major transactions are carried
out under the Parallel Market Rate.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
List of Abbreviations
ALUSUISSE     Swiss Aluminium Limited
IMC           Industrial and Mining Complex
SOPREMINES    Societe Francaise d'Etudes Minieres



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
NEW VALLEY PHOSPHATE ENGINEERING
AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Loan Summary
Borrower:            Arab Republic of Egypt
Amount:              $11.0 million
Term:                Repayable in 10 years, including 2 years of grace, through
semi-annual installments at 7.9 percent per annum.  The
loan would be refunded under any later loan or credit the
Bank/IDA might make for the New Valley phosphate project
itself.
Project
Description:        The project would finance the foreign costs of the estab-
lishment of a small experimental mine at the site of the
New Valley phosphate deposit and further studies on both
the technical and economic viability of converting the New
Valley phosphate rock into phosphoric acid or other phos-
phate intermediates and of the infrastructure req(uirements
for such investment. Specifically, the project would
include the following:
(i)  Establishment and operation of an experimental under-
ground mine at the site of the phosphate deposits in
the New Valley to determine the feasibility of
producing during the first stage up to 3.5 mnillion and
ultimately up to 7 million tons of beneficiated rock
per year through long wall and/or other mining
techniques.
(ii)  Carrying out the necessary laboratory testing to
verify the suitability of the New Valley phosphate
rock to manufacture phosphoric acid and other phos-
phate fertilizer intermediates and carry out pilot
tests for the purpose of establishing design data for
the full scale beneficiation and phosphoric acid
plants;
(iii) Undertaking further studies of the location and of
the capital and operating costs of the full scale
phosphoric acid plant, including the required infra-
structure with respect to the railway and its operat-
ing procedures as well as the port facilities; and
(iv)  Should experience gained from the operation of the
experimental mine and the results of the vaLrious
studies confirm the economic, financial and technical
feasibility of converting New Valley phosphate rock
This document has a retricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performanc
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authori2ain



- ii -
into phosphoric acid or other phosphate intermediates,
preparation of the necessary feasibility study for
the first stage of the main project.
Cost Estimates:      The estimated cost of the project, exclusive of taxes from
which the project is exempt, is as follows:
US$ Millions
Local   Foreign   Total
Equipment (cif)                                         -        6.0      6.0
Spares (cif)                                            -        1.4      1.4
Local Freight, Supervision                             0.2        -       0.2
Erection and Commissioning                              -        0.2      0.2
Foreign Consultants and local assistance
to mining tests                                        0.8      0.8       1.6
Laboratory and Pilot Studies                           0.1       0.5      0.6
Additional infrastructure studies                       -        0.1      0.1
Pre-feasibility Study including site
investigation for phosphate complex                    0.1      0.3       0.4
Feasibility Study                                      0.2       0.7      0.9
Physical Contingencies                                 0.3       0.6      0.9
Price Contingencies                                    0.3      0.4       0.7
Total                                                  2.0      11.0     13.0
Financing Plan:                                                 US$ Millions
Local   Foreign   Total
Bank Loan                                               -       11.0     11.0
Government                                             2.0       -        2.0
2.0     11.0      13.0



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR THE NEW VALLEY PHOSPHATE ENGINEERING AND
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Arab Republic of Egypt, for the equivalent of US$11.0 million to help
finance the foreign exchange cost of the establishment of a small experimental
mine and further studies on both the economic viability of convertilng New
Valley phosphate rock into phosphoric acid and of the project's infrastructure
requirements. The loan would have a term of ten years, including two years
of grace with interest at 7.9 percent per annum. The loan would be refinanced
under any later loan or credit that the Bank Group might make for the New
Valley phosphate project itself.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Basic Economic Report entitled "Arab Republic of Egypt:  Economic
Management in a Period of Transition" (No. 1815-EGT), and dated May 8, 1978,
has been distributed to the Executive Directors. A report on "Recent Economic
Developments and External Capital Requirements" (No. 2071-EGT), prepared for
a meeting of the Consultative Group was distributed to the Executive Directors
on May 30, 1978. Economic missions visited Egypt in October 1978, amd in
March 1979. Country data sheets are attached.
The Open-Door Strategy
3.        Recent economic trends in Egypt have been strongly influenced by the
new "open-door" strategy enunciated by President Sadat in October 1973 and
approved in a national referendum in May 1974. This strategy reflects a major
effort to alccelerate economic development through modernization and making
Egypt's largely publicly-owned and centrally-controlled economy more market-
oriented. Specifically, the strategy envisages (i) a gradual dismantling of
government regulations, many of which are to be replaced by the price mech-
anism; (ii), the decentralization of decision-making in state-owned enter-
prises; (iii) a more active role for the private sector, including private
foreign investors; and (iv) expanded economic cooperation with Arab and
western countries. Substantial inflows of external assistance from Arab and
Western aicd donors and institutions are considered essential to support the
new strategy.
4.        To implement the open-door strategy the Government has taken a
number of specific policy actions. Among the more important ones were the
gradual devaluation of the Egyptian pound, and the concurrent liberalization
of foreign exchange regulations. Starting in 1973 when the parallel market
rate was introduced, Egypt's curency has been effectively devalued from
US$2.56 to US$1.43 per pound (by 44 percent) at present. At the same time,
exchange restrictions were eased, specific import allocations were replaced
by general import quotas, and more foreign exchange made available to both
the public and private sector. A new investment law (1974, amended in 1977)



-2-
offers attractive incentives to foreign firms. Trade agreements, especially
with the EEC, opened new markets for export products; at the same time, bila-
teral trade with COMECON countries was much reduced. A debt management unit
was established in the Central Bank, and became operative in mid-1978.
5.        Internally, the autonomy of public enterprises was strengthened,
especially by a new law issued in 1978 which grants greater flexibility to
individual enterprises in (i) setting up organizational structures, (ii) in-
troducing material incentives, (iii) establishing productivity related wage
scales, (iv) adjusting the work force to production requirements, and (v)
undertaking investments from own resources. Provincial authority to undertake
regional development programs was also expanded.
6.        A start has been made to rationalize the price structure, and to
increase price flexibility. Thus, the share of industrial output subject to
centralized price control was reduced from some 50 percent in 1975 to about
35 percent by 1978, and prices for a number of controlled products (including
agricultural crops and some public service tariffs) were substantially in-
creased. Interest rates were raised several times and stand now at 10 to 12
percent for lending (to the non-government sector) and 6 to 8.5 percent for
term deposits. Private sector activity is being encouraged, and has been
freed from many previous restrictions. Moreover, a growing number of foreign
investment contracts are being signed, especially in the important oil and
tourist sectors.
Recent Economic Developments
7.        The open-door strategy and subsequent policy action have yielded
some impressive results. Above all, they have led to a rapid increase in
Egypt's foreign exchange earnings which rose from $1.4 billion in 1973 to an
estimated $5.5 billion in 1978. During this period, oil exports, workers'
remittances, tourism and the Suez Canal emerged as major new sources of
foreign exchange. This was accompanied by a major shift of agricultural and
industrial exports from COMECON countries to the hard currency area. In addi-
tion, the Government managed to attract large amounts of foreign assistance.
Gross inflows of medium- and long-term capital averaged $3.4 billion p.a.
during 1975-78, compared with an average of only $0.6 billion during 1967-72.
The bulk of these aid flows came from Arab and Western donors, and were pro-
vided at highly concessional terms.
8.        The increased availability of foreign exchange from Egypt's own
exports of goods and services and from external assistance has eased the pres-
sure on the balance of payments and allowed much higher levels of imports.
This in turn paved the way for a rapid increase of investment, larger domestic
consumption, and a better utilization of existing production capacities.
Imports of goods and services (excluding interest payments) rose from about
$2.0 billion in 1973 to an estimated $6.7 billion in 1978; imports of capital
goods increased at an even faster rate. Gross capital formation expanded from
LE 515 million ($1.2 billion) 1/ in 1973 to LE 2,700 million ($4.0 billion) 1/
1/   Conversions are made at the weighted average of the official and the
parallel market exchange rates, the weights being their prevalent respec-
tive shares of trade.



-3-
in 1978, reaching the equivalent of 30 percent of GNP in the latter year.
Increased ava:ilability of foreign exchange to industrial producers and farmers
enabled them to import more raw materials, intermediate goods - including
fertilizer and pesticides - and spare parts thus breaking crucial bottlenecks
that had constrained local production. Together with investments in new
capacities and a vigorous expansion of services such as trade, tourism and
shipping, these developments sharply accelerated the rate of economic growth.
9.        The Ministry of Planning estimates that GDP at constant prices rose
at an average rate of close to 10 percent p.a. during 1975-78. 1/ Much of the
growth was concentrated in the petroleum sector, construction, manufacturing,
transport and public utilities. Agricultural production, on the other hand,
increased very slowly (about 1 percent p.a.). The higher level of economic
activity together with large-scale labor migration to neighboring oil export-
ing countries absorbed much of the excess labor force that existed in the
early 1970s.  In fact, serious labor shortages have begun to emerge in a
number of occupations, especially in the construction sector.
10.       Increased exchange earnings and foreign aid inflows resulted in a
consolidation of Egypt's external debt, and strengthened the country's credit-
worthiness. Short-term credits owed by the Government to commercial banks
were reduced from 1.4 billion at the end of 1976 to $490 million at end 1978,
largely with the help of loans granted by the Gulf Organization for t'he Devel-
opment of Egypt (GODE). During the same period substantial arrears in debt
payments were cleared which had built up in the previous years. These changes
have solved the pressing liquidity problems that threatened Egypt's financial
position in 1975 and 1976. Favorable terms on new borrowings have also eased
the burden on the country's medium- and long-term debt. Although Egypt's
total medium-> and long-term public debt increased sharply during recent years--
from $2.1 billion end 1973 to an estimated $9.2 billion end-1978--the debt
service ratio declined from 39 percent to 25 percent, respectively. This
reflects not only more favorable credit terms--i.e., lower interest rates and
longer maturities--but also the rapid increase in foreign exchange earnings.
11.       There are indications that the growth of production and investment
has slowed down in the last twelve months. One important reason for this is
that existing production capacities are now used at relatively high levels
while new capacities do not come on stream quickly due, in large part, to
administrative delays and construction bottlenecks. There are also growing
labor scarcities, especially in the skilled categories, and some branches face
stiff competition from imported consumer goods. Internal demand, on the other
hand, continues to grow rapidly creating rising inflationary pressures and a
high propensity to import.
Development Potential and Constraints
12.       Egypt has considerable potential for further development.  The
reasons for this are, in brief: a large domestic market, a proficient
population, an agricultural resource base not yet fully developed, varied
raw materials (including oil and gas), and a key geographical location.
1/   The growth rate of GNP was much higher, about 15 percent per annum,
because of the massive growth in workers' remittances (see Annex I).



-4-
In addition, there are good prospects for a continued growth of foreign
exchange earnings from tourism, workers' remittances and the Suez Canal which
is undergoing a major expansion. While oil exports are likely to decline in
the long-run--in the light of increasing domestic consumption and less opti-
mistic assumptions on new discoveries--the outlook for new industrial and
agricultural products are promising.
13.       However, future economic growth will come less easily than during
the past five years. As was mentioned above (para 11) capacities are now
strained in a number of sectors, including infrastructure. Investment in
new capacities is moving slower than anticipated, and is constrained by
administrative inefficiency, weakness in national coordination and sector
programming.  Managerial effectiveness in public enterprises is still low,
while financial incentives for production are inadequate in many instances.
The latter problem has recently been reinforced by indiscriminate competition
from imports, many of which enter the country with little restrictions.
14.       Low levels of investment during the late 1960's and early 1970's
have led to a deterioration in physical infrastructure, mainly railways,
ports, airports, telecommunications and power. Similarly, there are serious
shortages in social investments, especially housing and urban facilities
(water supply, sewerage, etc.). Lack of adequate drainage facilities con-
strains agripultural productivity, while in industry large investments are
needed merely for balancing and modernization. These bottlenecks became more
pronounced as the economy expanded in recent years. Higher levels of economic
activity together with labor emigration have led to shortages in critical
professional and technical skills (see paragraph 9 above). Educational
facilities in Egypt still reflect a non-technical bias and their quality needs
to be upgraded.
15.       There is a severe shortage in domestic investment funds, especially
for the public sector. Notwithstanding high rates of taxation--over 30 percent
of GNP in recent years--savings generated by the government budget are rela-
tively low. During 1974-78 current budget surpluses averaged only about 2
percent of GNP, while their contribution to the financing of public investment
did not exceed an average of 10 percent p.a. This is the result of high
defense and security expenditures, large consumer subsidies, and fast growing
interest payments which taken together claimed 63 percent of the Government's
tax revenues in 1978. At the same time, savings generated by public enter-
prises are constrained by price regulations which frequently do not allow full
cost recovery or seriously limit profit margins.
16.       Another key issue is population.  Already very large for Egypt's
limited living space--about 40 million in 1978 with an average density exceed-
ing 1,300 per square kilometer of agricultural land--the population is growing
at a rate of 2.1 percent p.a., adding more than 800,000 people every year.
This creates great pressures on resources for consumption and investment, and
aggravates the employment problem in the longer run.



-5-
17.       A serious side-effect of the open-door strategy has been a growing
disparity in income distribution and consumption levels. Income differentials
have been further widened by inflationary pressure (now above 20 percent p.a.).
It is estimated that currently the lower 40 percent of the rural population
receive about: 25 percent of the rural incomes while in the urban areas the
proportion is about 21 percent. About 30 percent of the rural and 22 percent
of the urban population are below absolute poverty lines. Although the above
pattern of inequality and incidence of absolute poverty are less than in most
developing economies it is nevertheless a serious issue, which could worsen if
no effective policy action is taken.
Further Action Required
18.       The peace treaty with Israel presents a new situation the f:ull
economic impact of which cannot be assessed easily at this stage. Internally,
it should allow the Government to devote crucially needed time and energy to
dealing with economic and development policy issues; it could free iaportant
human, material and financial resources and provide a breathing space for pre-
paring a medium- to long-term framework for economic development. Externally,
however, there could be significant repercussions, at least in the short run,
particularly in terms of foreign aid flows.
19.       To maintain the momentum of development, major efforts are required
to overcome present structural constraints. More specifically, action is
needed to (i) increase the efficiency of government administration through
organizational and procedural modifications, and selective changes in salary
structures; (ii) strengthen the capacity for development programming and
project prepiaration/implementation; (iii) pursue a vigorous and balanced
program to upgrade the country's physical infrastructure; (iv) substantially
expand the program to curb population growth; (v) articulate urban and rural
strategies aimed at decentralizing urban agglomeration in Cairo and Alexan-
dria, and creating more productive opportunity in smaller towns and rural
areas; (vi) further activate the use of prices as indicators of relative
scarcities; (vii) strengthen the management of public enterprises; (viii)
improve prol-essional and technical education; (ix) increase public savings;
and (x) develop a coordinated export promotion policy. There is an ongoing
dialogue on all these issues between the Egyptian authorities and the Bank;
they have aLso been the focus of the discussion among the members of the
Consultative Group for Egypt, especially at its second meeting in June 1978.
20.       Over the last few years, the Government has initiated action in many
of these areas, often with support from the World Bank, IMF, UNDP, regional
and bilateral aid donors. Above all, the Government has prepared a Five-Year
Plan which was adopted by Parliament in mid-1978, which provides a mtedium-term
perspective to the Govenment's development strategy and policy objectives. It
advocates a high growth strategy spearheaded by an industrialization, drive and
supported by fast growing exchange earnings. The domestic and foreign private
sectors are expected to play an increasing role in the development process,
although the public sector will retain its dominant position. Each year the
plan is being updated and moved forward by one year, to flexibily respond to
changing economic conditions and investment options.



- 6 -
21.       In support of the overall plan a number of sector and subsector
programs are presently under preparation with the assistance of the Bank
and other donors. They include a water master plan, various industrial
sub-sector studies, a review of the transport sector, and an electrification
program. These programs will identify sectoral priorities, define appropriate
policies and institutional arrangements, and prepare specific development
projects, many of which could be cofinanced by foreign donors. Other pro-
grams such as those for the development of the oil sector, the widening and
deepening of the Suez Canal and a national drainage scheme, have already
reached the stage of implementation.
22.       The Government is also preparing a more flexible price policy.  In
line with this, a comprehensive Bank study on the adjustment of agricultural
prices is underway, and first results are expected by the end of the year.
Price ceilings are expected to be lifted for most industrial products, and
further adjustments will be made for utility tariffs. However, care will have
to be taken that these price changes will not erode the standard of living of
the poor. In this context, efforts have been initiated to define the framework
for a more active program to provide for the basic needs of the lower income
groups. In the past two years the Government, at the highest level, has also
come to a new commitment to direct action on population matters. While it has
already initiated such action (e.g. an intensified home visiting program under
the second IDA financed population project), it will take time until measure-
able results in fertility reduction can be seen.
23.       Last year, the Government negotiated an arrangement under the IMF's
extended facility, which was approved by the IMF's Board of Directors in July
1978. The agreement permits Egypt to make purchases from the IMF over the
next three years up to a total amount equivalent to SDR 600 million (about
$770 million). As part of this arrangement, the Government has adopted since
January 1979, the parallel market rate for virtually all foreign exchange
transactions, and has undertaken to further reduce exchange control restric-
tions. The Government has also undertaken to continue decontrolling the
output prices of public sector companies. The effect of this policy will be
to improve the financial situation of such companies as well as the Govern-
ment, and thus facilitate efforts to increase budgetary savings. A first
drawing of $96 million was made in June 1978. A second tranche is being
negotiated.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
24.       Egypt's non-military medium- and long-term public debt outstanding
and disbursed at December 31, 1978 was estimated at about $9.2 billion (see
paragraph 10). Of the total, medium- and long-term loans amounted to $6.4
billion (of which $0.4 billion was in currencies of countries engaging with
Egypt in barter trade), medium- and long-term deposits with the Central Bank
of Egypt were $2 billion, and suppliers' credits $0.8 billion. Major credi-
tors were Kuwait and Saudi Arabia, followed by the USA, USSR and the Federal
Republic of Germany. IBRD/IDA debt comprised about 5 percent of the total
disbursed debt. Debt service on medium-and long-term debt was estimated at
$1.4 billion in 1978 1/ giving a debt service ratio of about 25 percent. No
reliable estimates of military debt are available.
1/   Inclusive of IMF repayments of $75 million.



-7-
25.       The Government's recent policy actions have initiated structural
adjustments called for by Egypt's economic situation and international envi-
ronment. If progress towards overcoming present constraints is maintained and
the country's foreign exchange earning potential realized, the average deficit
on current account is estimated at about $3 billion per annum for the coming
five years. The required capital inflows are large--but if they are available
on the terms expected, Egypt would have the debt servicing capacity to borrow
the amounts envisaged, including a limited amount on harder terms. The burden
of servicing medium- and long-term debt as a percentage of total foreign
exchange earnings is estimated to fluctuate between 21 and 28 percent during
1979-83, and to gradually decline thereafter to about 16 percent in 1988. In
these circumstances Egypt may be considered creditworthy for a limited amount
of Bank lending in addition to the IDA assistance which Egypt merits on the
ground of its poverty.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT
26.       The proposed loan would be the World Bank's thirty-ninth lending
operation in Egypt. It would bring Bank and IDA commitments made since 1970
to $1,184 million. Annex II contains a Summary of Bank loans and IDA credits
as of March 31, 1979, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
27.       Given Egypt's basic structural problems:  pressure of population on
resources; lacking economic infrastructure; a large public sector constrained
by administrative fragmentation and a network of controls over investment,
production, distribution and prices; significant balance of payments deficits
and pressing demand for finding domestic resources, the Bank's response has
been tailored to address, in a very broad fashion and in close cooperation
with other donors, these long-term developmental issues. The necessary
breadth of the Bank's contribution to Egypt has dictated a strategy which
involves entry into the whole spectrum of sectors with a view to provide not
only direct Einance with the relatively limited resources that the Bank/IDA
can make available but, equally, to act as a catalyst for other financing
agencies, both bilateral and multilateral, and as a spur for initiati.ng dis-
cussion and, hopefully, positive action on a coherent framework of policies
and investment proposals which can tackle the substantive issues.  The
approach must also include delivery of technical assistance not only for
adequate implementation of specific investment programs but for developing
the domestic institutional capability to articulate and implement future
policies and programs. The Bank's deliberately broad multisectoral inter-
vention has 'been differentiated by sectors and by the pace at which the
Egyptian aut'horities can address these issues.
28.       Indlustry, which has been over the past five years the sector receiv-
ing the largest portion of Bank resources and significant attention, illus-
trates the nature and scope of the Bank's intervention. It is the one sector
which has th,e capacity for creating employment opportunities which can meet
the demands of Egypt's growing population and limited agricultural land.



-8-
However, this sector is beset by a complex constellation of problems which
stem largely from the rigidity of centralized control and lack of management
autonomy, the distorted pricing, and the lack of incentives. Efforts under
our projects have gone beyond the immediate objective of improving capacity
utilization (Imports loans and credits Nos. Cr. 524, Ln. 1062 and Ln. 1456)
and increasing production capacity and supply of essential commodities in
resource-based industries (cotton ginning, textiles, cement and fertilizer
projects). The more fundamental effort--embodied in these projects--has been
directed at introducing policy and structural improvements through initiating
six subsector studies in textiles, building materials, pulp and paper, food
processing, metallurgy, and engineering industries, which would provide the
foundations for formulating a package of policy and investment proposals. To
complement these efforts in basic industries the Bank has also carried out a
study on small-scale industries which we hope would form a basis for Egyptian
and our efforts in this area.
29.       The illustrative sketch provided above of the scope and breadth of
our intervention in one sector is representative of the multifaceted approach
that we have adopted in varying degrees in the entire spectrum of the Egyptian
economy. It is a role that is in harmony not only with that the Egyptian
Government wants us to play but is welcomed by the various bilateral and
multilateral donors as an appropriate function, which the Bank as the Chairman
of the Consultative Group, should fulfill. Preparation of projects for future
lending follows this strategy. A tourism project, a development finance
project, a second textiles project, a power generation project, a gas gather-
ing pipeline project, and a pulp and paper project have been appraised. A
pipeline of projects for possible future lending is also being developed,
including further projects in water supply and sewerage, education, power,
rural and urban development, transportation, agriculture (including drainage)
and agro-industry, development finance and industry.
30.       Bank Group disbursements in 1978 represent 2.8 percent of Egypt's
medium- and long-term capital inflow. The Bank and IDA shares of total
external debt outstanding and disbursed were about 2.3 percent and 2.5
percent, respectively at the end of 1978. For the future, the Bank and IDA
shares of total external debt outstanding and disbursed (excluding military
debts) are estimated to reach about 5.4 and 3.4 percent respectively in 1981.
It is estimated that in 1981, debt service payments due to the Bank and IDA
will represent about 2.3 percent and 0.2 percent, respectively of service
payments due on Egypt's external debt.
31.       The first IFC participation and lending, for a ceramics project, was
approved by the Executive Directors in 1976, the second, for a ready-made
garment project, in 1977, and the third, a project for an agricultural complex
primarily for sugar beet, in May 1978. IFC is also discussing several other
private sector and joint venture projects.



-9-
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL AND PHOSPHATE SECTORS
32.       Industry 1/ has become a significant sector of the Egyptian. economy.
Its share in GDP is estimated to have increased from around 8 percent in 1946
to 15 percent in 1978. It employed about 1.2 million persons, or neasrly 12
percent of the civilian labor force, in 1978, and was responsible for nearly
37 percent of commodity exports. Total industrial exports of Egypt are esti-
mated at about LE 500 (about $725) million. Its long-term growth rate has
averaged about 5-6 percent during 1965-77, with periods of stagnation (as in
1973-74) due to severe foreign exchange constraints and dislocation i-rom wars,
alternating with spurts of growth when those constraints were removed (as in
1975-77). Gross fixed investments in industry in 1978 was LE 670 (about $960)
million which amounted to about 25 percent of total investments in the economy.
This represents an increase of about 150 percent of annual investments since
1975 in current prices.
33.       The announcement of the "open door" policy in 1973 heralded the
beginning of a transition in Government policy from a period of looking inward
that goes back nearly fifty years when the first protective tariffs were
established. The industrial structure which has emerged as a result of the
import substitution patterns of development both under private enterprise and
under the planned publicly owned economy of the 1960s and early 1970s is
weighted heavily in favor of industries producing basic consumer goods, which
account for about 48 percent of industrial gross value added. Production of
intermediate products (building materials, fertilizers, chemicals, and metals)
is also substantial -- about 45 percent -- but "capital goods" 2/ account for
only 7 percent of gross value added.
34.       As a result of the nationalizations of the early 1960s, almost all
large- and imedium-scale industrial enterprises are now in the public sector.
The latter, therefore, dominates most sub-sectors except for food products,
garments, leather, shoes and wood products where smaller private sector estab-
lishments can most easily survive. The public sector's approximately 200
establishments generated about two-thirds of the value added in industry
and mining and provided close to one-half of the total industrial employment
in 1975, mainly in four sub-sectors: textiles, food products, metal, and
engineering, and chemicals. In textiles, government establishments provide
all of the spinning and most of the weaving capacity and the exports of the
sector. In, food, the public sector's most important output is in sugar,
cigarettes and canning. Egypt's basic industries include an iron and steel
complex, aluminum production, and substantial fertilizer capacity based on
urea.
35.       While the bulk of industrial activity is in the public sector, the
private sector has managed to grow substantially over the last few years.
1/   Manufacturing and mining, excluding petroleum.
2/   The four major sub-sectors are metal fabrication, machinery (except elec-
trical), electrical machinery, and transportation equipment.



- 10 -
In 1975 it accounted for about one-third of total value added in industry and
slightly more than one-half of total industrial employment. Textiles, food
products, leather, woodworking and furniture, and engineering (including
metallic products) remain the dominant industries. Ninety percent of the
!,000 establishments employing 10 or more workers are smaller establishments
in the 10-50 range and account for 57 percent of the total employment in this
group. The structure has not changed significantly in the last decade or so.
Greater Cairo and Alexandria represent the major urban concentration of
private manufacturing industries with 77 percent of total employment and 72
percent of the establishments of over ten employees.
36.       Egyptian industry has significant long-term prospects to grow and
to broaden its base, deriving primarily from the large and growing domestic
market and a strategic location with access to other markets both in Europe
and the Middle East. There exists already an industrial structure, some
infrastructure, a large, relatively low-cost labor force, and an industrial
tradition -- a tradition somewhat weakened by the exodus of many entrepreneurs
and managers following nationalization, and the emigration of skilled workers.
Egypt has some petroleum and, though not endowed with a wide range of other
raw materials, they are adequate to develop efficient industries in many sub-
sectors. Since development of agriculture is proceeding slowly and the ser-
vice sector (mainly Government) is over-staffed, it is primarily to industry
that the economy must look to absorb the growing labor force and to provide
stimulus to growth through continued expansion, efficient import substitution
emphasizing intermediate and capital goods, and through expanded exports.
37.       However, in order for Egyptian industry to play the role described
above, it will be ncessary for the government to continue its efforts to
overcome the bottlenecks the sector is confronting, such as obsolete machinery
and inefficient production methods, lack of trained supervisory and management
staff, and low labor productivity. Some of these, such as obsolete equipment,
are the result of past shortage of foreign exchange; others, such as inadequate
training, lack of contact with new technology, products, marketing and manage-
ment techniques, are to be explained by Egypt's limited exposure during the
1960s and early 1970s to the markets that could offer these facilities.
Through increased availability of foreign exchange, an increasing amount of
new machinery is now coming into Egypt. Active assistance is being provided
or sought to familiarize the industrial sector with modern production tech-
niques and training. Also, legislation has been introduced (see paragraph 5
above) which should provide the framework to expose the public sector, which
is still suffering from overstaffing and lack of incentives, to a competitive
environment which in turn should result in greater managerial initiative and
increased productivity. While it has to be recognized that it will take time
to achieve optimum results, steps in the right direction have been taken.
Through its lending operations and in the context of an industrial policy
dialogue which has just been initiated, the Bank is trying to help Egypt in
these efforts and thus increase the efficiency and productivity of the indus-
trial sector.



] 11 -
Bank Lending Operations
38.       The Bank's recent industrial sector lending program has included
(i) program loans to relieve foreign exchange constraints and thereby improve
capacity utilization; (ii) assistance to individual, large, high priority
Government projects; (iii) attempts to rationalize sub-sectors to improve
productivity: and (iv) the development of financial intermediaries to enable
financial and technical assistance to be extended to private sector firms.
Lending comm:itments, including IFC, amounted to $380 million for industry from
FY73 to FY78, of which about $182 million has been disbursed as of March 31,
1979. Of four enterprises assisted, none has implementation schedules on
target. The main constraints have been slow construction and cumbersome
administrative procedures.
The Phosphat,e Industry
39.       Phosphate fertilizer is used mainly in the industrialized countries
of Europe (including the USSR), North America, Australia and New Zealand
which, toget'her, account for 83 percent of total consumption. Compared to the
average growth rate of 6.2 percent over the last 20 years, world phosphate
fertilizer consumption is projected to grow at a slightly lower rate of 5-6
percent over the next 10 years.  The highest growth rate will be found in the
developing countries which, however, start from a low base and absolute growth
will be greatest in Eastern Europe and in Latin America.
Phosphate Rock Supply and Demand
40.       World consumption of phosphate rock in 1977/78 (fertilizer year
July 1-June 30) was about 115 million tons of which 48 million tons was
exported. The two major exporters, Morocco (15.7 million tons) and the
USA (13.2 million tons) together account for about 60 percent of the world
export market. They are followed in importance by five countries: the USSR
(4.2 milliont tons), Togo (2.9), Tunisia (1.9), Senegal (1.8) and Jordan
(1.8) which together account for another 25 percent of the world phosphate
rock exports. The market is oligopolistic, being dominated by the USA and
Morocco which, to a large extent, control the supplies and export prices.
Both countries produce good quality rock for the export market, particularly
Morocco, and recent experience has indicated that it is difficult for new-
comers to enter the market and establish themselves quickly as phosphate rock
suppliers.
Phosphate Fertilizer Supply, Demand and Balances
41.       The world balance is summarized below:



- 12 -
World Phosphate Fertilizer Supply, Demand and Balances
(Million Tons P 205)
76/77  77/78  78/79  79/80  80/81  81/82  82/83  83/84  84/85
Potential Supply  29.3   31.5   33.1   34.3   36.3   38.4   39.4   39.9   40.1
Demand             26.5   27.3   29.5   31.5   33.3   35.4   37.5   39.0   40.5
Balance             2.8    4.2    3.6    2.8    3.0    3.0    1.9    0.9   (0.4)
The world supply and demand balances indicate that the peak of surplus phos-
phate capacity might have been reached in 1977/78 due to the coincidence of
stagnant demand and the start-up of considerable capacity, notably in the USA,
Morocco and South Africa. After 1983/84, about 1.5 million tpy of new P 0
capacity will be required each year to meet demand. Also, much of the n9w5
capacity forecast to come on stream up to 1983 is in developing countries
and if commissioning of these plants are delayed, this will bring forward a
balanced situation earlier than projected.
Changing Phosphate Trade Patterns
42.       Until a few years ago, the phosphate fertilizer needs of developing
countries were met almost entirely from exports from industrialized countries.
With the major exception of the USA which covers its own needs, this industry
was generally based on cheap imported phosphate rock. With the development
of high grade phosphate intermediates like triple superphosphates, diammonium
phosphate and phosphoric acid, production and marketing have changed. It is
now generally more economic to construct large-scale phosphate intermediate
complexes at the phosphate rock source. The gradual depletion of higher
grade ores and the advantages of using large resource based plants especially
designed to treat low grade rocks will make this advantage even more pro-
nounced in the longer term.
43.       Locating the bulk of new phosphoric acid plants near material
sources will necessarily have an important effect on future phosphate trading
patterns. An increasing share of phosphate rock will be processed in the
raw material supplying country, and trade in phosphate intermediates will
increase at the expense of phosphate rock. It is forecast that by 1984 phos-
phate intermediates will comprise about 30 percent of the total phosphate
trade as compared to 8 percent in 1966/67, 13 percent in 1975 and 20 percent
in 1977, and after that the annual increase in quantities of phosphate inter-
mediates traded (as P 205) will exceed that of phosphate rock.  During this
period about 5-6 large new phosphoric acid plants will be required every
year to meet forecast phosphate demand. Morocco, with large deposits, will
undoubtedly play a leading role in helping the world meet its phosphate
requirements, but supplies will also be needed from other sources.
44.       With proven reserves of 600 million tons of phosphate and possibly
up to 20 billion tons of resources, the phosphate resources of the New Valley
deposit which are the subject of the proposed project are in a good position
to become a major supplier of phosphate in the future; in fact, Egypt could



- 13 -
eventually lbecome the second largest source of phosphate after Morocco.  How-
ever, although New Valley rock is of high phosphatic content as mined, it has
some unusual chemical characteristics which might constrain its immediate
development if it were decided to exploit the deposits solely for the phos-
phate rock mnarket. In view of the developing and potential markets for
phosphoric acid and concentrated phosphatic intermediates, the more attractive
development of the New Valley deposits would be to process the rock in Egypt
to phosphoric acid and/or other phosphatic intermediates which would be sold
on the international market. Apart from market considerations, the major
advantage of this route is that it would allow the rock to be processed
domestically in large process units specially designed for its specific
chemical characteristics and using a minimum of rock upgrading.
The Egyptian Fertilizer Market
45.       Taking into account the country's massive reserves of phosphate
rock and the Government's efforts to improve agricultural production, it is
expected that phosphate fertilizers will play an increasingly important role
in Egyptian agriculture. Phosphate consumption is increasing rapidly in
Egypt, and consumption is expected to rise from 98,000 tons P 0 in 1977 to
170,000 tons P 0 in 1985. Single superphosphate will continge5to be the
main phosphatic ?ertilizer used even though some of the new facilities now
being installed in Egypt will produce triple-superphosphate. Phosphatic
fertilizer production is currently based on phosphate rock produced at
Sebaiya in the Nile Valley, and a small export business is supported by mines
by the Red Sea near Safaga. In addition to this, small quantities Df rock
from the New Valley deposits are being processed into superphosphate at
Assiut.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
46.       The New Valley (formerly called Abu Tartur) phosphate project was
given the highest priority among the projects the Egyptian Government sub-
mitted to the Consultative Group in June 1978. The project was to exploit the
large phosphate ore reserves near the Kharga oasis in the Western Desert
estimated at more than 600 million tons of rock phosphate. Based on a feasi-
bility study prepared by SOFREMINES (Societe Francaise d'Etudes Minieres) and
Alusuisse (Swiss Aluminum Limited), the project was designed to be the first
stage in exploiting the deposits and produce seven million tons of benefi-
ciated rock, of which six million tons were to be exported and one million
tons would be consumed in Egypt. A second stage of the project was to double
the capacity.



- 14 -
47.       Because of the complexity and the size of the project, estimated
above $1 billion in cost, including infrastructure, I/ members of the Con-
sultative Group asked the Bank to review the existing documentation on the
project in order to help potential donors assess its viability. In response
to this request the Bank carried out a review of the existing studies con-
cerning the proposed project. In the Bank's opinion there were serious doubts
as to the economic benefits Egypt would draw from the large contemplated
investment. However, as a possible alternative to the production and export
of phosphate rock, the Bank's analysis mentioned the potential for the pro-
duction of phosphate fertilizers intermediates (i.e. predominately phosphoric
acid) from the New Valley phosphate deposits. This subject had not been
adequately covered in the feasibility study.
48.       At the Government's request further discussions took place during
late 1978 as to the possible use of the New Valley phosphate deposits. As a
result of these discussions an agreement was reached between the government
and the Bank that, because of the relatively high cost and the difficult
quality of the New Valley phosphate rock and its questionable market pros-
pects, it was imperative to look at the alternative of converting a major
portion of the planned phosphate exports into phosphoric acid and possibly
other phosphate intermediates. Market prospects for these products are con-
siderably better than for rock. This alternative approach would also allow
Egypt to construct a phosphoric acid facility which could be specifically
designed to overcome the expected difficult quality of the New Valley rock.
49.       The proposed New Valley phosphate engineering and technical assis-
tance project was appraised in October and November 1978. Negotiations
were held in Cairo, from March 15 to 21, 1979. The Egyptian government was
represented by Mr. Samir Koraiem, Undersecretary, Ministry of Economy, Foreign
Trade and Economic Cooperation, the Industrial and Mining Complex by Mr. A.
Kamal, President. There is no separate appraisal report for this project.
Project Description and Purpose
50.       The project would finance the foreign exchange costs of the estab-
lishment of a small experimental mine at the site of the New Valley phosphate
deposit and further studies on both the economic viability of converting New
Valley phoshate rock into phosphoric acid or other phosphate intermediates and
of the infrastructure requirements for such investment. Specifically, the
project would include the following:
(i) Establishment and operation of an experimental underground
mine at the site of the phosphate deposits in the New Valley to
determine the feasibility of producing during the first stage up
to 3.5 million and ultimately up to 7 million tons of beneficiated
rock per year through long wall and/or other mining techniques.
1/   As envisaged in the original feasibility study the project would require
the construction and operation of a 525 km railway line from the New
Valley to the Port of Safaga on the Red Sea, the expansion of the exist-
ing small port facilities and the establishment of townships at the
mine and port, and related power and water supply facilities.



- 15 -
(ii) Carrying out the necessary laboratory testing to verify the
suitability of the New Valley phosphate rock to manufacture
phoslphoric acid and other phosphate fertilizer intermediates
and carry out pilot tests for the purpose of establishing
desi,gn data for the full scale beneficiation and phosphoric
acid plants;
(iii)  Undertaking further studies on the location and of the
capital and operating costs of the full scale phosphoric
acid plant, including the required infrastructure with
respect to the railway and its operating procedures as
well as the port facilities; and
(iv) Should experience gained from the operation of the experi-
mental mine and the results of the various studies confirm
the economic, financial and technical feasibility of con-
verting New Valley phosphate rock into phosphoric acid or
other phosphate intermediates, preparation of the necessary
feasibility study for the first stage of the main project.
The final feasibility study, which would only be prepared on the conditions
spelled out above, would include the design and engineering of a scaled
up mine to extract and beneficiate during a first stage about 3.5 million tons
of rock per year, and one or more phosphoric acid plants to process most or
all of such rock for subsequent export. The main project would also include
necessary infrastructure, the extent of which will greatly depend upon the
decision of the appropriate site location of the phosphoric acid plant(s) (see
para. 55(c) below). The Egyptian government has been made aware that the
Bank's commitment to the proposed engineering and technical assistance loan is
in no way a commitment to support the main project. Such support would be
considered only if the additional investigations to be carried out under the
proposed engineering and technical assistance loan can establish the overall
economic, financial and technical viability including an appropriate etconomic
rate of return of the main project and assessment of potential alternative
uses of the large sums required.
51.       The geology of the New Valley deposit is well delineated by 94 bore-
holes amounting to a total length of 11.1 km at grids of 800 m to 1,600 m.
Although the geologically indicated reserves can be measured in billions of
tons of rock phosphate, proven mineable reserves stand currently at about 600
million tons containing an average P205 content of 25.1 percent.
52.       The mining system envisioned at the New Valley will make use of the
longwall technique, a mining system commonly used in underground coal mining.
The technique has been proven technically feasible in mining of phosphate rock
in Morocco where the deposits are thick and flat, a situation which is also
present at the New Valley. 1/
1/   The method has so far not proven successful in Tunisia where the phos-
phate seams are thinner and dipping and the phosphate rock is more
friable than either in Morocco or at the New Valley.



- 16 -
53.       The equipment for the longwall mining system will consist of a
double ranging drum shearer and self-advancing shield-type supports, which
is standard equipment. Ore will be conducted by conveyor belts to the sur-
face where it is stockpiled. All galleries will be within the orebody itself
except at the shafts installed at the delivery points for buffer purposes.
Until such time as the main project would be completed, ore from the experi-
mental mine will be transported by truck to a fertilizer plant at Assiut some
250 km northeast of the mine site, where it will be converted into single
superphosphate for the local market.  The trial mining with the longwall
system which is the only efficient mechanical underground system to be applied
in phosphates is needed because only large-scale mining and acid production
will offer the necessary economies of scale for the main project.
54.       Experimentation at the mine site is necessary for the establishment
of the following critical mining parameters:
(i) selection of workable seams within the rock phosphate ore
body. The overburden of these seams is approximately 200 m;
(ii) determination of the most effective ore handling system
in the galleries leading to the mining faces;
(iii) definition of the longwall working face length and therefore
estimation of a realistic rate of advance of the longwall
faces;
(iv) determination of a realistic advance of access tunnels and
necessary tunneling machines; and
(v) assessment of an alternative mining system, the room and
pillar method, to establish its feasibility and compare its
capital and operating costs to those of the longwall method.
Studies
55.       In order to determine the optimum method of exploiting the run-of-
mine ore from the New Valley and to establish the basis of the feasibility
study for the main project, the following studies must be carried out:
Beneficiation Tests
(a) Beneficiation tests to establish the minimum treatment and hence
lowest cost process that can be used to upgrade the crude ore for
phosphoric acid manufacture in Egypt will have to be completed.
Pilot and semi-pilot work has already been carried out by con-
sultants, SOFREMINES, in France and also by Societe Financiere
et Industrielle d'Egypte. In particular recent work by the latter
has been encouraging and this work should be extended to establish
the design parameters and economics for the full scale beneficia-
tion plant. It will also provide material for the phosphoric acid
tests.



- 17 -
Rock Reactivity Tests
(b) Because of the unusual characteristics of New Valley rock a compre-
hensive program of phosphoric acid reactivity tests will have to be
carried out to establish the economic and design parameters for the
manufacture of phosphoric acid and other phosphate intermediates.
Three major companies who not only produce phosphoric acid in large
quantities but also design phosphoric acid plants will be involved
in the testing program. In addition, testing will be carried out
by the International Fertilizer Development Center.
Pre-feasibility Study
(c)  To establish the basis for the feasibility study of the main project
further work will be carried out to investigate the optimumt site
location for both beneficiation and phosphoric acids plants. Such
sites would include, but would not necessarily be limited to, the
mine site in the New Valley, the port of Safaga on the Red Sea
which, at present, is assumed to provide the export facilities for
the New Valley output, or a convenient location either on t:he Nile
in Upper Egypt or on the Mediterranean. Investment and operating
costs will have to be investigated for the phosphate plant, as well
as for major facilities such as water supply, transport, gypsum
disposal and integration with the mining operation. Further, addi-
tional studies on the project's infrastructure requirements will
have to be prepared including a study of all aspects of the railway
services required if the site selected should require substantial
railway investment. Such a study would include recommendations for
terminal facilities, for loading and unloading, for location of
servicing and maintenance facilities and the timing of servicing of
lccomotives and rolling stock, for locomotive and wagon size, type
and number, and for train composition and timetabling as well as
recommendations for the possible use of the line by other traffic.
Fe!asibility Study
(d)  Provided the experience gained from the operation of the eKperi-
mental mine and the various studies mentioned above confirm the
economic and technical feasibility of converting New Valley phos-
pliate rock into phosphoric acid or other phosphate intermediates,
a feasibility study bringing together all the findings referred to
above will have to be prepared for the main project.
Terms of reEerence for all of the above studies have been agreed upon with
the Egyptiana authorities during negotiations.
Project Cost Estimates, Financing and Disbursement
56.       The foreign cost of the project represents primarily the equipment
items for the longwall operation and to a lesser extent for various additional
studies. As mentioned above (paras. 50 (iv) and 55 (d)), the project also



- 18 -
includes the preparation of a feasibility study for the main project.  About
$0.7 million for the foreign exchange financing thereof are included under the
proposed loan. However, should the experience gained from the operation of
the experimental mine and the results of the various studies fail to confirm
the economic, financial and technical feasibility of converting the New Valley
phosphate rock into phosphoric acid or other phosphate intermediates, no dis-
bursements would be made for the feasibility study (para 2(c) of Schedule 1 to
the Loan Agreement). Local project costs cover mainly efforts of the imple-
menting agency, the Industrial and Mining Complex (IMC) (see para. 59 below)
for the physical development of the experimental mine and local contributions
to the studies.
57.        The proposed loan of US$11.0 million would finance the estimated
foreign exchange component of the project. Disbursements would be made
against 100 percent of foreign expenditures for the contracts awarded for
both equipment and studies. The government would finance the local cost esti-
mated at US$2.0 million equivalent. The existing staff of IMC and the geo-
logical survey of Egypt would perform most of the functions required from the
local experts. The estimated schedule of disbursements from the proposed loan
is shown in Annex III.
Procurement
58.        Specifications for tendering the equipment for the experimental mine
have been prepared in 1977 in accordance with the Bank's procurement guide-
lines by IMC's consultants. Tenders covering all equipment items were de-
veloped and fully responsive bids have been received in late 1978. The Bank
has reviewed the consultants' bid evaluation and has approved IMC's bid award
recommendations. Contracts with suppliers of the mining equipment from
different member countries have been signed in December 1978 and January 1979.
The additional laboratory tests to be carried out under the project can only
be performed by highly specialized laboratories. Aside from a laboratory in
France which is already doing tests under the supervision of IMC's consul-
tants, three other laboratories will carry out the laboratory tests. It is
recommended that about $1.0 million in retroactive financing be approved for
downpayments made after February 28, 1979 required for the mining equipment
and the additional laboratory tests.
Project Execution and Implementation
59.        The project would be carried out by the Industrial and Mining
Complex (IMC), an agency within the Ministry of Industry. IMC, formerly
called General Executive Organization for the Iron and Steel Complex (ISC),
is already responsible for the implementation of the iron ore beneficiation
study which is being prepared under the Bank financed iron ore beneficiation
and engineering project (Loan S-5, Egt of 1977). IMC has a staff of qualified
geologists, engineers and financial analysts.
60.        Preliminary laboratory testing has already been performed in Egypt
and abroad. This program was virtually concluded by end of December 1978.



- 19 -
Tests on a larger scale are being carried out in France under the supervision
of IMC's consultants. Pilot testing to determine beneficiation and processing
characteristics has also begun in France and will hopefully be conclusively
terminated by fall 1979 incorporating the other findings as they become
available. Delivery of the experimental mine equipment on site is scheduled
for September 1979. Completion of erection is scheduled for early 1980. The
experimentaL mine would start operations in the first quarter of 1980. The
feasibility study for the main project incorporating all findings described
above (which would only be prepared subject to the satisfactory findings from
the operation of the experimental mine and the various studies (see para.
55(d) above)) would be ready in the latter half of 1981 as a reasonable period
of operationa must be given to the experimental mine to develop meaniLngful
operating results. Annex IV gives a tentative but relatively firm :Lmplemen-
tation schedule on the New Valley test program. The Government and IMC agreed
that before entering into any commitment for major capital investment in
phosphate mining in the New Valley or in other phosphate development of
significance for the studies included under the project, they would afford
the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views thereon (Sectioni 3.05 of
the Loan Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
61.       On the basis of the detailed discussion with the Bank, the Egyptian
government has become convinced that the original plan for a project designed
to export in excess of 6 million tons of phosphate rock was uneconomical and
unduly risky.  Subsequently it agreed to investigate the economic and tech-
nical feasibility of converting most of the New Valley phosphate rock into
phosphoric acid. As indicated above, the Bank's commitment for the proposed
project does not prejudge Bank support for the main project which will clearly
depend upon the confirmation of its economic and technical viability. If the
feasibility study were to fail to prove a satisfactory economic way of using
the New Valley rock for export in the form of acid and/or other fertilizer
intermediates, the investment in the experimental mine would not be wasted,
however. T'here is already a market for single superphosphate which--as has
been demonstrated in the Assiut fertilizer plant--can be produced from the
New Valley rock and which--already in the early to mid-1980's--could utilize
at least half of the production from the experimental mine on a continuing
basis.
62.       The main reasons which led the Bank to support the Egyptian govern-
ment's request for the proposed engineering and technical assistance project
are as follows: Egypt is a country with a relatively limited endowAment of
natural resources. It is therefore of paramount importance for Egypt to
investigate and to take advantage of any resources discovered whicht could
contribute to the country's economic development and particularly htave the
potential of generating substantial foreign exchange earnings. The phosphate
deposit in question which has potential reserves of several billiorL tons is
a large naitural resource and should the engineering and technical assistance
phase confirm the feasibility of exploiting it economically, it offers sub-
stantial export prospects.



- 20 -
63.       Although the total investment requirements of the main project are
likely to be large, members of the Consultative Group have already indicated
that should the project prove to be economically viable, they would be pre-
pared to participate in its financing. Also, the main project which would
include the construction and operation of a phosphoric acid plant, and Which
could be established as a joint venture, might offer opportunities for private
financing.
64.       It should be recognized that the operation of the phosphate mine
and the phosphoric acid plant is likely to be fairly capital intensive,
creating possibly only 2,000-3,000 new jobs for a large investment. However,
a substantial work force will be required during the project's construction
phase involving not only expansion of mine facilities and installation of the
phosphoric acid plant but possibly construction of a 525-km railway line, a
township at the mine site, expansion of port facilities on the Red Sea and
other infrastructure requirements. The project has also to be seen in the
context of the Egyptian government's policy of attempting to decongest the
heavily overpopulated Nile Valley through the development of other areas which
offer potential for attracting investments which in turn will create job
opportunities. It should be noted that the government has already decided to
build a railway line between the Port of Safaga on the Red Sea and the city of
Qena on the Nile although the financing and justification for this undertaking
is not yet clarified. This railway line which would cover about half the
distance between the port and the mine site in the New Valley is also designed
to help relieve the ports on the Mediterranean and serve as the entry port of
Egypt's imports from Eastern Africa, the Arab Peninsula, Asia and Australia.
Also, power and distribution lines are already being brought to the Kharga
oasis near the mine site. While these infrastructure investments might not
result in an immediate major industrial and agricultural development in the
area, prospects for such development will certainly improve.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
65.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Arab Republic of
Egypt and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III Section 4
(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of the project are listed
in Section III of Annex V.
66.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 21 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
67.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments                             by I. P. M. Cargill
April 19, 1979
Washington, D.C.



Annex 1
-  22  -                                 Page 1 of 5
EGYPT - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KS.)                                                   - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL            1001.4                                                    SAME         SAME     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL       29.9                                 MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960 Lb    1970 lb ESTIMATE Lb        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP Ae
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  100.0        160.0     310.0           1438.5       182.9        432.3
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      298.0        275.0     405.0            816.7        88.9       251.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MIL.LIONS)                        25.8        33.3       39.2
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 38.0          42.1      44.6             45.8        15.0         24.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        26.0         33.0      39.0             23.2        46.8        42.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    982.0        1125.0    1311.0            112.4       254.1        95.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          43.0         42.1      40.7             46.0        43.6        44.9
15-64 YRS.                          54.0         54.7      55.9             50.6        53.3        52.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.0          3.2       3.4              3.3         2.9         3.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.4          2.6       2.2              2.9         2.4         2.7
URBAN                               6.0          3.6       3.6              5.0         4.0         8.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      44.5         42.1      37.8             45.0        44.3        42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      20.7         17.0       14.0            13.7        19.7         12.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               2.8 df       3.0       3.0              3.4         2.9         3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..        206.0     184.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WHOMEN)    ..          9.0      21.1             14.7        14.6        14.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)              93.5        100.0     100.0            107.1        96.4       104.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    95.0        106.0     113.0             99.2       92.3         99.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           66.0         66.0      70.7             63.4        50.0        56.8
OF WNHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       17.0 /R      16.0      16.0             16.4        13.9        17.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      39.3           ..         ..              ..          ..         7.5
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    44.9          49.9      52.4             53.7        45.8        13.3
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           109.0        116.0     100.0             77.7       102.7        82.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..      74.8             59.1       26.4         31.1
URBAN                                ..           ..      87.7             85.9       63.5         68.5
RURAL                                ..           ..      63.7             38.0       14.1         18.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..        ..             64.3       16.1         37.5
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..             94.5       65.9         69.5
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..             27.7        3.4         25.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           2500.0 lb   1910.0    1820.0 /i         4271.6    13432.7       9359.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      2730.0 /h   1640.0 /i 1520.0 /i         2077.4     6983.3       2762.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             500.0 /b    460.0      460.0            580.2     1157.6        786.5
URBAN                                ..        290.0     250.0            310.0      183.3        278.4
RURAL                                ..      2110.0    2090.0                ..     1348.8       1358.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..           ..        ..             22.0       19.5         19.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.0           ..       5.2              5.4        5.2
URBAN                               4.8          ..        5.0              ..         4.8
RURAL                                ..           ..       5.5              ..         5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               1.9           ..       1.8
URBAN                               1.6           ..        ..              1.8        1.8          2.3
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              38.0           ..      45.7             40.3       25.9        28.3
URBAN                              37.8           ..      77.0
RURAL                                ..           ..      19.6             12.2         ..         10.3



-   23                      ~~~~~Annex 1
- 23 -                                  Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
EGYPT - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
EGYPT                                                   ft
- MOST RECENT ESTIMTE)
SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960 /b     1970 Lb ESTIMATE /b       REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROIIP Le
EDUCATION
ADJUSTEI) ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 66.0         69.0      72.0             80.8        62.9        75.8
FEMALE                52.0        53.0       55.0            61.8        45.9         67.91
SECONt)ARY:  TOTAL                 16.0         33.0      40.0             23.6        14.4        17.t
FEMALE                 9.0        21.0       28.0             18.2        8.8         12.!9
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 22.0          19.0      18.0              6.7         6.6         7.4
PUPIL-TIEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            39.0         38.0      40.0             31.5        38.5        34. 3
SECONDARY                          16.0         25.0      29.0             22.3        19.8        23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        20.0           .-      40.0             50.1        36.7        63.7
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.0          4.0       6.0             14.5         3.1         7.2
RADIO RElCEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         58.0        132.0     140.0            125.8       31.1         71.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULkTION                          1.9         16.0      17.0             34.5         2.8        14.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    ..         22.0        *-             17.4         6.0        16.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  3.0           2.0         *-             1.6         1.4         1.5
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      7800.0 |1   8300.0 /k 9600.0
F.EMALE (PERCENT)                   7.3          7.2       7.6              9.3        24.2        28.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              57.0 /d      53.0 /k   43.9             42.0        60.7        54.1
iNDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 12.2         18.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                28.9         28.0      28.0             26.9        39.8        37.8
MALE                                 53.2         51.5      51.3             46.6        53.3        50.3
FEMALE                                4.2          4.1       4.3              5.3        19.6        20.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.8         1.8        1.8              1.9        1.3          1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   19.2 /1         ..      21.0 In            ..        20.3        19.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  48.4 L          ..      46.0 oI            ..        45.1        48.9
LOWESr 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.6 /1         ..       5.2 /i            ..         5.7         5.9
LOWESr 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   14.1 /          ..      16.0 ha            ..        16.8        15.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     154.0               ..        88.5       155.9
RURAL                                ..           ..     112.0            142.0        71.9        97.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     122.0            236.1       100.8       143.7
RURAL                                ..           ..      60.0            144.7        42.0        87.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      22.0             21.5        46.0        22.9
RURAL                                ..           ..      30.0             37.4        48.0        36.7
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    North Africa & Middle East;   /d   Law Income ($280 or less per capita, 1976);   /e  Lower Middle:
Income ($281-550 per capita, 1976);   /f  1950-55;   /g  1960-62;   /h  1962;   /i  Registered, not all
practicing in the country; /d Relates to persona six years and over, excluding nomad population;
1k Relates to 12-64 years of age, 1966; /I 1964-65; /m rural only.
September, 1978



- 24 -
Annex 1
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS                                                       Page  3  of  5
Note:  The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme values of the indicator and the most
populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.  Due to lack of data,
group averages for Capital Surplus Oil Exporters and indicators of access to water and excreta disposal, housing, Income distribution sod poverty are
simple population-weighted geometric means without the exclusion of extreme values.
LAND AREA (thousand sq. km)                                                                Population per hospital bed - total, urban, and rural - Population (total,
Total - Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters.                          urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of hospital beds
Agricultural - Most recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily                   available in public and private general and specialized hospital and re-
om permanently for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to                      habilitation centers.  Hospitals are establishments permanently staffed by
lie fallo.                                                                               at least one physician.  Establishments providing priocipally custodial
care are not included. Rural hospitals, however, include health and medi-
GNP PER CAPITA (US$) - GNP per capita estimates at current market prices,                    cal centers not permanently staffed by a physician (bht by a medical u-
calculated by sane conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);                 sistant, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient accomnodation and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                                provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions per hospital bed - Total number of admissions to or discharges
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of commercial energy                      from hospitals divided by the number of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermal electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                     HOUSING
Average sine of hoasehold (persons oa,pr household), -_total, urban, and coral-
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                             Avhousehold onsists of a group of individuals who share living quarters
Total population, mid-year (millions) - As of July 1; if not available,                     and their main meals.  A boarder or lodger may or may not be included in
average of two end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                             the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of house-
Urban population (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                       hold vary.
tion; different definitions of urban areas may affect comparability                    Average number of persons par room - total, urban, and rural - Average nu=-
of data among countries.                                                                  ber of persons per room in all, urban, and rural occupied conventional
Population density                                                                          dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude non-permanent strocturen and
Per  so. km. - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                     unoccupied parts.
of total area.                                                                         Access to electricity (percent of dwellings) - total, urban, and rural -
Per sq. km. agriculture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                     Conventional dwellings wIth electricity in living quarters as percentage
only.                                                                                     of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Population age structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-                EDUCATION
year population.                                                                      Adjusted enrollment ratios
Population growth rate (percent) - total, and urban - Compound annual                     Primary school - total, and female - Total and female enrollment of all ages
growth rates of total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                         at the primary level as percentages of respectively primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                    populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                        different lengths of primary education; for countries with universal edu-
mid-year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                      cation enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some pupils are below or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                      above the official school age.
Crude death rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                      Secondary school - total, and female - Computed as above; secondary educa-
year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                     tion requires at least four years of approved primary instruction; pro-
and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                           vides general vocational, or teacher training instructions for pupils
Gr.os  reproduction rate - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                    usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
in her normal oeproductive period if she experiences present age-                        excluded.
specific fertility rates; udually five-year averages ending in 1960,                   Vocational enrollment (Percent of secondary) - Vocational institutions in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                          clade technical, industrial, or other programs which operate independently
Family planning - acceptors, annual (thousands) - Annual number of                          or as departments of secondary institutions.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family                  Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total students enrolled in
planning program.                                                                        primary snd secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the comma-
fPsily planning - users (percent of married women) - Persentags of                          sponding levels.
married women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control                Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
devices to all married women in same age group.                                          a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                      CONSUMPTION
Index of food production per capita (1970-100) - Index number of per                    Passenger cars (per thousand population) - Passenger cars comprise motor cars
capita annual production of all food commodities.                                      seating less than eight persons; excludes ambulances, hearses and military
Per capits supply of calories (percent of requirements) - Computed from                  vehicles.
energy equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita                Radio receivers (per thousand population) - All types of receivers for radio
per day.  Available supplies comprise domestic production, imports less                broadcasts to general public per thousand of population; excludes unlicensed
exports, and changes in stock.  Net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,               receivers in countries and in years when registration of radio sets was in
quantities used in food processing, and losses in distribution.  Re-                   effect; data for recent years may not be comparable since most countries
quiruments were estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for nor-                 abolished licensing.
mal activity and health considering environmental temperature, body                   TV receivers (per thousand population) - TV receivers for broadcast to genera
weights, age and sex distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                   public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers in coon-
cent for waste at household level.                                                       tries and in years when registration of TV sets was in effect.
Per capita supply of protein (grams per day) - Protein content of per                   Newspaper circulation (per thousand population) - Shows the average circula-
capita net supply of food per day.  Net supply of food is defined as                     tion of "daily general interest newspaper", defined as a periodical publi-
above.  Requirements for all countries established by USDA provide for                   cation devoted primarily to recording general news.  It is considered to
a minimum allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 grums                    be "daily" if it appears at least four times a waek.
of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal protein.              Cinema annual attendance per capita per year - Eased on the number of tickets
These standards are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and                    sold during the year, including adoissions to drive-in cine=as and mobile
23 grams of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by                      units.
FAO in the Third World Food Survey.
Per capita protein supply from animal and pulse - Protein supply of food               EMPLOYMENT
derived from animals and pulses in grams per day.                                     Total labor force (thousands) - Economically active persons, including armed
Child (ages 1-4) mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thoos-                   forces and unemployed but excluding housewives, students, etc.  Defini-
and in age group 1-4 years, to children in this age group.                               tions in various countries are sot comparable.
Female (percent) - Female labor force as percentage of total labor force.
HEALTH                                                                                   Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting and fishing
Life ospectancy at birth  (years) - Average number of years of life                         as percentage of total labor force.
remaining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,                  Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, construction, manufacturing and
and 1975.                                                                                electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor force.
Infant mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                   Participation rate (percent) - total, male, and female - Total, ..le, and
one year of age per thousand live birhts.                                                fe=sle labor force as percentages of their respective fopulotiocs.
Access to safe water (percent of population) - total, urban, and rural -                    These are ILOs adjusted participatien rmtes reflecting ocr-see
Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable access to                      structure of the population, ond long time trend.
safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or untreated but                   Economic dependency ratio - Ratio of populatios order 1  ard 65 aud over to
uncontaminated water such as that from protected boreholes, springs,                      the labor force in age group of 15-64 years.
and sanitary wells) as percentages of their respective populations.
In an urban area a public fountain or standpost located not more                     INCOME DISTRIBUTION
than 200 meters from a house may be considered as being within rea-                   Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind) received by richest 5
sonable access of that house.  In rural areas reasonable access would                    percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, and poorest 40 percent
imply that the housewife or members of the household do not have to                      of households.
spend a disproportionate part of the day in fetching the family's
water needs.                                                                         POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Access to eocreta disposal (Percent of population) - total, urban, and                  Estimated absolute poverty income level (US$ per capita) - urban and rural -
roral - Number of people (total, urban, and rural) served by excreta                        Absolute poverty income level is that income level below which a minimal
disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  ExRretr                         nutritionally adequate diet plus essential son-food requirements is not
dispesal may include the collection and disposal, with or without                        affordable.
treatment, of human exsreta and waste-water by water-borne systems                    Estimated relative poverty income level (US$ per capita) - urban and rural -
or tho use of pit privies and similar installations.                                     Relative poverty income level is that income level less than one-third
Population per physicias  - Population divided by number of practicing                      per capita personal income of the country.
physicians qualified from a medical school at university level.                       Estimated population below poverty income level (percent) - urban and reral -
Population per nursing person - Population divided by number of                             Percent of population (urban and rural) who are either "absolute poor" or
practicing male and female graduate nurses, practical nurses, and                         "relative poor" whichever is greaten.
assistant nurses.
Economic and Social nata Division
Econo=ic Analysis and Projec tions Departniet



- 25 -
ECONOMIC INDICATORS                                          ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5 pages
GROSS NATIONAL PRODIJCT IN 1978                                        ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (7.! constant _rices)
US$ln.         7,                        1961-66-/        1967-741I        1i__7__/
GNP at Market Prices           13,520        100.0                        5.4             3.6              15.0
Gross Domestic Investment       4,040         29.9                       10.7             5.4              28.5-
Gross National Saving           3.110         23.0                        3.0            -7.0             117.0
Current Account Balance       - 1,580          6.8
Exports of Goods, NFS           3,620        15.7                         4.3             6.2               7.6
Imports of Goods, NFS           6,240        27.0                         8.8             9.2               7.1
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 197t
Value Added                 Labor Force3/                      V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.      7               Mln.       7                        LS's          7
Agricultu;e                      3,340       29.0             4.162    41.2                         800        15.9
Industry4                        3,420       29.7             1.903    18.9                       1,8e0       35.6
Distributive Sector              2,210       19.3             1.557    15.4                       1,420       28.2
Services                         2,530       22.0             2.472    24.5                       1,020       20.3
Total/Average            11500/2875    100.0             i0.o94  lo.o 0ILO                              lOO.0
GOVERNMENT FINA"NCE
General Government-
USs Mn.       % of GDP
1978     1973      1978
Current Receipts                      5,090      32.6      40.2
Current Expenditure                   4,384      28.9      38.2
Current Surplus                          250      3.7       2.0
Capital Expenditures                  2,740      11.8      21.6
External Assistance (net)                980      1.3       7.8
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                   1973       1974      1975       1976       1977      1978
(Million L.E. outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                      1207       1515      1883       2417       3185      4090
Bank Credit to Public Sector               1852       2338      3527       4123      4775       6035
Bank Credit to Private Sector               102        149       230        251       434        570
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP          31.7       36.1      38.5       38.5      43.4       4(.3
Wholesale Price Index (1973 = 100)        100.0      112.4     119.1      131.4     145.0    ijl.l
Annual percentage changes in:
Wholesale Price Index                      10.4       12.4       6.0       10.3       10.4      18.0
Bank Credit to Public Sector                9.6       26.2      50.9       16.9      15.8       26.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector              10.9       46.1      54.4        9.1      72.9       31.3
NOTE:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the weighted exchange rate Of US S1.496 =   Z.E.
A/  At 1965 Constant Prices.
2/ At 1975 Constant Prices.
3/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation. "Unallocated" consists
mainly of uneiaployed workers seeking their first job.
4/ Manufacturing and Mining, Petroleum, Electricity and Construction.
5/ Local Government comprises a small part of General Government.
not applicable
April 19, 1979



- 26-                                              ANhEX I
Page 5 of 5 pages
TRADE PAYMNTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                                  MERCEANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1975-78)
1975     I         1977      1978/                                              US$ 1ln.       %
US$ million)
Cotton                       354         19.8
Exports of Goods, NFS          2,194    2,759    3,536    3,620                      Yarn and textiles             364         20.4
Imports of Goods, NFS         -4,931   -4,910   -5,486   -6,240                      Petroleum                     441         24.7
Other agriculture            224         12.5
Imports of Foreign                                                                   All other co=modities         405         22.6
Oil Companies                 -164      -281      -401      -420
Total                   1,788        100.0
Workers' Remittances              366       755      896    1,750
Interest (net)                  -104      -202      -206      -290
Net Transfers                     262      553       690    T1i0
EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMER 31, 1978
Balance on Current Account  -2,639   -1,879   -1,661   -1,580
Us$ Mn.
Direct Foreign Investment        165       342       504       570
Net MLT Borrowing                                                                    Public debt, incl. guaranteed          9,221
Disbursements               2,742    1,640    2,740    2,410                      Repayments on public debt               930
Amortization                 -571      -715      -778      -855                   Interest on public debt                 420
Subtotal                    2,171       925    1,962    1,555
2/
Grants                         1,076       792       446       200                   DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1978-           24.5%
Other Capital (net)             -181       363      -865      -225
Other Items n.i.e.              -654      -498      -191      -449
Increase in Reserves (+)         -62        45       195        71
Gross Reserves (end year}         294       339      534       605
Fuel and Related Materials
Imports
of which:  Petroleum       -477      -388      -250     -200
Exports
of which:  Petroleum        164       268       600       730
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Rate Of Exchange             1973       1974       1975       1976       1977       1978      1979
UE   :3,
Official Exchange Rate    2.5343    2.5556    2.5556    2.5556    2.5556    2.5556             __
Parallel Market Rate        1.70       1.70       1.57       1.50       1.43       1.43       1.43
(Sept.)              (Feb.)    (May)
1/ Estimates
2/ Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and
non-factor services and factor services.
3/ As of January 1, 1979, official exchange rate has been
abolished except for some bilateral transactions.
EM1DA
April 19, 1979



- 27 -
ANNEX It
ThE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT                  Page 1 of 7
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1979)
Amount in million US dollars
Loan/Credit      Approved                                                                    less cancellations
Numbers            FY       Borrower        Purpose                               Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
Ln 243-UAR           60          SCA          Suez Canal Expansion                   56.5     --
Cr 181-UAR           70         UAR           Nile Delta Drainage                     --    26.0         2.3
Cr 284-UAR           72         ARE           Railways I                              --    30.0         1.0
Cr 393-UAR           73         ARE           Upper Egypt Drainage                    -     36.0         7.7
Cr 412-UAR           73         ARE           Development Industrial Bank 1/          --    15.0         0.8
Cr 423-UAR           74         ARE           Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation           --    18.5         4.1
Cr 437-UAR           74         ARE           Population                              --     5.0         0.3
Cr 484-UAR           74         ARE           Talkha Fertilizer                      --    20.0          2.8
Cr 524-EGT           75         ARE           Ag/Ind Imports                          --    35.0         0.9
La 1062-EGT          75         ARE           Ag/Ind Imports                         35.0     --         1.2
Ln 1064-EGT          75         SCA           Suez Canal Rehabilitation              50.0               32.7
Ln 1085-EGT          75         ARE           Tourah Cement                          40.0     --         7.8
Ln 1098-EGT          75         ER            Railways II                            37.0     --        12.5
Cr 548-EGT           75         ARE           Telecommunications                     --    30.0          9.6
Cr 576-EGT           76         ARE           Development Industrial Bank II 11/    -       25.0         1.3
La 1239-EGT          76         APA           Alexandria Port                        45.0     --        41.9
Ln 1276-T-ECT 2/    76          ARE           Fruit and Vegetable Dev.               50.0     --        47.0
Cr 637-EGT           76         ARE           Upper Egypt Drainage II                --    40.0         35.8
Ln 1285-EGT          76         ARE           Upper Egypt Drainage II                10.0     --        10.0
Ln 1292-EGT          76         ARE           Textile Rehabilitation                 52.0     --        51.0
Ln 1369-EGT          77         AWA           Alexandria Water Supply                56.0     --        55.6
Cr 6al-EGT           77         ARE           Education                               --    25.0        14.5
Cr 719-EGT           77         ARE           Nile Delta Drainage II                  --    27.0        17.5
Ln 1439-EGT          77         ARE           Nile Delta Drainage II                 27.0      -        27.0
Ln 1440-T-EGT 2/    77          ARE           Nile Delta Drainage II                 12.0     -         12.0
Ln 1453-EGT          77         EEA           Regional Electrification               48.0      -        45.2
Ln 1456-EGT          77         ARE           Industrial Imports                     70.0     --        60.2
Ln S-005-EGT         77         ARE           Iron Ore Beneficiation and              2.5     -          1.8
Engineering
La 1482-EGT          78         SCA           Suez Canal Expansion                  100.0     --        71.3
Cr S-20-EGT          78         ARE           Water Supply Engineering               --      2.0         1.3
Cr 774-EGT           78         ARE           Telecommunications II                  --    53.0         53.0
Ln 1533-EGI          78         DIB           Development Industrial Bank III        40.0     --        39.0
Cr 830-FEGT          78         ARE           Agricultural Development               --    32.0         32.0
Cr 831-EGT 3/        78         ARE           Urban Development                      --    14.0         14.0
Cr 850-EGT 3/        79         ARE           Second Population                      --    25.0         25.0
CR 868-EGT3/         79         ARE           Second Education                       --    40.0         40-0
Totals                                                                              731.0  498.5
Of which has been repaid                                                             56.5
Total now outstanding                                                               674.5
Amount sold                                                               7.5
Of which has been repaid                                                  6.0         1.5
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                                      673.0  498.5      780.1
B. STATEDENT OF lFC INVESTMENTS
(Amount in US$ million)
Year           Obligor                    Type of Business                     Loan          Ecluity      Total
1976          Arab Ceramic Company        Ceramic Industry                     4.25            .75         5.0
(Plus .635 contingency cocmmitment)  (5.635)
1977          Nile Clothing Company       Ready-Made Garment Industry          0.40           0.20         0.60
1978          Delta Sugar Company         Agricultural Production,
mainly sugar                      20.0            2.00        22.00
(Plus 1.0 standby commitment)        (23.00)
1/ Formerly Bank of Alexandria.
2/ Third Window Loan
3/ Not yet effective.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 8
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. No. 181-UAR - Nile Delta Drainage I Project; US$26 million Credit
of April 17, 1970; Effective Date: December 22, 1970; Closing Date:
September 30, 1979
Full completion of the project is expected by mid-1980, nearly 3
years behind schedule. However, procurement is proceeding satisfactorily.
It is expected that the whole of the credit will be committed in the near
future, and that disbursement will be completed during 1979.
Cr. No. 284-UAR - Egyptian Railway Project; US$30 million Credit of February
9, 1972; Effective Date: July 17, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The project generally is being implemented satisfactorily. All
procurement contracts have been awarded, and the credit has been fully com-
mitted. To allow the remaining balance to be utilized, the closing date
for the parts of the credit allocated to signalling items, originally Sep-
tember 30, 1976, has been postponed to June 30, 1979; the credit account for
the parts allocated to other items was closed on December 31, 1977.
Cr. No. 393-UAR - Upper Egypt Drainage I Project; US$36 million Credit of
June 8, 1973; Effective Date: November 28, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1979.
Over 50 percent of the project is complete; construction of open
drains is almost complete, and full completion is expected by end-1980, i.e.,
6 months behind schedule. The bilharzia control program is progressing
satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 412-UAR - Development Industrial Bank (formerly Bank of Alexandria)
Project; US$15 million Credit of June 29, 1973; Effective Date: November 29,
1973; Closing Date: September 30, 1979.
The entire amount of the credit has been committed to subprojects
and over 90 percent has been disbursed.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



-29-                            ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8
Cr. No. 423-UAR - Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation Project; US$18.5 million
Credit of July 30, 1973; Effective Date: February 15, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The scaled-down project financed by IDA is estimated to be completed
in end-1980 and the remainder of the full project, financed by a loan from the
Saudi Fund for Development, which became effective in July 1976, is expected
to be comp'Leted in 1981-82. The foreign cost of the project ($43.8 million)
is now firm as all procurement has been completed, but the local component
continues to escalate mainly due to steady increase in the cost of civil
works.  Recently, the project has also encountered delays because of shortage
of local funds.
Cr. No. 437-UAR - Population Project; US$5.0 million Credit of November 6,
1973; Effective Date: March 25, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The project is expected to be completed by June 1979, alt:hough with
reduced scope. About 94 percent of the credit has been disbursed. For
disbursing of the remaining funds (mainly for software activities) an exten-
sion of the c'losing date to June 30,1979 has been granted.
Cr. No. 484-UAR - Talkha II Fertilizer Project; US$20 million Credit of June
24, 1974; Effective Date: January 22, 1975; Closing Date: April 1, 1980.
Procurement has been completed except for some small items. Accord-
ing to the latest indication the project is likely to be mechanically com-
pleted by June 1979 or 18 months behind schedule, partly because of delays
in civil works and procurement.
Cr. No. 524-EGT and ln. No. 1062-EGT - Agricultural and Industrial Imports
Project; UJS$35 million Credit and US$35 million Loan of December 20, 1974;
Effective Date: March 19, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
The bulk of the procurement actions has been completed and only
about $0.9 million and $1.2 million remain to be disbursed under the credit
and loan, respectively. Five out of six surveys of industrial subsectors
financed under the project have been completed. The Government has requested
that the unutilized balance of the loan and credit be used for an extension of
some of these studies. These additional studies are designed to either turn
pre-feasibility studies prepared in the context of the sector studies into
feasibility studies, as in the case of a proposed pulp and paper and possibly
another textile project, or to follow up on issues identified in t:he context
of the sector studies, such as the need for a brick master plan. While
preparation of the pulp and paper feasibility study is almost completed, the
additionaLl studies are expected to be contracted shortly and comp'Leted by end
1979. An extension of the Closing Date until December 31, 1979 has, there-
fore, been granted to allow further disbursements for the above studies under
the technical assistance component of the project.



30                               ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8
Ln. No. 1064-EGT - Suez Canal Rehabilitation Project; US$50 million Loan of
December 20, 1974; Effective Date: April 21, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1980.
Progress to date has been good, although the implementation of the
reconstruction project proved to be much more complex than originally esti-
mated. The financial situation of the Borrower is sound; canal traffic and
revenues are both considerably higher than expected at appraisal. Procurement
is proceeding well.
Ln. No. 1085-EGT - Tourah Cement Expansion Project; US$40 million Loan of
February 10, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1980.
Procurement of machinery and equipment is almost completed (95
percent). Most items are already on site awaiting erection. After initial
difficulties with the civil works contractor the rate of construction has now
somewhat accelerated. However, delay in start-up of commercial operations is
expected to be about 1-1/2 years.
Ln. No. 1098-EGT - Railways II Project; US$37 million Loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: August 20, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Investment in mobile assets has been satisfactory but progress on
fixed installations is slow. The Egyptian Railways' (ER) operations and
maintenance situation remains very poor with low availability of locomotives
and rolling stock, despite the receipt of new locomotives and spare parts. ER
is implementing the recommendations of its consultants, TRANSMARK, with regard
to ER's traction and rolling stock maintenance facilities. Track maintenance
is lagging far behind program, principally because of a lack of traction for
work trains but also because effort is directed to the construction of new
lines. The 1979/83 draft investment program contains many large investments
including new lines for which economic justification is doubtful. The finan-
cial situation continues to suffer and a deficit of LE 33 million is forecast
for 1978, although freight tariffs of between 70% to 100% have recently been
approved which should ameliorate the situation.
Cr. No. 548-EGT - Telecommunications Project; US$30 million Credit of May 16,
1975; Effective Date: August 14, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Project works are about two years behind schedule, primarily because
of initial delays in building construction. However, construction has recently
accelerated and is expected to proceed satisfactorily.  $28 million of the
credit have been committed under contracts for cables and cable equipment with
the remaining funds to be used for expected exchange variations on these
contracts. Telex equipment has been obtained with financing from other
sources and installation of the Cairo telex exchange was deferred to the
second project. The part of the credit originally allocated for the telex
exchange is being used for the purchase of additional cables.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8
Cr. No. 576-EGT - Second Development Industrial Bank (formerly Bank of
Alexandria Project; US$25 million Credit of July 30, 1975; Effective Date:
February 19, 1976; Closing Date: October 31, 1979.
The credit is now fully committed and $23.7 million have been dis-
bursed as of 'March 31, 1978.
Ln. No. 1239-EGT - Alexandria Port Project; US$45 million Loan of April 19,
1976; Effective Date: August 30, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Project implementation was initially slower than expected but is
now active. Consultants have completed the engineering preparation of
dredging and berth construction, and the works are under tender. Procurement
action on Bank-financed equipment and material is underway. Management
consultants are in the field.
Ln. No. 1276--ECT - Fruit and Vegetable Development Project; US$50 million
Third Window Loan of June 11, 1976; Effective Date: December 20, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Project start-up has been slower than expected. Work on the drain-
age and irrigation components of the project is proceeding although behind
schedule. The seed component has major problems, which the Bank is now
discussing with Egyptian officials. The Agricultural Development Lending Unit
in Bank Misr is attempting, with assistance from the World Bank, to ensure
that the various sub-borrowers proceed with their respective investments, and
to identify additional sub-borrowers. The project is now over two years
behind schedule.
Ln. No. 1285-EGT and Cr. 637-EGT - Upper Egypt Drainage II Project; US$10
million Loan and US$40 million Credit, both of June 11, 1976. Effective
Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Project implementation has been slower than expected. Construction
of open drains is on schedule. Field drainage was delayed by slow procurement
of equipment for making pvc drains (financed by USAID).
Ln. No. 1292-EGT - Textile Project; US$52 million Loan of September 20, 1976.
Effective Date: February 16, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The project is proceeding with a year to a year and a half' delay
caused by a later and slower than anticipated start of the civil works.  The
project is nlow estimated to cost about US$21 million equivalent (all in local
currency) more than appraised, due mostly to increased scope of civil works.
In part this is due to the increased price of building materials recently
approved by the Government; no difficulties are foreseen in financing this,
although soime government equity contribution would be required in the next
two years to supplement the companies' internal cash generation in order to
adhere to the financial covenants as well as project costs. Early management



-32-                             ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8
problems have now been overcome and both companies have developed effective
project implementation units. Disbursements are slower than anticipated
reflecting initial delays in procurement. However, between 70-85 percent of
contracts for machinery and equipment have now been awarded and the balance
is expected to be awarded within the next three months.
Ln. No. 1369-EGT - Alexandria Water Supply Project; US$56 million Loan of
March 7, 1977; Effective Date: July 6, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
With the exception of the water treatment plants and civil works,
all contracts have been awarded for the Bank financed components under the
project. Bids for the treatment plants are now being evaluated and bidding
for civil works is in progress.
Cr. No. 681-EGT - Education Project; US$25 million Credit of March 7, 1977;
Effective Date: August 19, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Project implementation through project units in the different
ministries is proceeding satisfactorily. All technical assistance contracts
have been awarded. Procurement of equipment and furniture under the project
is well advanced. Technical problems have been encountered with the construc-
tion of the two Technical institutes which needed to be redesigned, resulting
in a two year delay for this project item. However, the other 45 institutions
are expected to open classes as scheduled.
Cr. No. 719-EGT, Ln. No. 1439-EGT and Ln. No. 1440T-EGT - Nile Delta Drainage
II Project; $27 Million Credit, $27 Million Loan and $12 Million Third Window
Loan of July 15, 1977; Effective Date: April 17, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Design work for the project is well advanced. Implementation is
behind schedule although construction on the open drains has begun. Tender
documents for the pumping stations have been issued.
Ln. No. 1453-EGT - Regional Electrification Project; US$48 Million Loan of
July 15, 1977; Effective Date: February 6, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
Engineering consultants started work in June 1977. All contracts
for electrification equipment and materials have been awarded and construction
has started. Consultants for the extension of the UNDP Power Sector Survey
and for the Tariff Study are in the field. A contract for the review of
safety and inspection procedures has been awarded and another for the training
services will be awarded shortly.
Ln. No. 1456-EGT - Industrial Imports Project; US$70.0 Million Loan of July 15,
1977; Effective Date:  November 7, 1977; Closing Date:  June 30, 1979.
The progress of commitment and disbursement of funds under the
project has been slow because of problems associated with the administration



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8
of the loan and procurement difficulties arising from the sub-borrowers' lack
of knowledge of Bank guidelines. Furthermore, until November, 1978, foreign
exchange proceeds of the loan were available to sub-borrowers in the public
sector only against cash payments in local currency which suppressed demand
from firms who were short of cash in local currency. Since November, 1978,
government has been making funds available as subloans which has soLved the
resource constraint. The Bank has also simplified procurement procedures for
private sector sub-projects costing less than $100,000 to expedite disburse-
ment. As of March 31, 1979 about $20 million had been committed and $10 mil-
lion disbursed under the project. In addition about $19 million in projects
involving equipment for public firms have been approved by the Bank. In
aggregate, about 56% of funds have been committed or approved and about 14%
actually disbursed. The Bank is planning a mission in May to review the
status and problems of the project. It is quite likely that the closing date
will have to be extended until June 30, 1980 to facilitate disbursement.
Ln No. S-5 EGT - Iron Ore Engineering and Beneficiation Project; US$2.5 Million
Loan of Ju'Ly 15, 1977. Effective Date: February 2, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
Consultants preparing both iron ore beneficiation and diagnostic
studies are expected to submit feasibility studies by May 1979.
Ln. No. 1482-EGT - Suez Canal Expansion Project; US$100 Million Loan of
September 28, 1977; Effective Date: February 8, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Project execution is satisfactory, although dredging is slower than
plarined. Both dredging contracts to be financed by the Bank have been awarded.
Tender documents for equipment have been drawn up and are currently being
discussed in the field. Project planning and supervision arrangements are
progressing well.
Cr. No. S-20-EGT - Water Supply Engineering Project; US$2.0 Million Engineering
Credit of December 29, 1977; Effective Date: April 28, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
Consultants were mobilized in November 1978 and their initerim report
was completed in early April 1979.
Ln No. 15:33-EGT - Development Industrial Bank III; US$40.0 Million Loan of
April 12, 1978; Effective Date: July 18, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Commitments and disbursements are progressing satisfactorily. As of
March 31, 1979 $1.0 million had been disbursed; $8 million have been committed
and $3.8 million of subprojects are under review. The balance of the Loan is
expected to be committed before the end of 1979.



-34-                           ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8
Cr. No. 774-EGT - Second Telecommunications Project: US$53.0 Million Credit
of March 21, 1978; Effective Date: September 19, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Project implementation has started. Specifications for the equip-
ment and materials to be financed under the Credit are being prepared. A Gov-
ernment request for reallocation of credit proceeds is under consideration.
Cr. No. 830-EGT - Agricultural Development Project; US$32.0 Million Credit of
July 24, 1978; Effective Date: February 20, 1979; Closing Date: December 31,
1983.
The implementing agencies are making satisfactory progress toward
identifying sub-project activities.
Cr. No. 831-EGT - Egypt Urban Development Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of
August 30, 1978; Effectiveness Date: April 30, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Action on effectiveness is being completed.
Cr. No. 850-EGT - Second Population Project; US$25.0 Million Credit of
October 30, 1978; Effectiveness Date: April 30, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Action on effectiveness is being completed.
Cr. No. 868-EGT - Second Education Project; US$40.0 Million Credit of
January 26, 1979; Effectiveness Date: May 29, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984.
Action on effectiveness is underway.



- 35 -
ANNEX III
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Abu Tartur Phosphate Engineering and Technical Assistance Project
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
Disbursement        Undisbursed
(US$ millions)          Amount
Quarterly                                     Cumulative
1979                 IV                                8.1          8.1       2.9
1980                  I                                0.8          8.9       2.1
II                               0.7           9.6       1.4
III                               0.2           9.8       1.2
IV                               0.3          10.1      0.9
1981                  I                                0.3         10.4       0.6
II                               0.3          10.7      0.3
III                               0.3          11.0      0.0



PRELIMINARY IVPLEMENTATION FOR THE NEW VALLEY PHOSPHATE, PROJFCT
ITEM                          1978      1979     1980    1981    1982
Comprehensive TestPrograms
1.  Laboratory testing                       _ -
2.  Laboratory and pilot tests
3.  Experimental mine
4.  Prefeasibility study                                        - _  X
5.  Feasibility Study                                                        X
ON
KEY:  o -- Tender call                                                                                         Zt
x -- Completion



37 -                         AN_NEX V
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
New Valley Phosphate Engineering and Technical Assistance Proet
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to
prepare the project:                  Four months (June to Sepl:ember 1978)
(b) Agency which has prepared the
project:                             Industrial and Mining Complex (IMC)
(c) Date of frist presentation to
the Bank, and date of first          June 1978
Bank mission to consider             October 1978
the project:
(d) Date of departure of Appraisal
Mis sion                             October 27, 1978
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:   March 21, 1979
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:           September 1979
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
tNone
Section II]: Special Conditions
1.        If in the opinion of the Bank the experience gained from the experi-
mental mine and the results of the various studies fail to confirm the eco-
nomic, financial and technical feasibility of converting New Valley rock into
phosphoric acid or other phosphate intermediates, no disbursements under the
loan would be made for the feasibility study (para. 56).
2.        The Government and the Industrial and Mining Complex agreed that,
before entering into any commitment for major capital investment in phosphate
mining in the New Valley, or in other phosphate developments of significance
for the studies included under the project, they would afford the Bank a
reasonable opportunity to exchange views thereon (para. 60).






IBRD  14204
lul El                                                                                                                                                                   APRIL   17
'A Sn0. 
rao,vc        IRAQ                                                         ARAB  REPUBLIC  OF EGYPT
,      eO5DAvN    N
L I BlsP EGYPT~NEW  VALLEY-EXPERIMENTAL PHOSPHATE MINE
C H A,D   |                    \                                                                    0             100             290            30
:-    E U D A N g  /    ,x, s EM                                                                        KILOMETERS
2                     ETnIQION&>B'
-s  I    ,       Phosphate MKre
d Mediter r onean n                                                                          .                              A
t                                                                                                   ,   \    l~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~C.Iti-oted Areas
I,nternationol Airports
( M*so matrAt,                                  IL                                                                                    D-f * D omtih Airports
+  Alandria, 'x r                               . Soid                 ,             -
AJ._ arsdr_    ,B _2-                                                  - , ~   \                      Cop tal City
)                                                                                                                                                 r          -         Riv)  i  W ers
N.e .4isrrro~~~~~i.a ~Wadis
30                          ~                               ~                               <       3              <                                 \30       -    -    Internaionral Boorndor,es
GEa.   CAIRO         Soeze                                                    Roads
i  I jHeloron  (  \                                \       --- -   Railroads
P.rt
i    -                 A-. p'"- ,'' 
W  E S T E R N                                                    EInya
t                     A p                            &    ~~~~~~~~~~~S A U D I
H.,ghadc'g'  A  R A  B I A
26                                                                                                                               e                                                                   26-
..S.RF.                                                                                           d -       -                            ,T,M I r\  Al (argo\  : 
T"e denOnr,, vn ova,~ld any rOe                                                                                      K
i~J                     f_  '   ,                                                                                                      
th sma    h, b,F rn   t-tae b 
| oWor,mld  s ank    sa    tC/SWh rhy rbonr                                                                 2o                                              / .e .r         
vdg-ter   con h.e egE stgsare of
- dsany reoros -o v thr IrenerrA
_ o      _ _verac v       ron bo                                                                                                                            _     _       _     _      _ oa
vWad, HcfaJ
;   2D'                                                          30-                 ,              S  U   D   A   N       -      34



