Dacmnet of
The World Bank
FOR OmCIAL USE ONlY
Rpiwt No 12276
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
. TRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 2840-PO)
AUGUST 24, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No: 12276
Type: PCR
InfTasttucture and Environment Division
Country Department I
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restcted dstribution and may be ued by eipients only in dte perfonnrma  of
thei official dudes. Its  nents may not otherwise be disclosed widthot World Bank autorization.



EXCHANGE RTES
Appraisal Year Average   (1986)      USD 1 - 149.59 escudos
Intervening Year Average (1987-89)  USD 1   147.43 escudos
Completion Year Average  (1990)      USD l - 142.55 escudos
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric Svstem                        British/US System
1 centimeter (cm)           -         0.39 inches (inch)
1 meter (m)                 -         3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)            -         0.62 miles (mi)
1 square meter (m2)                   10.76 square feet (sq.ft)
1 square kilometer (km2)              0.38 square mile (sq. mi)
1 metric ton (m/ton)         -        0.98 long ton (lg.ton)
1 liter (L)                 -         0.26 gallon (G)
AABBIEIATIONS.
DGTT        General Directorate of Land Transport (Dir.ccao Geral de
Transportes Terrestres)
DGV         General Directorate of Traffic (Direccao Geral de Viacao)
EIB         European Investment Bank
FEDER       European Regional Development Fund (Fonds Europeen de
Developpement)
GEP         Cabinet for Studies and Planning for Public Works, Transport, and
Communications (Gabinete de Estudos e Planeamento do Ministerio
das Obras Publicas, Transportes et Comunicacoes)
GNR         National Military Police (Guarda Nacional Republicana)
JAE         Highway Authority (Junta Autonoma de Estradas)
MPWTC       Ministry of Public Works, Transport, and Communications
(Ministerio das Obras Publicas, Transportes e Comunicacoes)
PMP         Medium Term Investment Plan (Plano a Medio Prazo)
PORTUGAL - FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.SA
Office of D±rector-Oeteral
Operations Ivalutloai
August 24, 1993
MEMORANDIftJ TO THE EXECUIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECTs      Project Completion Report on Portugal
Third Highway Project (Loan 2840-PO)
Attached is the "Project Completion Report on Portugal -- Third
Highway Project (Loan 2840-PO)" prepared by the Europe and Central Asia Regional
Office. Part II contains the Borrower's comments. The Loan (US$50.0 million of
June 1987) was to protect capital assets through rehabilitation, periodic
maintenanee and construction of bypasses, to establish a program of routine road
maintenance by contract, and to encourage collaboration among Government agencies
active in the highway sector, particularly in the areas of road safety and
transport planning. The Loan was closed, with a year's delay, to complete
project-related studies, in June 1991, and the amount of US$160,000 was canceled.
All project objectives were met, albeit in varying degrees. A
substantial part of the national road network was improved; numerous institutions
were strengthened; routine maintenance by contract has been initiated; a road
safety program was developed and implemented; a vehicle weight control system has
been established; three of the four project-sponsored studies have been completed
and implementation of their findings has begun. The economic rate of return of
the civil works component (representing 901 of total project costs) is estimated
at 381, as against 25S at appraisal. The PCR gives a thorough account of project
design and implementation.  Overall, the project is rated as satisfactory, its
sustainability as likely, and its institutional impact as substantial.
No more highway projects will be financed by the Bank in Portugal.
The First Highway Project was audited in 1987. Lessons regarding the impact of
Bank assistance on the development of the Portuguese highway sector would be
useful in the design of future Bank interventions in Eastern Europe where mature
highway authorities do exist and could benefit from systematic help such as that
which the Bank extended to Portugal. This project may be audited together with
the Second Highway Project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of|
their official duties. Its content;. may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



REPUL!C 0g pORTUgALs
THIRD HIGHWAY_ PROYCT
IEOAN 2S40-PO2
PRQ;E  SQEERETSON REPOR
Tab_le of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE .                                 
EVAZUATION SUOMMARY  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   L i . . . . . . . . .  i1
PART It PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  .          . . .   I
Project Identity .     . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . .   1
Background    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  *  .  .  . .  *  . * .  . *.  .  .  . .   .  .  1
Sector Development Objeci$ve ... .  .  .  .  .   ..............    .   1
Administrative Organization  . ...............              2
Policy  Context    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .  2
Project Objectives and Description  ... .  .  .  .  .   .............. ..  2
Project Objectives ...  ...    ***.o.........99.9.. 9.....  2
Description   . . .   . . . . . . . . . .    . . . . . .   . .  .   3
Project Design and Organization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .9.9999  * ... 4
project Implementation  ..      ...... . ........ . .   5
Civil Works  . . .           . . .   . . .  . .  . .  . . . * *   S
Routine Maintenance  . ...................                  6
Road Safety Program   ...........................    6
Energy Management Policy Study  .      . . . . . . . . . . . .. .    6
Freight Transport Productivity Study . . . . . . . . . . . .   7
Road User Charges Study  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   7
North-South Corridor Study . ................    7
Training   .9  9  9  9  &.  . 9  99.  9. 9.    9   9          . ..  .  . .. .   a8
Project Results . . . * . . . .. . . .  * . . . . . . . . .    * .   8
Achievment of Project Objectives   . . ... . . ....... . .  .   8
Physical Results .. . . . . .9 .   9. 9. 9. .. .. . . . . ..  .   8
Project Costs  . . . . .  . . . . .   . .  . . . . . .  . .  .. .   9
Project Financing  .. ..  . * .  * .  . . .....    .    * ..  .   .  * .    9
Disbursements  . . . . . ..   * .* 9 * . . .   * * .  .  9  9
Economic Re-Evaluation     .     . . . .  . . . . .               ........    9
Bnvironmental Impact  .................... a ...           10
Project Sustainability  . . . . . . . . . .  . .  . . . . . . .. ..    10
Bank'e Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  11
Borrower's Performance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   12
Bank - Borrower Relationa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    12
Consultants' Services . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  12
Project Documentation and Data ..................   12



Table of Contents (cont.)
II.  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE . . . . . . . . . . .   13
III.  STATISTICAL INFOPRATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   15
Table 1:   Related Bank Loans . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   15
Table 2:   Project TimotabLe  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   16
Table 3:   Studies  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   17
Table 4:   Physical Execution of Project Civil Works  . . . . . . .   18
Table 5:   Financial Execution of Project Civil Works . . . . . . .   19
Table 6:   Project Costs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   20
Table 7:   Project Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   21
sable 8:   Cumulative Loan Disbursements  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   22
Table 9:   Economic Re-evaluation of the Project  . . . . . . . . .   23
Table 10:  Use of Bank-Resources  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   24
Table 11:  Status of Covenants  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   26
Chart of Planned Versus Actual Disbursements  . . . . . . . . . . .   27
Xap:  IBRD 20314R1



REPUBLIC OF.P ORTUO"
TMRV =JGIHWAY PRoJ2CT
(I.OAW 2840-Pm
PROJECI COMPLETION BEPORT
PREFACE
This Project Completion Report (PCR) describes the identification,
preparation, appraisal, and implementation of the Third Highway Project in
Portugal, for which Loan 2840-PO in the amount of USD 50 million was signed on
July 10, 1987. The loan became effective on August 24, 1987. It was originally
scheduled to be closed on June 30, 1990 but was extended to June 30, 1991 to
allow more time for completion of project-financed studies. Ultimately, USD
49.84 million were disbursed and USD 1S9,165 cancelled.
The Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and SII of the PCR were
prepared by the Infrastructure and Environment Division of Country Department
I, Europe and Central Asia Region. The Bank's contribution to the report was
prepared on the basis of, inter alla, the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan
Agreement, supervision reports, quarterly progress reports, correspondence
between the Bank and Portuguese authorities, internal Bank memoranda, and
consultation with former project officers.



ii
BREPUX=C Ot-PORTUGAL
THIRD H XONWA PROJE
EWAN 2840-P0
PROJECT OOMPLETXON REPORT
EVALUtkTION SUMMARY
Dackaround and ObiectLves
l.      The projsct supported the country's three-year (1986-80) road
investment program which incorporated the findings of the National Transport
Plan Study (1981), the Highway Master Plan (1981), the Highway Needs Study
(1985) and detailed feasibility studies carried out by the Highway Authority
(Junta Autonoma de Estradas - JAE) (para 4.02).
ii.     The principal objectives of the project, which were met, were to (1)
protect existing assets through a coordinated civil works program consisting
of rehabilitation, periodic maintenance and construction of bypasses; (Li)
establish an appropriate j.rogram of routine maintenance by contractor; (iii)
set up adequate collaboration and coordination among agencies in charge of
road safety and enforcement of axle-lead legislation; (iv) improve efficiency
of road freight transport industries; (v) improve intermodal transport
coordination; and (vi) support and advise, through technical assistance, the
central body for overall planning and coordination in the transport sector
(para 3.01).
iolementation Exoerionce
iii.    The civil works component of the project, by far the largest
acomponent, was executed promptly and satisfactorily. Works scheduled at
appraisal were implemented well within the planned time schedule. In fact, the
Highway Authority was able to undertake additional civil works and
consequently implementation exceeded by 18 percent the target established at
appraisal. Upon project completion, 53 subprojects had been executed
comprising bypasses, reconstruction, rehabilitation and overlays (para 5.01).
The Bank, which had reviewed at appraisal the original civll works program,
did not require during implementation its further detailed review of the
subprojects prior to the invitation of bids from contractors; this procedure
was a significant improvement over that followed in the Second Highway Project
(para 4.02).
iv.     Execution of the other components of the project involved initial
delays but thereafter the activity was generally satisfactory. The Highway
Authority had some difficulty handling the various contracts for routine
maintenance by contractor (para 5.02). The Cabinet for Studies and Planning
for Public Works, Transport and Communications, overburdened with work,
delayed three studies and was unable to handle one of the four studies (paras
5.04-S.08). Regarding the road safety program, while coordination among
agencies involved in the program presented some problema, they were eventually
worked out satisfactorily, mainly as a result of the establishment by decree



iii
of a Steering Committee under the Office of the Prime Minister (para 5.03).
Training of operatiotaal personnel was somewhat limited because of scarcity of
staff and t'ne consequent need to keep them on the job; training of
professional personnel was well executed (paras 5,09-5.10).
Results
V.      A major result of the Third Highway Project was that a substantial
part of the national road network was strengthened and improved with far
reaching benefit to the nation; the project significantly. surpassed its
principal objectives as the amount of civil works exceeded the original
targets (para 6.02). Another project result of major importance was the
strengthening of various institutions responsible for roads and road-related
programs (para 6.01).
Vi.     The objectives of the  routine maintenance componertt were partially
achieved; routine maintenance by contractor, established for the first time on
a regular basis under the project, reached about 35 percent of the national
road network compared with an ultimate goal of 70 percent. A road safety
program was developed, resulting in a significant reduction in road accidents.
A vehicle weight control system was also establish-d.Three of the four
policy-oriented studies were satisfactorily completed and implementation of
their recommendations begun; the government gave assurances that the fourth
study would be undertaken with local financing. The training of professional
staff was completed arK' some training cf operational personnel was
accomplished (para 6.01).
vii.    Total project cost was USD520 million or about 30 percent higher than
the appraisal estimate. A principal reason for the overrun was that the
program of investment in civil works was increased about 18 percent (para
6.03). The economic re-evaluation of the civil works component, the most
important project component (about 90 percent of total project cost), shows an
ERR of about 38 percent compared with 25 percent at appraisal (para. 6.07).
viii.   The environmental impact of the project was favorable. The
construction of bypasses around towns reduced traffic within the towns and
consequently lowered air pollution, noise levels and accidents in those urban
centers significantly. Conservation of energy resulted from the Energy
Management Policy Study while the road safety program led to safer highways
reducing the fatality rate by 15 percent between 1988 and 1990 (para 6.08).
Project Sustainability
ix.     Substartial benefits from tae civil works component of the project
should continue over the economic life of the investments. The realization of
those benefits will depend on the level of road maintenance regularly carried
out; this in turn, is heavily dependent on the level of funding of normal
maintenance. The routine maintenance component of the project strengthened the
capabilities to carry out road maintenance; the use of contractors to some
extent for routine maintenance, a practice now well established in Portugal,
will continue to provide the Highway Authority with considerable flexibility
in handling the overall maintenance work load (para 7.01).



iv
x.      The project experience provides the following mamn lessonsa
(i) A highway authority wlth sufficLent strength developed over a
period of years can carry out a program of substantial civil works
successfully without Dank review of individual subprojects during project
implementation, that ls, pri.or to the invitation of contractor bids (para
4,02)1
(ii) Before including a group of important studies in a project, a
careful assessment should be made of the capacity of the responsible planning
authority to handle the work load involved in administering those studies
(para 5.04 through 5.08)1
(Lii) The establishment of a steering committee at the level of the
Prime Ministoer'  office can be extremely effective ln coordination of dLversa
agencies concerned !Ath road safety and thus greatly strengthen the road
safety program (para 5.03); and
(iv) Contracts for routine maintenance covering relatively long
period. of two years are much more likely to result in an effectiv3 program of
maintenance by contractor than contracts of shorter terms (para 5.02).



REPUBLIC Q? PORTMA
TOIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
(OMN 2840-MO-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PRLIt PROJECT REVIEW FROM T      AE ANK^15 PERSPECTIVE
1.      Proiect Identity
Name            * Third Highway Project
Loan Number     s 2840-PO
Loan Amount     s USD 50 million
RVP Unit        s Europe and Central Asia
Country         t Portugal
Sector          s Transport
Subsector       s Highway
2. BacXqound
2.01    Continental Portugal (see map) covers an area of about 88,600 km2 and
has a population of about 10.5 million (1992). Much of its population is
located in the coastal strip between Lisbon and Oporto. Since its entry into
the European Economic Community in 1986, Portugal has been progreasing toward
economic and physical integration with the rest of Europe. Internally,
Portugal has made significant progress Ln recent years in strengthening Its
national ecoromy including its transport system. The project which is the
subject of this PCR is the fourth in a series of transport projects in the
country. (See Table 1 regarding the preceding two highway projects and one
port project).
2.02    Sector DevelgoMuet Obie tLvye  Portugal seeks to strengthen its
transport system, particularly road transport. The extensive transport system
includas a highway network of some 54,000 km, including municipal roads; this
network has not expanded in length to any great extent during the past decade.
The transport system also includes a 3,500 km railway network which has not
been enlarged in the last decade. In addition, coastal shipping is of some
importance because the country has a long coastline and much of its population
llves near the sea. Air transport within continental Portugal is not so
important because of the limited size of the areal however, air transport (for
passengers) as well as maritime transport (for cargo) provide vital links to
the Azores and MadeLra islands of the country. Internationally, Portugal's
airlina and the maritime fleet are lmportant parts of the transport system
linking Portugal to the outside world. Within Portugal, the Lisbon-Oporto
transport corridor is particularly outstanding, accounting for about 70
percent of national traffic.
2.03    While the country's road and rail networks have not expanded
appreciably during recent years, there has been a large increase in the size
of the motor vehicle fleet and consequently of road traffic. Poad transport
now accounts for at least threo fourths of total traffic in Portugal.
Jxpanding road traffic has caused much road deterioration which has imposed an
increasing burden on road maintenance capabilities. The Rank's First Highway



2
Project, completed in 1983, financed much needed modernization and
rehabilitation of the national road network as well as improvements in road
maintenance and transport planning. The Second Highway Project, completed in
1986, continued the nationwide reh&bilitation and modernization works. The
Third Highway Project, inLtiated in 1987, provided a further continuation of
these efforts.
2.04    Administrativy  Oroanization. In recent years the adminlstrative
structure for the transport sector has undergone a number of changes.
Currently, the respon6ibility for the sector lles with the Ministry of Public
Works, Transport and Communications (MPWTC) for land transport and Ministry of
Sea for ports. Within the MPWTC, two secretariats -- one for infrastructure
and the other for public enterprises which provide transport services --
oversee transport Lnvestments and operations. The Cabinet on Studies and
Planning (Cabinete de Estudos a Planeamento - GEP) has overall responsibility
for the formulation of sector strategies which are then taken up by the modal
agencies. The General Directorate of Land Transport (Direccao Ceral de
Transportes - DGTT) is responsible for policy formulation related to land
transport, under overall supervision and coordination of GEP. The planning of
main inter-city roads and their access to the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and
Oporto is ir. the hands of the Highway Authority (Junta Autonoma de Estradas -
JAB).
2.05    Policy cnltext.  Several important policy issues were recognized by
the Bank and the Government of Portugal during the mid 1980s. One of these was
a concern that certain practices in the transport sector caused waste in the
use of energy and consequently steps were urgently needed to reduce energy
waste. Another issue was that productivity of the nation's transport industry
was not as high as it might be and that certain measures could be taken to
increase that productivity. A third issue was that, while road user charges
generated large amounts of revenue, the various classes of road users (mainly
heavy trucks) were apparently not sharing that burden economically and
equitably. A fourth issue was that, in view of the high importance of the
Lisbon-Oporto transport corridor, improvements in transport coordination and
efficiency in this vital corridor should be pursued. Other issues were the
need for better enforcement of axle loading limits on highways and the need
for a road safety program.
3. Proiect ObJectives and Description
3.01    Protect Obiectives. The objective. of the project were to
(i)    protect and modernize existing assets through a coordinated
civil works program consisting of rehabilitation, periodic
maintenance (strengthening) and construction of bypasses
utilizing the available resources;
(it)     establish an appropriate and permanent program of maintenance
by contractor;



3
(Ill)    set up adequate collaboration and coordinatson among agencies
involved in the highway subsector, namely, those in charge of
road safety and enforcement of axle-load legislation;
(iv)     improve efficiency of public and private road freight
transport industries;
(V)     improve intermodal transport coordination particularly of
railways and highways; and
(Vi)     support and advise, through technical aosistance, the GEP
which is the central body for overall planning and
coordination in the transport sector.
3.02     DescrigIL2n. The original project components were:
{i)     Road Improvement: a number of subprojects for new
construction of roads to bypass eight towns and fifteen black
spots (100 km), rehabilitation (2,500 km) and periodic
maintenance/strengthening (3,000 km) carried out by
contractor;
(li)     Routine Maintenance: routine maintenance by contract and
force account through provision of sufficient funds, purchase
of needed equipment and materials, and permanent
establishment of routine maintenance by contractor in several
districts;
(iii)    Road Safetys building up the capability of JAE, DGV and GNR
to detect and rectify hazardous locations of the road
network, purchasing equipment and materials needed, improving
data collection systems and accident analysis, running
traffic safety courses, and implementing programs for the
identification of black spots, installation of road markings,
signs and upgrading of road intersectionsl and
(iv)     Institutional Development, consisting of:
(a)    Development of adequate coordination and collaboration
among agencies involved in road safety and axle-load
control through implementation of agreed action plans;
(b)     improvement of road freight transport (mainly
trucking) efficiency through a Freight Transport
Productivity Study and implementation of its
recommendations;



4
(c)    development of intermodal transport planning and
coordination through the Energy Management Policy
Study, the North-South Corridor Study, and the Road
User Charges Study, and implementation of their
recommendations;
(d)    provision of support and advice to GEP for overall
transport planning and coordination; and
(e)    provision of training for (1) JAE and GNP high level
staff in modern techniques o' transport sector
management and (2) JAE operating personnel.
4. Project Desicm and Orannization
4.01     The project was identified in a very preliminary way in May 1978 by
a Bank mission that noted the poor general condition of Portugal's roads, the
result of under investment in the network over many years. It was evident
then that strengthening of the network would require substantial funding over
a period of a decade or more. The Bank's First Highway Project was already
under implementation and the Second Highway Project was under preparation.
(See Table 1 for information on these projects.) A Third Highway Project was
seen as necessary to carry the task further; the timetable for the project is
shown in Table 2. A long period of time elapsed between the preliminary
identification of the project in 1978 and project appraisal in 1986 because of
difficult economic conditions, changing JAE programs and problems experienced
in implementation of the Second Highway Project.
4.02     The major element in the project design was support of the 1986-88
Medium-Term Investment Plan (Plano a Nedio Prazo, or PMP). The PMP, which was
prepared by JAE in consultation with the Dank, incorporated the findings of
the National Transport Plan Study (1981), the Highway Master Plan (1981), the
Highway Needs Study (1985), and detailed feasibility studies (of particular
subprojects) carried out by the Highway Authority ( Junta Aautonoma de
getradas - JAE). The civil works selected for the project fell into four
categoriess construction of bypasses, improvement of black spots, road
rehabilitation and periodic maintenance of selected roads. The component
involved mainly the strengthening of existing roads. An important element of
the project design was that the Bank review all subprojects at appraisal
rather than require Bank approval of each subproject during project
implementation, that is, prior to the invitation of contractor bids. This new
procedure was seen at appraisal as essential because much time was needlesBly
lost in the preceding Second Highway Project requiring Dank approval of
subprojects during implementation.
4.03     A second element of the project design was that of strengthening the
capabilities for routine road maintenance. As noted above, the deferral of
needed maintenance in past years and the .growth of road traffic in recent
years called for enhanced capabilities for routine maintenance. The project
was designed to provide not only funding of additional equipment for force
account maintenance units but also funding for routine maintenance by



contractor. At the time of appraisal, all routine maintenance was performed by
force account and, according to the Staff Appraisal Report, the plan was to
increase that percentage to 70 percent under the PMP.
4.04     The high incidence of road accidents in Portugal, the worst in
wee..ern Europe in the mid 1980s, indicated a clear need for a road safety
program designed to reduce the frequent occurrence of deaths, injuries and
losses of property on the nation's roads. Thus a safety program was to be
developed under the project.
4.05     The Bank and the Government recognized at appraisal the need to
improve various institutions relating to roads and road transport.
Accordingly, provision was made in the project for technical assistance,
training, and a series of studies (Table 3) designed to address certain policy
issues noted above. The project also included the procurement of scales for
weighing stations to facilitate the enforcement of axle-load regulations.
4.06     In view of the magnitude of the civil works planned for the Third
Highway Project, it was planned during the early stages of project design that
the project would be cofinanced with major funding from the European
Investment Bank (EIB) and European Regional Development Fund (FEDER).
4.07     During negotiations, an issue arose concerning procurement
procedures and the issue could not be resolved in the meetings of March 2 to
6, 1987; soon thereafter, however, the issue was resolved. The background was
as followss in 1986, Portugal had adopted new procurement procedures which
the Portuguese Government considered appropriate; however, the Bank found the
new procedures unacceptable because they provided opportunity for a contractor
to review competitive bids after the opening of bids. Subsequertly, the
procedures were modified by the Portuguese Government and the Bank found the
revised procedures acceptable. The project was presented to the Bank's board
and approved on June 16, 1987.
S. Proiect !molementation
5.01     Civil Works& Execution of the PMP began slowly early in 1986, well
before the Third Highway Project was approved. After the project became
effective on August 24, 1987, the civil works were expedited and proceeded
well within the project schedule. By November 1989, the civil works undertaken
under the project were "practically completed." Details of physical execution
of the civil works are given in Table 4 while specific information on
financial execution are presented in Table 5. Funds for this component were
fully disbursed by September 1990. Upon completion of the project, 53
subprojects had been executed comprising bypasses, reconstruction,
rehabilitation and overlays. Actually, the investment program under PMP was
expanded beyond the original plan and consequently expenditures on civil works
increased 18 percent above the planned level. The civil works component was
executed promptly and satisfactorily.



6
5.02     Routine Maintenance.  Support for force account units consisted
mainly of the provision of equipment; the procurement was somewhat delayed
because of reorganization problems prior to March 1989 but then proceeded
reasonably well during the remaining period of project execution. Efforts to
support the expansion of routine maintenance by contractor were seriously
delayed in the early stages of project implementation, mainly due to financial
stress of small contractors operating under one year contracts that made it
difficult for them to invest in equipment. The Bank in April 1988 expressed
its concern that delayed action in carrying out this program might compromise
the future of road maintenance in Portugal. In March 1989, progress on
contract maintenance was still limited and the Bank supervision mission
observed that there was no apparent justification for the lack of progrese.
The mission noted that, "...because of the delays in the implementation of
this component, a progressive deterioration of a large part of the road
network is already evident." Shortly thereafter, implementation of contract
maintenance was accelerated as a result of increased advance payments and
especially a lengthening of the terms of contracts. By project completion,
sections of the highway network in six of JAR's eighteen districts were
subject to routine maintenance by contractor.
5.03     Road Safety Proaram.   Implementation of this component proved
difficult because of problems of coordination between the three agencies
involved in the development of the program: Highway Authority (JAB) for
infrastructure; General Directorate of Traffic (Direccao Geral de Viacao -
DGV) for vehicle registration and inspection; and the National Military Police
(Guarda Nacional Republicana - GNR) for enforcement of regulations. The
component involved the use of technical assistance and procurement of various
types of safety equipment. Progress was slow in the first year, primarily
because of the lack of effective coordination among the responsible agencies.
The establishment by decree in 1989 of a Steering Committee under the Office
of the Prime Minister took considerable time but it worked well. An accident
data bank was created, a program for eliminating black spots was carried out,
and important intersections of the road network were illuminated. Vehicle
weighing stations were installed, in part because of road safety
considerations, at ten locations around the country. Notwithstanding various
delays in execution, an effective road safety program was finally developed
and implemented prior to project completion.
5.04     Rnerav Nanaoement Policy Study.  A consultant was selected for this
study (Table 3) in September 1988, based on an evaluation of competitive
proposals, and the study was initiated in May 1989, about a year and a half
after the loan became effective. The principal reason for the delay in
execution of not only this study but also the other studies in the project,
was that the responsible staff in GEP was overloaded with work. rn carrying
out the energy study and implementing its recommendations, the Ministry of
Energy as well as transport related agencies were much involved.
5.05     Early findings of the energy study became the basis of a training
program, not included in the original design of the project; the training was
begun before the report was prepared in final form. This program comprised the
training of trainers in energy management and subsequent training of heavy
vehicle operators (selected from among the largest public transport



7
companies)i the program was financed under the training component of the
project. Another study recommendation that was quickly implemented was the
installation of certain instruments (e. g., deflectors) in vehieles. Initial
findings of the energy study were also intended as important inputs to the
Road User Charges Study, although, as noted below, the latter study was not
launched during the project period. The Energy Management Policy Study was
completed in July 1990, much later than the original target date of September
1988. The study was found satisfactory and usefull further follow-up by the
Government is expected to eliminate uneconomic price distortions and achieve
more efficient use of energy in transport.
5.06     Freiaht Transiort Productivitv Study.  This study (Table 3) was long
delayed because of staffing problems of the consulting firm after the award of
the contract. The consultant-contract was awarded in September 1988 and the
study was completed in September 1990. The study analyzed the status of
freight transport (mainly intermodal land transport) and intermodal
coordination in Portugal, basic practices of land transport firms and
regulations of the industry. It provided recommendations on needed
institutional change and regulatory reform to improve the efficiency of
freight transport (principally trucking). Among the recommendations were
increased use of containers and the marketing of combined road and rail
services (multimodal transport) not only for strengthening domestic transport
but also to improve Portugal's competitiveness with other European Community
countries. The report was found acceptable to the Bank.
5.07     Road User Charges Study.  According to the Staff Appraisal Report,
all four of the studies in the project would be completed by September 30,
1989 at the latest and were phased to take into account the limited
implementation capacity of GRP. During project execution, the capacity of GEP
proved to be more limited than anticipated at appraisal. Not only were delays
incurred in the completion of three of the four studies but also the Road User
Charges Study (Table 3) was not even begun. The latter study was postponed due
to full staff involvement in the other studies. Upon completion of the
project, it was the intention of the Government to complete the Road User
Charges Study with local resource financing.
5.08     North-South Corridor Study.  A consultant was awarded a contract for
this study (Table 3) in September 1989, the month in which, originally, the
study was to be completed. The study began in January 1990 and, with such a
late start, it was necessary to request an extension of the closing date of
the loan as the study could not be completed before the original closing date
of June 30, 1990. On December 21, 1989, the Bank agreed to a requested
extension to June 30, 1991. The study was completed by that date. The study
examined road, rail, coastal shipping and air transport in the important
Lisbon-Oporto corridor where traffic is relatively heavy. Recommendations were
given for improvements in passenger and freight handling in the corridor,
including intermodal operations. The report on the study was considered by the
Bank to be satisfactory.



8
5.09     Training.  The training component comprised programs for two
categories of JAR employees. Professional staff were provided opportunities
for training in a number of countries; the extent of the training exceeded
plans for such activity. This aspect of the training was carried out well.
5.10    Operational personnel, such as mechanics, plant operators and
inspectors, were also to be provided training under the project. Much delay
was experienced in undertaking this category of training  JABE invisted that
the pressures to keep scarce personnel fully engaged in their daily work made
it difficult for supervisors to release them for training. The scarcity of
personnel was aggravated by a Government freeze on hiring of new personnel, a
restriction that encouraged JAR to develop routine maintenance by contractor.
The Aide Memoire of the 8ank supervision mission of September-October 1990 was
somewhat critical of JAR's limited performance in the training of operational
personnel, stating that the scarcity of personnel did not, in its view,
justify the shortcomings in conducting this training. In a letter to JAE dated
November 28, 1990, the Bank noted that, "Training of operational staff
(mechanics, electricians, road supervisors, etc.) has not yet started." JAB
was urged to undertake this training as it was essential to the road
maintenance program. Before project completion, the following training was
provided to operational staff: about 100 weigh station agents, 60 heavy
vehicle drivers and 10 driver trainers; the weigh station training was
required for the ten scales procured under the project while the driver
training was undertaken as a result of the energy management program.
6. Proiect Results
6.01     Achievement of Proiect Obiectives.  The project was successful,
significantly surpassing its principal objectives. Investment in the civil
works component of the project, representing 89 percent of total project cost,
exceeded its objectives by about 18 percent. The objectives of the routine
maintenance component were partially achieved; routine maintenance by
contractor reached about 35 percent of the national road network compared with
a goal of 70 percent. A road safety program was developed and implemented to
good effect. Three of the four policy-oriented studies were satisfactorily
completed and the Government gave assurances that the fourth one would be
undertaken with local financing soon after project completion. The training of
professional staff was carried out successfully and some training of
operational personnel was accomplished. In general, one of the principal
results of the project was the strengthening of institutions responsible for
roads and road-related programs.
6.02     Physical Results.  The major physical targets of the project, which
were in the category of civil works, were achieved; in fact they were
exceeded. For the much smaller routine maintenance component, the physical
targets were not fully achieved because of shortcomings in routine maintenance
by contract. The quality of the civil works and routine maintenance undertaken
under the project was satisfactory.



9
6.03     Project Costs.  The total project cost, as indicated in Table 6, was
USD519.92 million which is 30 percent higher than the appraisal estimate of
USD400.40 million. A principal reason for the overrun is that the planned
investment program for civil works was Increased 18 percent; civil works
represented 89 percent of actual total project cost. Another cause of the
overrun was that unit costs rose about .2 percent above the appraisal
estimates. An important cause of this small increase in the cost of project
works was the increase in the salaries and wages following Portugal's entry
into the EEC.
6.04     The cost of the civIl works component of the project was USD 462.25
million which was 39 percent higher than the appraisal cost, caused partly by
the 18 percent expansion of civil works and partly by the salaries and wages
increases. Since this component constitutes 89 percent of the total project,
the explanation for the overrun is the same as that noted above. Routine
maintenance accounted for USD55.0 million of actual cost which was only 87
percent of the appraisal estimate for this component; the reason for
relatively low actual cost of routine maintenance was the limited
implementation of routine maintenance by contractor which was nevertheless
satisfactory since the appraisal target was too optimistic. The remaining
project components represent only about 1 percent of total project cost; the
technical assistance element shows an underrun and the training element an
overrun.
6.05     Proiect Financino.  The original plan for project financing and
actual project financing are shown in Table 7. As indicated, the Bank actually
contributed USD49.84 million while the Government contributed USD470.08
million, or 11 percent and 89 percent, respectively, of the total cost. Under
the original plan, the Government's contribution was to be USD350.40 million
or 86 percent of the total funds required. Government's funds for the project
were obtained largely from the European Regional Development Fund (FEDER) as
part of EEC budgetary support to Portugal.
6.06     Disbursements.  Loan disbursements, as shown in Table 8, occurred
during the period FY1988 through the first half of FY1992. By the end of
FY1990, the original closing date of June 30, 1990, about 90 percent of the
loan was disbursed. Cumulative disbursements lagged somewhat behind appraisal
estimates throughout the period FY1988 - FY1990. The reason for this lag was
that the Borrower experienced delays in implementation of non civil works
components of the project. The relationship between planned and actual
disbursements is shown graphically in Figure 1.
6.07     Economic Be-Evaluation.  Prior *  Bank approval of the project, the
PMP investment program was prepared eystt   ically based on the findings of
underlying planning studies, including ff .bility studies for particular
subprojects; all subprojects included in the PMP had an estimated ERR of at
least 12 percent. The rehabilitatior. element of the program had an ERR of
about 25 percent and the bypass subprojects had ERRe ranging from 24 percent
to 40 percent. The Bank appraisal mission reviewed the ERRs for the elements
of the program and found them acceptable. Following completion of the project,



10
the Bank received from JAE data on traffic, construction costs, and vehicle
operating costs. In the economic re-evaluation of the project, as shown in
Table 9, the ERR was found to be 37.9 percent which is satisfactory.
6.08     Environmental Imnact.  The principal environmental impact of the
civil works component of the project is that the construction of a number of
bypasses around towns reduced traffic within the towns and consequently
lowered air pollution, noise levels and accidents in those urban centers.
Implementation of the Energy Management Policy Study also had a beneficial
environmental impact in that energy was consumed in the transport sector more
efficiently thus contributing to energy conservation. Moreover, the Road
Safety Program de- eloped under the project had a beneficial impact in that it
made travel on highways and streets safer for users of these facilties; a 15
percent reduction in the fatality rate (number of fatalities per fixed number
of vehicle kilometers) on the roads in Portugal was achieved between 1988 and
1990 as a result of the program.
7. Proiect $ustainabilitv
7.01     Substantial benefits from the civil works component of the project
(savings in vehicle operating costs, reduced travel time, increased safety,
improvement of environment) should continue over the economic life of the
project. The realization of those benefits will, of course, depend on the
level of road maintenance regularly carried out by JAE; this, in turn, is
heavily dependent on the level of funding of normal maintenance. The routine
maintenance component of the project strengthened the capabilities to carry
out road maintenance. In particular, the use of contractors to some extent for
routine maintenance, a practice now well established in Portugal, will
continue to provide JAE with considerable flexibility in handling the overall
maintenance work load. It should be stressed, however, that the opportunity to
use contractors for routine maintenance will not be fully realized unless
adequate funds continue to be provided for road maintenance year after year
and multiyear contracts are made available to contractors thus enabling them
to make adequate investments in equipment.
7.02     The sustainability of benefits from the important Road Safety
Program will be dependent on continuity ln the Government's commitment to the
goals of improving road safety and the funding of various aspects of the
program. It appears that the Government of Portugal is impressed with the
favorable results of the program and committed to its continuation.
7.03     Benefits from the three studies financed under the project depend on
the extent to which study recommendations are implemented; some of those
recommendations have already been implemented to good effect and there is
reason to believe that these activities will be continued and augmented. The
sustainability of benefits from good training of staff are well known. While
the on-the-job training provided by JAE to its personnel is certainly
beneficial, this approach to training is not sufficient. The need to carry out
training of operatlonal staff on a continuing basis is apparently not as fully
appreciated in JAB as it should be.



11
8.  Bankgs Performance                                            6
8.01     During the eight years between the preliminary identification of the
project (1978) and appraisal (1986), the Bank sent a relatively large number
of missions to Portugal concerning the project, as shown in Table 10. Economic
conditions in the country during much of this period were not very
satisfactory; also, JAE's overall program changed frequently thus making it
difficult to establish the content of the Third Highway Project. For these and
other reasons (see para 4.01) the preparation period was quite extended. One
reason for the large number of non-supervision missions was that botb the
First and Second Highway Projects were under implementation in the early 1980s
and a number of supervision missions for those projects conveniently devoted
some attention, while in the country, to the preparation of the Third Highway
Project.
8.02     As indicated in Table 10, the Bank sent seven missions for
supervision of the prcject, the first being in October 1987, about two months
after the project became effective. Only one supervision mission was sent in
1988 (February) and again only one in 1990 (September); it might be argued
that another mission in each of these years could perhaps have reduced the
serious delays that occurred in preparation of the four studies in the project
but it is difficult to see what specifically the supervision mission might
have done in the circumstances to expedite those studies. The supervision
requirements for the dominant civil works component, which was well executed,
were relatively modest because of the high level of experience of JAR, and
this fact probably justifies the comparatively small number of supervision
missions for the project. Frequent telephone contact between Bank staff and
Portuguese authorities greatly facilitated supervision. In November 1989, the
civil works were nearly completed thus reducing the task of supervision on the
main project component.
8.03     Continuity of Bank staff on the project was an advantageous element
in providing effective assistance to the borrower in project identification,
preparation and supervision. The highway engineer assigned was able to
participate fully in both the preparation and supervision activities. Almost
the sama continuity was achieved wlth regard to the transport economist. This
continuity of staff, in contrast to the situation in the previous projects,
was an important factor not only assuring depth of understanding of the
project and its context but also facilitating communications between the Bank
and the Borrower.
8.04     One of the reasons the civil works component of the project was
carried out expeditiously was that, unlike the burdensome procedure adopted in
the Second Highway Project, Bank staff carefully reviewed the PMP during
appraisal and, during project implementation, did not insist on review of each
subproject before JAB put it out to bid. Thus the Bank avoided a heavy burden
of document review during implementation while JAE was able to move quickly in
carrying out the contracting of works. This procedure was feasible because of
the strong capability of JAE to carry out civil works.



12
9. Borrower's Performance
9.01     The Borrower performed well in the implementation of the dominant
civil works portion of the project, exceeding the investment target, as
previously noted. The performance in carrying out the routine maintenance
comronent was less impressive. Nevertheless, maintenance by force account
improved considerably through the infusion of new equipment. The performance
on routine maintenance by contract was satisfactory} the target established at
appraisal was too optimistic.
9.02     In carrying out the studies component of the project, the Borrower
was hampered by the limited capacity of GEP to handle the work load of
administering simultaneously four studies. As a result of this limitation, the
Road User Charges Study was dropped from the project; the Borrower indicated
its intention to undertake the study later with local financing. The staff
limitations of GEP also accounted for delays in the completion of the three
remaining studies.
9.03     The performance of the Borrower in carrying out the training of
professional staff was satisfactory. With regard to operational level
personnel, however, the performance on training could have been better
although the Government contended that scarcity of staff at this level made it
extremely difficult to release them from their daily work load for training.
9.04     The status of the Borrower's compliance with loan covenants, as
shown in Table 11, is generally good. The only non-compliance, upon completion
of the project, was that the Road User Charges Study was not undertaken.
10. Bank - BorrowAr Relations
10.01    The Borrower and the Bank began and concluded the Third Highway
Project on very good terms. Since the Third Highway Project is the final
Bank-financed transport project in Portuaal, It is particularly significant
that the series of projects in the sector should be concluded with the
excellent Bank/Borrower relationship intact.
11. Consultants' Services
11.01    consultancy provided under the project for the three studies
undertaken and for technical assistance was of good quality. The impact of the
technical assistance provided by the consultants to their counterpart GEP and
DoaT staff was significant.
12. Proiect Documentation and Data
12.01    The legal documents were sufficiently clear and specific for
effective implementation of the project. The Staff Appraisal Report provided a
useful framework for the Bank and the Borrower during implementation.
Supervision reports, Borrower's quarterly progress reports and other data in
project files were adequate for the purposes of preparing this PCR.



13
REPUBLIC OF PQR
THIRD HIGHWAY ROJECT
(OAN 2840-Po)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
IT. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
To follow up on the World Bank's involvement in the rebuilding of
some of the more deteriorated road pavements under the First and Second
Highway Projects, the Third Highways Project, involving a loan of US$50
million equivalent, was signed on July 10, 1987. The closing date, originally
June 30, 1990, was extended by one year to June 30, 1991 to provide for
execution of the studies component.
In general terms, the results of this project were highly positive,
as the following aspects indicate:
-   Since the national road network was not equal to the heavy
demands being made on it, a major investment had to be made in
the basic network. This gave rise each year to the difficult
task of balancing expenditure between construction and
maintainance. One of the major advantages of the World Bank's
involvement was precisely that it required expenditure on
maintenance to be clearly fixed.
-   In recent years the difficulties of hiring personnel have
increased, the greatest impact being felt in relation to
maintenance personnel. It now seems unlikely that it will ever
be possible to restore the entire labor force that existed in
the past, in which case new network maintenance procedures will
have to be employed. Therefore, we are currently relying to an
ever-greater extent on contract maintenance, and the World
Bank's experience in this area was a significant factor in the
success now being achieved.
-   In the field of road safety the World Bank's participation was
crucial, less for its financial contribution that for what it
did to improve the understanding of those involved in this area.
A number of significant steps have been taken in the area of
inter-departmental cooperation to promote road safety,
culminating recently in the establishment of Road Safety
Committees in each province.
-   As regards training, the World Bank loan made a decisive
contribution to improving the professional qualifications of the
JAE experts, particularly in the areas of road maintenance and
road safety; this is all the more important insofar as these
sectors call for increasingly specialized operations.



14
-   Another significant result of the loan was the acquisition of
traffic counters and scales which permitted better inspection of
the load distribution by axle of heavy vehicles; usero often
exceed the maximum permitted weights per axle, with negative
consequences for the useful life of pavements, leading to high
maintenance costs.
-   The flexibility with which the Bank managed the loan proceeds
made it possible to shorten the processing time for disbursement
requestsl in conjunction with the experience derived from
previous projects and the efforts of the Bank's supervision
missions, this led to the program being completed with minimal
delays.
Some criticism could be made regarding certain World Bank
regulations we were obliged to follow that were somewhat inapproprLate to the
real situation in Portugal and even to our European position, along with
certain directives regarding legal formalities pertaining to public
competitions that had to be fulfilled.



i5
RPUBLIC OF PORTUGA
TxmH   HIGHWAY PROMM=
I-OAN 2840-PO)
BROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
III.I  STATISTICAL INFOQRMA,TO
Loa Number and 'the                Purpose                            Year of   Status
Appw
Loan 1334-PO         Rehabliltation of 500 kn of roads in the Lisbon area;
First Highway Projet   equipment for road mainteaoe and workshops in the
Lisbon area; consultancy and technical assistance to  1977   Closed
improve transport planning, project preparation and     9/30/83 1
evaluation, and operational procedures.
Loan 1700-PO         Contimuation, nationwide, of the rehabilitation and
Second Highway       modeni  works and road maintenance program       1979   Closed
*Poject              initiated under the first project                        6/30/86 a
Loan 2521-PO         Construction of a port facli for importing coal for a
Coal Handling Port    new power plant situated in the port area of Sines;
Proect               coal handling equipment and operators' training; and  1985   Closed
study on port management4 which was not undertaken,     12/31/90 v
repair to the storm-damaged west breakwater, and
coal transportation options to serve the futue
expansion of Electricidade de Portupl (EDP), the
national electric utility company.
1      Project Cmpleion Report issued 3/11/80; Project Performance Audit Report No. 6590 issued 1/87.
2t     Project Completion Report No. 8184 issued 11/89.
Project Completion Report sent to Operations Evaluation Department 3/26/92.



16
Tabb 2: ft& 3
Planed         Revld         Acta
Identification                                           5/781
Preparadon BeginnIng       9/78 lt                        3/85 i
PReparation End            2/801'         11/81e          S/86 
7/85 y'
Appraisal NfMsion          8/801'                         6/86  '
3/82 
9/851
4/86 y
LoanNegotiations           2/86'          10/86 ?12/861 3/871
Board Approval             4/86 '         12/86           6/16/87
2/87 V
Loan Signature             7/10/87                        7/10/87
Lnan Effecdveneuss         8/24/87                        8/24/87
Loan Clsing                6/30/90        6/30/91        6/30/91
Projet Completion          12/31/89       12/31/90        12/31/90
Sources:
I/ Project Brief No.1 6/8/78
2/ Memorandum, 11/26/80
3/ Proect Brief (Revised), 3/15/8S
9/ Memorandum, 6/11/85
S/ Project Brief No.2, 2/86
fi/ sses Paper, 7/23/86
2V Agreed Minutes, 3/87
1/ Bank TeWm, 12/21/89
. Project Officer



17
Table 3: Studies
Slud               Pupism at elined at Aunnalsal         Ss               _
Enpry management Policy To identif opportunities and priorities   Completed 7/90  Conduded that an
Study                   for energy savings in transport sector,              adequate traing of
oudine program of energy conservation;              truck drivers and
and recommend institutional framework               trains for drives
for implementation.                                 could save 10% of
efneg consumption in
transport of freilit.
Pilot progam desied
and excuted.
Freih  Traspot          To diagnose current issues affecting  Completed 9/90  Re    ded
Productivity Study      friht tansporon io Portugal; and                    measus for legal,
propose alternies and                               institutional and
recommendations for improvement                     operational
improvements
Road User Chare  Study  To review the sttus of road use charges At compleaon,
in Portugal in order to rationalz   goveniment
tran t sector pcg praices           inten    was to
un-detake study
using loca
finaincdn&
North-South Coridor     To iden  tnsport corridor policy    Cmpleted 6/90   co meed
Study                             and opions deSe                            optimum sysem for
measures needed for improvement of                  passe/freight
corridor services; evaluate investment              intemodal disu
prposal recommend coodination                       alog Lsbon,Oporto
measures; and develop training program              coridor.



~~rr  *   j ~~~~~is St          i      it                IS i~
2 g 21Q  1§ 12 1 12 12 112 12 1 2 12 12 Q 12 1 1 1 ; 21 2  ;2 4= 12  I2 IG ; 2 ; i i (i Ii V 19 E ; X ; 1; 1; lrE^t   _
l  [ F  Il ''i'il'fililiF    Flli    Fi'l'i''         ,' ['
r~~~~~~~~~ ;                                          UFFFFFFF:FF:FFFFFF    FFFFYR
RRllgEl$EllGgllsEyllEelliaKaiEEtfiizl   _W    W      W t         ts 
|K;]1||;|fiuklS§||]|g] jitM§||S|Sg|p Gp i  S(E(0t¢tX q
litFiFliltiEl A  rE10401111ti3#[2S0- 0                    l   
ISIiiIuISIXIuI;ISI;];I;];IaIXI5IW;1;;WIXI;S;;IISIiSI;1S E L1;1; ; blLt LIIN    L i~~~~~~~~~3
LlsELE]t|aLLLeSlLiLELlelgl;LL;Ll3lLMLeRSWidsgLdelS{dSLelE2
81-



Tabe 6: Fhinac   Execudon of Prct C                                    _   _                                  _            lee n
No  Contract           Corkerata                              ODedrptn                           Lengt OU ml  Award III  Adon 121 eation 131   Toa                  Paid   _ %M=6l(4L
_ 4662    Rao Ccii.,                   ON 234. Mudlo& d  A_o de sms   31I,                                         234 87? a 8m              6 6       33141        29643 _        _
2      4615  E63                       0N too. ffciaa   - Ann 3&93   £ l# Sl 98#                                                            4360    2S1  16        247 6               a
3      47       $.Bed* P.4mm           0N 235. Node Awar Sd I7N                                                     831 434557 Of1         26  876    641991        1566966             96
4      4753    Lc _ie,                  ON 235.         d8o vale                                16.0                247 8  16A6.S            4370      252 22 _   23188'             CCod
S      42    V                               25912..    &       d     orV ad                    20,                 4 46   231 3n28-5218 7S                         5271s7           C_ed
6      4749   _Liiim                   -K 3.uam  19 de peace                                   IlIs                 248267   476            3n320      322 s        240                 92
7      4532    AbudIoCuasule              3lei.udahba Biet P. aVra                              33,                 408I4' 1741              498       461  4301 65                   C
8      456      Mod                    8316. Poe d4 AeasBo4              -_                     20,6                116561                   3211        1777         79712          Cond
9      4726    Agoga CawaIbo             22   Fu GK        W . dC a _                           13,2                124 132  02_                       136 15        1 363IS         Co
16     4604    Seo                       s309. cm fto.aa r _'. ..                                                   201 21 23 534            143       236           230 929         Cod
it     4677    W. Co*e   oe I       N     4 331. lafmed. de Pran ti               S1648ON S8.II.7                                             6993     1  67          71 77          COOL,
32     4766    A3Mutof.                04311. Pem, Y_ da pV_ACa&udm deo a6o           .                             20743  120445    3S        17      37593         m 361469
13     4626    KotaEN 33t  O                              _e6aad a   de Bode                    16.0                 14 4  16 769            71i        996           97 b840        CIO
14     4719    qlaIEc                      205. Aodem- B. de                                    11.3                36 3                               16133         161 163         COd.
Is     4718    Dada                        103.3 __IS-FaiiMM&                                   33S                 153 29                             353 292       153 292         Codc.
16     4717    Caii   . J it               Itl3. P. C0494kgG,eedd                              2I,9                 3593 "        ISO71 495 91t            01        1o8 29          Ca
17     4567    R       _  _C  _ _.           324-4  337. Aw. 6 1N  7                          , Is.                   85se                               6563         75 73          COe
Is     464    C. Noudr Seo               l       42341 . r C _ _1e b                            170                 306 395  82  8           4000    35223           330416             90
V9     4743  1EoW                          3J7, 110 CAuddgFap                                   12        ,          77124 166154     t      2006z     757403        66$139       S      a
20      4672    Ct   EMM                     4.1144. Vr _md a,aebw                              l6t3                      SUt 323410668      590o0     56153         45S 352           8a
21     4262    Tmel                      4125. Iaa&F4rdm                                        16,                 384 872 S 299            44373     504746        464791             92
22     4623    C4e. Es                  EN13. INAk.Cm.435       6                               21.4 S299 6                                  202M      319`4         33994           Cd.
23     4542    C       dO SeO.          67424L tNa     _u34L . 11.  .                                               170952          .36                170936        17090           COO&
24     4595      ciir.da                FN L. Term Vem B       _                                 3                  17S9a mi  3  3691306    133b4      232 649       213 634         Cod.
25     459      Tasses                  EN 1. Ia                         n4                                          86 33o4   1 1205         4012    10038M         300 331         Coed
26     459      Tney"                   EN t1. gm  a3 * No6                 7,5725                                                            3786      61386         61 32          Cod.
27      4632    c        h doego"       ]EN 24 CemR5e de uro                                                76  1          970   489          8025     235274        215t27          Coad.a_
28     4157    Cei. 1_                  EN I IC 36    CM    $EN le*_                                                463 sr 4 741             3400      54718         5390 s9  99                D
29     454e6       g  de SWAG*a         04.D          Ion,se                                                        304 43 52 496                      346911        346931          Cod.
30     45s3                             EN  04244. Ga.o P     de sw                                                 335785 78771             2443      438W9         438s90          Cd
31      4549    Jd. Rida                AR)NORnT0. _ oN    O   s3la                                                 437389 s580                        49608*        496087          Ced
32     4547         .RM*d               EN 107. EN 32.,dra                                                          1 8894 i,3  39                                   35 336          Coe1.
33     4543           doG M Ms Mo       EN  01. I  s                                   ,2                           207 380 S 725             1626     2617s5        26 75?          Coed-
34     458      C    LI                  N 0207. EN 1305-4Lm                                    23.3                34 93! 31 970            32 40     40t5 3        405 298         COed
3S      4548          de G .            mm 207 16.10.6. w1                                                              1d "0  34575 il *743           397491        397387          Coed
36     4559    C                        EN 13. Clmpew -eMoodse                                  7,2                 267 93S S6 4             16637     31131         33110           COWd-
37     47       Coia AEN 211. CA    36ma..,  do C="v4                                           1                   33653 17 626            It3 3      650ta        39749  __          04
38     4591    CogL do L4 EN 130. Gualdr*Cu                    EN 3                             3S                  142 348 U14               4211  1MO" 07          171 073        -coed
39     42       Cciii a" Sa             04339. 7eando                                                                077 29460        5t 926           56603         seem            Col
4t     457?    Lumo                     EN634. Tom 1'd.Tca N1m ,0                                                    46884                              4683          46884          Cod.
41     4625    Cod.     ms              04 356 F       Ibw4bd                                    I3,                 s 079           12       61704     16873        86 o73          COd
42     4548    Imwov                    E  3024. beediewdrsll  Ams                              l.0                  6288   98                          72022         72022          Coed.
43     4649                             EN fit33. bruo-raLeM..84 IIII                                            ____       ___17_            4884      61883         6188 Cs.
44      466 1                              20 23. PW.* d Id"iedu de Soto                        16,4                150774 1682                333      m 729        172 733         C-ML
45     455S                              N M LO BaV. C5V.. _'                                   AS                _         S"                         318595        307611             97
46      4563    1 _N 101. h1m.ea..Pc. d                           w Ed                           B,I                                                    3 15145145 t#5 USS            Coma
47      4057       Ri d                 E2101. P. dd rEW Darm                                                       331 41 S43                          3370         3a
48      4674    S    r. Adbile             2h2. Pat* d& IJ.o  & V.4                             2                   27m       132            to 0s      304 755      30675           COd
49      4673    M      M                0203.   D a_. de                       t         e     ,e                   280 20  26 569           22594       64          568 43          Coed.
Be     4554    F                        0N205. ID Vil RoeI.V.P. A                                                   34 322 9t  53           s5 28       72126        S7 46               721
St     4623      r Ib                    N 0S. Vile ell-c                                        no                 4S3 9   136476           58320      0S720        63927 7
S2                                         3n51                                                                     3513438550 7b r  de2A2              36741        166417  C____
S3      45t       Iaw   Mceo            0226, TS_ekeeP. Abd2. 2346   W  t36I 200                                                                        38360        3S9697          C



TAbk 6: RO2d Cab
(USD MUM.)
APPRUISALM                             ACTUAL
Road Improvemet                       166.19    1651        332.11      277.63      1.62       46225         0.2     139%
Routine Maintenance                   4252       20.78       6330        34J7        20.83      55.00      (8.0)      87%
Equipment                               -        3.39        3.39                     1.62       L62       (18)       48%
Technical Asisance                     0.68      0.72        1.40                     0.72       0.72      (0.7)      51%
Training                                         020         020                      033 m      0 03       0.1      1%
TOTAL                                  o  (geto 
./Comnpgncyr amounts ill StaffAffraWa Report (pa  ii and Table 9) have been added to die basic estimates for preja: compoents.



21
Table 7: Project Financing
(USD million)
ORIGINAL                 ACTUALV
Road Improvement          35.90     296.21      39.41     422.37
Routine Mainteace          930      54.00        7.21      47.71
Equipment                  3.30      0.09        1.62       -
Technical Assistance       1.30      0.10        1.40
Training                  0.20         .         0.20
TOTAL                               S
/  Actual Rank dbursements we USD 49,840,835 (USD 159,165 cancelled).



22
Table 8: Cumulative Inan Disburneents
(USD millions)
Fisca Year    Appraia                  Acla as   l
and Quarter    Estimate     Acual       of Estimate
SepL 1987     5.0          0.0           0%O
Dec. 1987     10.0         5.7          57%
Mar. 1988    15.0          13.0          87%
June 1988     22.0         18.9          86%
Sept 1988     30.0         24.7          82%
De. 1988      38.0         293          77%
Mar. 1989    46.0          33.7          73%
June 1989     49.0         35.7          73%
EYA
SepL 1989     49.5         37.9         77%
Dec. 1989     498          39.S          79%
Mar. 1990    49.9          43.9          88%
June 1990     50.0         44.8          90%
E=2
Sept 1990                  45.4          91%
Dec 1990                   46.2         92%
Mar. 1991                  46.2          92%
June 19491    |            46.2          92%
SepL 1991                  48.5          97%
Dec. 1991                  49.9          99%



23
Table 9: Economic Reevaluation of the ro ect
'TbouMids of Conto
Economic            Savings in Vehicle
YeAWL roogmwo Qm                       QWnau                     Net Berufi
1988               11,S80                                            .11,580
1989                5,109                    3,000                   - 2,109
1990                                         6,516                    6,516
1991                                         6,777                    6,777
1992                                         7,048                    7,048
1993                                         7,30                     7,330
1994                                         7,623                    7,623
1995                                         7,928                    7,928
1996                                         8,245                    8,245
1997                                         875                      Ws
1998                                         8,918                    8,918
1999                                         9,274                    9,274
Re ewluated Ecomomic
Rate of Retun 37.9%
Notes:
1.   Data represent the civil works component of the projecL
2.   Economic construction cost in 90% of fiancWia cosL
3.   Traffic is based on actual survey in 1990 and an estimated traffic growth rate of 4% per ye.
4.   No  der   was given to value of time savings
5.   Conservative 10 year economic life assumed.
6.   Vehicle operating costs (escudos/hn):
of Vehile              Without Et*i§&   Wit P
Pasegr Vehicle            3030              28.0
Light Commercial Vehicle   4131             36.7
HeaIy Vehicles            90.49             76.0



24
Table 10: Use of Bank Resources
A. Missi
State of                                 Days In     Specialiation  _  Rapn    Nature of
io3SK c Of MW NRea Na reseted _Problem
Identificaion     5/78           3            17      Economist
Higway Engineer
RIeconaissance    10/80          2            13      Transport Economist
Highway Engineer
3/81          1            14      Transport Economist
6/81          1            10      Highway Engineer
3/82          2            n/a     Econoist
Engineer
6/82          1            12      Loan Officer
1/83          1             5      Economist
Preparaton        7/84           2             8      Economist
Procurement Spec.
3/85          3            14      Economist
Engineer
Procurement Spec.
10/85          2            13      Economist
Engineer
3/86          1             6      Engineer
Appraisal          6/86          5            19      Economist
Engineer
Fmancial Analyst
Operations Analyst
Transpwort Spec.
9/86          1             7      Transport Spec.
Sup on            10/87          2            10      Transport Econ.       I
Transport Engineer
2/88          2            11      Transport Econ.       2   Project Mgmt.
Transport Engineer       Dev. Impact
3/89          1            10      Transport Engineer    2   Project Mgmt
11/89          2            9       Transport Econ.       1   Project MgmL
Transport Engineer       Trauiing
9/90          2            11      Economist             1   Project Mgmt.
Engineer                 Complie
vhth -oan



25
State Of                                  Days to      SpeelWzaoa       Ra_p*   Nature of
freoJ cal                   ?ier    No. ofaft  IUL        R2       d _                oblenm
7/91           1             9       Eg_e                 n/a  Traing
Completo           11/91          2             12      Engineer              1   Project Mgmt.
Operation Anayst          Coueplianc
W/Covenant
Stde
Total Days in                    37.00         210
FM,eld
1/Raig
1 - Problem free or mino problems
2 - Moderate problems
3 - Major problems, which are being addressed
4 - Major problems, which are not being addressed
B. I==
(Staff Weeks)
X    ~.
FY83    02                                                                     2
FY84                                                                         0D
FY8S    12.7                                                                  12.7
FY86    14.8         13                                                        16.1
FY87                 25.1      9.0          73                                 41A
FY88                                        2.7         14.0                   16.7
FY89                                                    6.1                    6.1
FY90                                                    91                     9.1
FY91                                                    S.6                    5.6
FY92                                                    2E9         1E         44
FY93                                                                1.0        1.0
-   -~~-                                         -       ~~~-   -~
111330



TnbI ll: Stas of Cov
toam Agnmmet 
Reterence                             Subjed                                           Status of Compance
Loan Agreement Opening and maint  of Specidal AccounL              Spedal Account opened by the Treasury in the Banco Portues do
2.02(b)                                                            Adantco in New York on November 27, 1987.
Loan Agreement Establishment of a Steering Committee for the coordination Steering Committee representing the yMisty of Fmance, Minsty of
3.02           of Technical Assistance and Training, by September 30,    Plannig and Territoral Administration, DGTT, JAE, and GEP was
1987.                                              estbished in August M7.
Loan Agreement Updating of MPWlCs Transpot Information System      Complied wih in September 1987.
3.05           (TIS), by September 30, 1987.
Loan Agreement Nationwide program for veicle weit conoL by         Complied with.
3.07           December 31, 1987.
Loan Agreement Avagability of the Road Safety Program, by September 30, JAB began implementing its part of the progra  in early 1988, and
3.08           1987.                                               DGV and GNR in 1989.
Loan Agreement Audit of project accounts, statements of expendire, and   Generally complied with in a timely manner.
4.01           the Specia Account, within six months of each fiscal year.
Schedule 1,    Retroactive finaning for USD 5.0 million.
pam 3                                                              Complied with on December 15, 1987.
Schedule 2     Institutiona development through sudies on enerm
management policy, freight transport productii, road user Overall preparation of the studies was delayed by about 12 months.
charges, and the North-South corridor.             The study on road user charges was not executed and therefore, the
Borrower is in contraventODo of the Loan Agreement



lonpv          ,  loloidt y
La"    06AJ                  solu                  BIL* 01
...... ...... ..... ...... .....             ..... ...... ....... . ......... .... .. ... ........  O s
(mgu)~109.
s4u9u9wsanqsj(3 lo4   'VA POUUDId 'VOI4



3  N I V d S   i                                                s__ 
~r M,                                                       W31SkSkVMHVI Nrv y  W
-  --- >fi   
r,-r,                                    k~~~~~~~~~~~~LA VMHE)IH (NIHW
-} O~NVN9 O                   eL$V)  M _
StAO                PA P  \         A   n
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VA
zow^^  P   /       \      I /  .'\        \  I~ow
.,,,o,,,,,   /   f    }    1v!             ) %      o
rSw.St =   I    '        fi  Jr   \        t X~~~~-P~R



