Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4574-PO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT
TO US$5o MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
FOR A
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
May 26, 1987
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Portuguese Escudo (Esc.)
Calendar Year 1986                                    March 1987
US$ 1  =  Esc. 149.59                              US$ 1  =  Ese. 140.20
1 Esc. =  US$ 0.0067                               1 Esc. =  US$ 0.0071
PORTUGUESE FISCAL YEAR
January - December
UNITS AND MEASURES
1 centimeter (cm) = 0.39 inch
1 meter (m)       = 3.28 feet
i kilometer (km) = 0.62 miles
I liter (1)       = 0.26 gallon
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AADT    Average Annual Daily Traffic
DGTT    Direccao Geral de Transportes Terrestres (General Directorate
of Land Transport)
DGV     Direccao Geral de Viacao (General Directorate of Traffic)
EC      European Community
EIB     European lnvestment Bank
ER      Economic Return
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
GEP     Gabinete de Estudos e Planeamento (Planning Department of
MPWTC)
GNR     Guarda Nacional Republicana (National Military Police)
GPP     General Planning Department of JAE
ICB     International Competitive Bidding
JAE     Junta Autonoma de Estradas (Highway Authority)
LCB     Local Competitive Bidding
MPWTC   Ministry of Public Works, Transport and Communications
NPE     Non-financial Public Enterprises
NTP     National Transport Plan
PMP     Plano a Medio Prazo (Medium Term Investment/Expenditure Plan)
RN      Rodoviaria Nacional (National Road Transport Company)



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
PORTUGAL
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Republic of Portugal
Amount:                US$50.0 million equivalent
Terms:                  Repayable in 15 years, including three years of grace
at the standard variable interest rate.
Project Description:   The proposed project would support the Highway
Authority's (JAE's) 3-year investment/expenditure
program, the Plano a Medio Prazo 1986-88 (PMP) which
comprises road improvement through the construction
of urban bypasses and the elimination of black spots,
rehabilitation and periodic maintenance of national
roads; routine maintenance; a nationwide road safety
program; technical assistance and training to improve
the institutional and planning capabilities of JAE
and of the Planning Department of the Ministry of
Public Works, Transportation and Communications. The
proposed loan would support the road improvement
works, routine maintenance by contractor, equipment
for JAE's routine maintenance fleet, and the
nationwide road safety program. It would also
provide training and technical assistance, including
studies on energy management policy, road user
charges, the North-South corridor, and freight
transport productivity.
Benefits and Risks:    The economy in general and a large portion of the
population are expected to benefit from the project
through improved roads, thus facilitating travel and
commerce, reducing travel time and costs, and
improving road safety. The broad geographical
distribution of the works will also help support the
Government's regional development efforts. No
special risks are associated with the project. The
risk of budgetary shortages are minimal since the PMP
represents a relatively m4dest program formulated in
line with 1984 and 1985 allocations, and the 1986
allocation was secured in the amount requested. The
risk that the Government may be unwilling to adopt
furtner policy reforms resulting from the
recommendations of project-financed studies has been
reduced since the decision-making organs attach
considerable importance to the government-requested
studies and have stated that they will seriously
consider their recommendations for adoption.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authortiatlon.



-ii -
US$ million (equivalent)
Local            Foreign             Total
Estimated Prolect Costs:A'
Road Improvement                    140.7               154.1             294.8
Routine Maintenance                  36.0                19.3              55.3
Equipment and Spare Parts             -                   3.3               3.3
Technical Assistance                  0.6                 0.9               1.5
Base Cost                       177.3                177.6             354.9
Contingencies:
Physical                            7.4                 7.4              14.8
Price                              24.7                 6.0              30.7
32.1                13.4              45.5
Total Project Cost:             209.4                191.0            400.4
Financing Plan
Government  '                       209.4               141.0             350.4
IBRD                                  -                  50.0              50.0
209.4               191.0             400.4
Estimated Disbursements                       (US$ Million Equivalent)
FY88     FY89      FY90
Annual                                       22.0      27.0      1.0
Cumulative                                   22.0      49.0     50.0
Economic Rate of Return: Not applicable. All road works yield an individual
rate of return of at least 12 percent.
Appraisal Report:          No. 6451-P0, dated May 20, 1987.
A'    Includes customs and duties on imported items of about 11 percent.
Included in the Government share is any eventual financing from the EC
through the Regional Development Fund and loans received from EIB for
specific road links included in the PMP but not financed by the
proposed Bank loan.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL FOR A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Portugal for the equivalent of US$50.0 million to help
finance a Third Highway project. The loan would have a term of 15 years,
including 3 years grace, with interest at the standard variable rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY!'
2.       The latest economic report, "Portugal: Economic Stabilization and
Priorities for Financial Recovery" (No. 5617-PO, dated July 1, 1986) was
distributed to the Executive Directors in July 1986. Country Economic
Indicators are presented in Annex I. Data on Social Indicators have been
distributed separa:ely to the Executive Directors.
Background
3.       Portugal's population of 10 million had an average per capita income
in 1985 of $1,970. About 24 percent of the work force are engaged in
agriculture and produce 9.5 percent of GDP, while 34 percent are employed in
industry producing 40 percent of GDP. Foreign trade is an important part of
the economy with exports (mostly textiles, clothing, cork, paper and pulp),
constituting 33 percent of GDP and imports (mainly petroleum products and
intermediate goods) about 32 percent. Despite Portugal's relatively high
level of GNP per capita, there are large income disparities, particularly
between the rural north and the rest of the country. Moreover, income growth
has been slow and erratic, averaging only 2.3 percent p.a. over the past
decade. With population growing at 1 percent, per capita income growth has
been modest indeed.
4.       Efforts to accelerate Portugal's growth in the past ten years have
been constrained by domestic and external shocks. An IMF-supported austerity
plan, introduced in 1977-78, restored current account equilibrium by 1979.
But the subsequent easing of economic policy and additional external shocks
(the oil crisis followed by the world recession) made it necessary to
introduce an economic stabilization program in 1983, which again received IMF
support.
5.       Portugal has rarely and only temporarily attained macroeconomic
equilibrium. Inflation has been more than 10 percent p.a. since 1973, in
part because of the chronic fiscal deficit. The external position remains
fragile, and foreign trade is sensitive to cyclical fluctuations in both
domestic policy and the foreign and domestic environment. The country relies
heavily on tourism receipts and emigrants' remittances. Also, foreign and
~'    Substantially the same as Part I of the Country Brief distributed to
the executive directors on about March 31, 1987.



public debt have been growing steadily and are now very large relative to
national output, limiting the scope for economic policy action in the
future. Short-term considerations have dominated economic policy.
6.       Portugal's inability to adjust and pursue faster growth stems from
many longstanding structural rigidities. Chief among these rigidities is the
limited mobility for capital and labor in both the public and the private
sectors. The public sector and particularly the public enterprises are also
limited by other inefficiencies. This has contributed to a large fiscal
deficit and crowding out of the private sector. There also are bottlenecks
in infrastructure, including high port costs and an outdated road network.
Recent Developments
7.       After a standby agreement with the IMF in 1983/84, the Government
achieved a turn around in the balance of payments from a record current
account deficit of $3.2 billion in 1982 to a surplus of $400 million in
1985. Measures to keep the escudo competitive were effective (through
occasional substantial devaluations and an increase in the monthly rate of
preannounced devaluations) and merchandise exports increased about 10 percent
in 1984 and 15 percent in 1985. Merchandise imports declined by 2 percent in
1984 and increased by only 1 percent in 1985, partly because of a drawdown of
inventories of imported goods. Tourist receipts, declining during 1980-83,
increased in dollar terms by about 30 percent in 1984 and 20 percent in
1985. Workers' remittances, also declining during 1980-83, held their 1983
level in 1984 and 1985. The Government was less successful in moving toward
equilibrium in the public sector, broadly defined to include public
enterprises, mainly because of the continuing financial difficulties of the
public enterprises. The public sector deficit, after an initial, dramatic
reduction from 23 percent of GDP in 1982 to 15 percent in 1983, returned to
about 20 percent in 1984 and 1985.
8.       The curtailment of domestic demand under the stabilization programs
led to falling GDP in 1983 and 1984   GDP grew by 3.3 percent in 1985
however. Real wages, after declining for three consecutive years, increased
by about 1 percent in 1985. However, unemployment rose to more than 10
percent at the end of 1984 and stayed there in 1985. Inflation, about 25
percent in 1983 and 29 percent in 1984, fell to about 19 percent in 1985,
partly due to lower import prices.
9.       In January 1986, Portugal formally joined the European Community
(EC). The current Governmert has taken firm control of budget and financial
matters; while the public sector's claim on resour:es remains excessive, the
Government has taken a number of steps to clear tLLe arrears from the central
government to public enterprises, improve the transparency of fiscal
accounts, and shift increasingly to nonbank financing, thereby facilitating
the broadening of the capital markets. In 1986, the overall economic
performance improved. GDP grew by about 3.5 percent, inflation was about 12
percent, and the current account showed a surplus of $1.7 billion (6 percent
of GDP). The increase in GDP was mostly due to growth in real consumption
and gross fixed investment; although export growth was disappointing in the
first half of 1986, it may have reached 3 percent for the full year.



-3-
The Need for Structural Change
10.      Portugal must eliminate many long-standing structural rigidities to
take full advantage of its accession to the EC and to generate sustained
growth. Planned GDP growth of 4 percent a year would cause an unsustainable
balance-of-payments deficit in the medium- to long-term unless measures are
taken to increase productivity and stimulate investment, and underlying
structural problems are corrected. Consequently, the Government, with Bank
assistance, is currently preparing a program for medium-term adjustment to
reduce unemployment and improve the trade balance. This program is expected
to focus on the major macroeconomic parameters, with the Government attempting
to establish a policy environment and provide the infrastructure needed for
private sector growth. The three main areas for change involve widening the
opportunities for private enterprises, improving the performance of public
enterprises, and reforming agricultural policies to promote efficient growth.
11.      While a few larger private enterprises perform well, and account for
the bulk of Portugal's manufactured exports, most private enterprises are in
economic and financial difficultly. Since the 1974 nationalizations, the
private sector has comprised mostly small and medium-sized, rather traditional
enterprises. Many of these enterprises have low productivity, high
indebtedness, low or negative profit rates (except in tourism and trade), and
poor management, marketing, and labor relations. They have also been fa,aed
with falling output, reduced capacity utilization, higher real interest
rates, and serious liquidity problems. Restoring financial soundness to these
enterprises is urgently needed, but it is only a partial solution.
12.      Since 1980 the Government has taken steps to modernize private
enterprises and develop a supportive policy environment. Some labor laws
were changed and the fertilizer, cement, banking and insurance sectors were
reopened to private activity. The Government has recently revised investment
incentives along the lines of Bank recommendations and is actively pursuing
the creation of a more modern capital market. But much more remains to be
done. In addition to maintaining a competitive exchange rate and other sound
macroeconomic policies, there is a need for developing more effective export
promotion and export diversification activities, and for improving the
existing export credit and insurance schemes. The Government should also
support restructuring of enterprises tn speed up changes in industrial
organization with a focus on capital-markets reforms, targeted foreign
investment, and information services for the private sector.
13.      The statutory nonfinancial public enterprises (NPEs)--consisting of
government transport, utilities, and marketing monopolies and some large
industrial enterprises--account for about 5 -ercent of employment, 13 percent
of value added, and 18 percent of gross fixeu capital formation. At the
request of the Government, the Bank assisted in an analysis of NPEs that
identified the need for structural change. There has, to date, been little
direct pressure on these entprprises to adjust to changed circumstances,
perpetuating a pattern of low profits, if not losses, for many of them.



-4-
Until recently, exogenous circumstances aggravated the problem of adjustment
for NPEs. First, many NPEs are in industries that are economically depressed
worldwide, such as steel, cement, shipbuilding, and international transport.
Second, several changes in government added to the delays and uncertainties
in budgetary transfers and investment approvals. Third, labor unions in the
large public sector enterprises are relatively strong. And fourth, some NPEs
were required to borrow abroad not only to cover their foreign exchange
requirements but also to finance budgetary arrears. Recently, the Government
has taken action to reduce its budgetary arrears substantially, hut the
problem of autonomy and accountability still need to be addressed.
14.      The need for reforms in the agricultural sector is pervasive.
Portugal depends heavily on food imports. The land reform initiated after
the 1974 revolution has yet to be completed, ard much more has to be done to
bring flexibility to the land market. In addition, agricultural technologies
are often inadequate, and productivity is low for a country of Portugal's
income level. Moreover, the system of agricultural credit does not operate
efficiently. The Government, with the assistance of the Bank, has prepared
an action program and developed several projects to improve productivity. In
addition, the Government needs to: (i) complete the reform of the pricing
and subsidy system within the constraints of the EC accession agreement; (ii)
strengthen support services, in particular extension; (iii) complete the land
reform and bring more flexibility to the land market; and (iv) establish a
modern system of agricultural credit.
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
15.      Portugal's recent experience in the international capital markets
has been good, with successful borrowings by the state and through public
enterprises. The borrowings have been contracted mainly at floating rates
and in US dollars, with some recent diversification of currencies. The total
external debt of Portugal increased from $7.3 billion at the end of 1979 to
$15 billion at end-1983 and to $16.9 billion by mid-1986. Short-term debt
declined from about 30 percent of total debt in 1982 to 10 percent in
mid-1986. The public sector has contracted more than 90 percent of the
outstanding debt, with public enterprises accounting for more than half.
NPEs have contracted most of the short-term debt.
16.      In addition to the rapid build-up in external debt and the harder
borrowing terms, the debt service ratio deteriorated in the early 1980s
because of large amortization payments on the medium-term debt contracted in
the late 1970s, increasing from about 15 percent in 1980 to over 36 percent
in 1984. The debt service ratio has subsequently declined to about 25
percent by mid-1986. Despite the sale of some gold reserves in 1983,
Portugal's current gold reserves provide coverage for more than 40 percent of
total external debt, and most lenders perceive this as an important guarantee
of creditworthiness for the medium term.
17.      While the recent success in reducing foreign debt and improving the
current account in the balance of payments is encouraging, the amount of debt
and the high debt ratio in recent years remain causes for concern. Sustained



-5-
growth and creditworthiness over the long term will depend on the ability of
the authorities to formulate and implement the structural reforms discussed
above. About two-thirds of total borrowing, and almost all short-term
borrowing, is from financial institutions. Multilateral lending constitutes
only about 13 percent of Portugal's outstanding medium- and long-term debt
and is slightly less than bilateral lending. The Bank's exposure is limited:
loans disbursed and outstanding amount to about 2.5 percent of total
outstanding medium- and long-term debt.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PORTUGAL1'
18.      The first phase of Bank lending to Portugal, during the period
1963-66, %as concentrated in the power sector; this reflected the
Government's development priorities to meet the energy needs of a rapidly
developing industrial sector. The current phase of Bank assistance attempts
to support the Government's efforts to deal with overall development issues
and with social and economic structural weaknesses which are unusual for a
relatively high-income developing country.
19.      The IFC has made a number of proposals for activities in Portugal,
but the (until recently) depressed investment climate, the poor financial
situation of private companies, and the fact that some investments which
would be of iaterest to IFC are in the public sector, have prevented a larger
IFC involvement in support of the private sector. The two ongoing IFC
operations are in the financial sector, and amount to almost $34 million of
total commitments. This fiscal year, IFC approved an additional investment
in an ongoing operation with a Portuguese investment society, which has
recently been converted into a private bank.
20.      The proposed project would be the twenty-seventh in Portugal,
bringing total lending to about $926 million. The Bank lhas financed 26
projects, amounting to about $876 million (net of cancellations); operations
are concentrated in the industry (6 projects for about $320 million) and
energy (9 projects for about $250 million) sectors. About 35 percent of the
total lending has been channelled to public enterprises, about 35 percent via
lines of credit for onlending to individual enterprises, with the remaining
30 percent in support of activities undertaken by the Government
administration. Map No. 14942R5, attached, shows the location of Bank
lending activities.
21.      Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IFC
investments as of March 31, 1987. As of March 31, 1987, total disbursements
mounted to about $694.0 million.  The improvement in disbursement
performance noted in the past few years has been sustained, with
disbursements during FY86 amounting to about $108 million (or about 25 percent
of the undisbursed loan balance at the beginning of the fiscal year), and
I'    Substantially the same as Part II of the Country Brief distributed to
the Executive Directors on about March 31, 1987.



- 6 -
those in FY87 keeping up at roughly that pace. However, due to the slowdown
in the rate of commitments in recent years, this annual disbursement level
cannot be sustained, and Portugal is likely to shift into a position of
negative net disbursements within the next two years.
22.      The physical implementation of i"rojects with public enterprises has
progressed well, and all are nearly fully disbursed. As noted above,
however, public enterprise borrowers are experiencing financial difficulties
and this situation has been a matter of intensive discussion by tne
Government and the Bank, and special efforts to address specific problems are
being considered. Loans for onlending via lines of credit slowed in
disbursement in the early 19809 due to the slowdown of growth and investment
in the general economy; furthermore, the devaluation of the escudo over the
course of project execution has meant that lines of credit are able to
finance many more subloans denominated in local currency than had been
expected at appraisal. Most of the loan for the agricultural and fisheries
credit project was cancelled, after it experienced severe institutional
difficulties and was not able to reach the target population. Projects
undertaken by the Government administration have taken longer than planned,
especially in the start-up phases, but are now proceeding satisfactorily.
23.      The Bank is also assisting the Government, at macroecoitomic and
sectoral levels, to review policy and management issues. Economic reports
include a special report on "Prospects for External Trade in Light of EC
Entry - with Special Reference to Agriculture," (No. 4109-PO, dated March 3,
1983), a Country Economic Memorandum with emphasis on "Priorities for
Financial Recovery" (No. 5617-PO dated July 1, 1986), a report on "Public
Enterprises in Portugal - Recommendations for Institutional and Financial
Reforms" (No. 5101-PO dated June 30, 1986). At the sectoral level, a
Transport Sector Memorandum (No. 3922-PO dated August 15, 1983), an
Agriculturai Sector Survey (No. 5007-PO, dated July 20, 19E1) and an Energy
Assessment Report (No. 4824-PO, dated April 1984) have been prepared. All of
these have been distributed to the Executive Directors. Our most recent
efforts have been to assist the Government on an informal basis in its
efforts to formulate a strategy and program to address the structural
weaknesses identified in Part I above.
24.      The Bank has been discussing with the Portuguese authorities the
orientation and focus of future Bank work. Discussions have also been held
with EC agencies and funds about possible means of cooperation. The
Government's objective of providing a policy environment and the
infrastructure needed to elicit the desired response from the private sector
is sound. The Bank aims to support this objective via assistance to
structural reform, development of basic infrastructure, export promotion and
efficient import-substitution and promotion of energy-saving. Projects
focussing on industrial restructuring and technology education are in an
advanced state of preparation.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
25.      Continental Portugal's transport system is relatively well developed
and provides adequate coverage to serve the needs of its population. It



includes a road network of about 54,000 km, about 3,500 km of railways, 19
ports (of which 3 major ones are in full operation at Lisbon, Oporto and
Setubal, and one at Sines is being developed to handle bulk cargo), and 3
international airports. The concentration of agricultural and industrial
activity in the western coastal belt of the country, Portugal's traditional
seaward orientation, and the continuing dependence on international trade and
tourism have combined to form a dense transport corridor extending about 320
km from Lisbon to Oporto.  The road and rail links in this corridor carry
about half of all domestic traffic. In the rest of the country, where the
level of economic activity is lower and cities smaller, both the network and
the traffic are relatively sparse.
26.      Road transport is the dominant mode in domestic transport, both for
passengers and freight, and accounts for about 65 percent of total land
traffic; railways, the principal conitribution of which is to serve passenger
traffic in the Lisbon-Oporto corridor and commuter traffic in the Lisbon and
Oporto suburban-urban areas, account for most of the remainder. Air
transport and coastal shipping play a minor role, except for service for the
islands of the Azores and Madeira, where they are crucial. In 1985, roads
carried about 93 percent of total freight tonnage, railways 4 percent and
waterways 3 percent. Although total land traffic, especially in the highway
subsector, expanded rapidly in the 1970s, the transport network remained
virtually unchanged and much of the infrastructure and equipment is overdue
for renewal and modernization.
27.      From 1983-1985, responsibilities for land and air transport, and for
ports and sea transport were divided between two ministries. Ttese
responsibilities were recombined into a single Ministry of Public Works,
Transport and Communications (MPWTC) in late 1985. Within MPWTC, one of three
secretariats of state oversees r-~ad, port and airport infrastructure. The
Highway Authority (Junta Autonoma de Estradas-JAE) falls under the general
responsibility of this secretariat. A second secretariat oversees public
enterprises in the transport sector (including the railways-CP-and the major
public trucking/busing enterprise-RN) and a third oversees investments and
operations in building construction and housing. MPWTC's Planning Department,
Gabinete de Estudos e Planeamento (GEP) is responsible for overall planning
and strategy formulation for the sector. The Direccao Geral de Transportes
Terrestres (DGTT) is responsible for policy formulation relating to land
transport, under the overall supervision and coordination of GEP. The modal
planning units formulate technical work plans for their respective subsector
within the framework of GEP's overall strategy but, in the absence of a
strong sector policy and given the rapid turnover of political leadership in
the 1970s and early 1980s, those responsible for overall transport sector
policy, regulation and planning have acted largely on an ad hoc basis.
Transport Sector Issues
28.      Important steps have, however, been taken to define the issues in
the sector. A National Transport Plan (NTP) study was completed in 1981 with
financing from the First Highway Project, Bank Loan 1334-PO. This study
analyzed the different national policies affecting the sector, made
recommendations on several major proposed investments in transport
facilities, and provided a computerized milti-modal model for use by the
Portuguese authorities in studying th( .r-uonic feasibility of investments.



- 8 -
Although not formally adopted by the Parliament nor fully implemented because
of disagreements over some of the policy recommendations (particularly in
respect to the need for reduced investments in the railway subsector), the
methodologies and models introduced have been accepted by GEP, which is now
updating its plans periodically. The general framework of the NTP study
remains valid and GEP is currently updating the data which forms the basis of
the Ministry's Transport Information System. Furthermore, the 1981 Highway
Master Plan and especially the 1985 Highway Needs Study, on which the
proposed project is based, are in turn based on the findings of the NTP
study. The Transport Sector Memorandum (Bank Report No. 3922-PO, dated
August 15, 1983) built on the NTP study and further explored policy issues
for discussion with the Government.
29.      In principle, all public enterprises are expected to cover operating
costs and debt service, and to provide their own working capital and an
adequate level of self-finance for new investments. In practice, this has
not been achieved; the five largest revenue-earning public sector transport
companies continue to run at a deficit, the largest of which is accounted for
by the railways. The overall question of public sector enterprise management
and finance has been the subject of extensive review and discussion with the
Government by the Bank (see para. 13). The freight transport productivity
study and the study of road-user charges, both included in the proposed
project (para. 49), will provide analysis and recommendations concerning this
issue with regard to the highway subsector.
Bank Strategy and Involvement in the Transport Sector
30.      Bank involvement in the transport sector, and in the highway sub-
sector in particular, aims to provide support to the institutions responsible
for transport infrastructure and services, with a view to improving their
capabilities in investment planning and operational management and improving
coordination among the different transport modes. The Bank supports the
Government's investment strategy of concentrating expenditures on
rehabilitation maintenance of existing assets, renewal and replacement of
wora out assets, rather than on major new investments which bring lower
returns to the economy. This investment strategy also helps to increase the
competitiveness of the agriculture and industry sectors through a reduction
in transportation costs and time, and thus assists the Government in its
efforts to promote interregional development. In addition, the proposed
project would support the preparation of a number of studies and technical
assistance measures which would help introduce regulatory and institutional
reforms to improve the operational efficiency of the transport sector.
31.      Experience with Past Lending.  Since 1977, Bank lending to the
transport sector has included assistance for two highway projects (Loans
1334-PO and 1700-PO for a total of $64 million) and one project for a coal
handling port (Loan 2521-PO for $66 million). Both the First Highway
project, completed in 1984, and the rece)tly completed Second Highway project
have been important in assisting the Government to finance much needed
modernization of the national road netwr,rk   Loan 1334-PO was generally
successful in achieving its main objectives, including assisting in the
rehabilitation of about 500 km of roads in the Lisbon area, strengthening



- 9 -
JAE's road maintenance capabilities and improving highway planning, project
preparation and evaluation procedures. The Project Performance Audit Report,
while generally positive about the project's achievements highlighted the
following problems: (a) implementation delays caused by lengthy
bureaucractic procedures to meet loan effectiveness requirements, the
implementing agency's (JAE) lack of knowledge of Bank procedures, and
budgetary constraints which slowed down the pace of the investment program;
(b) poor coordination of planning in the transport subsectors; and (c)
cumbersome review and approval procedures required by the Bank. The Second
Highway project expanded nationwide the rehabilitation and modernization
works initiated under Loan 1334-PO. Lessons learned from the two highway
projects have been taken into account in designing the proposed project.
32.      The ongoing Coal Handling Port Project at Sines is designed to
assist the Government in the provision of physical facilities needed for the
import of coal for a coal-fired power plant and supports the Government's
energy-conservation strategy of diversifying sources of fuel for power
generation. It also assists in strengthening the operations, management and
planning capabilities of the port authority.
The Highway Sector
33.      Of the total highway network of over 54,000 km, about 19,000 km of
paved roads make up the national network. Municipal roads account for about
17,000 km and the remainder are forestry roads. The density of the network,
which varies from about 60 km (in the heavily populated central-north coastal
zones) to 25 km per 100 sq km (in the less populated areas), is adequate and
most population centers of over one hundred inhabitants are connected to the
national highway network by paved roads. However, only about 1,500 km of new
roads have been constructed in the last 20 years and the road standards no
longer meet the demands of modern highway traffic. Traffic volume and fuel
consumption have been growing steadily, reaching respectively an Average
Annual Daily Traffic (AADT) of about 4,400 vehicles and about 2.6 billion
liters of all types of Cuel in 1985.
Institutional Framework
34.      The Junta Autonoma de Estradas (JAE), the Highway Authorit) created
by decree in 1945, *s a well-established, semi-autonomous agency which
administers the national highway system. Headed by a President and two
Vice-Presidents (one responsible for road construction and bridges and the
other for maintenance), JAE falls under the overall jurisdiction of the
MPWTC. On the basis of guidelines developed by GEP, the Planning and
Programming Department (GPP) of JAE is responsible for preparing the detailed
planning strategy. GPP is well organized and staffed with competent
personnel and was responsible for preparing JAE's Plano a Medio Prazo 1986-88
(PMP), the medium-term investment/expenditure plan. JAE's Administrative
Department is responsible for all accounting and financial functions,
including the preparation of annual budgets which are presented to the MPWTC
for approval prior to consolidation into the Government's national budget.



- 10 -
35.      Headquartered in Lisbon, JAE has 18 district offices responsible for
carrying out its programs, including specific design works, maintenance and
construction supervision. These technical services report to the technical
departments at the headquarters through four regional offices. JAE has
successfully resolved the problem of staff shortages, caused by a government
freeze on hiring, through engaging private cortractors to carry out road
maintenance works. Highway construction, reconstruction, rehabilitation, and
periodic maintenance works are carried out by contractors. Routine
maintenance is carried out by force account and recently also by contractor
through a pilot program which JAE started in four districts following
recommendations made in the maintenance study financed under the First
Highway Project. Under the proposed project, this program will be extended
to most of the 18 districts.
36.      All roads in the national network are under JAE's jurisdiction,
except for the expressways which are constructed and maintained by a separate
concessionaire (Brisa), which is 90 percent government-owned. Although Brisa
has a concession to construct about 400 km of expressways, only about 195 km
of the Lisbon-Oporto expressway have been completed with a further 40 km
stretch under construction. Coordination between Brisa and JAE is
satisfactory.
37.      JAE is a competent, efficient organization.  Assisted under the
First and Second Highway projects, it applies appropriate techniques and
methods for planning, design and organization and is capable of formulating
and implementing appropriate highway investment/expenditure programs and
related institutional policies. JAE has demonstrated its ability to carry
out a sound work program and to apply satisfactory criteria in selecting
works justified for Bank support.
Plano a Medio Prazo 1986-88 (PMP)
38.      JAE's current three-year investment/expenditure program (PMP) is
based on the 1981 Highway Master Plan study, updated by JAE in 1985 under its
Highway Needs Study, which takes into account the recommendations of the 1981
NTP study. The PMP includes JAE's total investment and expenditure program
($400.4 million) for the three years beginning January 1986, has been
approved by the Government and contains specific measures to strengthen JAE's
management and improve policies in the transport sector. Specific investments
and expenditures have been selected on the basis of technical criteria which
are acceptable to the Bank (the state of the road, traffic volume and
location of the road link in the main network). All investments yield a
minimum economic return of 12 percent. The PMP represents a modest program
of expenditures aimed at protecting existing assets through rehabili-
tation, periodic and routine maintenance and through the construction of
bypasses. In line with the Government's strategy, only about 9 percent of
the PMP represents new investment. It also includes a provision for studies
and technical assistance to improve coordination and collaboration of
agencies involved in the highway subsector, to improve the efficiency of road
transport industries and to improve intermodal transport coordination.



- 11 -
Issues and Constraints affecting the Highway Subsector
39.      The lack of a formally approved overall national transport plan and
policy framework for a long-range strategy and the related lack of good
intermodal coordination are important issues for the highway subsector.
They, of courtc, concern all modes, but are especially important in regard to
the coordination of roads and railways in the Lisbon-Oporto corridor where
distortions in the distribution of investments and usage are most apparent.
Within the highway subsector, there is a second set of issues. The highways
subsector suffers from design standards which are inadequate to meet the
demands of modern traffic. Road improvement and maintenance works bhve also
suffered from budgetary constraints, and with widesprea( overloading and the
absence of enforcement of axle load legislation, resulting in an acceleration
in the deterioration of the road network. Furthermore, due to the
Government's freeze on hiring, JAE suffered from insufficient staff to
implement its routine maintenance program according to schedule. Portugal
currently has one of the highest accident rates in Europe and there is an
urgent need for action to improve dangerous road sections and enforce traffic
regulations. At the economic level, road transport efficiency is hindered
because of outmoded regulations which restrict Portugal's ability to compete
with enterprises in other countries of the EC. The structure of road user
charges is uneven and favors the use of diesel.
Proiect Justification and Rationale for Bank Involvement
40.      The PMP, which forms the basis of the proposed project, represents a
sound program of investments/expenditures for the highway subsector, the major
mode of transportation in Portugal. The PMP has been carefully formulated by
JAE, in consultation with the Bank, and all the planned investments/expendi-
tures are economically justified. Although they have not been updated, the
general boundaries of the National Transport Plan Study and the Highway
Master Plan, prepared in 1981 under the IBRD-supported First Highways
Project, remain valid and the PMP falls within their scope.
41.      Although the proposed loan would meet only about 12 percent of the
total project needs, Bank involvement with JAE has resulted in the
preparation of a well-conceived PMP and is expected to help mobilize
financing from the EC. Continued Bank presence in the subsector would assist
the Government in the effective implementation of a series of programs and
action plans developed under the completed First and Second Highways
projects. Furthermore, through the project, the Bank will be able to sustain
a policy dialogue with the Government on a number of issues critical to
improving the institutional effici' ,cy of road transport and intermodal
services. The flexible design of the proposed loan would allow JAE to
respond to fluctuations in the economy which might alter discrete investment
priorities within an agreed planning outlook.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
42.      JAE's PMP 1986-88 constitutes the proposed project.  Implementation
of the PMP, prepared by JAE in consultation with the Bank and approved by the



- 12 -
relevant Government ministries, is already well underway. The project was
appraised by the Bank in June/July 1986. Negotiations were held in
Washington in March 1987 (and completed in May) with a delegation headed by
Mrs. Isabel Pinto Correia, Ministry of Finance, and which included
representatives of the Ministry of Planning and Territorial Administration,
GEP and JAE. A staff appraisal report entitled "Third Highway Pro4ect" (No.
6451-PO), dated May 20, 1987, is being circulated separately to the Executive
Directors. The main features of the loan and project are presented in the
Loan and Project Summary and in Annex III. A map of the highway network is
attached (Map IBRD 20314R).
Prolect Obiectives and Com2onents
43.      In line with the Government's strategy, the objectives of the
PMP--and thus the project--are to develop further the planning and
implementation capacity of the Highway Authority (JAE), upgrade and modernize
the highway network to better meet the demands of today's traffic, to improve
the efficiency of road freight transport industries, and to improve the
coordination and collaboration of agencies involved in the highway
subsector. The project also aims to improve intermodal transport
coordination and planning through the provision of technical assistance to
GEP. To achieve these objectives, the project includes the following
components: (a) road improvement works comprising the rehabilitation of
about 2,500 km of highways, periodic maintenance/strengthening of about a
further 3,000 km, and the construction of 100 km of new roads (by-passes);
(b) routine maintenance; (c) implementation of a road safety program and
enforcement of axle load legislation; (d) technical assistance to GEP and
JAE, including studies of freight transport productivity, the North-South
corridor, road user charges, and energy management policy; and (e) training.
Road Improvement Program
44.      This component accounts for about 85 percent of the PMP, for a total
cost of about $295 million equivalent, without contingencies. About $167
million is allocated for rehabilitation works, $100 million for periodic
maintenance and about $28 million for new construction works. The proposed
Bank loan would finance about $36 million of this amount. These programs
would upgrade the main highway network to meet the requirements of the 12-ton
single axle load limit and to meet the Government's objective of widening
paved carriageways to a m4nimum of 6 meters.
45.      Over the three-year PMP period, JAE would rehabilitate about
2,500 km of the main roads in the national network, completing the major part
of the rehabilitation program supported under the first two Bank-financed
projects. Rehabilitation works would include the construction of 1.5 m wide
shoulders, 6 m wide carriageways and 5 cm thick asphalt concrete pavement.
Road segments included in the rehabilitation program have been selected on
the basis of sound criteria using AADT counts, traffic composition, unit
construction costs and vehicle operating costs savings. A further 3,000 km
of roadways would be covered under JAE's periodic maintenance program. This
includes either a 5 cm thick asphalt concrete strengthening course or a
double surface treatment. Of the total road improvement program, new



- 13 -
construction works, defined as roads constructed on a new alignment, are
limited to about 9 percent and comprise mainly about 100 km for 8 bypasses
around congested urban centers, as well as the elimination of about 15
accident black spots. The bypasses have been included for selected routes
with an AADT of between 4,000 to 5,000, with heavy vehicles accounting for 20
to 25 percent of this total. JAE has prepared feasibility studies for all
the proposed bypasses.
46.      Upon completion of t..e PMP, about 3,000 km of roads would still need
to be rehabilitated. Since, however, this figure includes works of lower
priority, JAE expects that, starting in 1989, it would be able to reduce its
expenditures on rehabilitation and to concentrate on periodic maintenance
works, increasing them to about 2,500 km annually. This would permit
periodic maintenance of the entire national network to be covered in a
seven-year cycle.
Routine Maintenance
47.      Until 1985, JAE carried out routine maintenance by force account
through its 18 district offices. Since then, in line with government policy
to reduce government activities where possible and to foster private
enterprise, JAE introduced the use of contractors for routine maintenance
operations, which improves efficiency, minimizes costs, reduces its equipment
fleet and overcomes JAE's staffing shortages. The pilot program has been
successfully implemented and the PMP provides for a target of 70 percent of
routine maintenance works to be handled by private contractors. JAE would
continue to handle the remaining 30 percent by force account to help gauge
contract prices, to retain a nucleus of maintenance activities and to have
JAE staff and equipment available for emergencies. Total PMP expenditures
for routine maintenance are estimated at about $55 million, excluding
contingencies. The proposed Bank loan would finance about $9.5 million of
routine maintenance by contractor and would also finance equipment to replace
obsolete machinery in JAE's force account brigades.
Road Safety Program
48.      In addition to losses of lives and time, accidents in 1985 were
estimated to cost the economy more than $250 million in property damages.
JAE's Safety Division has prepared a road safety program which includes
improving road standards, installing road markings and signs, eliminating
black spots and hazardous items such as masonry signs. It also provides
for technical assistance to set up a new system for the management of
accident data, the procurement of safety equipment such as patrol cars,
and telecommunications items and for improved contacts between the three
agencies responsible for road safety--Junta Autonoma de Estradas (JAE)
(infrastructure), Direccao Geral de Viacao (DGV) (vehicle registration and
inspection) and Guarda Nacional Republicana (GNR) (driver licensing and
performance). As well as the procurement of equipment and materials, the
project includes the services of a road research specialist to provide 12
months of technical support and advice on accident data collection. Since
August 1986, JAE, DGV and GNR have been holding regular consultations to
ensure good coordination and collaboration in implementation of the road



- 14 -
safety program. The Government has prepared a road safety action plan, which
is satisfactory to the Bank and is to be put into effect by September 30,
1987. Th4s action plan includes a program for the different measures to be
taken and specifies the responsibilities of the respective agencies.
Technical Assistance and Training
49.      The project includes several studies, technical assistance and
training to assist in developing and strengthening the planning and
management capacities of both the JAE and GEP. Provision for all of these
expenditures is included in the PMP, although their scope in some cases is
wider than the highway mode alone. Because of this, GEP will be responsible
for coordinating and monitoring the studies listed below, which would be
important in assisting it to achieve better coordination among transport
modes. GEP will also carry out the studies, except for the Freight Transport
Productivity and Road User Charges Studies which will be carried out by
DGTT. The terms of reference for all the studies have been discussed and
agreed with the Government. GEP has also agreed to update, by September 30,
1987, its Transport Information System since these data are needed as inputs
in the studies to be carried out under the PMP. All the studies will be
completed by September 30, 1989, at the latest, and have been phased to take
into account the implementation capacity of GEP. The Government will consult
with the Bank on the recommendations of the individual studies and establish
action programs to implement the agreed recommendations by the end of 1989.
(a) North-South Corridor Stud (Total Cost $400,000). This multi-modal
transport study of the corridor from the southern coast to the
northern border would examine road, rail, air and coastal shipping
and determine the best passenger/freight intermodal distribution.
The North-South Corridor, which incorporates the Lisbon-Oporto
corridor, accounts for about 70 percent of the national traffic.
The study is expected to be completed by September 30, 1989.
(b) Freight Transport Productivity Study (Total Cost $300,000). This
study, scheduled to begin in January 1988 and to be completed by
December 31, 1988, would analyze the status, practices and
regulations affecting freight transport and intermodal coordination.
It would provide recommendations on needed institutional and
regulatory reforms to improve the efficiency of freight transport,
including increasing the use of containerization and the marketing
of road/rail services, and its competitiveness with other EC
countries.
(c) Energy Management Policy Study (Total Cost $300,000). This study
would identify and define a national program of energy conservation
in the public and private transport sector, paying particular
attention to the pricing of gasoline/diesel and to the use of diesel
and other fuels for the most appropriate activities. This study will
be closely coordinated with the Directorate of Energy in the Ministry
of Energy, and is expected to be completed by September 30, 1988.
Its initial findings with regard to the pricing of gasoline/diesel
will be available as inputs for the Road User Charges Study. By



- 15 -
December 31, 1988, the Government will prepare an action plan, with
the objective of eliminating uneconomic price distortions and
achieving the most economic and efficient use of energy.
(d) Road User Charges Study (Total Cost $150,000). This study, to be
completed by about July 3i, 1988, would look in detail at
expenditures and revenues for each category of road and each kind of
vehicle. It would be closely coordinated with and use the findings
relating to energy pricing from the Energy Management Policy Study
and will develop proposals for the implementation of an equitable
road user charge system based on the wear and tear caused to the
roads by the particular vehicle types.
50.      The PMP also calls for implementation of the axle-load program.  In
November 1985, the Government increased the maximum allowable single axle
load to 12 tons from 10 tons, which was uneconomically low for modern traffic
conditions and was unacceptable to the trucking industry. Enforcement of the
new regulations and coordination between the police (GNR), DGV and JAE have
so far been inadequate. To overcome this and since continued violation of
the axle load limit would inevitably lead to the deterioration of the
strengthened roads, the Government has prepared an action plan outlining how
nationwide vehicle weight control will be implemented. This plan, to be put
into effect by December 31, 1987, specifies the agencies involved and their
respective responsibilities, provides for adequate inter-agency coordination,
assesses staffing and equipment needs and provides a schedule for their
acquisition, as well as providing an inventory of existing equipment. An
estimate of additional equipment needed to ensure compliance with the
regulations is included in the PMP.
51.      Training.  The PMP includes a provision for inhouse training, in
accordance with the outline of a program which has been discussed and agreed
with the Bank, in JAE's workshops for over 100 equipment operators,
mechanics, electricians and supervisors. Provision is also madf for overseas
training of high level staff in the areas of management, traffic control,
road safety, bridge design, maintenance and computerization.
Implementation
52.      Responsibility for overall implementation of the physical works of
the PMP, which is already well underway, would rest with JAE, which would
supervise the execution of all road improvement and maintenance works through
its 18 district offices. The 1986 program has been completed, as have the
engineering designs and feasibility studies for all PMP works. JAE is
implementing its program of works basically in accordance with the PMP
approved in July 1986. Some modifications, however, have subsequently been
made to the PMP because additional funds were made available in 1986 for
maintenance and road safety (1986 was designated Road Safety Year in
Europe). These modifications do not change the objectives of the PMI in any
way and its emphasis remains on rehabilitation and maintenance works. The
Government will consult with the Bank on any proposed substantial deviation
from the PMP. To ensure their eligibility for financing from the proposed



- 16 -
loan, the inclusion of new works would be made only if they were subjected to
the same selection criteria as the original works and if discussed with the
Bank prior to their inclusion in the PMP. The physical works would be
substantially completed by the end of 1988.
53.      GEP would be responsible for the overall coordination and supervision
of the technical assistance and studies. To assist in the coordination of
the various studies and technical assistance, the Government will establish,
by September 30, 1987, a Steering Committee made up of a permanent core of
representatives from GEP, JAE, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of
Planning and Territorial Administration. Representatives from DGTT and other
modal agencies concerned, including representatives of public and private
transport associations, would participate with respect to the studies
relevant to their particular fields of activity.
Project Cost and Financing
54.      The total cost of the project, including physical contingencies and
allowances for expected price increases, is estimated at $400.4 million, with
a foreign exchange component of $191.0 million or 48 pe cent of total cost.
The base cost is calculated using average unit costs for the respective works
included in the PMP based on recent bids and costs of services provided for
similar works, mainly those implemented under the Second Highway Project, and
includes a 5 percent margin for physical contingencies. The base cost is
estimated using unit costs as of the end of December 1986. The costs of
vehicles and machinery include the necessary provision for spare parts.
Annual allowances for expected price increases on the foreign exchange
component have been calculated at 3.0 percent for 1987 and 1.0 percent for
1988 and 1989; and on the local component at 12 percent for 1987, and 14
percent for 1988 and 1989.
55.      The proposed Bank loan of $50 million would finance 26 percent of
the foreign exchange component or about 12 percent of the total project
cost. The balance of the estimated PMP expenditures would be provided by the
Government. As has been the case for road works ongoing at the time of
Portugal's accession to the EC, expenditures for new construction and
rehabilitation works included in the PMP are also expected to be submitted to
the EC for financing from the Regional Development Fund (FEDER) in due
course. If approved, FEDER financing could cover up to about 55 percent of
the tota. PMP expenditures for these categories.
Procurement
56.      A procurement plan for items eligible for financing from the
proposed project is presented in the table below.  Procurement of all project
items would be carried out by JAE, except for the consultants to carry out
the various studies who would be appointed by GEP. The procurement of
Bank-financed construction, rehabilitation and periodic maintenance works
estimated to cost more than $5 million per contract, and equipment and
materials costing more than $100,000 per contract would be through
International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Civil works contracts of $5 million



- 17 -
or less for road improvement of limited length spread throughout the country
and which cannot be grouped into larger packages, and routine maintenance by
contractor would be procured by local competitive bidding (LCB). Portugal's
LCB procedures are generally consistent with the need for economy and
efficiency in the execution of the project but to make them fully consistent
with the Bank's procurement guidelines, agreement has been reached with the
Government on two modifications to be made in the application of the LCB
procedures. It is estimated that about 70 percent of the PMP contracts would
fall under the LCB category. In addition, miscellaneous goods, which cannot
be grouped and which would cost less than $100,000 per contract (up to an
aggregate cost of $600,000 over the PMP implementation period) could also be
procured by LCB procedures. Proprietary spare parts for equipment would be
purchased directly from the manufacturers or their authorized agents.
Standard Bank guidelines would be followed for the recruitment of
consultants. For civil works estimated to cost more than $5 million per
contract, and for equipment and materials estimated to cost $100,000 or more,
the Bank would review and approve tender documents and contracts before they
are issued/awarded. For the procurement of other items in the PMP, to be
procured by LCB and to be financed from the Bank loan, the Bank would review
bidding and contract documents after contract award to confirm their
eligibility for financing from the proposed loan. In addition, the Bank
would also review the bidding documents for the first three contracts to be
awarded under LCB procedures.
PROCUREMENT METHODS /a
Category                   ICB           LCB           Other      Total
1.  Civil Works             102.1(10.8)  238.1(25.1)         -       340.2(35.9)
2. Routine Maintenance:
-by Contractor            -            26.6 (9.3)        -        26.6 (9.3)
-by Force Account         -              -             28.7       28.7
3.  Equipment, Spare          2.7 (2.7)      -              0.6(0.6)   3.3 (3.3)
Parts and Materials
4.  Technical Assistance      -                            1.5(1.5)    1.5 (1.5)
and Training        -
Total                    104.8(13.5)  264.7(34.4)    30.8(2.1)  400.4(50.0)
oa    Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank
loan. Costs (in $ millions) include contingencies.
Disbursements
57.      The proposed Bank loan would be fully disbursed within three years
as follows: 50 percent of total expenditures for civil works, 35 percent of



- 18 -
total expenditures for routine maintenance by contractor, 100 percent of
foreign expenditures for equipment and materials and 100 percent of total
expenditures for technical assistance and training. The standard profile for
highway projects in the region indicating a eight-year disbursement period is
not applicable to the proposed project since the Bank loan would finance a
time-slice of JAE's 3-year PMP which has already started. Commitments for
civil works will be completed by the end of 1988, and disbursements against
these commitments by mid-1989. The studies are expected to be completed by
September 30, 1989, and an additional nine months has been provided to allow
disbursements for these to be completed, and to allow for implementation of
the agreed action programs to begin. For all contracts of $200,000
equivalent or less, disbursements will be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure. In order to expedite disbursements, a Special Account
(revolving fund) at the level of $6 million would be established.
Retroactive financing of up to $5 million equivalent would be provided to
cover the cost of eligible expenditures for civil works incurred from July 1,
1986 to the date of loan agreement signing.
Accounting and Reporting
58.      JAE would maintain separate accounts of PMP expenditures, in
accordance with its existing practices. These accounts, including the
Special Account and disbursements under the Statement of Expenditure
procedure, would be audited by an independent auditor satisfactory to the Bank
and provided to the Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal year.
59.      To monitor the overall implementation of the PMP, the Government
would prepare quarterly progress repoits on all components of the program.
In addition, the Government and the Bank would hold semi-annual reviews. By
March 15 of each year JAE would report on achievements in the preceding year,
provide an assessment of maintenance costs by force account and contractor,
and report on the status of the enforcement of vehicle weight regulations.
GEP would report on the status of the studies included in the PMP, on the use
of technical assistance, and would provide an update on the investment
objectives of the different transport subsectors. By September 15 of each
year, JAE would report on any proposed update of the PMP investment program
and on the status of implementation of the PMP. GEP would report on the
planned applications of technical assistance for the following year and on
the action taken to ensure the consistency of road and rail investment
plans.
Environmental Impact
60.      The project is not expected to have any detrimental effect on the
environment. On the contrary, the construction of bypasses are expected to
significantly reduce noise and pollution in the by-passed towns.
Project Benefits
61.      The PMP is designed to meet the most pressing development needs in
the highways subsector and although it is not possible to quantify all of the
benefits, the economy in general and a large portion of the population are
expected to benefit through improved roads facilitating travel, reducing



- 19 -
travel time and costs and improving road safety. Furthermore, the works are
broadly distributed geographically and will help support the Government's
regional development efforts. The reduction in transport costs will help
foster both industry and agriculture and will contribute to the fuller
integration of Portugal with the EC, particularly with regard to improving
the competitiveness of the trucking industry. The studies will facilitate
the overall planning efforts of the Government and improve the efficiency of
the transport sector through policy reforms.
Economic Rate of Return
62.      The economic justification and quantitative analysis of all new
construction and rehabilitation works included in the PMP have been calculated
by the Planning Department of JAE. The methodology and procedures used in
project preparation, evaluation and selection have been reviewed by the Bank
and are acceptable. The economic return (ER) on the bypasses, based
on savings in vehicle operating costs and work-travel time savings range from
24 to 40 percent. Benefits accrued from vehicle operating cost savings of
local traffic, from a reduced accident rate or from non-work travel time
savings cannot be quantified and have not been taken into account. The ER
for the rehabilitation works, under the conservative assumption of 2.5
percent annual growth in traffic, is about 25 percent. Analysis results show
that the ER for these works is relatively insensitive to changes in costs and
traffic flow. Even in the event of no growth in traffic and a 50 percent
increase in construction costs, the ER remains above 12 percent. All
individual segments included in the PMP yield an ER of above 12 percent.
Risks
63.      There are no unusual risks associated with the project.  The PMP
is a relatively modest program formulated in line with annual budgetary
allocations received in 1984 and 1985. Only high priority investments and
expenditures have been inciuded in the PMP, which is a result of detailed
planning, project preparation and selection efforts by JAE. The risk of
budgetary difficulties restricting funds allocated to the PMP or the risk of
unanticipated cost increases, thus causing slippages in implementation, are
minimal. The budgetary allocation of about $100 million for 1986 was
adequate for JAE to carry out its planned program. For 1987 the allocation
is expected to be in the region of about $140 million, which, in real terms,
reflects a reasonable increase over the 1986 allocation. The requirement for
1988 is expected to be, in real terms, about the same as the 1987
requirement. In any event, the adverse effects of delays are negligible
since they would mean only that completing rehabilitation and periodic
maintenance works of the entire network would slip by a year or two. There
is also a risk that the Government will be unwilling to adopt further policy
reforms resulting from recommendations of project-financed studies. This
uncertainty has been reduced by the fact that the Goverrment, encouraged by
the significant in-house capabilities that JAE has developed with Bank
assistance, has requested the Bank's assistance in a number of sectoral
issues. The studies, included at the Government's request, address issues to
which the Government attaches great importance, as indicated by the action it
has initiated to develop a program to enforce axle load legislation. GEP and
other decision-making organs attach considerable importance to the studies
and any recommendations will be se'iously considered for adoption.



- 20 -
PART IV - RECOMMENDATION
64.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve
the proposed loan.
Barber Conable
President
Washington, D.C.
May 26, 1987.



- 21 -
P08121844. - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Mid-1985 Population (slls.)          20                                                                                            Page:     I of 3
1905 Per Capita GIP  in USf:    1910
A. Shares of Gross omestic Praduct                                8. Growth Rates (I per annum:
(frns current price data)                                         (from constant price data)
(965      1973      1980      1984      2985      2986             2965-13  I97-80  lvdo-94          1985      1986
Gross Damestic Product c.p.             100       1OQ       lOt       100       100        100                  .         ..       0.8       3.3        3.5
Not indirect Taies                    .         ..       1.,2      1.2       2.4       2.4                   .         *
Anriculture                                             lo'? 0.    9.4         9       9.5                   .         ..      -2,1       5.5        2.8
lndustry                              .         .      39.2       39.6      38.7      39.5                  0.        ,         .9          3        3.9
iof which "anufacturing:              .        .       30.0      31.0      31.6      31.6..                            .
Ser,ices                              .          .      49.4      49.9      49,8      51.0                   .4        .        1.5       2.5        3.5
ResouLrce Balance                      -4.?        -?    -15.1       -6.9      -1.8       0.5                    .        .
Exports of SlIPS                    26.8      26.7      28.8      38.8      39.2      32.8                  4.9       6.6       9.0      10.6,       5.I
Isports of GNFTS                   31.4      33.7      43.8       45.8      40.9      32.3                10.1       0.5      -0.7      -2.4        14.3
Total Expendituires                   204.7       107    115.1    206.9    102.8         99.3                             .       -2.1      -1.1        7.2
Total Coesumption                  79.8      17.6         81      84.2      80.3      71.9                   .         .       0.4      -0.4         6.3
Private Cnnsuaption             67.8      64.8      66.6      69.7      65.8       s3.7                  .         ..      -0.       -0.7         1.3
General Government                12      12.8      24.4       14.4      14.5      24.2                 7.2       1.8S     -0.3,      1.2        2.5
Gross Domestic Investeent          24.9       29.7      34.2      22.8      21.5      21.5                 8.0        3.2     -8.7       -6.3       21.0
Ficed Iniveitmeont              22.8      26.8      29.5       24.1     21.8       21.3                 7.3       2.9       0.3      -3.0        8.0
Changes in Stock                21.1       2.9       4.6      -1.3      -0.3        6.2                  1.        .          .        .           .2
ireoss Domestic Saving                 20.2      22.4         19     15.9      29.7      22.1                    .        .       -1.2      28.7       25.3
Met Factor Income                    0.7       0.9      -2.6      -6.2      -5.5       0.4                   .         .
Net Current transfers                 ..        ..      2.2       11.3      10.6        .                    .         .
Gross Rational Saving                     .        .       28.5        22      24.7         ...                            .      -5.0      25.1      -24.0
In sillions of LC2Us                   1965      1913      2980      1984      1985      2986
tat constast 2980 prices)             ----                 ---       ---        --       --
Gros  Doeestic Product                .         ..      1235      1267      1320      1357                   .         .       0.8        3.3        3.5
Capacity to Import                   202       400       35        451       496       603                 8.7      -0.4        6.9        20       21.5
Taesu of Trade Adjustment           -20        44          0       -40       -47        3?2.                          .
Giross Donestoc lncaom                1.        .        235      1227      2263      13699                  .                  0.1       2.9       20.0
Giross National Product               1.        .        202      1182      2231      1279                   .         ..     -0.2        4.2        4.0
Gross National Income                  .        ..      1202      214       2083      1312                   .         ..     -0.9        3.1       10.8
        ------ 12980   100)- ---  -------                    -    --'I flatioo Rates fIt F.&.)------
C. P.-Ice Indices                      1980      1982      1983      1984      1985      2986             1965-73  2973-80  1980-84         1985      1986
Consume  Prices (IFS 64:                100    146.5    184.3    237.6    284.2    317.3                       5.5      23.0      24.0      19.4       11.7
Nholesile Prices lIFS 63)               100    154.8    280.6    234.2    219.1            ..3.2                        22.9      23.0      21.2
Implicit GDP Deflator                   100    243.9    177.3    222.0    272.3    320.4                      3.0      27.0       22.3      22.2       24.0
Implicit Expenditures Deflator          100    146.2        182    230.9    282.5    303.8                      .         .,      23.3      22.3        7.5
0. other lodicators                           1965-73             1973-80             2980-85------                ----------   
Growth Rites (IZ p.a.):
Population                                    -0.2                 2.5                 0.6            Data in the Econuomc Indicators tables
Labor FmO(Le                                   1.1                22.4                 1.2            should follow the dm0fisittious aid
gross National Incoai p.c.                     8.0                 1.0                -1.1            concepts of the Standard Tables and
Private Consuoption p.c.                       1.0                 0.9                -1.4            Standard Attachmets.  The indicators
should include data through the most
Import E#tlCLti yty                                                                                      recently completed calmendar year (or
Imports tWG+ l I GDP Isp)                       ..                   .                  .5            fiscal year in the case of fiscal year
countries). Staff estimates map be used
Marginal Savings Rates:                                                                                  if final or preliminary actuals are sot
gross Rational Saying                           .                                   -234.2            yet available.  the use of estimates and
Gross Domestic Saving                         24.9'               -2.8,               52.7            preltimnarp figures should he indicated
hys
ICOR (period averages):                            ..                                    32.8
e  estimated data
Share of Tntal                         2965      2973      1980      2985                                          p * preliminary data
Ldbor Force is:                         -.       --         --       --
Agriculture                         38.0      32.4      26.8      23.7
Inudstry                           31.0       33.1      36.4      33.2
Services                            32.0      33.9      36.8      43.1
Total                              100.0    100.0    108.0    200.0-------
March 10. 1987



- 22 -
P81RU.AL - ECOeOeIc INDIlC410ATS                                          Annexn  I
-------------------------- --              FiPage:   2of3
Voluse Index  I1980  1001                      Value at Current Prices  isIllions UStl
E.  erchandite Esports              1980      1982     1983      1984     198Sp    198te    1980      1982      1983     1984      199Sp    1980e
.....I- -- - - -- - - --- -      ....      -..  .    ---      ....     - - -     - - -    . ...  .    -      ---      . ...     -- -     -----
Agric.Products                     100.I      97.2    114.2    126.3    124.9               573,9   481.8    533.8    585.7   551.0
Yood,Cor,hPaper and Pulp           100.0      99.2    112.0    126.6    139.9               778.3    611.7    612.b    753.0    115.0
Textile and Clothinq               100.0 C   IX.6    135.1    148.9    161.3               1231.7   1219.6   1216.5   1469.5   1686.7
ibchinery                          lo0.1    121.0    155.3    182.9    18.bb                403.3    428.1   523.0    653.7   b09.3
Ranufactures                       '00.0    11S4    136.2    164.2    180.8               3511.6   3296.6   3587.6   4185.0   4659,4
Other Exports                      100.0                                                   1070.4    932.4    981.4   1024.0   1012.6
total Nerchandise Exports F08      100.0    109.0    131.1    150.2    166.S               4582.0   4129.0   4569.0   5209.0   5672.Q
f. Nerhandines  laorts
Faod                               100.0    109.2      98.1    102.1    1015              1326.0   1351.0   1188.0   1359.0   116,9
PO  and Other Energy              100.0    105.9    101.0    107.4       98.7             2394.0   2639.0   2255.0   2342.0  2312.2
Other Itoorts                      100.0    190.8    103.b      97.8    110.o              5069.0   4945.0   4201.0   4226.8   4463.4
Other Consusne  6o0d            100.0    108.5    106.2    110.2    130.7                413.0    987.0    895.0    935.0  1008.9
Other Inter edm ate Eoods       100.0    102.6      93.9     94.8    103.6             2278.0   1469.0   1219.0   1654.8   1810.9
Capital Eoods                   100.0    121.4    110.6      88.5      97.5            2370.0   2489.0   2088.0   1637.0   1633.6
Total Rerchandise Isports CIF      100.0    112.4    103.0    101.6    104.0              8781.0   8941.0   8116.0   7927.8   7143.5
6. Tero cOf Trade 11980  1001          1O     1982     1983      1984     1985p    198be          ------------------------------------------
-------------------------------     ---       ---      ----      ----              -----          k~~ llotes:
Rtrch. Exports Price Index           100      83.8    a8.8      80,1      79.4     85.9
Ierch. Isports Price Index           100      95.1     93.1     91.6      88.1     84.1           Data on the Econosic Indicator, tables
;erchandise Terms of Trade           100      88.1     87.4     87.4      90.1    102.1           snould follio  the defistions and
coucepts of the Standard Tables cud
55  sillions tat current pricesl:                      Standard Attachments.  The indicatori
-------------------         ---------------------            should ieclude data through the  ost
N. Balance of fayeents              1980      1982     1983      1984     1985p    198ce          recently completed calendar year tor
------------------------------    ----       ---       ----     ----      -----    ---            fiscal year in the case of fiscal year
Exports of Souds and NFS            6672      5767     6824     6954      7638        0           countriesl. Staff estiuates say be used
Rerchandise iFOfi                4582     4129      5251     5209      5672     7100           if final or prelisniry actuals are not
ton-factor Services              2089      1637     1573     1743      1985        0           yet available.  The use of esisates aend
prelisinary figures should be indicated
lsports of Goods and IFS           10102    10317      8713     8421      8358        0           bhy
thrchandise (F081                8609     8898      7595     7213      7130     8500
Ron-factor Services              I493      1419     1198     1208      1229        0           e = etiated data
p = prelseunary data
escource Balance                   -3430    -4551    -1888    -1467       -701        0
Ret Factor Income                   -635    -1262    -1061    -1198    -1126          0
(interest per DRSI                491      943       884     1102      1040     1068
Rt Current Transfers                300*      2684     2141     2189      2210        0
(werkers resittances)               2926     2622      2127     2164     2076         0
Current Atcount Balance            -101    -3129      -829     -476       383     1700
Long-Tere Capital lfInfo             804     2143      1326     1344      1159
Direct Investsent                 171       154      302      206       275        0
Official Capital brants             0        0         0        0         0        0
let LT Loans 18RS datal          1340      1185     1501      376        48       97
Other LT trfiloss (let)          -707       104     -337      762       835
Total Other Itess (oet)              602     1111      -983     -873      -615
let Short-tere Capital           -598        14    -454      -428      -337
Capital Flows N.E.I.                0        0         0        0         0        0
Errors and Ouissions             1200      1097     -529     -444      -278        0
Changes in Met Reserves             -345     -126       486        5      -926        0
let Credit +rom  Ilf              -98       -33      432      315        24        0
Other Reserve Changes
I - indicates increase)          -247      -93       54      -310     -950         0
As shares of 68P8
Resource Balance                -13,9    -19.5      -9.1     -7.6      -3.3        0
Internt Payents                     2        4       4.3      5.7         S      3.8
Curreot Accouct Balance          -4.3    -13.4        -4     -2.5       1.8      0.0
weeorandum Itess:
Internat'l Reserves lOil. US91       795      447       35       516      1395     80lO
Reerves inct. Sold 1sil. USfl   13864    10540         8179     6774      8090     8010
Official X-lute ILCU s/USS)        50.06    79.47   110.78   146.39   970.39   149.68
Inden Real Eff. 1-ft base 1980       100   905.19    97.67    99.23   1OO.41         ..      -----     
6oP Isillions of current USS)      24669    23365    20663    19291    20934    28147
March 10, 1987



- 23-
PORTWAL - ECORIC IBOICATOkS                                                 Anone,  I
Page:    304i3
Shares of SVP II                                         Souoth Rates it C.a.)
I. Budget (specify level)            1980      1982     1983      1984      l985p    1986                1980 - 83          1904     198       19800
Curreat 9oce:pts                     29.3      31.4     31.4      3.4.1     33.4     37.3                         23,0      14.1      20.9      21.9
Current Eopenditufes                 32.7      38.?     41.7      42.8      39.6     41.1                         32.9      26.5      16.3      23.6
Current Budget Balance               -3.4      -5.2     -4.3      -8.1      -6.2     -3.9                         31.9    134.9      -3.3       32.3
capital Receipts                      0.5       0.4      0.3       0.3       0.3       1.3                         2.8      20.3      18.2     632.0
Capital Expenditures                  5.1       5.5      5.2       4.2       4.1      5.1                         19.0       0.0      21.9      64.2
overall Deficit                     -10.3    -11.8    -10.5    -13.4    -11.1        -8.5                         23.2      51.6       3.9      27.5
Official Capital 6rants               2.7       3.0      3.5       2.7       2.2      0.1                         55,0      -3.8      -0.4     -97.0
External Borrowting bet)t             0.8       0.1      0.5       0.4       4.9      7.0                          3.1      -1.8      14.7      75.9
Domestic Noun-bank Financing          7.2       9.1      5.9       8.4       9.b      5.4                         14.0      75.0     44.4      -30.5
Domestic Bank Financing
Not Bisburngeeots lOSS millionul                     Debt Oustanading & Ofibursed (US$ oil.)
J. External Capital Plows'Debt       -      - --------------------- ---------
and Debt Burdefn Ratios           1980      1982     1983      1984      1985P    198&e    1980      1982      1983      1984     19859    1986e
Public 6 Publicly liuaranteeud LT    1323    1l95       1227       438       115      200      6576      908      9958    10036    10803       13980
Official Creditors                 152       132      530        22        I?       .       2185     2022      2428      228      2553
Mlultilateral                   159      199       253       176       90        ..       532      ill       899      988      1211
of tiicbllBfl                 46       52        75        Zs       64        ..       109      185       260      288       349
of which IDA.                          ..        .         .         .        .         .         .        .
Bilateral                        _7 -i             278      -5        -71        .       1653     1311      1529     1300      1335
Private Creditars                 1171      1763      697       416        97       ..      4392     7076      7531      7748     8250
Suppliers                        65       30       -15       -75      -45        ..       455      377       212       175      148
Financial Mlarkets             1105     1725       172       491      142        ..      3931     6699      7259      7513     8102
Private Noo-Suaranteed LT              to       -10      274       -62       -68     -103       141       358      632       570       519       500
total IT                             1341      188      1501       376        48       97      6717     9456    10590    10606    11322        14480
IMF Net Credit                       -102       -57      369       223         0       ..        19        It      372       561      628
Not Short-tero Capital               -598        14     -454      -428      -337        ..     2395      3862     3578      3015     2610       150
Total including lOP & Net ST          641      1842     1415       170      -259        .      9232    13329    14540    14182    14560
Bank and IDA Ratios                  1980      1982     1993      1984      19859    l986V
- - -----            ---                                            --           Dtest
Share of Total Lang-Termi DO
1. 1808 as I of Tota.                1.03      1.95     2.45      2.71     3.08        .            Data on the Eiconomic ledicatars tables
2. IDA as % of 7otal                    .        .         .        .          .        .           should follow the defieitions and
3. 1880.180 as I of Total            1.63      1.95     2.4,5     2.7,1    3.08 '                   coecepts of the Standard Tables and
Share of Total LT Debt Services                                                                     Standard Attscbmset.  Tb. Indicators
I. 2880 as % of Total                1.78     2.27      2.75      2.65     7.81        .            should ieclude data through the most
2. IDA as I af total                   .                   .        ..         .       .            recently completed calendar ywear C
3. 18R0.1DB as 2 of Total            1.78      2.27     2.75      2.65      2.81       .            fiscal year in the came of fiscal year
countries). Staff estimates *ay be use
800-to-Exports Ratios                                                                               if final or preliminary actual. are not
- - -------------- - -                                                     y~~~~~~~~~~~~et available.  The use of estimates and
I. Long-Term Detituports            98.09   159.59   151.4   148.21   142.64            0           preliminary figures should be indicated
2. IMF Credit/Exports                1.74      0.18     5.32      7.83      7.91       ..           by.
3. Short-Term Debt/Eaports          34.97    65.18    51.13    42.13    32.88            0
4. LT#tKPeST OllOEuperts           134.81   224.95   2017.1    198.11   182.44         ..           e * estimated data
p * preliminary data
BOB-to-SOP Ratios
1. Long-Tern Debt/SDP               27.23    40.41    51.25    54.98    54.08    51.44
2. lOP Cre4atfSOP                    0.48      0.05       1.8     2.91         3
3. Short-Term Debt/SOP               9.71    16.53    27.32    15.63    12.47        5.33
4. LTCIIIT+ST BONNSO                37.42    57.04    70.37    73.52    69.55
Debt Service/Eiports
1. Public & Boaranteed IT           15.09      28.9    26.52    36.76    31.53          0
2. Prlv&te Non-Ssranateed LT         0.62      2.07      1.88      2.2      2.26        0
3. total LT Debt Service            15.71    30.98    28.41    38.96    33.79           0
4. lMF Repurchase + Serv Olgs.
5. Interest only an St Debt
6. Total (LT+IRF+ST lot.)
March 10, 1987



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
- 24 -
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONq IN PORTUGAL
($ million)
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS /a (as of March 31, 1987)
Loan                                                     Amount (less cancellations)
No.   Year            Borrower         Purpose          Bank           Undisbursed
Seventeen loans fully disbursed                      423.19               -
1793   1980   Republic of Portugal   Education II         35.0                11.7
1853   1980   Republic of Portugal   Forestry             38.0                18.2
1942   1981   Banco de Fomento        Development        100.0                21.9
Nacional                Finance
2168   1982   Republic of Portugal   Industrial Ener-   18.5                  15.9
gy Conservation
2175   1982   Republic of Portugal   Tras-os-Montes       51.0                26.2
Rural Development
2240   1983   Electricidade de        Power VII           84.0                 3.1
Portugal, EDP
2263   1983   Republic of Portugal   SMI II               40.3                14.4
2456   1984   Republic of Portugal   Manpower Training  20.0                  18.7
& Development
2521   1985   Republic of Portugal   Coal Handling        66.0                51.7
Port
TOTAL                                               875.99             181.8
of which has been repaid                          282.1
TOTAL now outstanding                               593.89
Amount sold                         42.4
of which has been repaid          10.8             31.6
TOTAL now held by Bank /b                           562.29
TOTAL undisbursed                                                       181.8
/a The status of projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on
all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly
and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
/b Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
-25 -                                 Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1987)
Fiscal           Obligor                Type of Business         Loan   Equity  Total
Year                                                               (in US$ million)
1982/85/87  BPI Banco Portugues de    Development Finance        20.0     1.2    21.2
Investimento                Company
1983/85   Sociedade Portuguesa de      Money & Capital Market  12.0       0.7    12.7
Locaqao Financeira, SARL
TOTAL Gross Commitments /a                                  32.0     1.9    33.9
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayments, Sales         18.1     0.7    18.8
TOTAL Commitments now held by IFC                           13.9     1.2    15.1
TOTAL Undisbursed                                             -      0.2     0.2
Disbursed                                            13.9      1.0    14.9
/a Includes participant's portion.



- 26 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
PORTUGAL
Third Highway Project
Supplementary Proiect Data Sheet
Section 1: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by country to prepare the
project:                                      18 months
(b) Agency which prepared the project:            JAE
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank:       January 1985
Date of first Bank mission to consider
the project:                                  March 1985
(d) Date of negotiations:                         March  1987
(e) Planned date of effectiveness:                July 15, 1987
Section It: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
1.       Conditions of effectiveness:
None
2.       Other Conditions:
(a) The Government to put into effect by September 30, 1987, a road
safety action plan indicating a program for the different measures
and specifying the responsibilities of the respective agencies
(para. 48);
(b) The Government to consult with the Bank on the recommendations of
the North-South Corridor Study, the Freight Transport Productivity
Study, the Energy Management Policy Study and the Road User Charges
Study and establish action programs to implement the agreed
recosmendations in accordance with the agreed schedule (para. 49);
(c) The Government to fully implement by December 31, 1987, an action
program to implement nationwide vehicle weight control program
(para. 50); and
(d) The Government to establish, by September 30, 1987, a Steering
Committee made up of a permanent core of representatives from GEP,
the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Planning, to assist in
the coordinatic; and supervision of the technical assistance and
studies (para. 53).



t                  i zr  00   4                                                                                A
L i) 
.  N   ,      \               \>s E                         . ~~~~~~~~~..                                        .......
.    .  .   .      ,.. . ... , ... ::..                                                                                       . .::::::..'::::
.........- ..- -.-.'.....  ...:.  :'A  :: a::  :
~~~~~~~~~~~~........                                                                                      . ----/zc.............. A. .....
:::::: E        .::    :   :   :   :   :   :   :   -:.,             o      :   :  '  ''     ...........                 ,,,.  ,. . . . ........     .............
~~~~~~~~~~~~~.......                                                                                   .-    .-,  7f       ........  . .d ....-...".'-
,   t   .   <.*.l  v * * *:_::::s:::::::::::...........                                                                             ...    :    .      ..:::::
i 3   '     '   f      )     '   S     "   "  "  "     -   ~     '     5     '  ' '     :  ' :  :  : :  .i:''.                                             .  .i
.~~~~~~~~~                                                ~~~~                   ... ......
.           ~                          D  /><ta                                                                  " @   vU2.                                          ,
z e   ..... ,... o.... 04  
ui                             ;       ..i 
4)                   2~~~~~~~~
CM                           o                                                                    e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
_                        >     . ,2.
I-                                                                                                0~~~  4.
4~~~~~~~
4.44.                   0~~~~~~~~~~~.~.0
T~~~ 



*-.   -    nternational 8ourndories < ,/ 21 igTCD ........................      ',zr; .\  .........G
X _ 1 \ sp-/) ; n~~~~~~~~~tes 
11|1 ) 03v,;,>: t,,,,,:,, , ~~~MackiS
Torres   vS ,                                   i *        , *   '';/****   )<
ACX tW2 AN.... TIC                                                 o9/ ....................... 
0~~~~~~~~~0
PROJECT            FISCAL YEAR APPROVED
* Electric Power I                                                                          ~ ~~~~~~~                  ~~~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  2 0  40  6 0  s0
E Electric Power                    1964                                                                                                    OMETERS
*Carregado I Power                   19655                 ---i--EN--;                1    
* Cczrregado I Power                                                                                 77~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M ma has been prepared by
* Corropotelo I Power                966...ThWol akssfLxcuft
* Corregodo II Power                 1966                                                                                                             exc1usa_     r
* Power 721                          196readers andti s exckave* for fte
*Hieghwoys I                         97otri use at The World Bar*k
(BFNI)*  1977  Sin                                                  To Se y,I/a    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~and i e~ernbonat Fiance
+Development Finance (BF N I)*       19977      Si                                                                                    Cop"ao '     '\^   r^tteTZhe derkst3ons
Lisbon Region Water Supply        1978                                                                                              used an .l -   7; O7           ;jT [! .Se   o boun are staorns
*Agriculturol ond Fisheries Credit   1978                                                                                             Prt o The Wodd .bacf an*  3Be
Fertilizer Modernizotion                                                                                                            a |'tnygidgfmenca Cotporat Isnt
Highways II                        1979 
*Small ond Medium Scole industry   1979                                                                                               enorsmrent or acceptanrce o
Development I *r  ondre
Education n2                                                                                                            __980____________________
Forestry                           1980        ODE-;
*Mechnicol Inustries                 90F
Development Finance (BFN II)*   1981                           ./RAC
*Petroleum Exploration               18
Invdustrial Energy and Conservotion* 1982-                                                                                                       NOR
Ts-os-Monites Rural Development 1982 
Power                              1983
Small and Medium Scale Industry   1983
Development II *                                                                                                                      S a      
Manpower Training and Development 1984
Coal Handling Port                 1985                                                                                          0
Housing Finance"'                 196A
m                                                                      ,G GibraIta                                                                                      co
ms L(CoUnKr)wide        *Rrojects Comp/eted                                          FARO    <r                                               MOROcco \ ALGERIA U4
FAR(X                                                                ALEIN.)
*Countrywide      *Projects Comnpleted                                                                                                 MOROCCO    ALEI



Si
CASCAIS -S _          o, 
Main Highway System         4i CO'  rEJ A                    :                                    f.Ib                                       a
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -X ,t  l ,n
8'arx ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     a
FOUR LANE HIGHWAY               d                                                                                              "<  Ca-\/    _ S_
___ FOUR LANE HIGHWAY                                                                                                           a1 , ' j=c
--         TWO LANE SECONDARY HIGHWAY    '!FAC
A~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FAC
THIRD   HIGHWAY PROJEC T                                        doorrr  A | \ "     \e
F_OUR HIGHWAYS IMPROVEDGH
..........FRNEW HIGHWAYS HIG
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJ:ECT.  )\__v
HIGHWAYS IMaPROVED         }\}9                                        {(
THIRD HK;HWAY PROLJEcrT/                       \l                     5\                                 - 
MAJIN BYPASSES                         4                                               1*Xj)                              Madrid
MAIN PORTS
Z , , + .RAILWAYS                                                                 Alv~oW                            :D 
Z              I            B                                                                       S 20  ao               \      S      P   A            o
0                                                                                                                    0
m
0       10      20      30
(D                                                                                                                                   ' . _  _Gibraltar U0.



M-~o
VIANA DO
C ASTECO 
AASTEfO  -- ,f v                            t              <    /      g  MIRANDA     00   DOUID
A                          V P~~~~~~~~~~~~e~,o  Ag  w  .
POf De Wrffftt  oVl%dm- -- 
Po~~o~ ~  ~  FAMALICO
AVEtRO o                             V                     ftmo    it                        R FORMOSO
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d I
fIGlUElRA DA FOZ
/A     BTeLO  8RANCO  f 
LEIIR                                          X         i       ._         - -ff



