Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6451-PO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PORTUGAL
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
May 20, 1987
Regional Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
*#eir oficial duties. Its motents may not 'otherwise be disclosed without World Rank authoriatton.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  *                  Escudo (Esc.)
Esc. 1,000     -                  Conto (c) 1 (Budgetary Unit)
Calendar Year 1986                March 1987
U8$  - Esc. 149.59                US$1 T- Esc. 140.20
Esc. 1 - US$0.0067                Esc. 1 = US$0.0071
FISCAL YEAS.
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System                              British/US System
1 centimeter (cm)                          = 0.39 inches (inch)
1 meter (m)                                =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                           =  0.62 miles (mi)
1 square meter (a2)                        = 10.76 square feet (sq. ft)
1 square kilometer (km23f                  =  0.38 square mile (sq. mi)
1 metric ton (m/ton)                       =  0.98 long ton (1g. ton)
1 liter (L)                                =  0.26 gallon (G)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AA3T    -   Average Annual Daily Traffic
ADT     -  Average Daily Traffic
AORANM   -  Associagao Nacional de Transportes Rodoviarios Automoveis de
Mercadorias (National Association of Road Freight Carriers)
ANTROP -  AssociaSao Nacional de Transportes Rodoviarios de Passageiros
(National Associati3n of Road Passenger Carriers)
CP      -  Companhia dos Caminhos de Ferro Portugueses (Portuguese Railways)
DGTT    -   Direccao-¢eral de Transportes Terrestres (General Directorate of
Land Transport
DGV     -   Diregao Geral de Viasao (General Directorate of Traffic)
ECU     -   European Currency Unit
EC      -   European Community
EN      -   Estrada Nacional (National Road)
ER      -   Economic Return
FEDER   -   Fonds European de D6veloppement Regional (Earopean Regional
Development Fund)
FYRR    -   First Year Rate of Return
GDP    -   Gross Domestic Product
GEP     -   Gabinete de Estudos e Planeamento dcs Ministerio das Obras
Publicas, Transportes e Comumicacoes (Cabinet of Studies and
Planning for Public Works, Transport and Communications)
GNR     -   Guarda Nacional Republicana (National Military Police)
GPP     -   Gabinete de Planeamento e Programacao de JAE (Cabinet of Planning
and Programming; JAE)
HMP     -   Highway Master Plan (1981)
I-B    -   International Competitive Bidding
INE     -   Instituto Nacional de Estatistica (Statistics National Institute)
IP      -   Itinerarios Principais (Main Itineraries)
IRR    -   Internal Rate of Return
JAE     -   Junta Autonoma de Estradas (Highway Authority)
LCB     -   Local Competitive Bidding
MPWTC   -  Ministry of Public Works, Transport and Communications
NTP     -   National Transport Plan (1981)
PCR     -   Project Completion Report
PMP     -   Plano a Medio Prazo 1986-88 (Medium Term Investment Plan 1986-81)
RF      -   Special Accounts/Revolving Funds
RN      -   Rodoviaria Nacional (National Road Transport Company)
SOE     -   Statement of Expenditures
TAP     -   Transportes Aereos Portugueses (Portugal National Airlines)
VOC     -   Vehicle Operating Costs



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
PORTUGAL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Table of Contents
Pase No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY .............................        i
I.  THE COUNTRY AND ITS TRANSPORT SECTOR .................         1
A.  The Country ........................        ........      1
B.  The Transport Sector ................                     1
C.  Bank Participation in the SPctor.................         3
II.  THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR .......       ..      . .......  ... .   4
A.  General Review4......................... ......... .      4
B. The Network                  ............                  5
C . Traffic Growth ............................... .          6
D.  Traffic Safety               ....               ... .     7
E.  Road Transport Industry-Freight Services .........        8
F.  Road Transport Industry-Passenger Services ......         8
G.  Road Revenues and Exnenditures.................. 0        9
B.  Administration of the National Network ...........        9
I.  Construction and Rehabilitation..................        10
J. Maintenance ............................................ 11
X .  Training .. .. . . ........... . *^**4000     4          1 1
L. Accounts and AuCits ..............................        12
III.  THE PROJECT         ...................                      12
A.  The JAE Program (PMP) ............................       12
B.  PMP Objectives ... ...... .       ..................... , 13
C.  PMP Components ..................................        13
D.  Cost and Financing of PMP ........................ *     19
E.  Implementation and Reporting**....................      20
F.  Economic Justification of the PMP................    21
G. Environmental Impact...... ................. ......    22
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Portugal June 21 - July 12, 1986. The mission comprised Messrs.
-L. Revuelta (Engineer), C. Yucel (Economist), P. 0. Cheryan (Financial
Analyst), C. F. de Castro (Transport Specialist) and Ms. R. Hilton
(Operational Assistant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performanee
of tdfir official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizion.



Table of Contents   (Continued)
Page No.
IV*  THE                             LON............  .........22
A.  Justification of Bank Participation..............    22
Be Procurement.......... .. ese .****** **** ***...,    23
C.  Disbursements........                                   25
D.  Retroactive Financing.... .........    ........         26
E.  Special Accnt..........                                26
F. Assessment of Risk ...................... ........       27
V. RECOMMENDATIONS  ....................... ,. ..........    27
TABLES
1. Public Investments in Major Transport Modes......
(1980850.......                                       29
2. Planned Investments by Modes 1986-88.............    30
3. Highway Network Extension .......                       31
4. National Highway Network: Types of Pavements.....    32
5.Fuel Consumption by Highway Vehicles cl..es.......       33
6. Motor Vehicle Fle                       et...           34
7. Road Revenues and Expenditures for Highways.....
in Portugal (1972-85) .......35
8. Historic Fuel Pris . .                                  36
9. Project Cost Estimates and Financing.............    39
10. Sensitivity Analysis of IRR - Estimate' ofo..... ...
Rehabilitation Works........                          40
11. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements ......              41
ANN.  S
1.  Accounts Situation and Audits Action Plan........    42
2.  Road Safety Programo......                              44
3.  Freight Transport Productivity Study: T.O.R......    47
4.  Energy Management Policy Study: T.O.R...........        53
5.  North-South Corridor Study: T.O.R................    60
6.  Road User Charges Study: T.O.R...................    64
7.  Training Pro                 gm.................................  68
8.  Summary Data Sheets for Candidate Sub-projects...    70
9. Related Documents and Data Available in the
Project File...... ............................    72
CHARTS
1.  Organization of the Ministry of Public Works,....
Transport and Comm uicationsi................s      74
2.  Organization of the Junta Autonoma de Estradas...    75
MAP
IBRD 20314R - Portugal - Third Highway Project -
Main Highway System
(6919D)



PORTUGAL
THIRD HTGHWAY PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUW!SRY
Borrower:             Republic of Portugal
Amount:               US$50.0 million equivalent
Terms:                Repayable in 15 years, including three years of grace at
the standard variable interest rate.
Proiect Description:  The proposed project would support the Highway Authority's
(JAE's) 3-year investment/expenditure program, the Plano a
Medio Prazo 1986-88 (PMP) which comprises road improvement
through the construction of urbeu bypasses and the
elimination of black spots, rehabilitation and periodic
maintenance of national roads; routine maintenance; a
nationwide road safety program; technical assistance and
training to improve the institutional and planning
capabilities of JAE and of the Planning Department of the
Ministry of Public Works, Transportation and
Communications. The proposed loan would support the road
improvement works, routine maintenance by contractor and
equipmuut for JAE's routine maintenance fleet and the
nationwide road safety program. It would also provide
t-:aining and technical assistance, including studies on
energy management policy, road user ctarges, the
North-South corr;dor, and freight transport productivity.
Benefits and Risks:   The economy in general and a large portion of the
population are expected to benefit from the project
through improved roads facilitating travel, reducing
travel time and costs and improved road safety. The broad
geographical distribution of the works will also help
support the Government's regional development efforts. No
special risks are associated with the project. The risk
of budgetary shortages are minimal since the PMP
represents a relatively modest program formulated in line
with 1984 and 1985 allocations, and the 1986 allocation
was in the amount requested. The risk that the Government
may be unwilling to adopt further policy reforms resulting
from the recommendations of project.-financed studies
exists but has been reduced since the decision-making
organs attach considerable importance to the
government-requested studies and any recommendations will
be seriously considered for adoption.



- it -
US$ million (equivalent)
Local            Foreign             Total
Estimated Prciect Costs:1/
Road Improvement                   140.7               154.1             294.8
Routine Maintenauce                 36.0                19.3              55.3
Equipment                            -                   3.3               3.3
Technical Assistance                 0.6                 0.9               1.5
Base Cozt                       177.3               177.6             354.9
Contingencies:
Physical                           7.4                 1.4              14.8
Price                             24.7                 6.0              30.7
32.1               13.4              45.5
Total. Project Cost:            209.4               191.0             400.4
Financing Plan
Governmont  '                      209.4               141.0             350.4
IBRD                                _                   50.0              50.0
209.4              191.0             400.4
Estimated Disbursements                             US$ Million Equivalent
FY87     FY88     FY89      FY90
Annual                                         -       22.0     25.0       3.0
Cumulative                                     -       22.0     47.0      50.0
Economic Rate of Return:  Not applicable.  All road works yield an individual
rate of return of at least 12 percent.
A'   Incl'ides customs and duties on imported items of about 11 percent.
k'   Included in the Government share is any eventual financing from the EC
through the Regional Development Furd and loans received from FIB fc:
specific road links included in thc- PMP but not financed by the
proposed Bank loan.



PORTUGAL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
I. THE COUNTRY AND ITS TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. The Country
1.01     Continental Portugal, separated from Spain by a belt of barren
country covers an area of about 88,600.km2.  It comprises a narrow strip
of wand about 480 km long and barely 140 km wide. With its 800 km of
coastline, historically Portugal has looked outward to the ocean. It was
Europe's first gateway to discoveries. This orientation toward the sea and
the availability of suitable land for settlement along the western coastal
plains have been the primary determinants of the present day locational
pattern of economic activity and population centers. Much of its
population of just over 10 million is located in the 50 km wide coastal
strip from Oporto to Lisbon. Rural areas to the south and east are
sparsely populated. With its recent entry in the European Economic
Community, Portugal has embarked upon a program of economic and physical
integration with the rest of Europe.
B. The Transport Sector
1.02     The Network and its Traffic.  Continental Portugal has a diverse
and extensive land transport network. The highway system, in particular,
is sufficient in coverage to serve all parts of the country and the needs
of its population. Its links with the EC through Spain are adequate. The
total network is over 54,000 km including municipal and forestry roads
(roads are discussed in detail in the next chapter). The basic rail
network, about 3,500 km (2,800 route-km. of 5' 6" broad-gauge and 700
route-km. of meter-gauge track), is also adequate in coverage and links
with Spain. However, much of the land transport infrastructure and
equipment is overdue for renewal. Continental Portugal is adequately
served by some 19 officially designated ports with the three major ports of
Lisbon, Oporto and Setubal handling the bulk of the maritime traffic. The
Port of Sines, in the South is also being developed to handle bulk cargo,
primarily coal to support the power sector. Portugal's three international
airports in Lisbon, Oporto and Faro, are adequate to link major centers in
the continental Portugal with its islands and all major cities in Europe.
1.03     Total land traffic has increased in recent years, with most of the
expansion in the highway subsector. The average annual daily traffic
(AADT) has been increasing steadily since 1970 although the rate of
increase has slowed down in the 1980's. Although the railways have also
experienced growth in both passenger and Creight traffic, the rate of
increase has been below that of the road cransport. Consequently, the
relative share of the roads for both types of traffics has increased. In
1985 roads carried 93 percent (150 million-tons) of the total freight,



-2 -
railways 4 percent and the waterways 3 percent. Land transport by
containers is negligible. In passenger traffic the relative shares of the
land transport modes were 65 percent (470 million-passengers) for roads and
35 percent for railways. However, in the case of passenger traffic the
figures are not strictly comparable as nearly half of the railway passenger
traffic consists of suburban-urban movements. Port traffic amounted to 34
million-tons (10 million-tons loading and 24 million-tons unloading) in
1985 and has remained nearly constant since 1980. Air passenger traffic
has increased from 1.8 million-passenger in 1980 to 2.1 million-passenger
in 1985 whereas air freight traffic has experienced lower increases from
35,100 tons in 1980 to 38,600 tons in 1985.
1.04     Planning, Coordination and Investment.  During the last few years
the administrative structure of the transport sector has gone through a
number of changes. At present, responsibility for the sector lies with the
Ministry of Public Works, Transport and Communications (MPWTC). Within the
Ministry, two Secretaries of State - one for infrastructure, the other for
public enterprises providing transport services - oversee transport
investments and operations (Chart 1). The Gabinete de Estudos e
Planeamento (GEP) has the overall responsibility to develop general
planning strategies for the sector, which are then taken up by the modal
planning units to formulate detailed technical work plans for each of the
subsectors. The Direccao-Geral de Transportes Terrestres (DGTT), is
responsible for policy formulation related to land transport, under the
overall supervision and coordination of GEP. The existing organizational
structure and the lines of communication among various departments and
other related ministries are conducive to coordination in the transport
sector and to formulating medium term plans and long-range strategies.
1.05     In spite of the existence of this organizational structure which
provides ample scope for coordination in the transport sector, the actual
situation is less than satisfactory. Portugal, at present, except for
highways, does not have a formally approved transport plan or policy
framework for a long-range strategy. The study for a National Transport
Plan (NTP) (1981), which was completed with financing provided by the
Bank-assisted First Highway Project, Loan 1334-PO, was not formally
accepted by the Government or fully implemented because the Government
disagreed with some of the policy recommendations, particularly in respect
to the need for reduced investments in the railway subsector. Actions in
the highway subsector, however, follow the recommendations of the Highway
Master Plan (HKW) (1981), which was also prepared with financing from
Loan 1334-PO and which was based on the NTP Study. The sector as a whole
has been guided by the broad government policy pronouncements and
statements of objectives which are in turn interpreted by each modal
planning agency in formulating subsectoral investment programs. These
programs are coordinated by GEP which applies screening criteria to bring
the total requested investment expenditure within annual sectoral ceilings,
established by the Minister of Finance and subject to the Council of
Ministers' approval. This approach has not been effective in bringing
about a well-coordinated investment plan in the sector. The Government is
making genuine efforts to improve sectoral planning and coordination. It
has recently decided to prepare national plans to achieve an adequate
coordination among the investments of the different agencies.



- 3 -
1.06.    Transport sector investments, in line with the general trend, rose
rapidly after the revolution. Betw-en 1980 and 1985 public sector
investments (infrastructure and equipment primarily for public enterprises)
increased considerably. Table 1 shows investments in the sector by major
modes for 1980-1985. However, the resources allocated to the road
subsector during the 1980-1985 period remained fairly constant - slight
decreases accrued in 1982 and 1984 reflecting the severe resource
constraints faced by the Government. The railways received continuously
increasing funds for investment. Given the continuing poor financial state
of the railway enterprise (Caminhos de Ferro Portugueses-CP) the
advisability of maintaining this trend requires careful review by the
Government and would be examined under the North-South Corridor Study
(para. 3.16) included under the proposed project. The allocations to air
transport which primarily serves international traffic have also increased
dramatically in 1983 mainly for equipment to serve routes which proved to
be uneconomic. Some of the aircrafts were subsequently sold and the routes
closed or frequency of service reduced. The allocations for port
investment have also increased in response to the need for modernizing and
improving cargo handling efficiency.
1.07     The available information on the investment plans for the
immediate future fcr major modes indicates that, except for railways, the
imbalance which characterized the recent past is being rectified.
Table 2 shows some of the planned investments for 1986-1988 period. It is
not certain what portion of them will be implemented. In view of the
overall requirements of the sector and the limited role that the railways
play in the economy, planned investments in this mode require careful
analysis. The Government is currently implementing a contract program with
CP through which it is studying a possible restructuring of CP's operations
and investment program. The reduction in planned capital injection to air
transport facilities is a move in the right direction. The allocations for
ports appear to be appropriate in view of the modernization needs of this
subsector. Furthermore, the Government is making efforts to optimize its
future investment policy in the transport sector. As part of these
efforts, it has proposed several studies be included in the proposed
project (para. 3.16), such as the North-South Corridor Study, which would
be instrumental in defining and implementing a new transport investment
policy.
C. Bank Participation in the Sector
1.08     The Bank's involvement in the sector consists of two projects in
the road subsector (the First and Second Highway Projects, Loans 1334-PO of
1977 for JS$24 million and 1700-PO of 1979 for US$40 million) and recently,
a Coal Randling Port Project (Loan 2521-PO of 1984 for US$66 million). The
two highway loans have been instrumental in assisting the Government to
finance much needed modernization and rehabilitation of the national road
network and in achieving important institutional improvements in the areas
of transport planning and road maintenance. In particular, the First
Highway Project consisted of: (i) rehabilitation of about 500 km. of roads
in the region of Lisbon; (ii) equipment for road maintenance and workshops
of the Lisbon region; and (iii) consultancy and technical assistance to
improve transport planning, project preparation and evaluation, and



-4-
operational procedures. The implementation of the project was delayed due
to the delay in action by Parliament (needed to achieve effectiveness) and
in budgetary allocations. However, as the Government gained experience
with Bank procedures, project implementation improved. The Project
Performance Audit Report (PPAR) of December 1986 states that the project,
in general, achieved its objectives by assisting the Government to complete
a part of the rehabilitation program and to strengthen the JAE's road
maintenance capabilities. In addition, the technical assistance components
of the project produced the NTP Study, the HMP Study and a Maintenance
Study. However, the PPAR coments on the inadequate coordination among the
consultants and/or agencies involved in these studies which led to too many
reviews before final acceptance of the studies by the Bank and the
Government.
1.09     The Second Highway Project was designed to continue nationwide the
rehabilitation and modernization works which were initiated under the first
project and the road maintenance program. After a period of delay in
implementation primarily due to budgetary constraints in the early 1980's,
the project was completed in 1986.
1.10     The Coal Handling Port Project at Sines is designed to assist the
Government to provide physical facilities needed for the import of coal for
a coal-fired power plant. The project also includes provisions for
technical assistance and training to support the management of the Port of
Sines in supervising the works, in carrying out the studies needed to
improve the overall port area and in operating the coal handling equipment.
The project not only assists the government in constructing port facilities
needed to complement its power generating plant in support of the
Government's energy conservation strategy of switching from oil to coal for
power generation, but also provides technical assistance and institutional
support to improve port operations, management and planning. The project
became effective in July 1986 and the works are well underway.
1.11     A Transport Sector Memorandum (3922-PO) published on
August 15, 1983 serves as a vehicle for continuing our dialogue with the
Government. The Memorandum concentrates on the three major modes: roads,
railways and ports, and its general conclusions remain valid. It discusses
Portugal's accomplishments in developing its transport system and focuses
on the priority areas for future work. It emphasizes the need for
improving the intermodal coordination in the transport sector. It also
recommends modernization of existing infrastructure and renewal of
equipment while avoiding massive and slow-yielding investments.
II. THE HIGHhAY SUBSECTOR
A. General Review
2.01     The JAE and the Bank, on the basis of the Highway Master Plan
(1981), have examined in detail the highway subsector in the context of its
physical infrastructure and operational, organizational and administrative
procedures, and found the following major problem areas:



(a)  the national network with about 18,850 km of asphalt paved
roads needs extensive upgrading and rehabilitation
(para. 2.05);
(b)  the intermodcl transport coordination particularly of
highways and railways, needs improvement (para. 2.06);
(c)  the risk of accidents in Portugal is high and urgent action
is needed (para. 2.09);
(d)  the widespread overloading requires urgent enforcement of
axle load regulations (para. 2.11);
(e)  the road transport efficiency is hindered by outmoded
regulations and unbalanced competition which need review
(paras. 2.10-2.12);
(f)  the structure of road user chargers is not equitable among
users and it needs improvement (para. 2.13); and
(g)  the freeze on hiring of personnel for the JAE's force-account
brigades is negatively affecting the level of routine road
maintenance and establishment of routine maintenance by
contractor is urgent (para. 2.22).
This Chapter describes the present status of these issues in the context of
the highway subsector while the next Chapter deals with the steps taken by
JAE in its program--Plano a Prazo Medio 1986-88 (PMP)-to solve them.
B. The Network
2.02     The present Portuguese highway network evolved through the gradual
upgrading of roads which generally were not originally designed for modern,
heavy or high speed motor vehicles. During the last 20 years only abo4t
1,500 km. of newly designed roads have been constructed. As a result the
geometric characteristics and the bearing capacity of the greater part of
the network no longer meet the demands of modern highway traffic. The
density of the network varies from some 60 km. per 100 sq. km. in the
heavily populated central-north coastal zones to about 25 km. per 100 sq.
km. in the interior and south coastal zone.  The basic network is now in
place and meets quantitative demands although not yet at required
standards. In 1984, the total highway network included about 54,500 km.
(Table 3) with about 18,850 km. classified as national highways. The rest
included about 195 km. of expressways, 16,920 km. of municipal roads and
18,539 km of forestry roads.
2.03     Administratively, the national network in continental Portugal is
subdivided into approximately 6,000 km. of primary (Class I) roads and
about 12,900 km. of secondary and tertiary (Class II and III) roads
(Table 3). The classification is based on the average traffic and the
importance of the population centers linked by the road. In most cases
there is little difference between tbe basic physical characteristics of
the primary roads and those of the secondary and tertiary roads, other



things (topography, region, etc.) being equal. Except for 195 km of
expressway sections around Lisbon, Coimbra and Oporto, the national network
consists of two-lane standard roads. Only 10 percent of the national
network has a carriageway width of 7 m. or more; about 90 percent of the
revainder has a carriageway between 5 and 6 m. To upgrade roads to a
minimum six-meter wide carriageway is one of the objectives established by
JAE. Almost 92 percent of the national n"'twork is asphalt paved mostly by
surface dressing. The rest (Table 4) is stonepaved (5 percent) and water
bound macadam.
2.04     An inventory of the general characteristics of the national
network is maintained by JAE and updated regularly by JAE's eighteen road
districts (para. 2.16). As the extent of the national network is
considered too large compared with countries of similar characteristics
(size, population and GDP) to Portugal, the JAE in 1985 reviewed the
classification of the roads which with a few variations was formalized
under Decree Law No. 34592 of May 1945. Based on an intended policy of
progressive regionalization that gives local authorities increasingly
greater degree of financial and administrative control, the new
classification of national roads includes the Basic Network (main routes;
about 2,700 km.) denominated IP (main itineraries: itinerarios principais)
and the Complementary Network (complementary routes; about 7,300 km.). In
addition, the new JAE classification proposes the progressive transfer of
about 8,900 km. of national roads to the provincial system, economic and
political conditions permitting. The transfer of these roads would take
several years. In the meantime JAE's budgetary and administrative
responsibilities include the whole 18,850 km. network mentioned in
para. 2.02.
2.05     Because of the inadequacy of old alignment designs and pavement
structures for present traffic density and intensity, and also because of
the lack of improvements during the late 1970's and early 1980's due to
JAE's budgetary limitations, many of the roads show serious signs of
distress even after reasonable routine maintenance. The damaging effect of
modern traffic has been worsened by the widespread and severe overloading
on pavements designed for legal maximum single axle load of 10-ton
(para. 2.11). In the Lisbon area, where about 16 percent of the national
road network is located, some of the road links were improved under the
completed First Highway Project (Loan 1334-PO). Many links in the rest of
the country were improved under the Second Highway Project (Loan 1700-PO).
The needs, however, are still considerable with 6,000 km or 30 peicent of
the national road network in need of reconstruction/rehabilitation.
Finally, traffic congestion in road crossings at important population
centers is increasing and needs urgent solution through construction of
bypasses. Rehabilitation, upgrading and strengthening of the national
network as well as construction of bypasses are the main focus of the
proposed project (para. 3.05).
C. Traffic Growth
2.06     Country-wide traffic counts have been carried out systematically
every five years starting in 1955 (para. 2.08) and indicate that the
highest traffic volumes occur in the 50-km. wide coastal strip between



- 7 -
Setubal, South of Lisbon, and t;-he Northern border with Spain. Within this
area, the combined districts of Lisbon and Oporto account for 50 percent of
the total vehicle movements of the whole country, Lisbon alone accounting
for 30 percent. The main artery in the corridor and in the country is the
Lisbon-Oporto road on which truck traffic makes up over 20 percent of the
total average annual daily traffic (AADT). The Lisbon-Oporto corridor
would be the most important component of the North-South corridor study to
be carried out under the proposed project in order to determine the best
nationwide traffic intermodal distribution (para. 3.16).
2.07     Statistics indicate that traffic has been growing since 1955 at
annual rates ranging from 3 to 12 percent. Thk^ rate of growth in traffic
volume has slowed down in the 1980-1985 period, reflecting the adverse
economic conditions prevailing in the country. The AADT increased from
about 340 in 1955 to 3,840 in 1980. It is eptimated that in 1985 AADT was
about 4,400 vehicles. Fuel consumption statistics also confirm the steady
grovth in road traffic. In 1975 some 1.8 billion liters of all types of
fuel was used by highway vehicles, rising to 2.6 billion in 1985, an
increase of about 50 percent (Table 5). As shown in the table the increase
was primarily in diesel fuel reflecting the dominant role of the trucks in
freight movement. Similar trends occur in the growth of the national motor
vehicle fleet. On the basis of registrations, the vehicle fleet has
steadily increased from 660,000 vehicles in 1970 to 2.1 million in 1984
(Table 6).
2.08     To monitor traffic development, JAE started establishing in 1955
and completed by end of 1976 a comprehensive traffic count system
(para. 2.06). The system now includes 50 permanent count stations and
about 90 seasonal count stations. Complete statistical sumuaries are
published every five years but traffic counts take place on a regular basis
in the 50 permanent count stations. During the preparation of the PMP, JAE
improved the system through the introduction of new and specially trained
field staff. The proposed project includes acquisition of sophisticated
traffic counting equipment, and the training of additional specialized
traffic control staff (para. 3.18).
D. Traffic Safety
2.09     The risk of road accidents in Portugal is one of the highest in
Europe with about 13 fatalities per 100 million vehicle/km. compared to an
average 4-5 in the EC (excluding Spain and Portugal) and 8 in Spain. The
immediate causes of this high rate are inadequate curvature, lack of
marking, roadside obstacles and masonry signs, all constituting hazards to
be corrected, together with lack of or defective illumination in important
links and intersections. The JAE has created a Division for Traffic Safety
under the Road Maintenance Directorate; this Division, with the advice of
the General Directorate of Traffic (DGV), recently completed a
comprehensive Traffic Safety Study and the resulting program would be
implemented under the proposed project (para. 3.10).



- 8 -
E. Road Transport Industry-Freight Services
2.10     Road transport, the dominant mode in freight movement
(para. 1.03), has been continuously increasing its share of freight
movements at the expense of rail and water and now accounts for over 93
percent of the total ton/km. Despite the restrictive licensing system
applied by the Government, the market is quite competitive as the tariffs
are free and distances well suited for road transport. The licenses are
classified by distance: 50 km, 100 km and unlimited, with only 30 percent
of the trucks in the unlimited category. This injects an unnecessary
limitation into the market.  Moreover, in Portugal there is strong
preference for "own-account" truck operations; about 85 percent of the
fleet is in the hands of the "own-account" operators. The regulatory
framework of road transport, the institutional responsibility for
intermodal planning, and the increase participation of the private sector
in public transportation will be examined under the Freight Transport
Productivity Study included in the PMP (para. 3.13).
2.11     Freight vehicles on the nation's roads are subject to regulations
limiting the size and weight. The regulations are administered in
accordance with Decree No. 78/85 issued on November 26, 1985. This Decree
establishes a 12-ton maximum single axle load and substitutes for the
previous 10-ton of Decree No. 39672 of May 20, 1954 which proved
uneconomically low for the conditions of modern traffic. The enforcement
of the decree is entrusted to JAE, DGV, and Guarda Nacional Republicana
(GNR). Control of axle-load limitations is conducted through the use of
portable and fixed scales. However, the number of check points and the
frequency of inspections are not adequate for effective enforcement of the
regulations. Moreover, the coordination between JAE, DGV and GNR needs
improvement. In spite of highway upgrading to support the 12-ton axle load
allowance, continuation of wide-scale violation of the weight limitation
will inevitably lead to deterioration of the roads. Related government
agencies are fully aware of the problem and an action plan for inclusion in
the proposed project has been prepared by the Government (para. 3.12).
F. Road Transport Industry-Passenger Services
2.12     Road transport is the dominant mode in passenger movement
(para. 1.03). The market is dominated by the public enterprise RN with
about 4,000 buses out of a country total of 6,000 for commercial
inter-urban services. It has virtual monopoly of inter-urban services in
all parts of the country except the North where private companies operate.
The lucrative long-distance luxury bus and tourism operations are open to
both RN and private companies. Fare structures are fixed by the Government
following RN's requests and all companies are subject to route and schedule
restrictions. These practices lead to distortions and inefficiencies in
the industry. The RN has been studied in the Bank review of "Public
Enterprises in Portugal: Recommendations for Institutional and Financial
Reforms" (Report No. 5101-PO, June 1986). RN has embarked on a program to
implement some of the recommendations. Certain activities of RN which are
not directly related to transportation have already been divested. In
addition, RN is implementing a program to rationalize its route structure
and the bus fleet composition to improve its fleet utilization and labor



- 9 -
productiv.1ty. These measures are likely to improve RN's financial position
and reduce the financial burden which RN is imposing on the C-overnment.
G. Road Revenues and Expenditures
2.13     Revenues collected from all types of charges imposed on road users
(mainly taxes on import of vehicles, circulation of trucks, annual licenses
for vehicles, insurance, fuel, oil, tyres and spare parts) more than cover
the public expenditure on roads (Table 7). While the total revenues are
adequate, the available studies of the distribution of road taxes among
different types of users raise the issue that certain users, particularly
heavy diesel powered vehicles, do not share the cost in proportion to the
wear and tear on roads associated with their usage. The adequate
distribution of road costs among users will be examined in a Road User
Charges Study included under the proposed project (para. 3.16).
2.14     Since 1984 fuel prices have been increased steadily (Table 8).  As
of November 1985 prices of all types of fuel were well above their border
prices. However, diesel prices are about 60 percent of the gasoliae prices
reflecting that the tax on diesel fuel is relatively lower than that on
gasoline (regular gasoline Esc. 111/liter, diesel Esc. 70/liter;
June 1986). Under the proposed project, the Energy Management Policy Study
will address this issue (para. 3.14).
2.15     Highway expenditures (Table 7) are financed from the genoral
government budget. In the past decade, expenditure on highways in Portugal
relative to its national income was lower than in many other European
countries. In 1972-1983 period, total highway appropriations were 0.3 to
0.6 percent of GDP compared to 1-2 percent in the EC. Total highway
expenditures as a percentage of Government budget was in the range of
1-2 percent also low compared with the EC. However, since 1984 the
situation has improved considerably and funds provided for construction,
rehabilitation and maintenance are sufficient (about US$ 100 m equivalent
per annum or 2.5 percent of Government budget) and the breakdown among new
construction, rehabilitation and maintenance (60 percent for construction
and rehabilitation; 40 percent for periodic and routine maintenance) is
satisfactory.
H. Administration of the National Network
2.16     The JAE which administers the national highway system is a
semi-autonomous agency functioning as part of the Ministry of Public Wo.Zs,
Transport and Communications under several Decree Laws, the most relevant
of which from the point of view of JAE's structure and functions, is Decree
Law No. 184/78 of July 18, 1978. JAEs Chief executive is the President
who has two Vice-Presidents reporting to him: one for road construction
and bridges, and the other for road maintenance. JAE's headquarters in
Lisbon plan, control budgets and coordinate the development of the national
highway network. Overall planning, including preparation of the base of
the proposed project--the PMP-is within JAE under the responsibility of
the Cabinet of Planning and Programming (GPP) which is well organized and
staffed with competent personnel. Since 1978 the specific designs,
supervision of construction, betterment, maintenance and annual road



- 10 -
inventories have been carried out (para. 2.04) by JAB's eighteen districts,
which report to the technical departments at headquarters through four
regional offices located at Oporto (North), Coimbra (Central), Evora
(South), and Lisbon. In addition, JAE has also three management councils,
chaired by the President and with appropriate meebership to help JAE in
carrying out tasks in the areas of review and approval of operations,
programs, finances and coordination. These councils are: (i) the
Executive Council (JAE's President, two Vice-Presidents and eight Directors
of Services) which holds supreme responsibility for all JAE's management
activities and meets once a month; (ii) the Administrative Council (JAE's
President, two Vice-Presidents and Director of Administration) which is
responsible for financial and economic management of JAE and meets about
twice a month; and (iii) the Consultative Council (JAE's President, two
Vice-Presidents, representatives from the Ministries of Finance, Plan,
Interior, Defense and Public Works, Transport and Communications, and the
Automobile Association) which advises on the adequacy of annual JAE's
programs in the national context and meets once or twice a year. JAE's
organization structure is shown in Chart 2.
2.17     JAE's staff currently number about 4,000 instead of the 5,000
staff positions originally planned. JAE is solving the staff shortage
situation 6atisfactorily through the contracting of maintenance works
(para. 2.22). Although JAE is currently &hort of supervisory field staff
due to the Government's freeze on hiring, it has been authorized to hire
design and supervision engineers to compensate for the high rate of
retirements and the number of engineers is soon expected to reach the
target figure of 150.
2.18     The only main roads of the national network not under JAE's
jurisdiction is a concession given to the firm BRISA in 1972 for
constructing and operating about 400 km of expressways. At present BRISA
is-about 90 percent Government owned. Only 195 km of expressway sections
south and north of Lisbon, south of Oporto and bypassing Coimbra have so
far been completed and an additional 40 km. expressway section between
Mealhada-Albergaria in the Lisbon-Oporto corridor is under construction
(para. 2.20). Construction of additional expressways is not considered
urgent because of the efficient program of upgrading of roads now being
carried out by JAE.
I. Construction and Rehabilitation
2.19     Highway construction, reconstruction and rehabilitation projects
are all carried out by contract after competitive bidding. The local
construction industry is well equipped and capable of executing most works
to satisfactory standards. Contractors are registered and approved by
JAE. The size of the contracting industry, after the ending of operations
in Portuguese Africa, exceeds actual requirements by about 40 percent, and
competition for contracts in most of JAB projects is strong. Supervision
of construction is usually carried out by JAE's own staff, assisted by the
National Civil Engineering Laboratory as required. Quality of supervision
is satisfactory.
2.20     In the most congested corridors, widening and realigning is
restricted by the dense use of land. Upgrading with change of alignment in



- 11 -
black spots and construction of bypasses around the congested cities are
the solutions adopted. Congested roads in the Lisbon-Oporto corridor would
be relieved within a few years once the 40-km Mealhada-Albergaria
expressway section is completed. Coordination between JAE/BRISA on the
reconctruction/rehabilitation of the EN1 road (Lisbon-Oporto) and the
construction of the expressway section is satisfactory. Except in the
cases of black spots or bypasses, new construction is being substituted
nationwide by rehabilitation of existing assets, as is the case under the
proposed project.
J. Maintenance
2.21     There is a need throughout the network for periodic
maintenance/pavement strengthening to forestall deterioration of the
pavement structure, reduce vehicle wear and tear and lessen the risk of
skidding. The JAE initiated a satisfactory program under the Second
Highway Project. A large and important periodic maintenance program
including pavement strengthening is included in the proposed project
(para 3.06).  Supervision of all maintenance works is carried out by JAE's
own staff and is satisfactory.
2.22     JAE has made significant progress in improving its efficiency of
routine maisitenance (para. 3.08). The First Highway Project financed
maintenance equipment and a maintenance study. The recommendations of this
study have been implemented under the Second Highway Project. JAE is now
applyinr idequate performance standards for output and follows adequate
acco        f fleet and manpower.  The budget for routine maintenance
(abolt   .5 million equivalent in 1985 and increased by 10 percent in
1986) is satisfactory, and adequately augmented every year. However, a
freeze on personnel of the JAE's force account brigades negatively affected
the performance of the routine maintenance program. Following the advice
and recommendations of the said maintenance study, and in agreement with
the Bank, JAE has recently established successfully the practice of routine
maintenance by contractor in four of its eighteen districts. The proposed
project includes an important program of routine maintenance by contractor
(paras. 3.08-3.09).
K. Training
2.23     The First Highway Project, within the framework of the Lisbon
pilot maintenance program trained more than 40 equipment operators and
assessed the overall needs on training. The Second Highway Project
provided assistance for implementation of these training recommendations.
More than 100 operators have received satisfactory in-house training. The
JAE possesses adequate installations, equipment and personnel for training
of skill level staff (mechanics, electricians, road supervisors, equipment
operators) at Lisbon, Coimbra and Oporto districts. However, JAE lacks
appropriate facilities and trainers for training of high level (engineers,
economists, transport plainers, managers) staff. The proposed project
emphasizes training of high level staff (para. 3.18).



- 12 -
L. Accounts and Audits
2.24     JAE's accounting and financial functions are satisfactorily
carried out by the Administrative Department. The department is staffed
with competent staff who enter JAE through a competitive selection
process. JAE prepares annual budgets for its establishment expenditures,
maintenance and construction works and its budgeting practices are sound.
After approval by the Ministry of Public Works, these budgets are
consolidated with the national budget by the Ministry of Finance, presented
for discussion and acceptance to the Cabinet Council and finally sent for
approval to the Parliament. JAE controls its budgets through normal
budgetary controls and verifications before approval of expenditures.
Being a financially semi-a%ttenomous agency, JAE receives its allocations of
funds for all budgeted items in advance from the Treasury, and it disburses
directly to the suppliers. On the project level, control of expenditures
is carried out in many stages. The monthly certificates of works completed
are approved for physical execution, technical standards and budgetary,
contractual and financial appropriateness by the JAE district staff In
charge of supervision. Thereafter, the payment certificate is processed at
headquarters by the construction and/or maintenance and accounting
departments for payment.
2.25     Audits of the expenditures under the Second Highway Project were
not initially required but were later introduced as part of the Statements
of Expenditures (SOE'&) and Special Accounts Programs. These programs are
not at present conducted on a satisfactory basis for most of the projects
under the various sectors, and a visit by a representative of the Loan
Department to explain the procedures involved took place recently. As a
result, the situation is expected to improve. During negotiations improved
procedures were discussed to ensure that audited a:counts reach the Bank
within six months after end of each fiscal year. A suggested Action Plan
for achieving this objective is outlined in Annex 1.
III. THE PROJECT
A. The JAE Program (PMP)
3.01     JAE's current three-year program of capital works and routine
maintenance, namely Plano a Medio Prazo 1986-88 (PMP), approved by the
Government and supported by the National Central Budget for a total of
60 million/contos (US$400.4 m. equivalent; base prices as of December 1986)
constitutes the proposed project. PMP is based primarily on the findings
of the HMP Study (1981) which was in turn based on the NTP Study (1981) and
was updated by JAE under the Highway Needs Study (1985). It is designed to
meet the most pressing development needs, and the requirements of its
implementation are within the capabilities of JAE. It contains specific
measures considered necessary to strengthen management and to improve
policies in the transport sector. The individual investments/expenditures



- 13 -
included in the PMP have been selected from the HMP and the Highway Needs
Study on the basis of technical and economic criteria.
3.02     The selection criteria applied to specific works included in the
PMP were discussed with JAE. All civil works included in the PMF yield an
ER of at least 12 percent, which is the estimated opportunity cost of
capital in Portug¶l. In addition, in the case of rehabilitation and
periodic maintenance (strengthening) works, selection criteria applied
include the state of the road (a major factor), traffic volume with a
minimum ADT of 300 heavy v.p.d. or 2,000 v.p.d. and location of the road
link in the main itineraries. If further selection of works was needed,
other criteria, namely the distribution of works throughout the country and
their influence on interregional development, were applied. In the case of
new construction (bypasses) needed to relieve congestion in many major
urban centers, inclusion in the PMP was based primarily on the estimated
ER-always higher than 12 percent--of the new link and the optimal time for
its opening. All PMP engineering designs/feasibility studies have been
completed. The quality of these studies is satisfactory. The PMP
addresses all the major problems of the highways mode discussed in Chapter
1I (para. 2.01).
B. PMP Objectives
3.03     The objectives-both physical and institutional-.-of the PMP are to:
(a) protect existing assets through a coordinated civil works
program consisting of rehabilitation, periodic maintenance
(strengthening) and construction of bypasses utilizing the
available resources;
(b) establish an appropriate and permanent program of routine
maintenance by contractor;
(c) set-up adequate collaboration and coordination among agencies
involved in the highway subsector, namely those in charge of
road safety and enforcement of axle-load legislation;
(d) improve efficiency of public and private road freight
transport industries;
(e) improve intermodal transport coordination particularly of
railways and highways; and
(f) support and advise, through technical assistance, the GEP
which is the central body for overall planning and
coordination in the transport sector.
C. PMP Components
3.04     The PMP contains the following c.zmponents which are discussed in
detail in the following paragraphs of this Chapter:



- 14 -
(a)  Road improvement:  a number of sub-projects for new
construction of roads to bypass eight towns and fifteen black
spots (100 km.), rehabilitatiou (2,500 km.) and periodic
maintenance/strengthening (3,000 km.) carried out by
contractor (paras. 3.05 to 3.07);
(b)  Routine Maintenance:  routine maintenance by contract and
force account through provision of bufficient funds, purchase
of needed equipment and materials, and permanent
establishment of routine maintenance by contractor in several
districts (paras. 3.08 and 3.09);
(c)  Road Safety:  building up thc capability of JAE, DGV and GNR
to detect and rectify hazardous locations of the road
u3twork, purchasing equipment and m&terials needed, improving
data collection systems and accident analysis, running
traffic safety courses, and implementing programs for the
identification of black spots, installation of road markings,
signs and upgrading of road intersections (para. 3.10); and
(d) Institutional Development, consisting of:
(i) Development of adequate coordination and collaboration
among agencies involved in road safety and axle load
control through implementation of agreed action plans
(paras. 3.11 and 3.12);
(ii) improvement of road freight transport efficiency through
a Freight Transport Productivity Study and
implementation of its recommendations (para. 3.13);
(iii) development of intermodal transport planning and
coordination through the Energy Management Policy
Study, the North-South Corridor Study, and the Road
User Charges Study, and implementation of their
recommendations (paras. 3.14 and 3.16);
(iv) provision of support and advice to GEP for overall
transport planning and coordination (para. 3.16); and
(v) provision of training for JAE and GEP high level staff
in modern techniques of transport sector management
(para. 3.18).
Road Improvement
3.05     The road improvement program under PMP is the most important
component amounting to about 44.2 m/c (US$295.0 m equivalent excluding
contingin'cies) of the whole PMP 60 m/c (US$400.4 m.), (Table 9).  It
includes new construction, rehabilitation and periodic maintenance
(strengthening). The new construction, which is defined as roads
corstructed on a new alignment and which includes mainly bypasses around



- 15 -
congested urban centers and dangerous black spots, is limited to 4.2 m/c
(US$28.0 m. equivalent excluding contingencies) or 9 percent of the road
improvement program. Existing needs would justify a larger investment, but
JAE's decision to emphasize rehabilitation and strengthening is the right
one given that part of the network is inadequate to meet current t.affic
requirements (including the new 12-ton single axle load limit and a minimum
6 m-wide paved carriageway) and consists of roads with standards below the
norms of modern day highway transportation (paras. 2.03 and 2.05).
Acquisition of land for new construction is almost complete. During
negotiations, the Government provided a satisfactory schedule of
expropriations, specifying the date by which it would be able to occupy the
property.
3.06     The road improvement program developed by the JAE under the PMP
calls for:
(a) new conscruction of about 100 kms. of bypasses or about 35 km
per year;
(b) rehabilitation of about 2,500 km. of roads, 500 km. in 1986
and 1,000 km. a year each in 1987 and 1988; and
(c) periodic maintenance (strengthening) of about 3,000 km., at
1,000 km. per year each in 1986-1988.
3.07     The above program was prepared on the basis of JAE's total budget
available in 1986 (14 m/c) increased for each year 1987 (21.4 mlc) and 1988
(24.6 m/c) in accordance with Government's instructions.  The PMP is
reasonable on the basis of the actual 1986 budget, lower inflation and the
strong competition for works within the Portuguese construction industry,
which keeps construction costs in Portugal low in comparison to
international levels (para. 3.19) and has allowed considerable savings in
previous projects. The physical magnitude of the program would involve
improvement (rehabilitation and periodic maintenance) of about 2,000 km. of
roads per year which is satisfactory for a network of 18,850 km. Upon
completion of the PM{, the needs for urgent rehabilitation would decrease
and starting in 1989 future resources could be diverted to periodic
maintenance (strengthening) involving some 2,500 km. per year. This would
represent a periodic maintenance treatment coverage of the national network
every seven years, which is satisfactory.  The supervision of the PMP road
improvement program would be carried out by JAE's own staff.
Routine Maintenance
3.08     The JAE has changed gradually from manual routine maintenance in
1973 to, since 1978, a highly sophisticated routine maintenance
organization consisting of self-contained mechanized brigades, each
responsible for about 200 km. of roads, spread out nationwide through the
18 road districts. Until 1985, routine maintenance was carried out
directly and exclusively by the JAE districts under force account. Early
in 1985, in line with Government policy to foster private enterprise, JAE
introduced contract maintenance for its routine maintenance operations,



- 16 -
seeking to improve efficiency, minimize costs, reduce its equipment fleet
and compensate for lack of personnel due to a Government's freeze on
hiring. On an experimental basis, part of the district of Setubal
(300 km.) was contracted with satisfactory results. As a result, the
program was expanded and since the beginning of 1986, routine maintenance
by contractor has included four districts (Setubal, Leiria, Portalegre and
Castelo Branco) with satisfactory initial results and providing work to
several small local contractors. Some 30 percent of the national network
is now contra-ted and this percentage would be increased to about
70 percent under the PMP. JAE's intention is to keep 30 percent of the
routine maintenance by force account in order to be able to gauge contract
prices, to retain a nucleus of maintenance activities and to have JAE staff
and equipment available for emergencies. All routine maintenance
activities are supervised by JAE staff.
3.09     Expenditures for routine maintenance (contract and force account;
Table 9) under the PMP were about 2.5 m/c (US$16.7 m) in 1986, with a
gradual real increase of 10 percent per year each for 1987 and 1988 to
compensate for an older network and traffic increases. This represents an
average expenditure of 130 c/km. (US$880/km) in constant 1986 prices, which
has prcven satisfactory. The proposed Bank financing would support the
maintenance operations and development of contract maintenance by financing
specific works by contractor. It would also finance equipment included in
the PMP for replacement of obsolete equipment in the force account brigades
(para. 4.02c). JAE is monitoring road maintenance cost on a monthly basis
through an adequate road maintenance management system which identifies
actual costs, including equipment depreciation, for each maintenance
operation. JAE would continue applying this monitoring system during the
proposed project and would compare actual routine maintenance costs by
force account and by contractor. Agreement to this effect was reached with
the Government at negotiations.
Road Safety
3.10     The PMP contains provisions to improve the level of road safety,
which at present is less than satisfactory (para. 2.09). The road safety
component is an indication of the Government's growing awareness of the
safety problem which involved more than 55,000 accidents in 1985 at an
estimated cost to the economy, in addition to losses of time and lives, of
well above US$250 million in property damages. The road safety program,
prepared by a specialized service of JAE (Safety Division), includes
improvement in road standards, installation of road markings and signs,
elimination of black spots and items constituting hazards, such as masonry
signs. The program also provides for (i) technical assistance to set up a
new system for accident data collection, storage, retrieval and analysis;
(ii) procurement of safety equipment such as patrol cars and
telecommunications items; and (iii) the establishment of more frequent
contact among the three agencies responsible for road safety, namely JAE
(infrastructure), DGV (vehicle) and GNR (driver). Annex 2 details the PMP
Road Safety Program. The technical assistance would consist of one road
research specialist providing 12 months of techni_al support and advice on
accident data collection. During negotiations the Government presented and
agreed with the Bank on a road safety action plan providing for regular



- 17 -
consultations of the three agencies JAE, DGV and GNR and specifying their
responsibilities and schedule of different steps to be taken for the
implementation of the road safety program. This action plan should be in
effect by September 30, 1987.
Institutional Development
3.11     Implementation of the Road Safety Program included in the PMP is
described above and detailed with the technical assistance required in
Annex 2. Under the authority of the Secretary of State for Public Works, a
committee comprising the heads of the three agencies involved has been
holding monthly meetings since August 1986 to begin implementation of the
above action plan.
3.12     Vehicle weight control in Portugal could not be enforced during
Highways I and II projects because the 10 tons single axle load limit
proved to be too light and economically inadequate. The Bank has accepted
this notion. As a result the Government has approved new vehicle weight
regulations (Decree No. 78/85 of 26 November) establishing a single axle
load limit of 12 tons. No regular and coordinated enforcement of this
Decree - to be carried out by JAE, DGV and GNR - is taking place despite
the detection of numerous contraventions. The present situation may evolve
into inevitable deterioration of the upgraded road network. The Government
had agreed to prepare an action plan for nationwide vehicle weight control,
specifying the agencies involved and their respective responsibilities,
providing for adequate coordination among them, and ways and means of
securing the additional staff, installations and equipment needed as well
as those assets already available for control of weights. During
negotiations the Government presented and agreed with the Bank on this
action plan with full implementation by December 31, 1987.
3.13     Road transport is the dominant mode for freight and passenger
movements (paras. 2.10 and 2.12). The road transport industry
(truck/buses, public by RN and private) follows practices and regulations
which could be improved to achieve the highest efficiency from both the
public and private sectors. The PMP includes a Freight Transport
Productivity Study to analyse the status, practices and regulations of the
trucking industry in order to provide recommendations on needed
institutional and regulatory reforms. Possible increase of the present low
level of containerization, improvement of private marketing of road/rail
services and more participation of the Portuguese transport ind±ustry in
international traffic would also be considered. Annex 3 provides the Terms
of Reference for the stuady and the inputs needed. These Terms of
Reference, completion of the study by December 31, 1988 and consultation on
the recommendations of the study were agreed at negotiations. The total
cost of the study is estimated at US$300,000.
3.14     The Energy Management Policy Study will identify and define a
national program of energy conservation in the public and private transport
sector, including legislative, regulatory and pricing measures. The Study
will include an action plan for implementation of these measures.
Particular attention will be paid to the pricing of gasoline/diesel (this
information will be used in the Road User Charges Study) and to the use of
diesel and other fuels for the most appropriate activities. Terms of
Reference are included in Annex 4. The cost is estimated at



- 18 -
US$300,000. During negotiations, agreement was reached on the Terms of
Reference, on completion of the study by December 31, 1988 and on
consultation (Bank/Government) on the recommendations of the study with a
goal of eliminating uneconomic price distortions and to achieve the most
economic and efficient use of energy.
3.15     Overall coordination within the transport sector and the economy
remains an important issue to be solved. Sectoral objectives and modal
priorities are determined primarily in relation to the modal agencies'
individual interests. GEP coordination of multimodal investment plans
could not be fulfilled because prevailing conditions did not encourage the
concept of a national transport plan and also because of shortage of
staff. This issue is addressed under the PMP reflecting the Government's
recent decision to establish national plans in the future. Two studies
included in the PMP: North-South Corridor and Road User Charges Studies
(para. 3.16), would be instrumental in providing technical assistance to
GEP and in achieving a better coordination among transport modes.
3.16     The North-South Corridor Study would be a useful and interesting
transport multimodal study on the corridor Vila de San Antonio-Lisbon
Oporto-Valenca do Minho, which includes about 70 percent of the national
traffic. This study would be coordinated with all related transport
agencies and would determine the best p&ssenger/freight intermodal
distribution.  Its recommendations for the optimal development of road,
rail, air and coastal shipping facilities should be followed by early
action under the project. The Terms of Reference are included in Annex 5.
The Terms of Reference and completion of the study by September 30, 1989
were agreed at negotiations. The cost of the study is estimated at
US$400,000. Finally, the Road User Charges Study would analyze the
existing road related taxes and their distribution among road users and
would provide recommendations on how to establish adequate taxation a&ong
road users according to the costs each road user category imposes on the
network. The Terms of Reference included in Annex 6 as well as completion
of the study by July 31, 1988, were agreed at negotiations. Total cost is
estimated at US$150,000. These two studies and the Freight Transport
Productivity Study (para. 3.13) are related to the ongoing data update of
the existing National Transport Plan Study (1981) recently decided by the
Government and expected to be completed by September 30, 1987. During
negotiations, updating of this Transport Information System by
September 30, 1987 was agreed. The Government also agreed to review with
the Bank the recommendations of each study, and to formulate suitable
action programs to implement agreed recomnendations.
3.17     The GEP would be the agency with overall responsibility for all
the studies and technical assistance (para. 3.20). Coordination of the
studies and technical assistance should be achieved through a Steering
Committee made up of a permanent core of representatives from GEP, JAE, the
Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Planning and Territorial
Administration. Representatives from DGTT and modal agencies concerned
including representatives of public and private transport associations
would participate with respect to the studies relevant to their field.
Arrangements for the formation of this Committee not later than
September 30, 1987 were agreed at negotiations.



- 19 -
Training
3.18     The PMP includes a training program with in-house training and
overseas fellowships. In-house training would be provided mostly in the
workshops of JAE which already have experience in training, mainly, but not
exclusively, in the central workshop in Lisbon. It would consist of
training for equipment operators, mechanics, electricians and road
supervisors, and would be extended to about 110 staff. Training for high
level staff would be overseas or in Portugal through hiring of
international specialists. The high level training will take place in the
areas of management, traffic control, road safety, bridge design,
maintenance and computerization. An outline of the training program,
discussed and agreed at negotiations, is given in Annex 7. Total cost is
estimated at US$200,000.
D. Cost and Financing of PMP
3.19     The average unit cost of the PMP (prices as of December 1986) is
based on recent bids and cost of services provided under similar projects,
mainly the Second Highway Project and implementation of the PMP during
1986. The foreign costs are estimated from a breakdown of component cost
elements. The local cost includes estimated taxes to be paid by
contractors of about 11 percent of total costs. A 5 percent increase has
been considered for physical contingencies. Price variations are based on
inflation rates of 3.0 percent for year 1987 and 1.0 percent each for years
1988 and 1989 (foreign) and 14 percent for each year 1987, 1988 and 1989
(local). The main unit costs under the PMP are:
-    New construction consisting of a new road alignment (mostly
town bypasses) - 40,000 c/km (US$267,000/km)
-    Rehabilitation of existing roads to satisfactory standard
conditions, 1.5 m. wide shoulders, 6m. carriageway and 5 cm
thick asphalt concrete pavement - 10,000 c/km (US$67,000/km)
-    Periodic maintenance including a 5-cm thick asphalt concrete
strengthening course - 5,000 c/km (US$33,500/km)
-    Periodic maintenance including a double surface treatment -
3,000 c/km (US$20,000/km).
-    Routine maintenance 130 c/km (US$880/km)
-    Equipment - price per unit
-    Technical assistance and consultants for Institutional
Development cost per expert.
Based on the above unit costs, the total cost of the PMP amounts to contos
60 million (60 m/c or US$400.4 m. equivalent) as indicated in Table 9.  Out
of this total cost, the Government would finance about 88 percent (52.5 n/c
or US$350.4 m. equivalent) and the Bank about 12 percent (US$50.0 m.).  As
the case has been for road works ongoing at the time of Portugal's



- 20 -
accession to the EC, expenditures/investments included in the PMP are also
expected to be submitted to the EC for financing from the Regional
Development Fund (FEDER). Out of the 88 percent of Government financing,
Government has prerogative to receive budget support from EC. The Bank
financing would be confined to the foreign exchange content of the cost of
selected items of applicable categories except the US$0.6 million local
exchange component for technical assistance.
E. Implementation and Reporting
3.20     Responsibility for overall implementation of the PMP would rest
with JAE. The only exception is PMP studies and technical assistance which
will be coordinated by a Steering Committee under the responsibility of the
GEP (para. 3.17), with JAE and DGTT involvement, the latter carrying out
the Freight Transport Productivity Study and Road User Charges Study but
reporting to GEP. During negotiations, the representatives of JAE
confirmed that JAE is implementing its program of works basically in
accordance with the PMP, reviewed by the appraisal mission in July 1986.
Modifications to the PMP have subsequently been made, primarily because
additional funds were made available in 1986 for road maintenance and for
road safety (1986 was designated Road Safety Year in Europe). However, it
was verified that none of these modifications change the PMP's primary
objectives and emphasis remains on rehabilitation and maintenance of the
road network. It was agreed that any substantial deviation from the PMP
will require prior consultation with the Bank. Physical implementatiou of
the PMP works is expected to be completed within the 1986-88 three year
duration of the PMP; the studies will be completed by end 1989 at the
latest. The various actions to be undertaken under the different programs,
the agency responsible for each action and the targeted schedules to be met
are summarized in para. 3.21 below.
3.21     An important element of the Bank involvement will be the procedure
of reporting and meetings between the Government and the Bank for
supervising the timely implementation and completion of the PMP.
Implemenatation during 1986 was adequate. For each of the remaining years
of the PMP (1987-88) the following supervising procedure was agreed at
negotiations:
(a) the Government would prepare quarterly reports for the Bank
providing information on the actual and scheduled execution
of each category of the project as usually done under
previous projects; and
(b) the Government and the Bank would hold semi-annual meetings
in March and September to discuss the following reports to be
prepared by each responsible agency.
By March 15
(i3 JAE would report on achievements during previous year on
the level ef completion of PMP sub-projects, breakdown



- 21 -
of recurrent budget expenditures, financial status of
JAE, m4intenance operations, selection and execution of
Bank-financed sub-projects, assessment of maintenance
costs by force account and by contractor, and
application of vehicle weight regulations; and
(ii) GEP would report on the studies and on the status of
road user charges and fuel prices, status of the
bus/trucking regulatory review, update of investment
objectives and projected limits for each of the
transport subsectors paying particular attention to the
status of rail/road competition, and use of technical
assistance during previous year;
By September 15
(i) JAE would report on the proposed update of PMP
investment program, proposed recurrent budget for
upcoming year, progress of Road Safety Program, progress
on acquisition of equipment, progress of training
program and status of selection and execution of
Bank-financed sub-projects; and
(ii) GEP would report on the estimated allocation of funds
for technical assistance in the coming year and on the
action taken to ensure consistency of the road and rail
investment plans for the following year.
F. Economic Justification of the PMP
3.22     The PMP incprporates the findings of the National Transport Plan
Study (1981), the Highway' 'Master Plan (1981), the recent Highway Needs
Study (1985), and the detailed feasibility studies carried out by the JAE's
Planning aMd.Programming Departmnet (GPP).  The two Bank loans to JAE have
been instrumental in developing adequate expertise in highway planning and
project preparation and evaluation. The staff, of GPP is now well qualified
to use the state of the art methodology in project preparation. The
economic justification of the PMP lies in the dominant role of the road
transportation in Portugal, the poor state of the network to meet
efficiently the requirements of the present day traffic volumes and vehicle
composition, and the growing volume of traffic. The works included in the
PMP, due to the budgetary constraints, will meet only a moderate portion of
the rehabilitation and modernization requirements:  about 13 percent, or
2,500 km, of the network-(aDout half of the remaining rehabilitation needs)
will be rehabilitated and about 15 percent or 3,000 km, of periodic
maintenance (strengthening) needs will be met. All routine maintenance
needs will be met. The program is much needed and will generate benefits
which will favorably affect the whole economy. It will support the
regional development efforts of the Government through reduction of
transport costs between poor regions and the major population centers. The



- 22 -
program will also contribute toward the fuller integration of Portugal with
the EC. The traffic safety component of the project will further benefit
society; the studies included in the project will foster overall transport
planning efforts of the Government and improve efficiency in the sector
through formulation of policy reforms for road transportation industries.
3.23     The economic justification of the investment program has been
demonstrated by the Highway Master Plan and the quantitative analysis and
feasibility studies carried out by the GPP. The selection of road segments
to be included in the rehabilitation program has been based on elaborate
criteria (para. 3.02) utilizing AADT counts, traffic composition, unit
construction costs and vehicle operating cost savings. Only those road
sections which yield ER of 12 percent or above have been included in the
program. In addition, the results have been tested for sensitivity to
changes in traffic volumes and unit costs (Table 10). The approach adopted
in selecting the rehabilitation works is sound and acceptable to the Bank.
Even under the conservative assumption of 2.5 percent traffic growth
(Table 10), the rehabilitation component of the program yields ER of about
25 percent. Even under the unlikely event of no growth in traffic and a 25
percent increase in construction costs, the ER on rehabilitation works is
estimated to be about 20 percent on the average.
3.24     Individual feasibility studies have been carried out for the
bypasses included in the program. In all cases the flow of inter-city
traffic is, at present, seriously disrupted due to the congestion in urban
areas. The AADT in selected project routes range between 4,000 to 5,000
with 20 to 25 percent heavy vehicles. The benefits included in the ER
calculations are confined only to savings in vehicle operating costs (VOC),
and in work-travel time savings. Because of the difficulties in
quantifying benefits accruing in the form of non-work travel time savings,
VOC savings to the local traffic and reduction in accident rate, the ERs
calculated understate the full economic justification of the bypass
constructions of the investment program. The costs of the project are
based on border prices for feasible items and represent the opportunity
costs of the resources. The ERs on these individual projects range from 24
percent to 40 percent.
G. Euivironmental Impact
3.25     PMP asphalt roads scheduled for improvement already exist and
therefore their improvement would not have a significant effect on the
environment. In the case of new construction roads (bypasses) traffic
congestion would be avoided with a significant beneficial effect (less
pollution and noise) in the bypassed towns.
IV. THE LOAN
A.  Justification of Bank Participation
4.01     The proposed US$50 m loan is directed at maintaining the Bank's
presence in the highway subsector in order to promote and assist the



- 23 -
effective implementation of a series of programs and plans of action
developed under previous highway projects and included under the PMP
activities described above (para. 3.04). The PMP activities would increase
considerably the cost effectiveness of JAE's operations. The flexible
format of the loan, by which virtually any sub-project within the PMP
during the implementation period is a potential candidate for financing,
should help to overcome the disbursement delays encountered in previous
projects. A main cause of these delays was that because disbursement was
tied to specific sub-projects, it did not allow enough flexibility to meet
the immediate JAE's needs to respond to fluctuations in the economy which
altered investment priorities, and caused implementation of Bank
sub-projects to be postponed. Bank participation also helps JAE prepare a
solid investment program which helps Government present programs to EC for
justifying of transfer of resources. JAE's program is regularly submitted
to FEDER financing and approval on annual basis. Many of the PMP
sub-projects for rehabilitation and new construction examined and discussed
by the Bank with JAE are expected to be presented to FEDER-EC for financing
in 1987 and 1988. For easy and fast information, JAE prepares for each
sub-project a Data Sheet (Annex 8) including the main data extracted from
the feasibility and detailed engineering studies.
4.02     The proposed loan would support the PMP (Table 9 and para. 4.07)
by participating in the financing of:
(a) civil works sub-projects including bypasses to urban centers,
road rehabilitation, periodic maintenance (strengthening) and
elimination of black spots in the Road Safety Program (about
US$35.9 million);
(b) routine maintenance by contractor (about US$9.3 million); no
financing would be provided by the loan for recurrent routine
maintenance by force account;
(c) equipment, spare parts and materials for the Road Safety
Program, traffic counts and replacement of obsolete equipment
in the JAE maintenance brigades (about US$3.3 million); and
(d) technical assistance for the different studies and programs
of PMP (about US$1.5 million).
The proposed US$50 million loan would represent about 12 percent of the
US$400.4 million total cost of the potential PMP sub-projects and
26 percent of their US$190.7 million foreign exchange component.
B. Procurement
4.03     Civil works eligible for financing under the proposed loan would
be procured through international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance
with Bank Guidelines for prc urement, except for civil works estimated to
cost US$5 million (the minimum threshold proved attractive to foreign
bidders in Portugal) or less which would be procured on the basis of
contracts in accordance with local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures,
while giving foreign contractors the opportunity to bid. LCB procedures



- 24 -
are generally consistent with the need for economy and efficiency in the
execution of the project. There are, however, the following two procedures
which are not consistent with Bank procurement guidelines: (i) specialized
foreign -ontractors can only be admitted to participate in tendering if
work justifies it and (ii) competitors may examine any tender and
respective docunments after public opening and prior to the award of the
contract. During negotiations agreement was reached with the Government
regarding these two changes needed to make the LCB procedures acceptable to
the Bank. It is estimated that 70 percent 3f the contracts would fall
under LCB category. These works typically consist of road improvements of
limited length throughout the country which do not lend themselves to being
combined into larger packages. Portuguese contractors are prequalified on
the basis of JAE's permanent register which is periodically updated. This
system determines the type and size of works to which each contractor can
bid and has been satisfactorily applied in previous highway loans in
Portugal. Any responsive bid submitted by a foreign bidder would be
evaluated with those from local bidders during post-bidding review of
qualifications. All routine maintenance operations by contractor would be
procured following LCB procedures.
4.04     For all civil works sub-projects, JAE would prepare tender
documents and final cost estimates, advertise tenders, open and evaluate
bids, award and sign a contract. Bank's involvement in this process is
only required in the case of works by ICB. The time allowed for
preparation of bids would be 60 days for tenders with an estimated contract
amount of more than US$5 million and 45 days for tenders of a lesser amount.
4.05     For those works to be procured by LCB and financed by the Bank
loan, after contract signature, JAE would send a copy of the contract to
the Bank for confirmation of its eligibility for financing under the Bank
loan. In addition, as agreed at negotiations, the Bank would also review
the bidding documents for the first three contracts to be awarded under LCB
procedures. For all other contracts, JAE would notify the Bank of the
award, the works to be performed and the amount of the contract.
4.06     Standard tender documents for equipment procurement would be
reviewed and agreed with the Government. Equipment or materials worth
US$100,000 or more per contract would be procured by ICB. Equipment or
materials, if any, costing less than US$100,000 per contract (with a
maximum aggregate cost of US$600,000 during the projec;. implementation
period) would be procured by LCB. Proprietary spare parts for equipment
would be purchased directly from the manufacturers or their authorized
agencies. Normal spare parts (tyres, fanbelts, etc.) would be procured by
international shopping. Consultants and technical assistance experts would
be appointed in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
4.07     Amounts (in million contos--US$million) and procurement methods
with loan financing within brackets [in US$ million] are given for each
category of the proposed project:



- 25 -
Amounts* and Methods of Procurement
Bank's Financing Participation
Category                              Procurement Method                Total
ICB            LCB         Other
1. Civil Works             15.3 (102.1)   35.7(238.1)                  51.0(340.2)
[10.81         [25.11          _          [35.91
2. Routine Maintenance
- by Contractor            -           4.0(26.6)       -         4.0(26.6)
[9.31                     [9.31
- by Force Account         -               -       4.3(28.7)    4.3(28.7)
[-1          [-1
3. Equipment, spare parts  0.4(2.7)             -       0.1(0.6)      0.5(3.3)
and materials             [2.71                        [0.61        [3.31
4. Technical Assistance        -               -        0.2(1.5)      0.2(1.5)
and Training
[1.51       [1.51
TOTAL                15.7(104.8)    39.7(264.7)  4.6(30.8)   60(400.4)
[13.51         [34.41       [2.11         [501
* First line for each category: Total costs in Million Contos (US$ million).
Second line for each category: Bank participation [US$ million].
C. Disbursements
4.08     The Bank loan would be disbursed as follows:
(a) 50 percent of total expenditures for civil works;
(b) 35 percent of total expenditures for routine maintenance by
contractor;
(c) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for equipment, spare
parts and materials; and
(d) 100 percent of total expenditures for technical assistance
and training.
The above disbursements are based on a detailed analysis of the ratio
foreign/local component for each of the items. With the exception of
routine maintenance by contractor (35 percent) which is financed for the
first time under a Bank loan in Portugal, the other disbursement
percentages are the same applied under the recently completed Second
Highway Project.



- 26 -
4.09     Disbursements would be against Statement of Expenditure (SOE) for
eligible expenditures under contracts valued at $200,000 equivalent or
less. Supporting documentation for these would be retained by JAE and made
available for review by the Bank during supervision. The annual audits of
the project accounts would include a separate opinion on the disbursements
made under the SOE procedure (para. 2.25). All other disbursements would
be made against normal documentation submitted to the Bank.
4.10     Standard Bank's disbursement profiles indicate that an 8 to 10
year period (93% disbursed within eight years) is required to obtain full
disbursement for highway projects in the EMENA Region. However, this
pattern is not expected to be repeated under the proposed project because
the proposed loan would help to finance a time slice of a PMP program of
eligible sub-projects which would require about US$190 million (Table 9) to
cover foreign exchange costs, about four times the amount of the loan.
Execution of the PMP, excluding studies, is programmed to take place over
three years starting January 1, 1986 and is taking place according to
schedule. All the studies would be completed by September 30, 1989 at the
latest and have been phased to take into account the implementation
capacity of GEP. The project completion date would therefore be December
31, 1989 and the loan closing date six months later (June 30, 1990) giving
a total disbursement period from Bank Board presentation in May 1987 of
three years (four and a half years after start of PMP implementation in
January 1986). The fungibility of disbursement among all sub-projects
would permit acceleration of disbursements in case of delays in the
implementation of specific sub-projects. On this basis the proposed
disbursement profile is considered reasonable and the disbursement schedule
is shown in Table 11. Furthermore, during negotiations it was clarified
that disbursement for civil works are intended to continue throughout the
civil works implementation period.
D. Retroactive Financing
4.11     JAE started implementation of the PMP after approval by the
Government of JAE's 1986 budgetary allocation. JAE has provided the
appraisal mission with a list of civil works being executed in 1986/87 and
requested formally their retroactive financing. These works, which are
included in the PMP, have or will be carried out in accordance with Bank
procurement Guidelines (by ICB as well as by LCB excluding the two
procedures mentioned in para. 4.03). During negotiations agreement was
reached with the Government that retroactive financing will be provided up
to US$5 million for civil works procured according to Bank Guidelines
between July 1, 1986 and the date of loan agreement signature.
E. Special Account
4.12     In order to expedite reimbursements of funds relative to eligible
expenditures under the Bank loan, a Special Account will be opened, which
would be available only for financing the Bank's share of the cost of



- 27 -
eligible items under the project. The initial amount deposited in the
Special Account would be US$6.0 million. On the basis of valid documents
submitted by JAE including approved Statements of Expenditure (SOEs), the
rreasury would be entitled to draw down from the Special Account
appropriate amounts in Escudos at the exchange rate applicable on the day
upon which the Treasury transfers such amounts from the Special Account.
Same as the JAE's project accounts, the Special Account would be subject to
annual audit by the Tribunal de Contas or the Inspeccao Geral de Financas
(para. 2.25).
F. Assessment of Risk
4.13     One risk to the project is the recurrence of budgetary
difficulties which may restrict funds allocated to the PMP causing
slippages in project implementation. The probe'ility of this, however, is
small and even under the unlikely event of inadequate funding, the adverse
effects of delays are minor. The budgetary allocation of about US$100.0
million equivalent for the first year (1986) of the PMP was adequate for
JAE to carry out its planred program (para. 3.21). In addition, Portugal's
entry to EC and its access to FEDER funds for regional development projects
such as those included in the PMP greatly enhance the Government's ability
to finance the program (para. 4.01). Moreover, the PMP is a relatively
modest program and the annual budgetary allocation for 1987 is expected to
be about US$140.0 million equivalent which, in real terms, reflects a
reasonable increase over the 1986 allocation. The requirement for 1988 is
expected to be about the same as 1987 in real terms. The semi-annual
review of the implementation of the PMF will enable the Bank to ensure that
works are completed on a satisfactory and timely manner (para. 3.21).
4.14     Another uncertainty is the extent to which the Bank will be able
to influence the Government to adopt further policy reforms resulting from
recommendation of the project-financed studies. With Bank assistance, JAE
has developed significant in-house capability for sound project preparation
and selection. Encouraged by this, the Government is looking for similar
Bank assistance in other sectoral issues as evidenced by the fact that the
studies have been included in the proposed project at Government's
request. GEP and other decision making organs attach a great deal of
importance to the studies and any recommendations are expected to be
seriously considered for adoption.
V. RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01     During loan negotiations, the Government and the Bank agreed on
the following:
(a) schedule of land expropriation, specifying the dates by which
the Government would be able to occupy the properties
(para. 3.05);



- 28 -
(b)  continuation of the use of a maintenance monitoring system
for comparison of force account versus contractor prices
(para. 3.09);
(c)  action plan providing for regular consultation among
JAE/DGV/GNR and specifying their responsibilities and
schedule of different steps to be taken for implementation of
the road safety program to be in effect by September 30, 1987
(para. 3.10);
(d)  action plan by JAE/GNR/DGV for nationwide axle-load control
for full implementation by December 31, 1987 (para. 3.12);
(e)  terms of reference and completion by December 31, 1988 of the
Energy Management Policy study and consultation
(Bank/Government) on the recommendations of the study with a
view to eliminating price distortions and achieving the most
economic and efficient use of energy (para. 3.14);
(f)  the updating of the National Transport Information System by
September 30, 1987 (para. 3.16);
(g)  completion of the Freight Transport Productivity, North-South
Corridor and Road User Charges studies, under satisfactory
terms of reference, respectively by December 31, 1988,
September 30, 1989 and July 31, 1988 and future review with
the Bank of studies recommendations in order to formulate
suitable action programs to implement agreed recommendations
(para. 3.16);
(h) formation by September 30, 1987 of a Steering Committee
responsible for coordination of the studies and technical
assistance (para. 3.17);
(i)  components of the Training Program (para. 3.18);
(j)  prior consultation with the Bank for any substantial
deviation from the present PMP (para. 3.20);
(k)  reporting and meetings procedure regarding project
implementation (para. 3.21); and
(1)  procurement arrangements including modification of two
provisions of LCB procedures (paras. 4.03 and 4.05)
5.02     Retroactive financing will be provided up to US$5.0 million for
PMP civil works procured according to Bank Guidelines between July 1, 1986
and the date of loan agreement signature (para. 4.11).
5.03     Subject to the above, the project provides a suitable basis for a
Bank loan of US$50 million. The terms would be 15 years including a
three-year grace period.
(691 D)



- 29 -
TABLE 1
PORTUGAL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD HIGdWAY PROJECT
Public Investments in Transport by Major Modes, 1980-851'
(in current prices, 1,000 contos)
1980      1981       1982      1983       1984      1985
Railways           1,830     2,130      3,290     4,340      4,680     9,580
Air Transport      2,410     4,640      5,650    19,380      8,270     8,150
Ports              2,490     3,750      4,410     4,550      49320       700
Roads:
National         5,l5O     6,560      7,690    10,400      9,830    12,960
Brisa           2,100      4,900      2,800     1,400        400     3,790
RN              4,730      5X930      3,710     1,260      2,070     2,180
TOTAL             18,710    27,910    27,550    41,330    29,570    37,360
=___       :==       ==         =        ~       ==a
*/ Excludes investmernts for urban transport and municipal roads.
Source: Gabinete de Estudos e Planeamento, except for roads. National
Roads: Junta Autonoma de Estradas; Brisa: Auto Estradas de
Portugal.
July 1986



- 30 -
TABLE 2
PORTUGAL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Plagmd Inestment by Modes 1986-88
(in 1986 prices, 1,000 contos)
1986         1987        1988
Railways          19,670       28,000      19,600
Air Transport      9,200          200          40
Ports              1,760        9,900       1,820
Roads:
National        18,000       20,000      22,000
municipal         N.A.           N.A.       N.A.
Swis"             N.A.           N.A.       N.A.
RN               2,300           N.A.       N.A.
Source: GR
July 1986



- 31 -
Table 2
P°RISSL
STAFF APPRAISL REl=R
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
iHtWav Network Extension
(Kiltmeters)
ational Roads
Municipal    Forestry
Year    ~fExeresslw  Clssi          Class It     Class III    Total       Ra            Roads
1960        --          --          --           --           17.503      - 
1970        __          __         __            --           18,076
1975        --          5,714      4.568         8.120        18,402      --           --
1976        --          5,706      4.615         8.206        18,527      --           --
1977         s0         5.811      4.636         8,243        18.690      --           --
197B         82         5.840      4.640         8.2S0        18,730      --           --
1979        10S         S.870      4,790         8.120        18.780      --           --
1980        132         S.905      4.900         8.012        18,817      16.850       18.385
1981        IS0         5,910      S100         7.830        18.840      16.850       18,405
1982        168         S,920      5.2S0         7.678        18.848      16.875       18.470
1983        18S         5,940      5.390        7.S2S         18.8S5      16.905       18.50S
1984        195         5,968      5.561        7,336         18.86S      16.920       18,539
Source: JAE. INE
July 1986



- 32 -
Table 4
PORTUGAL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
National Highway Network: Types of Pavements
(Kilometers)
Paved                          Unpaved
Bituminous                  Stone
Year      (A/C & DBST)*   Cement    Paved        Macadam    Earth       Total
1975        16,784          38        1,104         255        211       18,392
1976        16,985          38        1,095         241        158       18,517
1977        17,141          38        1,094         178       157        18,608
1978        17,291          28        1,064         154        152       18,689
1979        17,418          25        1,036         127       114        18,720
1980        17,517          25        1,036          87        108       18,773
i981        17,120          21        1,036         518         98       18,793
1982        17,370          18          888         490        82        18,848
1983        17,751          18          840         174        72        18,855
1984        17,923          17          826          40        59        18,865
* Asphalt Concrete
Double Bitumen Surface Treatment
Source: JAE
July 1986



- 33 -
Table 5
PORTUGAL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Fuel Consumption by Highway Vehicles
(In Thousand Liters)
Regular      Super
Year       Gasoline      Gasoline          Diesel             Total
1975        260,000       763,000          786,000           1,809,000
1976        286,294       707,412          811,731           1,805,437
1977        277,058       677,059          964,831           1,918,998
1978        263,558       690,378        1,057,297           2,011,233
1979        251,384       690,560        1,171,717           2,113,661
1980        227,785       774,119        1,384,673           2,356,577
1981        227,779       744,090        1,398,917           2,350,786
1982        224,454       866,345        1,524,757           2,615,556
1983        206,314       886,845        1,473,054           2,566,213
1984        186,179       900,963        1,437,126           2,524,268
1985        177,944       968,681        1,425,150           2,571,775
Source: Petrogal
July 1986



- 34 -
eibIe 6
PORTUGAL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Motor Vehicle Fleet
(in thousands)
1970     1975      1980       1981      1982      1983       1984
Cars         420.8      728.9   1,025.4   1,068.0   1,119.6   1,188.4   1,266.0
Vans         118.9      218.4     243.7     278.8      310.4     330.1      334.4
Pick-ups      98.9      153.0     276.3     319.2      363.2     382.2     3"9.6
Buses          3.3       5.7        8.1       8.8        9.4      10.0       10.5
Trucks        17.8      30.7       71.5      78.9       84.1      90.0   _92.5
659.7   1,136.7   1,625.0   1,753.7   1,886.7   2,000.7   2,103.0
Source: Estatisticas dos Transportes e Comunicacoes, INE; GEP
July 1986



7 C~~~~~~~~JL
STAFF APPRISAL KMOR
THIRD ICHi    IPOJ~
Road Revenues and Expondttures for Ntyhwav in Portgnal l072-Ik$
(in current m1ilton gscudos)
gxpenditures on National Nwys., 1972-198S
Receipts from                        ,eirn _ ia
Road User      Contributions                                           Total as X of
Year        Charsus            to EETT I         Current       capita1     Total         CDPe
- .--..(million escudos)-------
1972            5.981              9QS              254           S38        792        0.3
1973            7,179            1.001              291           445        736        0.3
1974           10,434            1,120              400           694      1.094        0.3
1975           12.952            1,199              566          ,1S4      1.720         .
1976           18.351            1.210              720         1.421      2.141        0.5
1977           23,063            1.60S            1,3S7         1,417      2,t?         0.4
1978           27,S87            1,697            1,245         2,482      3,737        0.5
1979           32,527            1,887              9S2         3.306      4,258        0.4
1980           46,555            3,167            1,691        5,115       6,807        0.6
J981           59,047            2,964            1,639        6,S56       8,195        0.6
1982           71,715            4,298            2.087        7.693       9,780        0.6
1983           94.510            7,585            2.3S1        10,404     12,755        0.7
1984          103,143            9,031            2.670        9,825      12,491        0.9
1985          114,480           12,667            4.868        12,800     17.G68        1.1
!/ Fundo Especial de Transportes Terrestres (Land Transport Fund).
Sources: IRE, Estatisticas dos Transportes e Communicagoes for road user revwens, JUt for
expenditures on roads.
Karch 1987



- 36 -
Table 8
Page 1 of 3
PORTUGAL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Historic Fuel Prices
(in current Escudos)
Gasoline Super Grade
Date in Effect          Refinerg      Marain       Taxes          Total
August 4, 1967              1.07          0.85        4.58            6$50
January 5, 1970             0.97          0.85        4.68            6$50
April 1, 1971               0.97          0.85        4.88            6$70
November 8, 1973            1.42          0.86        5.22            7$50
February 4, 1974            2.45         0.86         7.69           11$00
August 19, 1974             2.49          1.06        8.95           12$50
December 30, 1975           3.42          1.06       13.02           17$50
August 26, 1977             5.16          1.49       19.35           26$00
October 21, 1978            6.56          5.96       13.48           31$00
September 8, 1979           9.31         6.28        23.41           39$00
January 31, 1980           12.57          6.58       25.85           45S00
December 18, 1980          15.58          6.62       27.80           50*00
July 17, 1981              20.83          6.98       27.19           55*00
December 19, 1981          20.69          6.12       31.19           58$00
June 19, 1982              21.15          7.01       34.34           62$50
January 4, 1983            27.17          7.70       39.13           74$00
July 3, 1983               28.50          7.71       47.79           84$00
February 1, 1984           38.81          7.93       50.26           97$00
July 14, 1984              40.60          7.95       50.45           97$00
January 12, 1985           46.14         8.34        54.52          109$00
November 24, 1985          45.46         8.34        61.20          115$00
The above fuel prices must be examined in accordance with the historical
Consumer Price Index (CPI) in Portugal:
1967-75  1976  1977  1978  1979  1980  1981  1982  1983  1984  1985
C.P.I.     N/A      100   130   150   175   225   270   330   415   534   615
Source: Direcao Geral de Energia, INE--
July 1986



- 37 -
Table 8
Page 2 of 3
PORTUGAL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Historic Fuel Prices
(in current Escudos)
Gasoline Regular Grade
Date in Effect          Refinery      Margi        Taxes          Total
August 4, 1967              0.90          0.85        3.85            5$60
January 5, 1970             0.79         0.85         3.95            5$60
April 1, 1971               0.82          0.85        4.03            5$70
November 8, 1973            1.19          0.86        4.25            6$30
February 4, 1974            2.14         0.86         6.50            9$50
August 19, 1974             2.22          1.06        7.72           11$00
December 30, 1975           2.97          1.06       10.97           15$00
August 26, 1977             4.50          1.54       16.96           23$00
October 21, 1978            5.71         5.92        11.37           28$00
September 8, 1979           8.37         6.28        20.35           35$00
January 31, 1980           11.64         6.58        22.78           41$00
December 18, 1980          14.60         6.62        24.78           46$00
July 17, 1981              19.60          7.01       24.39           51$00
December 19, 1981          19.44         6.18        28.38           54$00
June 19, 1982              19.70         6.78        32.02           58*00
January 4, 1983            25.32          7.43       37.25           71$00
July 3, 1983               25.34         7.47        48.19           81$00
February 1, 1984           34.70         7.68        49.62           92*00
July 14, 1984              36.31          7.70       52.00           96$00
January 12, 1985           42.46         8.12        54.42          105$00
November 24, 1985          41.86         8.12        61.02          111$00
The above fuel prices must be examined in accordance with the historical
Consumer Price Index (CPI) in Portugal:
1967-75  1976  1977  1978  1979  1980  1981  1982  1983  1984  1985
C.P.I.     N/A      100   130   150   175   225   270   330   415   534   615
Source: Direcao Geral de Energia, INE
July 1986



- 38 -
Table 8
Page 3 of 3
PORTUGAL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Historic Fuel Prices
(in current Escudos)
Diesel Fuel
Date in Effect         Refinery       Margin       Taxes         Total
August 4, 1967              0.89         0.40         1.31          2$60
January 5, 1970             0.78         0.40         1.12          2$30
April 1, 1971               0.78         0.40         1.22          2$40
November 8, 1973            1.23         0.40         0.99          2*60
February 4, 1974            2.25         0.40         0.75          3$40
August 19, 1974             2.15         0.59         1.26          4$00
December 30, 1975           2.77         0.59         0.64          4$00
August 26, 1977             4.23         1.00         2.27          7$50
October 21, 1978            5.59         1.23         3.18         10$00
September 8, 1979          8.04          1.41         3.55         13*00
January 31, 1980           11.44         1.69         4.37         17$50
December 18, 1980          15.20         1.73         5.57         22$50
July 17, 1981              21.06         2.01         2.93         25$00
December 19, 1981          19.86         1.97         6.17         28$00
June 19, 1982              20.82         2.15         9.03         32$00
January 4, 1983            26.72         2.71        5.57          32$00
July 3, 1983               27.10         2.73        16.17         46$00
February 1, 1984           33.85         3.32        18.83         56$00
July 14, 1984              35.80         3.34       20.86          60$00
January 12, 1985           39.55         3.99       22.46          66$00
November 24, 1985          37.34         3.97        28.69         70$00
The above fuel prices must be examined in accordance with the historical
Consumer Price Index (CPI) in Portugal:
1967-75  1976  1977  1978  1979  1980  1981  1982  1983  1984  1985
C.P.I.     N/A     100   130   150   175   225   270   330   415   534   615
Source: Direcao Geral de Energia, INE
July 1986



425 a lt "I 625) 40gcSv   tiU
-                    _           _ tl xi.. &                                                       -       -                                                                                         -
Nwa 3vutt40            30o )      Oat  tt -$.I  4.04  - 3.14  7.5)  0.ft 4.7)  -0.74 4.?)    3.41 -.4)   OA  S.)           .  6.0)- 1.71 33.2)   2.4t 13.3)   1-.1  14.1)  . 4.24 2.)                                     .44.          14
ftftotation t1"1*tm"d                                                                                                                                         2.ws.)"1110
u"far Pogram.t*s)               2.242).))   1.34  . 1) -.4t 42.4)  4.2161.0)  -4.3*0.1)   0.5t 55.7)   *Wn.%)  - 5.0412.2)  *lS." Go. 7)  11.44 62.7)  -336 t4.0)  -n  tt45l                    *        23.3(347.61  2.tt1.3         31
OOftt04 l*
Si* total                       144* I2.   -     .4)21  -IIS-t  *UJI   2        -iLtJ lLtIfJ               Otl    t  -tL  tttI   *1L.ZU1L*t 3IIIMJ   -Ufi4JhS.1                nJ    )          12                    * tJL1          t
it I t t 
Si 'tote 45caa'                   IJL        7t * J    - *JIJ    tM.h3   *SJL31  - LJLtA                    -.440   .Jt              -.2.40         L*IA.l- t..1S   *Z.Ml                         *5         L3LtJ                       -   7
S~~~~~~~   ~ 2toa       LU.JLZ);  3.SL.Aa        s..t...    J.IIE    L*.AA   - -.m.a.              a.mu.h       1.th       - a.atm        5.1.2      -s 3.0.1.2    SJMJ                 35 t *      I U53   lJi.I17
14 tt lUS
adeLt, 3) tYt-                                         ____  __ - -                   ' LZLS  OJ..*                     SJJJ   - LZL..J4J.*L.J                                  JL.) - *-   LU 2                                     1
Zo total                                                                                                                9 t1-* 01-531  - 4)  AjJ)    OJAjg .iU    -   .4 j    .                                                             t.34  IS  -
IV  I1151l .31 I  4°
for IitttttlWl dowf _.t
Ilam,    St                                                   ". 45j.J4)   -0 0 .O.  0.*                                                         0.314.)  -.U.       D      L.. 4.t            *0         --   . LIL .
t tot.,                         .:"'*;        '! -;..*;tt    ''°! ' ' ! '",-;@!    ";"";'! ..................  .    .....  ..;  - . .  -0......  .. . . ..t t.....   -...-....    .t...........                . .    0.1 3
V  CtLtm 
ft3es1 4"t                                                       . .    ._  .....                            ....        .Lt)  -2.3.o.u              LJLt. L   -                3     .L #   .L.U.tO  I
So  total                        7. . t7.          1    1.A1I    1   5L.i ML4    c2tm*.      tt3    2)   It2114121t1      ElJl  2 3               3.01..l t.2 t
Pefelp                                                              --  --  -- - L      )-7    .ZLILD       t.2.t2 7t11  t-* l.U                     t        e.0                 3.DL  .Jal
mat4 Protoet cost               7.044*71)   7.0444.7)  .1.414    13. St71. so .30.1407.)  -21.4(342.0)  I 11040.).3.7)         7) 2.514.)0.l*9.).f.491.0)  -00.444,0.43-                        as        I25)4    7 O 5300            32
..n.nt    attn...  a-..aaa*a It   *sSa..a......ta...........a...t..u.....a.....                      ...a.                a.S.........
fo"-    I toi GM           1t$MlU
c 4a "of
9,
0*
3.-
0
'0



- 40 -
Table 10
PORTUGAL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Sensitivity Analysis of ER
Estimates of Rehabilitation Works
Cost/Km (Contos)*             AADT (3,000)                ER (1)
10,000                 2.5 percent annual growth         24.4
10,000                 Constant                          22.0
12,500                 2.5 percent annual growth         21.8
12,500                 Constant                          19.4
15,000                 2.5 percent annual growth         15.4
15,000                 Constant                          13.7
* Cost are at December 1986
Source: JAE, appraisal mission
October 1986



- 41 -
TABLE 11
PORTUGAL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(Millions of US$)
Bank                                Disbursements        Cumulative
Fiscal                                for the           Disbursements    Cumulative
Year (FY)      Date                    Quarter          at end of Qtr.   Percentage (2)
88     September 30, 1987    5.0 (RET. FINANCING)          5.0             10
December 31, 1987            5.0                   10.0             20
March 31, 1988               5.0                   15.0             30
June 30, 1988                7.0                   22.0             44
89     September 30, 1988            8.0                  30.0             60
December 31, 1988            8.0                   38.0             76
March 31, 1989               8.0                   46.0             92
June 30, 1989                3.0                   49.0             98
90     September 30, 1989           0.5                   49.5             99
December 31, 1989            0.3                  49.8              99
March 31, 1990               0.1                   49.9             99
June 30, 1990                0.1                  50.0             100
(Closing Date)
Source: Mission Estimates
March, 1987



- 42 -
ANNEKX 1
Page I of 2
PORTUGAL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Accounts Situation and Audits Action Plan
Accounts - Righwavs II Existing Situation
1.       Project expenditures for the ongoing Highways II Project are at
present accumulated in totals only, the assumption being that 50 percent of
such total costs are reimbursable by the Bank. Applications for
withdrawals from Bank loans are submitted by the Treasury on the basis of
documents assembled by the JAE Planning Department.
Accounts   Proposed Hi_hway III Situation
2.       For the proposed project it should be possible to accumulate with
appropriate computer programming, information on resources by sources of
finance, and 4osts/expenditures by project categories and items. The
computer programs can be modified as required with local help tL 8uit the
above and any additional information requirements under the proposed
project.
Audits - Action Plan
3.       As regards the audit matters, the basic requirements under a Bank
loan agreement for a highway project revolve around the audit certification
as to the accuracy and legitimacy of the accounting of transactions
relating to the project in terms of the resources by sources of financing,
and expenditures by project categories. In addition, as reSards
withdrawals of the proceeds of the proposed loan through Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs) and Special Accounts annual audited statements showing
the withdrawal of Bank loan proceeds under these instruments would also be
required. A suggested Action Plan and timetable given below indicates
possible scheduling to ensure that audited accounts reach the Bank within
six months of the end of each fiscal year:
(a) before March 31 of the year following each year end, (i) JAB
would prepare the special annual statements relating only to
the project in terms of the resources by sources of financing
and expenditures by project categories and items; and (ii)
the Treasury would prepare annual statements relating to
withdrawals from proceeds of the Bank loan through SOE and
Special Account procedures during the year;



43 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 2
(b) by April 14 of the year following each year end, (i) JAE
would submit these special annual statements and supporting
vouchers and documents relating to project accounts; and (ii)
the Treasury would submit the annual SOE and Special Account
statements and supporting vouchers and documents to the
specially appointed auditors acceptable to the Bank (the
Tribunal de Contas or the Inspeccao Geral de Financas) for
their audit;
(c) by June 7 of the year following each year end, the auditors
would complete the audit of the special annual st,tements of
the project accounts, and annual statements reflecting
withdrawals of Bank loan through SOEs and Special Accounts
and certify their accuracy and legitimacy; and
(d) by June 15 of each year JAE and the Treasury to forward the
audited statements to the Bank.
March 1987



- 44 -
Annex 2
Page 1 of 2
PORTUGAL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road Safety Program
1.       Portugal has one of the highest rates of accidents in Europe with
about 13 fatalities per 100 million vehicle/km. against an average of 4 to
5 in the EC. The three agencies in charge of road safety, JAE, DGV and GNR
are conscious of this fact. They have prepared a Road Safety Program which
is included in the PMP for a total cost of about 0.9 m/c (US$6.0 million
excluding technical assistance of an expert for US$100,000). The
program-in a first phase-identifies three specific fields in need of
improvement, as follows:
Infrastructure Improvements
-    elimination of 15 black spots
-    vertical signalization (35,000 signals)
-    horizontal signalization (1,200 km.)
-    guard rails:  40 km.
-    illumination:  6 important intersections
Equipment
-    Telecommunications (radio) set for each JAE region:  4
-    patrol cars:  8
Technical Assistance
-    One international expert to assist to set up a new
system for accident data collection, storage, retrieval
and analysis of data - (12 months; US$100,000)
1*       The proposed Road Safety Program has been devised to maximize
benefits to Portugal with expenditures of minimum resources and to bring
about early reductions in the number of accidents in the National Road
Network through the treatment and elimination of the most hazardous



- 45 -
Annex 2
Page 2 of 2
locations. Adoption of such a low cost strategy results in one of the most
cost-effective areas for investment in the transport sector with economic
returns similar to those provided by an adequate road maintenance which
could be around 100 percent. The proposed expenditure for implementation
of the Road Safety Program--US$6.0 million equivalent-would be a
worthwhile investment in economic return in order to reduce the
US$2Z0 million losses in accidents in 1985 even if the social consequences
of the problem are ignored.
3.       The three agencies JAE, DGV and GNR with the help of the technical
assistance provided under this program would prepare a second phase of a
Road Safety Program to be implemented starting in 1989.
March 1987



- 46 -
stF AEPASAL REPQRJ
Abbraviatigns
Please notice that the following abbreviations of institutional
names will be uSed in the T.O.R. of the four studies contained in the next
Annexes 3. 4, 5 and 6.
NOPYC         - tinistdrio das Obras PGblicas, Transportes e Comunicacoes
NPAT          - #inistdrio do Plano e da Ad4inistracao do Territ6rio
"IC           - Kinist6rio de IndGstria e Comrrcio
Entidades do ?OPTC:
SEP/MOPYC     - Gabinete de Estudos e Planeamento do HOPTC
Dat           - Oireccao-Geral de Transportes Terrestres
NV            - oireccao-Geral de Viacao
GNWC          - Direccao-Geral da  utrinh  de Comdrcio
-AIE          - Junta Aut6noma de Estradas
CP            - Caminhos de ferro Portugueses. E.P.
IISA          - Auto-estradas de protugal, SARL
=-            - Ro1doviria Macional. E.P.
CARRIS        - Copanhi  Carris de Ferro de Lisboa
Ti            - Tr,nstejo. E.P.
StCP          - Servicos de Transportes Colectivos do Porto
TAP           - Transportes Adreos Portugueses. E.P.
LAN           - Linhas Adreas Regionais
Entidades do "IC:
DGE           - 0ireecao-Geral de Energia
Entidades do NPAT:
OCR           - Oireccao-Geral do Desenvolvimento Regional
Associacao de empresas privades:
AMQAN         - Associacao Mactonal de Transportes Rodoviarios Autosoveis
da Hercadorias
£3130?        - Associacao Ncional de Trmnsportes Rodovitrlos Pesados de
Passageiros



- 47 -
ANNEX 3
PagKe 1 of 6
PORTUGAL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Freight Transport Productivity Study - Terms of Reference
I. Review of Issues
1.       A review of issues affecting road transport and the interface of
road transport with other modes in Portugal reveals the following main
issues:
(a) road transport regulations and, in particular, entry
restrictions show age;
(b) the potential for growth of intermodal transport (combined
road/rail, water/land transport, etc.) is substantial;
planning of intermodal development over and above modal
planning, however, needs strengthening; and
(c) the potential role of the private road truckers and its
transport association ANTRAM in the improvement of road
transport efficiency and logistics could be substantial.
II. Objectives of the Study
2.       The general objective of the study should be to provide a
diagnosis of the current issues affecting freight transport and intermodal
coordination in Portugal; to analyze and quantify distortions; and to
propose alternative solutions and/or recommendations - legal,
institutional, and operational - for improvement.
III. Scope of Work
3.       The study will be carried out in three different parts as follows:
Part A: transport regulations;
Part B: institutional strengthening of intermodal planning; and
Part C: potential role of private road transport associations in
fuel saving, safety and axle load control programs.



- 48 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 6
Part A
Brief Description of the Leg3al Framevrork
4.       Until recently the basic law governing the freight transportation
sector was Law 200E, which provided a relatively high level of protection
vis-a-vis rail transport, through a system of tight control of road haulage
operations accompanied by complete deregulation of private transpcrt.
This system resulted in strong expansion of the private vehicle
fleet in a small commercial haulage fleet and, in a steady decline in
freight transport by rail. At the same time a growing number of companies
were operating illegally by carrying out commercial haulage operations
using permits obtained for private transportation.
In 1980 a new law was introduced to regulate the sector according
to the following basic parameters:
-    entry into commercial haulage operations was made subject to
qualitative requirements (professional and financial
capability) as a result of Directive 74/561/EC;
-    free access to the market for short haul transport, i.e. up
to 50 km*;
-    access to medium and long distance operations, i.e. up to 100
km and unlimited respectively.
In 1982, as a result of supplementary legislation, access to
private freight transport operations ceased to be automatic. Despite these
major alterations to the legal framework governing this subsector, the
substantial disparity between the commercial haulage and private f1oets
remains.
Obiectives of Part A
5.       The analysis contained in the preceding section suggests that
there is scope for action to rationalize the freight transport sub-sector
as regards regulations, price formation, modal distribution and adjustment
of supply.
The obiectives of this part are therefore the following:
(1) Review of objectives, adequacy and rationale of current road
transport regulations and, in particular, the rationale for
entry restrictions into long distance road transport, and
propose commercial practices as surrogates to regulation;



- 49 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 6
(2) review of other policy instruments available to the
Government for stimulating operators to adjust supply to
demand with a view to satisfying the transportation needs of
each region;
(3) study of indicative minimum rates based on operating costs
for the benefit of owner-operators; and
(4) definition of a strategy encouraging private marketing of
road/rail services in the light of the specific nature of the
products to be carried and of the costs and benefits of each
mode of transport.
Scope of Part A
6.       It is therefore recommended that a study be carried out under the
technical assistance component of the Third Highway Project, organized as
follows:
Phase a:  Analysis of the present situation
(1) Analysis of the rationale, scope and effects of current
regulations, in particular, entry and distance restrictions;
(2) description of supply (quantity, price and quality) by
transport mode and type of service;
(3) evaluation of existing and potential demand at the national
and regional levels; determination of origin/destination
matrices between and within regions, by type of freight and
service, public and private. These matrices will constitute
one of the bases for determining indicative minimum rates for
public freight transport and would also be an essential input
to adjust/alter and/or discontinue district freight
allocations and activity spheres;
(4) collection from firms in the sector of data to establish
average operating costs per standard vehicle so as to enable
the cost of providing transport to be determined;
(5) the data collected in (2), (3) and (4) would be consistent
with the MOPTC data base in order to update the transport
information system of the Ministry.
Phase b: Proposals for action
(1) Present a new structure of the freight market with a view to
encouraging substitution of entry and distance restrictions
by commercial practices through: (a) a more active



- so -
ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 6
participation of the private associations in the organization
of transport; (b) strengthening of the corporate sector;
(c) terminal consolidation and distribution services; and
(d) improved availability of financial resources to the
industry for vehicle replacement;
(2) define objectives and priorities;
(3) study supply and demand, namely the most important transport
chains, with a view to better judge the geographical
dispersal of district freight allocations given to companies
and its rationale, if any;
(4) assess the efficiency and the logistics development of the
transport flows in (3);
(5) establish the cost structure for the sector, leading to the
determination of a reference tariff system; and
(6) study the preferences of shippers for freight transport
allocation between road transport and railways, including the
identification of types of freight which should more
economically be carried on the railways.
Part B
Current Situation of Intermodal Plannins (Combined road/rail, water/land
transport)
7.       Institutional strengthening of intermodal planning and
specifically planning of services and facilities related to growth of
container transport and intermodal alternatives, could improve current and
future modal utilization by encouraging the use of the most cost effective
mode and by providing direction and coordination to public and private
intermodal investments within desirable institutional parameters.
8.       Intermodal planning is currently the responsibility of modal
institutions.
Scope of Part B
9.       The consultant will examine the comparative advantages and issues
related to the present system. He will assess modal institutional
responsibilities. He will review a sample of intermodal planning
responsibilities and organizations in European countries with successful
intermodal planning. He will finally present work proposals tending to
provide a sound base for an inter-institutional planning mechanism adapted
to the conditions and administrative systems of Portuguese institutions and
to their legal framework.



- 51 -
ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 6
Part C
General Situation and Oblectives of Part C
10.      The current role of the private road transport association -
ANTRAM - in the organization and coordination of road transport services is
commendable. This role, however, could be advantageously expanded at no
expense to the public sector. The natural areas for expansion would be:
the promotion of a voluntary fuel saving program; the implementation of an
axle-load control program; and the encouragement of safety. Furthermore,
ANTRAM could and should play an increasingly important role in the
organization of public transport services. Gradual substitution of public
vested government responsibilities contained in current transport laws by
commercial practices could be a desirable objective; the government
objective of a well structured public transport service could be served
better by a more flexible commercial system than by a legal framework with
obsolete regulations.
Scope of Part C
11.      The consultant will examine the current role of road transport
hauliera, CP and ANTRAM in the organization and delivery of transport
services.
12.      He will identify potential areas of responsibility which could
advantageoualy complement current responsibilities; in doing so, the
consultant will present in detail, the most desirable administrative and
information systems to support such areas of responsibility.
13.      Furthermore, the consultant will examine the potential roles of
road transport hauliers and ANTRAM in carrying out and monitoring voluntary
government sponsored programs in the following areas:
(a) fuel savings;
(b) axle-load control;
(c) safety
14.      The consultant will examine the result of such programs in related
areas such as axle-loads and safety.
15.      Finally, the consultant will assess the effects of the current
regulatory practices which restrict entry into road transport by
controlling the licensing of commrcial freight vehicles for selected
radial distances; complementing the study effort described in Part A of
these Terms of Reference, the consultant will propose copiparative
commercial practices which could advantageously substitnte such
limitations. Inter alia, the consultant could examine the potential effect
of an industry-owned and operated network of distrlbution and consolidation
terminals in the hinterland of metropolitan areas.



- 52 -
ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 6
16.      For each one of the outlined recommendations, the consultant will
prepare a full program oi actions needed to fully implemenit the proposed
alternatives including financial and management suggestions, or studies as
needed.
IV. Reporting Requirement for the Road Transport Study
17.      The proposed study should be completed in about twelve months
(tentative study start date: January 1988). It is expected that parts A
through C should take no more than eleven months of study effort.
18.      Reporting requirements will be as follows:
-    Inception report and methodology at the end of the first
month;
-    preliminary report of Part A at the end of the fourth;
-    preliminary report of Part B at the end of the seventh;
-    preliminary report of Part C at the end of the eleventh;
-    draft final report one month after completion of Part C;
-    comments by Government and Bank three months after receiving
draft. Final Report by Consultants one month later.
V. Manpower Requirements and Cost
19.      Manpower requirements for the study are estimated at 38 man-months
including the following skills:
-    Project Director/Transport Economist (12 imn);
-    Legal Expert (3 m/m);
-    Intermodal Planner (8 m/m);
-    Terminal Systems Engineer (9 m/m);
-    Road Transport Management Expert (6 mim).
Basic knowledge and experience on Portuguese freight transport market is
required to staff of consultants.
20.      It i8 estimated that the cost of the study should not exceed
US$300,000.
VI. Institutions Involved
21.      The following institutions will be involved in the study:
Coordinator - DGTT
Core Group   - GEP/MOPTC, ANTRAM
Participants - DGMC, CP, JAE
March 1987



- 53 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 7
PORTUGAL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Energy Management Policy Study - Terms of Reference
I. General Obiectives
1.       The study should provide for:
(a) Establishing the feasibility conditions for the measures
proposed to reduce energy consumption (accounting records,
costs, practical means of proceedings, energy gains, etc.);
(b) assistance to the Portuguese Commission in charge of
establishing an energy management policy in the
transportation sector;
(c) assistance to the private road transport associations, ANTROP
(National Road Passenger Transport Association) and ANTRAM
(National Road Freight Transport Association), for developing
the technical standards of.a voluntary fuel saving program in
accordance with the Commission mentioned in paragraph 1.1(b)
above; and
(d) assistance in the implementation of the initial action
program proposed.
II. Specific Obiectives
2.       Within these general objectives, the study will have the following
specific objectives:
(a) Identify the opportunities and priorities for energy savings
in transportation sector under a constraint of adequate
levels of service;
(b) define specific feasible targets and priorities of energy
conservation;
(c) outline the key elements and priorities for a national
program of energy conservation in this sector, including
legislative, regulatory and pricing measures and an
implementation timetable;



- 54 -
ANNEX 4
Pate 2 of 7
(d) recommend a public and private institutional framework for
implementation of this program including a voluntary program
of technical vehicle improvements in coordination with energy
conservation efforts in the industrial sector, and with
current or proposed safety and axle-load control programs.
III. Scope of Work
3.       The study will encompass three phases:
Phase A: Analysis of Existing Situation
(a) Structure of transportation sector: size, distribution and
ownership of enterprises in different subsectors (urban
transport, road, railways, rivers, maritime, traffic and
air). The enterprises to be included in the samples must be
selected by consultants. The following public enterprises
mnust be included: Rodoviaria Nacional (RN), Caminhos de
Ferro Portugueses (CP), Companhia Carris de Ferro de Lisboa
(CCFL), Servicos de Transportes Colectivos de Porto (STCP),
Transtejo (TT) and Transportes Aereos Portugueses (TAP).  The
following private road transport associations will also be
studied: ANTROP and ANTRAM.
(i) Pricing and procurement policies and practices for
transportation fuels. Now do the domestic prices compare to
the world prices? What is the pricing structure of different
energy sources (standard gasoline, unleaded gasoline, diesel,
coal, electricity power, etc.). What are the procurement and
sales policies and practices for fuels and subsectors? Does
any particular subsector or enterprise(s) benefit from
preferential treatment(s), fiscal, financial or other?
(c) Energy consumption trends for different energy sources broken
down as far as possible by mode (cars, trucks, buses,
railways, boats, airplanes, etc.) and trip purpose (goods,
people, rural-urban, intra-rural), for passengers and freight.
(d) Technical, safety and other improvements to road vehicles as
i.e. those promoted in other countries (EC, USA).
(e) Legislative *nd regulatory framework for transportation
sector.
The outcome of this phase will be the examination of the operational uses
of energy in the transport enterprises referred in the sample, and energy
balances for the sector and for the more important subsectors. In case of
significant domestic price distortions, an attempt will be made to restate
the balances in economic terms.



- 55 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 7
Phase B: Definition of Targets and Priorities
(a) Evaluation of scope for energy savings in the short and
medium range;
Short-term savings are those that can be achieved by limited
adjustments in technology choice and use, fleet management and scheduling,
and pricing and procurement policies. This short term evaluation should
apply to all enterprises referred in Phase A, (a).
Medium term savings are those that require major adjustments in
users' life-style, large-scale mode substitution, technological
innovations, capital investments in R & D and infrastructure, and
comensurate adjustments of policies and programs.
Outline the key elements and priorities for a national program of
energy conservation in this sector, including necessary legislative,
regulatory and pricing measures and an implementation timetable.
(b) Analysis of:
(i) financial and institutional means necessary to achieve
the savings evaluated above, including a system of
financial incentives to private operators for vehicle
safety and axle-load control improvements coordinated by
the private road transport associations;
(ii)  constraints likely to affect the attainment of these
savings: attitudes of consumers, structure of industry,
management weaknesses, resource. scarcity, technological
limitations; and
(iii)  an appropriate set of recommendations for changing the
relative price of diesel so that it approaches more
closely the price of gasoline.
The outcome of this phase will be a definition of specific short
and medium term targets and priorities for energy savings. This definition
will take into consideration the trade-offs between energy savings and
implementation constraints.
Phase C: Elaboration of a National Energy Conservation Program
4.       Following an agreement on targets and priorities between
consultants and the public and private agencies concerned, the consultants
will recommend and outline a national energy conservation program. This
program could include a combination of the following measures:
(a) changes in vehicle technologies and fuels;



56 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 7
(b) differential pricing of fuel and transportation modes, and
fiscal incentives to encourage a shift to high occupancy and
energy efficient vehicles;
(c) change in management practices of major transport
enterprises, applying to those referred in Phase A, (a); in
particular, procurement policies, fleet management,
scheduling, maintenance, and an energy saving plan;
(d) changes in the organization and operations of agencies and
bodies in charge of regulation of the sector (ministries,
supervisory bodies, regulatory commissions, transportation
planning agencies); and
(e) any other measures deemed appropriate.
This program should separate short term and medium term measures and take
into account on-going actions and programs in the transportation sector as
well as parallel efforts in energy conservation.
S.       The consultant shall present:
(a) a program of specific short term and medium term measures to
conserve energy;
(b) a timetable for the implementation of the program;
(c) an implementation strategy, including the phasing off of
various components of the program, relationship with other
on-going actions in selected ares, public information and
dissemination campaign, and the necessary administrative,
regulatory and legislative changes;
(d) cost estimates - capital and operating - associated with
implementation and operation of different measures; foreign
exchange component will be specifically identified;
(e) institutional arrangements to plan, coordinate, supervise and
monitor program implomentation;
(f) a management information system to monitor the program;
(g) a financial plan for the program, indicating sources of funds
(license fees, excise taxes on fuel, user charges, bonds,
etc.) and identify any resulting gaps;
(h) technical assistance requirements - including training
programs, provision of specialists and studies necessary to
implement various aspects of the program: for example, urban
transport management, and a potential for railroad traffic
substitution.



- 57 -
ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 7
The consultant shall prepare an economic justification (cost/benefit
analysis) for the program and for identifiable sub-programs. Particular
attention should be paid to the balance of payments impact, job creation or
losses associated with the program, net savings in energy consumption and
impact on rural and urban poor.
IV. Information Sources and Areas of Study
6.       The consultant should:
(a)  Analyze and review recent transport studies at the national
and regional level with particular reference to the
investment programs, from the energy supply point of view;
(b)  study the compatibility of the present regulatory and fiscal
arrangements with the policy for rational energy utilization
with particular reference to:
(i) relative fuel prices (gas oil, super gasoline);
(ii) the determination of the vehicle license fee and the
merits of relating the amount of the fee to the
vehicle's specific consumption, with the object of
favoring the most economic models.
(c)  With regard to the present organization of road hauliers:
(i) examine means of reducing the number of empty journeys,
such as the establishment of regional freight offices,
and the developing of a system (including the use of
telex) for the daily circulation of the flows of
information between customers and carriers;
(ii)  study methods and procedures for reducing the fuel
consumption of trucks, such as:  (a) carrying out energy
diagnoses of larger transport undertakings at private
and public companies and formulating an energy
conservation plan; and (b) instituting a plan for
training drivers in fuel saving driving techniques and
education of management to improve the education of
management to improve the management of the fuel account
by transport workers.
(d) With regard to rail transport of goods, study the validity of
the plan for restructuring stations open to traffic and the
associated measures, with special reference to:
(i) commercial policy;



- 58 -
ANNEX 4
Pate 6 of 7
(ii) the efficiency of terminal installations on tranch lines5
(iii)  the policy for management of the fleet of railway wagons;
(iv) the possible development of combined road/rail transport
(containers or trailers);
(v) coordination with road transport for forwarding of goods
at terminals.
(e)  Review the mutual consistency of the forecasts in the
National Energy Plan for the transportation sector and
establish alternative assumptions concerning the
effectiveness of the proposed energy management policy. In
this connection, the consultant should also study a plan for
the allocation of fuels in the event of a long or short
supply crisis.
(f)  Establish a statistical data bank consistent with the MOPTC
transport information system to obtain accurate data on:
(i) the development of energy consumption in the sector by
transport mode;
(ii) the actual vehicle fleet in use and the characteristics
of the vehicles in it.
(g) Evaluate the practical requirements for establishing
technical control centers for vehicles, with particular
reference to:
(i) the type of equipment needed;
(ii) the required investment;
(iii)  manpower requirements and training needs;
(iv) means for verifying proper implementation of the control
measures;
(v) legal status of the control centers and relations with
existing agents (garages, vehicle concessionaries,
equipment suppliers);
(vi) projected operating costs of the technical centers.
(h) Study means for creating greater awareness amongst elected
local officials, engineers, and industrial managers of the
problem of energy management in the transportation sector.
These means should include arrangzmentz for familiarizing
students and engineers with transport energy economics.



- 59 -
ANNEX 4
Page 7 of 7
V. Reporting Requirements and Timing
7.       The proposed study should be completed in about twelve months
(tentative study start date: October 1987). It is expected that Phase A
should take no longer than three months of study effort with specific tasks
of Phase B and C overlapping with Phase A.
Phase B should take three months of study effort.
Phase C and the "action program" recommendations for phase C
should be completed in about six months of study effort.
8.       Reporting requirements will be as follows:
-    Methodology and inception report at the end of the first
month;
-    Preliminary report of Phase A at the end of the third month;
-    Preliminary report of Phase B at the end of the sixth month;
-    Preliminary report of Phase C and "action program" at the end
of the eleventh month;
-    Draft final report one month after completion of Phase C;
-    Comments by Government and Bank three months after receiving
draft. Final report by Consultants one month later.
Manpower Requirements and Cost
9.       Manpower requirements for the study are estimated at around 36
man-months, including the following skills:
-    Project Director/Transport Economist (12 m/m)
-    Mechanical Engineer (2 m/m)
-    Intermodal Specialist (10 m/m)
-    Energy Specialist (10 m/m)
-    Financial Analyst (2 m/m)
10.      The cost of the study should not exceed US$300.000.
Institutions Involved
11.      The following institutions will be involved in the study:
Coordinator - GEP/MOPTC
Core Group   - RN, ANTRAM, ANTROP
Participants - DGTT, JAE, DGE, STCP, CARRIS, TT, TAP, LAR
March 1987



- 60 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 4
PORTUGAL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
North-South Corridor Study - Terms of Reference
Iptrodu¢tion
1.       The North-South Corridor (Valenca-Porto-Lisboa-Faro-V.R.S.
Antonfio) is the most important artery of the Portuguese Transport System as
a whole and for each mode: road, railway, air and coastal shipping. The
development of an intermodal transport planning study for this corridor is
of paramount importance for the country because it comprises 70 percent of
uAtionwide transport activities. The study would also be an example to be
followed by the rest of the country.
2        The study would make as much use as possible of the data existing
on 'Corissoes de Coordena9ao Regional", transport companies and data banks
for the transport sector namely the MOPTC information system.   The study
would be developed with the participation of experienced consultants
specialized on the logistic management of multimodal freight transport
Chain# and on the planning of passenger transport services.
Ob1 Cti1res and Context
3.      The main objectives of the study are to;
(a) identify and establish a satisfactory policy, regulations and
organizations related to transport;
(b) define the measures needed to improve the performance and
development of door to door transport services;
(c) evaluate major investment proposals for the transport sector
as well as for the individual modes;
(d) establish an adequate coordination between the implementation
of the transport sector plan for the corridor and the plans
for other sectors of the economy; and
(e) develop adequate training on the job of Portuguese
counterparts in order to get satisfactory implementation of
the proposals of the study.
4.       The study would include a detailed five-year transport plan and an
indicative plan for an additional ten years. The plan would cover



- 61 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 4
intercity land transport and domestic air and coastal shipping transport.
International traffic would be considered to the extent it affects domestic
transport facilities. The plan would be structured so that it would permit
updating in the future to allow for changes in data input, policies and
priorities. The study would give recommendations on the measures that are
needed to improve the performance and the development of the transport
sector as a whole, taking into account the coordination between the
transport modes and their respective performances.
Components
5.       First the study would carry out a diagnosis based on a detailed
identification of existing situation. Among other things, this study would
include:
(a) analysis of available data and studies;
(b) identification of existing and potential intermodal supply;
(c) identification of existing and potential demand based on
existing and required data;
(d) comparison of (b) and (c) above and as a result
identification of shortcomings and formulation of a global
diagnosis on the infrastructure and on current and future
policies for the corridor (tariffs, costs, timetables, and
investment programs).
6.       Second, the study would elaborate different scenarios based on the
multimodal supply and demand in the corridor. To this purpose the study
would analyze and define:
(a) demographic and socio-cultural factors (i.e. urbanization and
land policy in the corridor);
(b) economic factors (i.e. location of main activities,
industrial development and regional product); and
(c) transport factors (i.e. equipment, motorization and
infrastructure).
7.       Third and finally, the study would present proposals of a
transport coordinated program for the corridor at short term (annual and
five years) and at long term (ten years more). To this purpose, the study
should include:
(a) identification and selection of different development
alternatives concerning infrastructure and services;



- 62 -
ANNEX 5
Pase 3 of 4
(b) evaluation, through quantification of cost and benefits in
the socio-economic rtational context of the main alternativeA
of (a) above;
(c) evaluation of benefits following implementation of
segregation of traffic;
(d) evaluation of the impact of the policy measures and
investment programs proposed for the corridor in the regional
and suburban transport systems;
(e)  analysis of possible financing of the different alternatives;
and
(f) detail program of actions and recommendations at the
following levels:
- short term, annual;
- medium term, until five years;
- long term, ten years or more.
ReUortina
8.       Reporting (tentative study start date January 1988) would consist
of:
-    Progress report every two months detailing work carried out
during previous period;
-    interim report within one year of the starting date and
including a detailed diagnosis (para. 5) and the elaboration
of scenarios (para. 6);
-    draft final report within 21 months;
-    comaents by Goverment and Bank three months after receiving
draft. Final Report by Consultants one month later.
Manwpower
9.       The following manpower would be required:
Project director/Transport Planner                      21 m/m
Transport Economist                                     14 mlm
Highway Analyst                                          6 m/m
Railway Analyst                                          4 m/m
Air/Transport Specialist                                 1 m/m
Port/Coastal Shipping Specialist                         4 m/m
50 m/m



- 63 -
ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 4
The cost of the study is estimated at US$400.000.
10.      Support staff, local services and facilities would be provided by
the Government and would be detailed before proposals are invited.
Institution Involved
11.      The following institutions will be involved in the study:
Coordinator - GEP/MOPTC
Core Group   - RN, CP, ANTRAM, JAE, ANTROP
Participants - DG?T, DGV, DGHC, BRISA, TAP, LAR
March 1987



- 64 -
ANNEX 6
Pag  1 f 4
PORTUGAL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road User Charges Study - Terms of Reference
Background
1.       There is an increasing need to review the status of road user
charges in order to rationalize transport sector pricing practices. In
1981, the Portuguese Government, as part of the Highway Master Plan,
carried out an analysis of road user charges to determine whether road
related taxes imposed on road users were sufficient to cover the cost of
providing road infrastructure. The study acknowledged that road user
charges were sufficient to cover the cost of providing infrastructure.
However, the study pointed out that it existed cross subsidization between
the different kinds of traffic mainly through the pricing of diesel fuel
and other items, as annual licenses and vehicle purchase taxes, in favor of
heavy diesel powered vehicles. In the past years the Government has taken
important action with regard to fuel prices. A new formulation of the road
user charges issue is appropriate. This reformulation would focus on the
overall balance between user tax revenues and road expenditures, with
special emphasis on the balance between the tax revenues received from each
type of road user and the costs that each user imposes on the network,
namely new construction, rehabilitation, maintenance, congestion, accident
costs and other measurable externalities.
The taxation would promote an adequate modal split, an efficient
use of resources and contribute to a better coordination of the transport
system.
2.       The objectives of the study are to:
-    determine whether the current road related tax and toll
structure is adequate to cover at least the marginal cost of
providing road transport facilities;
-    determine whether the distribution of road related taxes and
tolls are equitable, ensuring that each type of road user at
least pays for the marginal cost that it imposes on the road
network;
-    make recommendations on how to solve deficiencies identified
in both sections above; and
-    contribute to latter coordination of transport system, to
transport investment policy and to setting up an adequate
segregation of traffic policy.



- 65 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 4
Approach
3.       The study would be carried out into two phases.  Phase I would
identify and estimate all road user charges and road related expenditures.
Phase 2 would allocate revenues and expenditures by class of road and type
of user. The basic years for the study would be 1987.
Phase 1
4.       The principal tasks would be:
(a) identification of road user charges and tolls and systems of
imposition. A review should be made of the various road user
charges on fuel, oil, tyres, spares, vehicle import taxes,
vehicle registration fees and tolls. The review would
specify the way in which the tax is calculated and the agency
responsible;
(b) estimation of revenues through road user charges and tolls
(1987). For fuel and oil only those tax revenues above the
international price should be considered. In vehicles,
spares and tyres, only the net amount above the average
import tariff for all imports should be considered as a user
tax revenue;
(c) estimation of infrastructure related expenditures (1987),
including all administration, design and supervision costs,
highway policy expenditures and all construction,
modernization, reconstruction and maintenance for the
national and local roads and bridges;
(d) estimation of other costs incurred by the use of
infrastructure, as congestion, accidents and other measurable
externalities; and
(e) comparison of revenues and costs. The comparison should
distinguish between marginal costs (highway police
expenditures and all reconstruction and maintenance costs)
and total costs.
Phase 2
5.       Under Phase 2, the revenues and costs would be allocated by type
of road and type of user. The main task would be:
(a) Allocation of revenues. Based on available data, tax
revenues should be allocated by type of road (urban, rural,
inter-urban), type of vehicle (car, light trucks, buses) and
at least three classes of heavy trucks.



- 66 -
ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 4
(b) allocation of expenditures. The estimated expenditures would
be divided among the classes of road identified in (a)
above. For each class of road, then, costs would be
distributed by type of expenditure including routine and
periodic maintenance, reconstruction and rehabilitation,
bridge works, new construction, expropriation of land and
administration;
(c) determination of vehicles for allocating costs. For each
type of expenditure identified in (b) above, a type of
vehicle must be defined for allocating this cost;
(d) estimation of vehicles. The type of vehicles cost estimated
defined in (c) above, must then be calculated for each class
of road in para. (b) above;
(e) allocation of expenditures by type of vehicle. This consists
simply of carrying out the calculation of aggregating by
vehicle type;
(f) comparison of revenues and costs. This would consist of a
comparison between revenues and marginal costs versus total
costs; and
(g)  establishment of a computerized accounting system in the
MOPTC information system relating revenues and costs incurred
by road users and type of road.
Recommendations
6.       The study would include recommendations proposing a series of
efficient tax measures which would warranty cost coverage by each vehicle
type to at least marginal cost.
7.       The study (tentative study start date October 1987) would include:
-    Progress reports every month detailing work carried out
during previous periods;
-    interim report within four months of the starting date
including overall review of the progress achieved, completion
of Phase l and recommendations involved;
-    draft final report including both phases and recommendations
after ten months; and
-    comments by Government and Bank three months after receiving
draft. Final Report by Consultants one month later.



- 67 -
AMINEX 6
laae 4 of 4
Manpower
8.       The team would include:
Project Director/Transport Planner                 10 months
Highway Engineer (Road Costing)                     6 months
Transport Economist                                 6 months
22 months
The cost of the study is estimated at US$150,000.
Institution Involved
9.       The following institutions will be involved in the studyt
Coordinator - DGTT
Core Group  - GEP/MOPTC, JAE, MINISTRY OF FINUCE
Participants - DGV, CP, BRISA
March 1987



- 68 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 2
PORTUGAL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Tanin  Poram
1.       Several areas have been identified during appraisal as those
requiring special training. Other training requirements may be identified
during the execution of the project. Specific procedures for the training
of staff in each area would be agreed by Bank staff during the semi-annual
program reviews and supervision missions.
2.       The trainees would be selected from all agencies involved in the
project: JAE, GEP, DGV and GN. JAE would provide most of the trainees
(70 percent and in all areas of training), GEP (15 percent mainly in
management, general transport courses and computerization) and DGV and GNR
the rest of the trainees mainly in traffic related courses. The training
courses would take place in-house and overseas.
3.       In-house training is designed for JAE's skill workers and would be
provided directly by JAE with their own training facilities and trainers.
Most of the in-house training would take place in the central workshop in
Lisbon (60 percent) and the rest-in the workshops of Oporto (20 percent)
and Coimbra (20 percent). In the case of some unexpected difficulty, JAE
may use some of the Vocational Training Centers available in Portugal. The
cost of in-house training is financed under JAE's annual budget.
4.       Overseas training is designed for high level staff of JAE, GEP,
DGV and GNR. The staff would attend overseas courses in specific
specialties related to the project. In some cases, training of high level
staff may take place in Portugal through hiring of international experts.
The cost of overseas (or when hiring international experts in Portugal)
training would be financed under the loan.
5.       In-house TraininR:  It would include training courses for 110
trainees as follows:
Auto-Mechanics         30 trainees
Auto-Electrician       10 trainees
Plant Mechanics        20 trainees
Road Supervisors       kO trainees
Plant Operators        10 trainees
TOTAL             110 Trainees



- 69 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 2
The courses would last about three months. Each course would not include
more than twenty trainees.
6.       Overseas Training.  The cost of overseas training for high level
staff (managers, engineers, economists and planners) is calculated on the
basis of a US$3,000 fee per month per trainee. The fee includes trips,
room and board, and tuition costs. The following courses would take place:
Manpower
(m/m)
(a)  Traffic Engineering                                    11
(b)  Development of Traffic Data Bank                        3
(c) Traffic Safety Measures including Signaling
for High Traffic Intersections                         12
-dj0  Bridge Design                                          5
(e)  Bridge Maintenance                                      5
(f) Reinforcement of Pavements                              12
(g)  Formulation of Transport Plans                          6
(h) International Land Transport Agreements and
Procedures                                              2
(i) Computerization Applied to Data Bank in the
Transport Modes                                         5
(j) Transport Management                                     7
(k)  Implementation of a Regular Vehicle Inspection          4
TOTAL                            72 m/m
7.       The total cost of the training program (US$3,000 m/m) would amount
to about US$200,000.
March 1987



- 70 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 2
PORTUGAL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD HIGBWAY PROJECT
Summary Data Sheets for Candidate Sub-pro ects
1. Basic Data
Road:
Section:
Length (Km):
Cross-Section present:
Cross-Section proposed:
Pavement proposed:
Design class (flat, rolling, mountainous terrain):
2. Traffic (AADT)
Light      Heavy
car      Dus      Truck      Truck       Total
Base Year:
Year of Completion:
Growth/Year:
1986-1995:
1996-2005:
3. Bridges, Culverts and Special Works
4. Cost Estimate and Tentative Budget Allocation Per Year (in thousand
Esc.):



- 71 -
AMEX 8
Page 2 of 2
S. Vehicle Operatins Cost (in Sec.) per Vehicle/Km and Passenger Time
Savings (in Esc.) in the Oxenina Year.:
Light      Heavy
Car      Bus      Truck      Truck      Total
Without Project:
With Project :
6.  Economic Data
First Year Benefit/Cost (S):
Internal Rate of Return (S):
7. Tener and Construction
Tentative Tender Date:
Completion Time:
Tentative Budget Allocation (10' Esc.):    1986 u
1987 -
1988 
S. Technical Description
9. Economic Description
10. Alternatives Considered
11. Date of Fea"ibility StudY
ftreh 1986



- 72 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 2
PORTUGAL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. General Reports and Studies on the Transport Sector or Road Subsector
1. National Transport Plan Study, Kampsax/Systam, Jun6 1981.
2. Highway Master Plan Study, JAE-Freeman Fox, August 1981.
3. Transport Sector Memorandum, IBRD Report No. 3922-PO,
August 15, 1983.
4. PIDDAC 1986 (Central Administration Investment Plan in Roads,
1986).
5. PIDDAC 1986, Fontes de financiamento (Sources of financing
for PIDDAC 1986).
6. Programa de Desenvolvimento Regional 1986-90 (Regional
Development Plan 1986-90).
7. Economic Stabilization and Priorities for Financial Recovery
in Portugal - July 1, 1986, IBRD Report No. 5617-PO.
8. Diagnostico do Sector Empresarial do Estado de Transportes e
Comunicacoes - GEPTC - Ano I Fevereiro 1985 (Tomo I); Ano II
Janeiro 1986 (Tomo II) - (Data on state-owned transport
enterprises).
9. Os Transportes e Comunicacoes em numeros: Portugal 1979/1983
- Ano I - Dezembro 1984 (Tomo I); Portugal 1980/1984 - Ano II
- Dezembro 1985 (Tomo II) - (Portugal, Transport in numbers:
1979/1983 and 1980/1984.
10. Set of legislation (including index list) about land
expropriation in Portugal.
B. General Reports and Studies RelatinLg to the Project
11. Plano a Medio Prazo 1986-88 (PMP) (Medium-Term Investment
Plan 1986-88)



- 73 -
ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 2
12.  Terceiro Projecto Rodoviario - Banco Mundial - Programacao de
Inwestimentos (1986-89) (Initial Proposal of a Third Highway
Project to the World Bank).
13. Analise Economica de Conservacao - Direcao dos Servicos de
Conservacao JAE and Roy Jorgensen Associates (Tomo I) -
Analise Economica: Sumario (Tomo II). No date. (Economic
Analysis of Road Maintenance Operations, 2 Volumes).
14. Fiscalidade e Transportes em Portugal - Jose Silva and Jose
Pinto, 1979 (Road User Charges, 1979).
15. Redimensionamento de Pavimentos nos Itinerarios Principais,
JAE, 20 Fevereiro, 1986 (Pavement Redesign in the Main
Itineraries).
16. An appraisal of Highway Maintenance by contract in Developing
Countries, IBRD, Harral/Henriod/Graziano, April 1986.
17. Conservacao Corrente por Contrato, Distrito de Portalegre,
1986 (maintenance by Contract in Portalegre District 1986).
18. Pessoal da JAE-Quadro I (JAE's staff).
19. Decreto Regulamentar No. 78/85 de 26 Novembro (Axle Load
legislation, Decree of November 26, 1985).
20. Centros de Seguranca Rodoviaria - No date (Road Safety
Centers).
21. Decreto-Lei No. 380/85 de 26 Setembro, Itinerarios Principais
e Complementares (Decree 380/85 of September 26 with a new
classification of the road network).
22. Decreto-Lei No. 21/83 de 21 de Janeiro, Reestructuracao da
DGV (Decree-Law restructuring the organization of the General
Directorate of Traffic).
23. Decreto-Lei No. 184/78 de 18 de Julho, Reorganizacao da JAE
(Decree-Law including JAE reorganization).
24. List of works selected for Retroactive Financing under the
Proposed Third Highway Project (1986).
March 1987



REPUBUC OF PORTUGAL
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF THE
MINISTRY OF PUBUC WORKS, TRANSPORT AND COMMUNICATIONS
MINISTER OF
PUBLiC WORKS,
TRANSPORT AND
COMMUNICATIONS
CABINET FOR STUDIES
AND PLANNING FOR
TRANSPORT AND
COMMUNICATIONS 
L       (GEPTC)
SECRETARY' OF                     SECRETARY OF                      SECRETARY OF
STATE                             STATE                             STATE
MEANS OF                       TRANSPORT AND                    CONSTRUCTiON AND
COMMUNICATIONS                    COMMUNICATION                        HOUSING
ROADS (JAE)                       CP (RAILWAY)
-PORTS                          -RN (INTERURBAN AND SUBURBAN BUS)
EAIRPORTS                         -CARRIS (USBON BUS & TRAM)
TAP AIRUNE)
-CTT CENTRAL TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH)
L-TLP TELEPHONES USBON AND OPORTO)
SOURCE- iAE,ULt.Y 1986.                                                                 WORLD BANK 30758



REPUUC OF PORIU
APPRAISAL Of A Tl4RD MKHWAY PROJECr
OrgMnton dw the Junta Au_oom de ErOdas
I~ ~~~~~ _ii              I _   _jI~4j        
~i'iI[JJ' I'l  Coi                                  iIhIi   f;. 
So~~,Oe~                                   .,I  . 498
I
.                  
2|  3g
W"Wt Om*-30746



X4on~~~~~~~~~o so-
reco                           VORAPORTALEU\ 
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Main Highway System         dcl                                                                                          r. W a.J  |  _    , -|
A }~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~44 ** |4   a  __._
TWO  H. S   . .
0aw.* Nokd.mu F,.
-FOURt LANE HrGHWAY
rTNO LANE SECONDARY HIGHWAY        _    t        /                                 .FRANCE
FIRT HIGHWAY PRt>JECT.                                 
SECND     FI ECt Y PROJECt;
HIGNWAYS IAPREO -E                                                               {
THM IROIY         - Pr A                                            J  Eo 9r 
Z * * @ ,RAUIWAYS                                                             Aw                                M  i
Z              9frfbTA Io                                                                   -Mi                     1_C 5 \   ¢ S  P  A  I N 
<0
M
D                                                         40    w w. .:
I                                                                                                                                 0U34 _ 8 ,*.D



Ce-ig  0    \\'Aros lde \_ -/                          BRAC.ANCAi
Pa  Vo  AM-r MALICNrJA .U0 v vr
OFO                     RO A  POZ
M   t  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ClrCcoD  
AVEltRO                                                                 ILA ILO RMOSO
FIGUEIRA DA FOGm     J  + W    
X     a    / CASTEL~~~~~~~~~~ASEO 84ANCO



