Page  1
                                   LOAN NUMBER 2840 PO
                    Loan Agreement
                (Third Highway Project)
                        between
                 REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
                          and
         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                    AND DEVELOPMENT
                  Dated July 10, 1987
     AGREEMENT, dated July 10, 1987, between REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                       ARTICLE I
            General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01.  The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
     (a)  "MOPTC" means Ministerio das Obras Publicas, Transportes
e Comunicacoes the Borrower's Ministry of Public Works, Transport
and Communications, and any successor thereto.
     (b)  "JAE" means Junta Autonoma de Estradas, the Highway
Authority, an agency of the Borrower, and any successor thereto;
     (c)  "GEP" means Gabinete de Estudos e Planeamento do MOPTC,
the Cabinet of Studies and Planning of MOPTC, and any successor
thereto;
     (d)   "DGV" means Direccao Geral de Viacao, the General
Directorate of Traffic, an agency of the Borrower, and any successor
thereto;
Page  2
     (e)  "GNR" means the Guarda Nacional Republicana, the
National Guard of the Borrower, and any successor thereto;
     (f)  " PMP" means Plano a Medio Prazo, the Borrower's Medium-
term Plan, as adopted under despacho dated January 21, 1987, for the
national highway sector during the 1986 through 1988 period;
     (g)   "Energy Management Policy Study" means the Energy
Management Policy Study of the Borrower referred to in Section 3.03
of this Agreement;
     (h)  "Freight Transport Productivity Study" means the Freight
Transport Productivity Study of the Borrower referred to in Section
3.03 of this Agreement;
     (i)  "Road User Charges Study" means the Road User Charges
Study of the Borrower referred to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement;
     (j)  "North-South Corridor Study" means the North-South
Corridor Study of the Borrower referred to in Section 3.04 of this
Agreement;
     (k)  "Road Safety Program" means the Road Safety Program of
the Borrower referred to in Section 3.08 of this Agreement;
     (l)   "Training Program" means the Training Program of the
Borrower referred to in Section 3.09 of this Agreement; and
     (m)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                      ARTICLE II
                       The Loan
     Section 2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty million dollars
($50,000,000).
     Section 2.02.  (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in a financial
institution on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this
Agreement.
     Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1990 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one-half
of one percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for
the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such Interest
Period.
Page  3
     (b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
       (i)     "Interest Period" means the six-month period
               commencing on each date specified in Section 2.06
               of this Agreement, including the Interest Period
               in which this Agreement is signed.
      (ii)     "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982, expressed as a percentage
               per annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
     (iii)     "Semester" means the first six months or the
               second six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06.  Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07.  The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                      ARTICLE III
               Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01.  (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, in accordance with the PMP, shall carry
out Parts A, B, C, D and E (3) through JAE and Part E (1) and (2) of
the Project through GEP, all with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate financial, engineering and
administrative practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
     (b)   The Borrower shall consult with the Bank prior to
making any significant modification of any aspect of the PMP.
     Section 3.02.  The Borrower shall establish through GEP, not
later than September 30, 1987, a steering committee comprised of
representatives of the Borrower's Ministry of Finance, the
Borrower's Ministry of Planning and Territorial Administration, JAE
and GEP for the purpose of coordinating the technical assistance and
training to be carried out under Part E of the Project.
     Section 3.03.  The Borrower shall: (a) not later than June 30,
1989, carry out the Energy Management Policy Study, Freight
Transport Productivity Study and Road User Charges Study on the
basis of terms of reference and schedules satisfactory to the Bank;
     (b)   not later than three months after the completion of
each study referred to in paragraph (a) hereof or September 30,
1989,, whichever is earlier, consult with the Bank on the
conclusions and recommendations of each study referred to in
paragraph (a) hereof; and
     (c)  not later than three months after consultation with the
Bank on the conclusions and recommendations of each study referred
to in paragraph (a) hereof or December 31, 1989, whichever is
earlier, prepare an action program satisfactory to the Bank for
implementation of the recommendations of each study referred to in
paragraph (a) hereof for the purposes of achieving the objectives of
each such study.
     Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than September
30, 1989, carry out the North-South Corridor Study on the basis of
Page  4
terms of reference and a schedule satisfactory to the Bank; and
     (b)   not later than December 31, 1989, consult with the Bank
on the conclusions and recommendations of such study and prepare an
action program satisfactory to the Bank for implementation of the
recommendations of such study for the purposes of achieving the
objectives of such study.
     Section 3.05.  The Borrower shall, not later than September
30, 1987, update in a manner satisfactory to the Bank for purposes
of the studies referred to in Sections 3.03 and 3.04 of this
Agreement, the data in the transport information system of MOPTC
based on the 1981 National Transport Study of the Borrower.
     Section 3.06.  Without restriction or limitation upon the
provisions of Section 9.09 of the General Conditions, the Borrower
shall acquire, on a schedule satisfactory to the Bank, the land and
rights in respect of land required for carrying out Part A of the
Project.
     Section 3.07.  The Borrower shall, through JAE, DGV and GNR,
not later than December 31, 1987, put into effect a program
satisfactory to the Bank for nationwide vehicle weight control,
which program shall, inter alia, specify the agencies of the
Borrower which shall participate in such program and define the
respective responsibilities  of such agencies, provide for adequate
coordination among such agencies, identify the assets available for
the control of weights and provide for methods for securing
additional staff and the necessary installations and equipment.
     Section 3.08.  The Borrower shall, not later than September
30, 1987, put into effect the Road Safety Program under Part C of
the Project which shall provide, inter alia, for consultation on a
regular basis among JAE, DGV and GNR on road safety matters, specify
the respective responsibilities of JAE, DGV and GNR, and set forth
a timetable for implementation of such program.
     Section 3.09.  The Borrower shall carry out the Training
Program under Part E (3) of the Project in a manner and on a
schedule satisfactory to the Bank.
     Section 3.10.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.11.  Without restriction or limitation upon the
provisions of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, the Borrower
shall review the progress of the Project with the Bank on the basis
of the schedule set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
                      ARTICLE IV
                  Financial Covenants
Section 4.01.  (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
       (i)     have the records and accounts referred to in
               paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
               the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
               in accordance with appropriate auditing
               principles consistently applied, by independent
               auditors acceptable to the Bank;
      (ii)     furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
Page  5
               any case not later than six months after the end
               of each such year, the report of such audit by
               said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
               as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
     (iii)     furnish to the Bank such other information con-
               cerning said records and accounts and the audit
               thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
       (i)     maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
      (ii)     retain, until at least one year after the Bank
               has received the audit report for the fiscal year
               in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
               Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
               invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
               evidencing such expenditures;
     (iii)     enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
               records; and
      (iv)     ensure that such records and accounts are
               included in the annual audit referred to in
               paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
               of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
               auditors as to whether the statements of
               expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
               together with the procedures and internal
               controls involved in their preparation, can be
               relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
     Section 4.02.  The Borrower shall at all times adequately
maintain and repair, or cause to be adequately maintained and
repaired, all roads constructed or rehabilitated under the Project,
all in accordance with appropriate engineering standards and with
due regard to financial and economic requirements.  To this effect,
the Borrower shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities and other resources required for the purpose.
                       ARTICLE V
                      Termination
     Section 5.01.  The date 45 days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                      ARTICLE VI
       Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01.  The Minister of the Borrower at the time
responsible for Finance is designated as the representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
     Section 6.02.  The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministerio das Financas
          Avenida Infante D. Henrique
Page  6
          1100 Lisboa
          Portugal
          Cable address:           Telex:
               Direccao-Geral           12 764 TRESOR P
               do Tesouro
               Lisboa
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:           Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                440098 (ITT),
               Washington, D.C.         248423 (RCA) or
                                         64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                    REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
                         /s/ Jose Luis Gomes
                    By
                         Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                        RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                         /s/  Wilfried Thalwitz
                              Regional Vice President
                         Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                      SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                    Amount of the            % of
                    Loan Allocated      Expenditures
                    (Expressed in       to be Financed
     Category       Dollar Equivalent)
(1)  Civil works       34,400,000       50%
(2)  Road maintenance   9,000,000       35%
     by contractor
(3)  Equipment,         3,000,000       100% of foreign
     materials and                      expenditures
     spare parts
(4)  Consultants'       1,400,000       100%
     services
(5)  Training             200,000       100%
Page  7
(6)  Unallocated        2,000,000
          TOTAL        50,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expen-
ditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that with-
drawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$5,1000,1000, may be made in respect of Category (1) on account of
payments made for expenditures before that date but after July 1,
1986.
SCHEDULE 2
              Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to support the Borrower's
Plano a Medio Prazo of capital works, routine maintenance and
technical assistance during the 1986 through 1988 period and to
improve the planning and coordination of transport programs of the
Borrower.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:  Road Improvement
     Construction of about 100 kilometers of roads to bypass about
eight towns and about fifteen black spots, rehabilitation of about
2,500 kilometers of roads and periodic maintenance and/or
strengthening of about 3,000 kilometers of roads.
Part B:   Road Maintenance
     Carrying out of routine road maintenance on the national
network.
Part C:  Road Safety
     Strengthening of the Borrower's road safety capability through
the establishment of an accident data collection storage system, a
retrieval and analysis system and a system of regular vehicle
inspection, and improved coordination and collaboration among the
agencies involved in road safety (JAE, DGV and GNR) through the
provision of technical assistance and equipment for the purpose.
Part D:  Vehicle Weight Control
     Strengthening of the Borrower's program for axle-load control
through improved coordination and collaboration between the agencies
involved in axle-load control (JAE, DGV and GNR) and the provision
of equipment for the purpose.
Part E:  Institutional Development
(1)  Development of intermodal transport planning and coordination
and improvement of freight transport efficiency through an Energy
Management Policy Study, a Freight Transport Productivity Study, a
Road User Charges Study and a North-South Corridor Study.
(2)  Improvement of the planning and coordination of the transport
sector of the Borrower through the provision of technical
assistance.
Page  8
(3)  Strengthening the Borrower's management capability of its
transport sector through the provision of training.
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1989.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
                                   Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                   (expressed in dollars)*
On each January 1 and July 1
     beginning January 1, 1991
     through   January 1, 2002               2,085,000
On July 1, 2002                              2,045,000
_____________
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
     determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal.  See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
The following premiums are specified for the purposes of Section 3.04 (b) of the 
General Conditions:
     Time of Prepayment                  Premium
                                    The interest rate
                                    (expressed as a per-
                                    centageper annum)
                                    applicable to the
                                    balance outstanding on
                                    the Loan on the day of
                                    prepayment multiplied
                                    by:
     Not more than three years               0.20
          before maturity
     More than three years but               0.40
          not more than six years
          before maturity
     More than six years but                 0.73
          not more than eleven years
          before maturity
     More than eleven years but not          0.87
          more than thirteen years
          before maturity
     More than thirteen years before         1.00
          maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
                            Procurement
Page  9
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in
Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Portugal may be granted a margin of preference 
in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $5 million or less, equipment and 
materials estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or less, but not more than 
$600,000 in the aggregate, and all routine maintenance
works may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, 
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.   Spare parts which are not proprietary may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of price quotations solicited from at least three suppliers eligible under 
the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.
3.   Proprietary spare parts for equipment may be purchased directly from the 
suppliers of the equipment or their authorized agencies.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each contract for civil works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $5,000,000 or more and for equipment and materials estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.  Where payments
for such contracts are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be 
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be 
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special 
Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  The bidding documents for the first three contracts to be awarded on the 
basis of competitive bidding, locally advertised, are to be furnished to the Bank in 
accordance with paragraph 2 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  The bidding documents 
for all other contracts to be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, locally 
advertised, are to be in accordance with those reviewed by the Bank as heretofore 
provided.
     (c)  With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding subparagraphs 
(a) and (b), the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.  Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures shall be modified 
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract together with the other 
information required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be 
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
     (d)  The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a), (b) and (c) shall not 
apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the 
Loan Account on the basis of statements of expenditure.  Such
contracts shall be retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c)(ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
Page  10
     In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part E of the Project, the
Borrower shall employ transport management consultants whose qualifications, 
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.  
Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures 
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank 
in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 5
Progress Reports
Part A:
     The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank on a quarterly basis the information  
referred to in Section 9.07 (a) of the General Conditions.
Part B:
     The Borrower and the Bank shall meet on a semi-annual basis to review the 
following reports prepared by the responsible agency on the progress of the PMP:
1.   By March 15 of each year, JAE shall report on the level of works carried out 
during the previous year under the PMP, breakdown of recurrent budget expenditures, 
financial status of JAE, maintenance operations, selection and execution of 
Bank-financed works, assessment of maintenance costs by force account and by 
contractor using the monitoring system of JAE, and  implementation of the vehicle 
weight control program.
2.   By March 15 of each year, GEP shall report on the Road User Charges Study and the 
status of road user charges; the Energy Management Policy Study and the status of fuel 
prices; the status of the trucking regulatory review; update of investment objectives 
and projected limits for each of the transport subsectors, with particular focus on 
the status of road and rail competition; and the use of technical assistance during 
the previous calendar year.
3.   By September 15 of each year, JAE shall report on the proposed update of the PMP 
investment program, proposed recurrent budget for the following year, progress of the 
Road Safety Program, progress on acquisition of equipment, progress of the Training 
Program and status of selection and execution of Bank financed works.
4.   By September 15 of each year, GEP shall report on the proposed allocation of 
funds for technical assistance in the following year and on the action taken to ensure 
consistency of the road and rail investment plans for the following year.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule I to this Agreement;
     (b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to
the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this
Agreement; and
     (c)the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $6,000,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the Special Account 
shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions 
of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
Page  11
     (a)On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the 
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
     (b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for replenishment of the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.  On the basis of such 
requests, the Bank shall withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special 
Account with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures.  All such deposits shall
be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
the evidence supporting the request for such deposit furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account for which
the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to or at the
time of such request, such documents and other evidence as the Bank shall reasonably 
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no further 
deposit into the Special Account shall be made by the Bank when either of the 
following situations first arises:
     (i) the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals should be
         made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance with
         the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph
         (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
    (ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
         Categories, minus the amount of any outstanding special commitment
         entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
         Conditions with respect to the Project, shall be equal to the
         equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
     (b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures 
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of
the Special Account (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified
by the evidence furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, deposit into the Special Account (or, if 
the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further deposit by the 
Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such deposit 
or refund.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account.
