Da~
The Worll
muw KUbbIfAE                           
Reput No. 9901
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GUINEA-BISSAU
BISSAU PORT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1392-GUB)
SEPTEMBER 16, 1991
Infrastructure Operations Division
Western Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has 2 restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALEM rS
Currency Unit       =      Guinea-Bissau Peso (GP)
US$1.00 (1983)             GP  40
US$1.00 (1984)      =      GP 105
US$1.00 (1985)      =      GP 160
US$1.00 (1986)      =      GP 205
US$1.00 (1987)      =      GP 561
US$1.00 (1988)      =      GP 1118
US$1.00 (1989)      =      GP 1810
US$1.00 (1990)      =      GP 2190
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
AfDB                 African Development Bank
BADEA           =    Arab Bank for Economic Development
BNG             =    National Bank of Guinea-Bissau
GUINEMAR        =    Guinea Marine
JAPG            =    Junta Autonoma dos Portos da Guine-Bissau
KF              =    Kuwait Fund for Economic Development
MES             =    Ministry of Social Infrastructure, now Ministry of
Public Works, Construction and Urban Affairs
MLW             =    Mean Low Water
MOT             =    Ministry of Transport
MIT             =    Ministry of Transport and Touresm
POL             =    Port of Lisbon
RIC             =    Reconstruction Import Credit
RODOFLUVIAL =    Public Trucking and River Transport Company
SET             =    State Secretariat of Transport, now Ministry of Transport
TA              =    Technical Assistance



FOR CIL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
04k. of OV.C-Cwtnti
0Pwaaoi Ev Iu.trnn
September 16, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Guinea-Bissau:  Bissau Port Project
(Credit 1392-GUB)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Guinea-Bissau: Bissau Port Project (Credit 1392-GUB)"
prepared by the Africa Regional Office. No audit of this project has been made
by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performrance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoiization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
G UINEA-BISSAU
BISSAU PORT PROJECT
(Credit 1392-GUB)
pROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface    .............                                                          ...     i
Evaluation Summary .............                                                         ii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PEKSPECTIVE .1
1. Project Identity.                                                             1
2. Background.                                                                    1
3.  Project Objectives and Description.                                          2
4.  Project Design and Organization.                                              3
5.  Project Implementation                           .5
6. Project Results.                                                              9
7.  Project Sustainability .11
8. IDA Performance .12
9.  Borrower Performance .13
10. Project Relationships .14
11.  Consulting and Other Services .14
12.  Project Documentation and Data .15
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE .16
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION .17
1.  Related Bank Credits .17
2. Project Timetable .18
3.   Credit Disbursements and Allocations .19
4.  Key Performnance Indicators .21
5. Project Cost .22
6. Project Results .24
7.  Use of Bank Resources .36
8.  Status of Credit Covenants.                                                 3
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



GUINEA-BISSAU
BISSAU PORT PROJECT (CREDIT 1392-GUB)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Bissau Port Project in Guinea-
Bissau for which Credit 1392-GUB in the amount of US$16.0 million was approved on June
23, 1983. rae credit was closed on June 30, 1990, two years behind schedule. It was fully
disbursed, and the last disbursement was on August 14, 1990.
The PCR was prepared by the Infrastructure Operations Division, Western Africa
Department, of the Africa Regional Office. Prvparation of the PCR was based, inter alia, on
a review of the Staff Appraisal Report, the Credit Agreement, the correspondence files and
interviews with the staff involved.
Cofinanciers included the Kuwait Fund, the Saudi Fund, BADEA and the OPEC
Fund.
Despite repeated requests to the Gove .ment, no information has been received to
date to enable the Region to complete Part ai.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GIJINEA-BISSAU
BISSAU PORT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1392-GUB)
EVALUATION SU1MMARY
Objectives
1.    The main objectives of t!e proposed project were: (a) to improve MIT's ability in
transport sector planning and in supervising state transport companies; and to establish an
autonomous transport company to improve access to rural areas; (b) to increase the efficiency
of port operations and management; (c) to ensure the ability of Bissau Port to continue
handling traffic; and (d) to improve the efficiency of handling river traffic (para. 3.01).
2.    The IDA-financed project included repairs to an existing wharf, technical assistance,
river port works and supervision of construction of a new commercial wharf which was
financea by four Arab Funds (para. 3.02).
Implementation Experience
3.    The preparation of the project took four years. Preparation was unnecessarily drawn
out by the failure of the consultant to take borings at the time the site for the new wharf was
investigated and because of design problems. A long preparatory period was reasonable in
view of the problems encountered, but four years seems unduly long (para. 4.03).
4.    The execution of the project was repeatedly delayed because of disbursement
suspensions by the Arab Funds which held up payments to the contractor for the new wharf.
As the same contractor was responsible for the IDA-financed civil works, payment arrears
also adversely affected this work (paras. 5.06, 5.07, 5.10, and 5.14).
5.    The project was completed within the appraisal cost estimate in SDR terms, despite
the additional works and the need for more technical assistance, and delays in completing the
project (para. 5.20).
Results
6.    Despite the foregoing, the project, including additional civil works and substantially
more technical assistance than originally conceived, was successfully completed two and a half
years behind schedule (para. 6.01).
7.    The major accomplishments under the project were: (i) the construction of a modern
deepwater port facility (financed by the Arab Funds) where only a badly damaged wharf
existed previously, which was unusable by larger ships at low water; (ii) the repair of the
damaged wharf which is now being used by river barges (RODOFLUVIAL), small ships and



- iii -
the fishing fleet; (iii) the training of a reasonabiy competent port management where before
only a weak staff existed which was unable to operate and maintain the old wharf; and (iv) the
strengthenitg of otuSer transport institutions in the country (paras. 6.01 and 9.04).
8.    Traffic moving through Bissau Port has almost doubled since appraisal and is
substantially higher than forecasted at appraisal. The reevaluated economic rate of return
(ERR) on the IDA-financed project is 13.7%, as compared to 21 % as estimated at the time of
appraisal (para. 6.0)2 and 6.05). This reduced ERR is considered satisfactory in the light of
the lower river barge traffic and lack of cargo handling equipment on the existing wharf.
Sustainability
9.    The project has had significant benefits in: (a) increasing the capacity of -,issau Port,
not only for international trade, but for the coastal fleet, and the distribution of goods to the
hinterland; (b) strengthening management of JAPG and RF. These improvements are
sustainable, providing that the Government pays its bills to the port, allows it the foreign
exchange needed for equipment, spare parts and supplies, and agrees to stevedoring output
incentives (paras. 7.01-7.02).
10.   Problems were experienced with the engineering design and supervision, but these
were resolved by the thorough and frequent supervision by IDA staff (para. 11.01).
Findings and Lessons Learned
11.   Traffic increased 50% above forecast. IDA's agreement to the construction of the new
wnarf (financed by the Arab Funds) proved justified. The rehabilitated old wharf could not
handle present traffic without increasing again ship waiting time (paras 4.06, 6.02 and 8.06).
12.   The quality and continuity of IDA supervision was high and greatly contributed to the
successful completion of a difficult project in a remote location, and within the original cost
estimate in SDR terms, despite the many problems which arose during its execution (paras.
5.20 and 8.03).
13.   Better provision should be included in similar future projects for the prompt supply of
spare parts and cargo handling equipment (para. 8.04).
14.   It would be prudent in preparing future projects in poor countr.es to ascertain whether
payments to potential co-donors may be coming due during the executing period of the
project, and assess the effect on the project of possible co-donor credit or loan suspensions
(para. 9.01).
15.   More effort should have been made by IDA and the Borrower to identify suitable
counterparts for training abroad, and to avoid unnecessary changes in personnel after they a.e
trained. These problems considerably undermined the effectiveness of the TA program (para.
9.02).
16.   Closer coordination should have been maintained with the AfDB, especially when
that agency indicated an interest in financing a part of tie project for which IDA funding was
insufficient (para. 10.02).



- iv -
17.    The extent of the problems encountered in both the design and supervision phases
(pa,'as. 4.04, 4.07, 5.08, 5.12 and 5.13) were valid reasons for concern by IDA staff
overseeing the worl . The project demonstrated the importance of: (i) the IDA's selection
process to ensure that the consultant firrn and individual staff are qualified; and (ii) close
involvement of Bank staff in the preparation and execution of its projects (para. 11.01).
18.   The employment of a large number of individual experts to provide technical
assistance is not effective in remote areas and under difficult conditions. The use of a
company to provide and oversee the performance of experts would have been preferred (para.
11.02).
19.    The original plan provided for training abroad of four local staff for the posts of
administration, finance, operations and maintenance. Over the eight years of execution,
attrition in the form of death, illness, transfer and replacement gradually eliminated all the
original trainees. For a future project, it would be wise to double the numb:rs of trainees
with the expectation that a few would survive in office over the long term (para. 11.02).



GUINEA-BISSAU
IBISSAU PORtT PROlECT
(CREDIT 1392-GUB)
PROJECI COMPLETIOQ REPORT
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
jct Identiy
Name                              Bissau Port Project
Credit Number                     1392-GUB
RVP Unit                   :      Africa Region
Country                    :      Guinea-Bissau
Sector                     :      Transportation
2.    Background
2.01   In the early 1980s, most domestic and international traffic passed through the capital
city of Bissau and its harbor terminal although a minor quantity was transported by land to
and from bordering Senegal. River transport was particularly important because of the
location of seven navigable estuaries in the western and south-western part of the country. In
1979, river transport accounted for roughly half of the tonnage transported, while the
remainder was moved by road.
2.02   Coastal shipping and river navigation have traditionally played an important role in
transportation, as about 85% of the population live near a navigable waterway. Distances on
the major trade routes were frequently shorter by river than by road. There were 17 coastal
or river ports regularly served by barges. The largest port, Bissau, as well as most of the
other coastal and river ports, was in poor condition because of inac,equate maintenance
provided by the port authority, the Junta Autonoma dos Portos da C;uine-Bissau (JAPG),
which came under the Ministry of Tr.nsport and Tourism (MlTl). Shortly after the project
was approved, the Secretary of State fur Transport (SET) under the Ministry of Social
Infrastructure (MviES) became responsible for JAPG. In 1990, SET was upgraded to a new
Ministry of Transport (MOT), and MES was renamed Ministry of Public Works,
Construction and Urban Affairs.
2.03   Apart from Bissau port, the project included the rehabilitation of four river ports.
These ports played a major role in marketing of agricultural products, in supplying Bissau
with food and in supplying the hinterland with products irported via Bissau. River transport
was also impornant for passenger traffic, and it is the only reliable means of transportation in
the southern part of the country during the rainy season when most of the roads were
impassable. The project provided for four ferry ramps to service ferry traffic.
2.04  In 1983, JAPG was in charge of Bissau port, the only deepwater port in the country,
as well as some 20 river ports. It was responsible for all port operations, cargo handling,
equipment and infrastructure maintenance and repair, and investments in port facilities. JAPG
had an oversized workforce but suffered from an acute shortage of qualified staff. Personnel
administration, finances, supplies and store control were inadequate; and technical studies
were non-existent. Port productivity, as weasured by tonnage per employee was as low as



- 2 -
84t per annum. IDA concluded that it could be raised to 124t under existing conditions, and
even more upon complevton of the project.l/
2.05   The main docking facility of the port was a T-shaped commercial wharf providing a
single berth 130m long for ocean-going vessels of 5 to 10,000 dwt. But because of siltation,
it had a minimvm depth of 5.0 m alongside at low water, not deep enough to serve larger
vessels.
2.06   IDA strategy in Guinea-Bissau had been mainly to help create the conditions necessary
for long-term agricultural development. In the realm of transport, this involved improving
sector planning, cost recovery and taxation systems, maintaining the present balance between
road and river transport, improving the efficiency and cost effectiveness of domestic
transport, of Bissau Port, and of the river ports.
3.    Proiect Objectives and Description
3.01   Project Objectives: The main objectives of the proposed project were:
(a)   to increase the efficiency of port operations and management by providing
technical assistance and training to JAPG.
(b)   to improve MIT's ability in transport sector planning and in supervising state
transport companies by providing technical assistance and training;
(c)   to establish an autonomous transport company to improve access to rural areas
by providing technical assistance and training;
(d)   to alleviate tlhe acute shortage of housing for technical assistance and training
experts by constructing an apartment building;
(e)   to ensure the ability of Bissau Port to continue handling traffic by
rehabilitating its rapidly deteriorating commercial berth and providing
necessary navigational aids; and
(f)   to ensure the efficiency of handling river traffic by rehabilitating four river
ports and providing river navigational aids.
3.02          Proiect Description: The project included:
(a)   technical assistance to JAPG for project preparation, supervision of the
investment program, technical assistance for port operations and management;
(b)   technical assistance for organizing JAPG's training program for workers;
(c)   training abroad for JAPG's upper level staff (36 man-months), and for upper
level staff of the new transport company;
I/ SAR No. 4311-GUB, para 3.08.



- 3 -
(d)    provision for financing JAPG'S external audit costs for the first four years of
the project;
(e)   technical assistance to MIT for (i) transport planning and management; and
(ii) organization and operation of an independent transport company;
(f)    provision of an office and apartment building at Bissau for technical assistance
experts and training staff;
(g)    rehabilitatior of the existing reinforced concrete l:-shaped berth at Bissau Port
(130m long and Sm deep);
(h)    rehabilitation of four river ports at Birita, Caboxanque, Cacine and Cadique;
(i)    rehabilitation of four ferry ramps at Enxude, Sao Vincente, Farim, and Joao
Landim;
(j)    provision of navigational aids, including a buoyage vessel; and
(k)    supervision of the construction of a new commercial berth in Bissau Port.
Related credits are shown in Table 1.
4.    Project Design and Organization
4.01   In the late 1970s, difficulties had arisen in Guinea-Bissau in the delivery and
distribution of international food relief, and the transport of agricultural products between the
coastal areas in the south and the eastern inland areas. The causes lay in the weakness of the
MTT which was responsible for planning and coordinating transport, and the lack of a private
transport industry to compete with existing state trading companies which had a monopolv on
virtually all aspects of transportation.2/
4.02   Studies for the construction of a new port were carried out in 1977 with financing
from the Kuwait Fund (KF). At the Government's request, the Association reviewed the
studies and advised Guinea-Bissau that the construction of a new port was not justified by
foreseeable traffic levels. The Association suggested that either rehabilitation or expansion of
the existing port facilities was preferable, and offered to finance a feasibility study of a more
modest project through a PPF advance of US1800,000. The main recommendation of the
feasibility study was the construction of a new 260 m general cargo berth, rehabilitation of the
existing commercial berth and four river ports, and provision of cargo handling equipment
and navigational aids.
4.03   The project took about four years to prepare foiiowing IDA's pre-identification
mission in February 1978. The reasons for the long gestation period included resolving the
questions raised by the 1977 studies as to over-optimistic assumptions of traffic growth,
insufficient information on river/coastal traffic and traffic from fishing activities, inadequacies
2/ SAR: para 2.11.



- 4 -
of the layout and design of the proposed facilities, incomplete s,te investigations, and
insufficiently refined cost estimates. Also, the existing berth which, as a result of structural
deterioration, needed to be surveyed and the possibility of extending it assessed. Given the
major uncertainties which confronted IDA, and other interested co-donors in evaluating the
proposed project, the necessity of carrying out further studies and detailed engineering by a
qualified consultant, as well as doubt on the part of the Government as to which of the two
alternatives (build a new pier or extend the existing pier) to follow, a long preparatory period
is understandable, but four years seems unreasonably long.
4.04   The feasibility study was carried out by a consultant selected from a list of 10 firms
prepared by the Association at the Government's request. The progress of the study was
followed closely by IDA, and on that basis, an appraisal was scheduled for June 1981.
However, despite warnings from IDA on the inadequacy of the soil investigations, borings
were not carried out. As a result, IDA deferred the project appraisal, a. it concluded that the
preliminary engineering was inadequate and the cost estimates unsupported. The consultants
were instructed to carry out the borings, make the appropriate design changes and revise the
cost estimates accordingly.
4.05   The project was appraised in February 1982 by the Association as well as by the KF
and the Arab Bank for Economic Development (BADEA). It was agreed that the overall
project would be considered as a two-part Port Development Program. Part A would include
the rehabilitation of the existing conmmercial berth and the other components described in para
3.02. Part B would be the construction of a 260 m deepwater berth for general cargo, and
the provision of cargo handling equipment. Part A would be financed by the Association
which would also provide funding for the supervision of the works under Part B to be
financed by the KF, BADEA, Saudi Fund and the OPEC Fund.
4.06   During the appraisal, it became apparent that the new 260 m  long general cargo
berth had an ERR of only about 8.6%. IDA considered this an uneconomic investment and
proposed building only half of the berth as an L-shaped pier, 130 m long which gave a return
of about 13%. As the KF had financed the earlier study (para 4.02) and was considered the
"leader" of the project, the Association decided, in view of the reluctance of the Government
and the KF to reduce the size of the berth, to divide the project into two parts as noted in
para 4.05. Part A, financed by IDA had an acceptable rate of return. The division of the
project got around the problem of the low return, while still allowing the overall project to be
carried out as a continuous operation with the resultant savings of having a single contractor
carry out the civil works and a single consu:!tant to design and supervise these works. On the
other hand, this decision could have been detrimental to the entire project, if not for the
contractor's willingness to proceed with the work despite his financial difficulties caused by
delayed payments owed by the Arab Funds (para. 5.06).
4.07   Following the appraisal, "ecause of reservations over the soundness of the design, the
Bank engaged a structural expert to carry out a review. Certain design faults were discovered
and the consultants made the approprizme changes. Tenders were called in May 1983 from a
list of prequalified contractors approved by the various financing agencies.
4.08  In July 1984, the AfDB indicated a wish to participate in the reorganization of the
transport industry which had been based on a study which it had financed. This work formed
part of the project. In the meantime, supplementary financing was needed to finance the



-5-
acquisition of spare parts, and IDA proposed that AfDB participate in a package including
technical assistance and the purchase of spare parts.3/ The above proposals would involve
some minor modifications in the credit documents. In September, 1984, AfDB informed IDA
that it did not see any reason for its participation as IDA had proposed. Later, spare parts
were to be financed under the project by the Arab Funds.
4.09   The project components were prepared on the basis of a detailed analysis of existing
facilities and operations, and immediate future requirements. The technical assistance and
training programs, together with the rehabilitated facilities were designed to increase the
efficiency of port operations and management. The existing Sm wide berth was to be used
mainly for fishing vessels, river barges and coastal vessels, whereas the new deep-water berth
(Part B) was to be used for general cargo and container traffic.
5.    Proiect Imlementation
5.01   Loan Effectiveness and Proiect Start-up: The credit was approved on June 23, 1983,
signed July 19, 1983, but did not become effective until February 23, 1I84, mainly because
of delays in executing the subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and the
JAPG. This took over five months beyond the date originally specified in the Credit
Agreement.
5.02  Implementation Schedule (see Table 2): The Project was originally scheduled to be
completed by December 31, 1987, but it was not substantially completed until June 30, 1990,
two and a half years behind schedule. IHowever, while some project components were
executed with only minor delays, work on Part B was repeatedly delayed by loan suspensions
by the Arab Funds. These suspensions were made as a result of tardy repayments of earlier
loans to the Government; IDA frequent interventions with the Arab Funds to help expedite
resumption of disbursements were not of much avail.
5.03   Contracts for Parts A and B were awarded following ICB to the lowest evaluated
bidder. Although the same contractor carried out Parts A and B, individual contracts were
signed for each part on March 12, 1984 to keep the financing and disbursement arrangements
completely separate. Bids were about 20% below the consultant's estimate because of keen
bidding and a shortage of work at the time. Following the preparation of a short list of
consultants agreed on by the Government and IDA, proposals for supervision were requested.
The consultant who had carried out the feasibility study and design work was considered to
have submitted the best proposal and was selected to supervise the civil works. A separate
contract was signed with the Port of Lisbon (POL) to supply technical assistance to JAPG,
and to train JAPG's local staff on the job at the Port of Lisbon.
5.04   Actual work started on April 17, 1984 with the establishment of an on-site camp,
workshop and stores. According Lo the August 1984 supervision report, the contractor was
some three months behind schedule due mainly to shipping delays. By December 1984, after
the replacement of the contractor's project manager, progress had improved substantially and
the entire work program was only two months behind schedule. This was expected to be
recovered over the three-year construction period. The technical assistance (TA) experts to
3/ Memorandum dated July 19, 1984.



the replacement of the contractor's project manager, progress had improved substantially and
the entire work program was only two months behind schedule. This was expected to be
recovered over the three-year construction period. The technical assistance (TA) experts to
operate the port had been selected and their counterparts had been nominated and sent to
Portugal for training.4/
5.05  The mission noted that, pending the arrival of the POL experts, "the level of port
operations and management, equipment availability, mechanical and general maintenance
continue to be below acceptable standards. A general disarray prevailed in the port and its
virtually non-existent management."I/ Regarding the lack of spare parts in the port (para
4.08), one of the POL experts, a mechanical engineer, visited the port before he took up
office to prepare a list of spare parts needed. IDA and the Government agreed to provide
these parts, as well as urgently needed spare parts for trucks to be financed under a
forthcoming Reconstruction Import Credit (RIC) (Credit No. 1531-GUB) which was
administered by the National Bank of Guinea Bissau (BNG). Because of disagreements
between BNG and MIT, the supply of spare parts was erratic which increased the port's
operational difficulties.
5.06  In May 1985, the contractor notified IDA that the Arab banks had suspended
disbursements because of non-payment of debt owed by the Government. As a result, the
contractor was owed paymealts of US$2.8 million and informed IDA that 'from a financial
point of view the state of affairs could become insupportable ... placing the work and the Port
of Bissau in a risky and embarrassing situation at a time when invoices and costs are running
high".6/
5.07   The July 1985 supervision mission reported that payment arrears had risen to US$4
iillion (25% of the contract sum) and, as a result, the work had slowed down and a delay of
four months in the project schedule had accumulated. IDA disbursements had also been
suspended between July 12 and August 21, 1985 for the same reason, but this had no negative
impact on the execution of the works.
5.08   The mission also reported that changes in the site supervision staff had not been
cleared with IDA. The consultant had notified the Government of these changes in April
1985, which the Government had approved but delayed seeking IDA's approval which it was
required to do under clause 2.02 of the Project Agreement. IDA's main concern was the
inexperience of the replacement staff who would not be able to handle unexpected difficulties.
Thus relatively simple technical problems which arose on site were now being referred to the
consultant's headquarters and a specialist flown out to Bissau to resolve them, thus causing
extra cost and delay. The consultant indicated that the replacements had been approved by
the Government and that their agreement was not with the Bank.
4/ Supervision report dated March 18, 1984.
,I/ Supervision report dated March 18, 1985.
El Letter from the contractor dated May 23, 1985.



- 7 -
5.09  The mission noted that the required improvements had taken place in Bissau Port
since the arrival of the TA port experts and their counterparts who had returned from their
training abroad; however, spare parts were still awaited. The navigational aids had been
placed, and the survey/buoy placing boat had been shipped to the port. Work on the river
ports was underway and repair of the existing wharf was to start shortly.
5.10   An early 1986 mission found the project was progressing well. The contractor had
completed about 70% of the Bank-financed works and about 50% of the new berth being
financed by the Arab Funds. Disbursement difficulties persisted with the latter, partly
because the Government's arrears to the OPEC FUND for balance of payment loans, and
partly because of technical questions raised by the Saudi Fund. The mission visited the OPEC
FUND in an unsuccessful attempt to resolve the problem. The SAUDI FUND informed IDA
of its intention to visit the project to follow up on its problems. At that time, the Arab Funds
owed the contractor about US$2 million. The mission expressed concern over the failure to
date of the POL financial expert to implement a commercial accounting system.
5.11   The TA team had achieved significant improvement with the exception of the financial
expert who had to be replaced; the training of counterparts was effective. RODOFLUVIAL,
the Public Trucking and River Transport Company, had just started operations. The spare
parts situation for both the port and truck fleet of RODOFLUVIAL remained unsatisfactory
because of a lack of coordination between the MES and the BNG.
5.12   Early in 1986, a number of new problems arose which disrupted the contractors'
operations and resulted in a six-month accumulated delay. A shortage of fuel developed
obliging the contractor to haul fuel directly from Senegal. Secondly, a ship approaching the
existing wharf hit the new wharf, damaging a number of piles which had to be replaced.8/
Thirdly, and the most serious, the consultant and the contractor were unable to agree on the
method of repairing the existing wharf. This matter was examined by an IDA supervision
mission in September 1986, assisted by a specialist in the repair of concrete marine structures.
The mission decided in favor of the contractor's proposed work method which was thereupon
adopted.
5.13   By early 1987, the situation had stabilized. It was recognized that the delays could
not be recouped and that completion of the project would be delayed by at least six months
mainly because of slow payments to the contractor who was owed at any given time between
US$1.8 and US$2.5 million. Work on the river ports was progressing and satisfactory
progress was being made in repairing the existing wharf. Progress on the ferry ramps was
however slow in view of unforeseen soil conditions which was attributed to insufficient soil
investigations. Port operations continued to improve with the repair of cargo handling
equipment with parts financed by RIC 1, and through the efforts of the TA experts who
continued to train local staff.
5.14   The problem of delayed disbursement to the contractor by the Arab Funds continued
into 1987 and 1988 resulting in a nine-month suspension of work by the contractor on works
financed by the Arab Funds. Though justified contractually, the contractor did not delay
ongoing civil works financed by IDA. The suspension did have the effect of causing cost
8/ This was the first of two such accidents during construction of the new wharf.



- 8 -
overruns for consultants' supervision of Part B as some staff had to be maintained on site
during the shut-down of the work.
5.15   The project financed by the Arab Funds included, in addition to the new wharf,
paving of container storage areas as well as the supply of equipment and spare parts. Traffic
was increasing, there was a shortage of cargo handling equipment which was impeded by a
lack of cooperation between port users and port management. As a result, operational
conditions had deteriorated substantially and ship waiting time was on the increase. IDA
again appealed to the Arab Funds that their urgent action was needed, including provision of
spare parts, equipment, paving works, as well as TA to the new port management to save port
operations from grinding to a halt.2/ This appeal was not considered favorably, the
contractor was not paid and the port did not receive the needed equipment and spares (patas.
6.06 and 7.02). Because of the critical situation which developed, the October 1988
supervision mission made arrangements to include in the IDA project some additional civil
engineering works: paving of container storage areas adjacent to the new wharf, paving works
in the existing port, installation of utilities on the existing wharf, and further TA to cover
remaining needs. Additional TA was required as a new port manager had just been
appointed. IDA had proposed as well to procure a limited amount of most urgently needed
equipment and spare parts, this was however vetoed by the Arab Funds.
5.16   The new commercial wharf and the repairs to the old wharf and other remaining
works were substantially completed in June 1990, two and a half years behind schedule. All
civil works were satisfactorily completed.
5.17   Procurement: Procurement of goods and services under the project proceeded
satisfactorily, and was closely supervised by the Bank's technical staff.
5.18   Disbursement: The estimates and actual disbursements of the credit are given in
Table 3 A in Part il. The credit was fully disbursed with the last payment on August 14,
1990. Disbursements were slowed on account of the delays noted above. The original
closing date of June 30, 1988 was extended twice, first to June 30, 1989, and second to June
30, 1990. The credit allocation at appraisal and at completion is given in Table 3 B.
5.19   Key Performance Indicators: These are given in Table 4.
5.20   Project Costs: The estimated cost of the project at appraisal was US$17.36 million.
The final cost was US$20.0 million as shown in Table 5 of Part III. The final cost overran
the appraisal estimate by 14.9%, in US dollar terms. However, the credit was made in
SDRs, and these funds were sufficient to carry out the project without a cost overrun, despite
the additional civil works and technical assistance carried out (para 6.01), including the extra
consultant supervision and inflation due to the delay in completing the project. There was no
co-financing of the IDA project.
2/ Telex to BADEA from IDA dated January 26, 1989.



-9 -
6.    Prject Result
6.01   Poect Objectives and Accomplishments: The project was more than successful in
meeting the objectives listed in para 3.01. In fact on some items, the project went beyond the
original project description, by including the construction of four additional ferry ramps,
greatly increased TA over that originally envisioned because of slow progress in training local
staff, and some additional works in the port such as enlarging and paving storage areas to
enable the port to handle container traffic which was not anticipated in the original project,
and the repair of lighthouses. The project was completed two and a half years behind
schedule.
6.02   Traffic: According to a recent IDA mission, general cargo traffic moving through
Bissau Port increased from about 90,000 tons (72,000 tons imports and 18,000 tons exports)
in 1982, the year the project was appraised, to 104,000 tons (89,000 tons imports and 15,000
tons exports)in 1985 and to 171,000 tons (128,000 tons imports and 43,000 tons exports) in
1990 when the project was completed (Table 6 A). This growth was substantially greater
than 115,000 tons (82,000 tons imports and 33,000 tons exports) 10/ forecasted at
appraisal for 1990. (The above excludes 25,000 - 32,000 tons of fuel imported annually. Fuel
is handlk 1 at a buoy-berth outside the port area.) According to JAPG (Tables 6A and B),
container traffic grew from an insignificant amount at appraisal to 1,920 TEU in 1988 to
2,170 TEU in 1989 and 2,560 TEU in 1990. The number of general cargo vessels calling at
Bissau Port rose from 80 in 1987 to 108 in 1989 and to 118 in 1990.
6.03   Port Operations: With the increase of operations productivity from 14.8 tons/berth-
hour in 1986 to 19.7 in 1990 (prior to the opening of the new wharf) and the installation of
navigation aids, average ship-time in port and waiting-time for berth declined from 246 and
85 hours in 1987 to 171 and 51 hours respectively in 1990 (Table 6C). While these figures
represent progress, they are not as good as that projected at the time of appraisal when ship
waiting-time was over-optimistically expected to decline to close to zero by FY 1987. The
reasons for the higher figures were: delayed completion of new wharf and ongoing
construction activities on old wharf and in port area, lack of cargo handling equipment, lack
of stevedoring output-incentives, lack of affordable transportation to port workers which
resulted in up to 30% absenteeism (para. 9.03). After opening of the new wharf, ship-time in
port dropped to about 115 hours (-33%) while ship waiting-time for berth is now down to 30
hours (-31%) and operations productivity has increased to 27.9 tons/berth-hour (+41%).
These figures indicate the growing efficiency of port operations in spite of significant
difficulties. Outputs should improve further with the introduction of incentives, transportation
for workers and availability of equipment
6.04   Financial Performance: JAPG balance sheets, income statements, ratios and other
data are given in Tables 6C, D and E respectively. JAPG shows a rather favorable evolution
in its working and operating capital ratios, having changed the latter ratio from 99.7% (1987)
to only 37.5% (1989); this improvement was only possible due to the growth in receipts
which increased from 919,000,000 GP in 1987 to 5,385,000,000 GP in 1989 which means an
increase of about 6 times in three years. These ratios would have been even better except for
salaries which were raised in 1989 to 1,076,000,000 GP from 493,000,000 GP in 1988 and
JL/ SAR: Table 2, page 46.



- 10-
266,000,000 GP in 1987. The average receivable period changed from 8.5 months in 1987 to
9.7 months in 1989. This is due, in part, to the increase in GUINEMAR debt. A
progressive indebtedness occurred that caused the debt equity ratio to change from 15/85 in
1987 to 88/12 in 1989. The results obtained during the last years can be seen in :he indicated
return on average net fixed assets in use which increased from 2% in 1987 to 9% in 1989, an
improvement that can be considered rather satisfactory. These results should improve even
more with the further strengthening of JAPG's management as provided for under an ongoing
project.
6.05   Economic Performance: The reevaluated economic rate of return (ERR) for the IDA-
financed project (Port A) is 13.7% (see Table F), as compared to 21% at the time of
appraisal. 11/ The EKR of the new wharf (Part B) of the project is 10%, while the ERR
of Parts A and B combined is 11.7%. The IDA project, while having a very positive impact
upon port operations and upon the growth of maritime trade, could not have brought the
desired economic benefits to Guinea Bissau if it were not for the construction of the new
commercial wharf. The rehabilitation of the old wharf only would not have been sufficieni to
handle the increased number of vessels, the increasing amount of cargo, as well as the
increased number of fishing vessels. The old wharf was simply too small to deal with all the
above traffic developments. Without the new wharf, costs of imports would have increased
and the competitiveness of exports reduced due to longer ship waiting time. Similarly, cargo
handling outputs would have been reduced because of the presence of a large number of
fishing vessels being unloaded at the same time. The absence of the new wharf could have
eventually reduced the assumed benefits of the entire IDA project. The new wharf will enable
handling of traffic beyond the year 2000 without excessive waiting times.
6.06   River traffic has not developed as expected. More cargo than foreseen is being
transported by road, mainly because of availability of more trucks and spare parts to the
private sector and RODOFLUVIAL. It is assumed that river traffic will eventually increase
to serve traffic from areas without road access. It is concluded that the project on the whole
has contributed substantially to the economic development of Guinea Bissau.
6.07  Impact of Project: The project has substantially increased the capacity of the port to
handle imports and exports by removir,g the many constraints to traffic growth. As noted in
para 6.02, traffic almost doubled between 1982 and 1990. Port traffic is expected to increase
at the rate of 3-5% annually from 1990 on. Provided that urgently needed cargo handling
equipment is made available and stevedoring output-incentives introduced, the port's capacity
should be sufficient to handle traffic until the year 2000. The availability of adequate cargo
handling equipment is critical for the future success of the port project in its entirety. Should
the Arab Funds contribution not become available, means must be found to make the
equipment available from other sources. Equipment, not always adequate for port operations,
is presently being leased from the private sector at very high rates. Considering the above,
and the availability of an organized workshop in the port, it should be more cost-effective for
JAPG to buy equipment rather than lease, again under the proviso that foreign exchange is
made available to purchase spare parts. Since the availability of equipment from the private
sector is not guaranteed, a solution to the equipment issue must be found as otherwise the port
eventually will be without operable equipment (para. 7.02).
11/ SAR: para 6.15.



- I I1
6.08   The existing wharf, rehabilitated under the project, is serving increased fishing
activities. Some 527 and 428 fishing vessels used the port facilities in 1989 and 1990 as
against 129 and 225 vessels in 1986 and 1987 respectively, an increase of over 100%. Fish
landings increased at similar rates. The Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project (Credit 2074-
GUB) will continue the institution-building efforts at JAPG thraugh SET, with particular
attention to strengthening the management of port operations. In order to increase its
autonomy, SET has drafted a decree to transform JAPG into a public company. 12/
6.09   Steps are also being taken under the Infrastructure Rehabilit4cion Project to improve
maritime services by two types of action: i) shipping agent services are being upgraded by
reorganizing management at Guinea Marine (GUINEMAR), the local shipping line, official
shipping agents and freight forwarders, and by encouraging private participation; and ii) a
consultant has been engaged to help organize and open freight-forwarding to the private
sector. The strategy is aimed at building up local expertise through joint-ventures with
foreign partners and integration of shipping services and freight-forwarding.
6.10   The four river ports constructed under the project will provide adequate capacity,
exceeding 100,000 tons per year, in the foreseeable future for evacuating agricultural
production in the south. Other regions are best served by road. However, productivity of
river transport operations is low: the load factor of RODOFLUVIAL's fleet is about 50%,
and 65% of the round trip time is spent in port. The absence of beacons prevents sailing at
night on most rivers. RODOFLUVIAL's services have so far been plagued by lack of spare
parts, and old vessels which break down frequently. The quality of port services also is a
constraint for both shippers and transporters who often have a long wait before they are
allocated a berth and cargo handling equipment. The completion of the river ports and
availability of the repaired old wharf for barge services and improved navigational aids should
improve RODOFLU VIAL's performance.
7.    Project Sustainability:
7.01   The project has had significant benefits in:
(a)   increasing the capacity of Bissau Port, not only for international trade, but for the
coastal fleet, and the distribution of goods to the hinterland;
(b)    strengthening management of JAPG, the trucking association, RODOFLUVIAL and
other transport organizations.
7.02   rhese improvements are sustainable, provided that:
(i)          Government and other official agencies pay their bills to the port;
(ii)         Government allows JAPG the foreign exchange needed for
equipment, spare parts and supplies.
12/ SAR for Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project, Report No. 8070-GUB, dated November 6,
1989.



-12 -
(iii)        Govermnent agrees to stevedoring output-incentives
S.           IDA Perfrmanc
8.01   The Association prepared the project in such a way as to avoid reflecting in the SAR
the marginal ERR for the new general cargo berth. While this action might have been
inappropriate if IDA had been responsible for the overall project, it would appear that IDA
had little option but to proceed the way it did under the circumstances in which the KF was
recognized as the lead financier, and IDA was considered a co-donor. The records indicate
that IDA management was fully informed of the above situation, and that IDA had promptly
informed all of the participating donors of the issue, as soon as it became aware of it.
Furthermore, IDA assumed responsibility for the remaining components in the project, which
greatly contributed to strengthening JAPG and the overall port and river transport system for
which it was responsible. The result was that, while IDA only financed about one-third of the
total cost, it was fully involved in all aspects of the project preparation and execution.
8.02  IDA also took the lead in seeking additional financing to close the financing gap
which became evident during the latter stages of project preparation. It arranged the meeting
of co-donors held in Bissau at the time of appraisal, and pursued this quest until additional co-
donors were found. After the co-donors for Part B had approved this financing, IDA
discovered, at about the time of negotiations, that they had not included any funds for the
supervision of Part B. The Association promptly raised its proposed credit by US$1.0 million
to include this critical item.
8.03  IDA technical staff deserve credit for outstanding efforts in preparing the project and
assisting the Borrower which had little experience in such matters. IDA closely reviewed the
design and supervision contracts, and the contract documents for the works. IDA was
particularly helpful in calling attention to structural weaknesses in the design of the new
commercial berth and resolving them through the employment of a special structural
consultant. IDA also played a central role in coordinating the Arab Funds, keeping them
informed of developments, and trying to resolve the problems which led to frequent stoppages
of disbursements. Supervision was aided by the fact that, despite the several organizational
changes in the Bank during the second half of the 1980s, changes in supervision staff were
infrequent and good continuity was maintained on the engineering side throughout the project
(see Tables 7A and 7B of Part III for details).
8.04   The one main issue that was not resolved during 1985 and 1986 was the failure to
provide spare parts for the port and for RODOFLUVIAL. It is unfortunate that IDA was not
willing to actively persuade AfDB to finance this item as had been originally proposed (para
4.08). For some reason, the problem of coordination between MES and BNG regarding use
of RIC funds was slow in being resolved despite the repeated attention called to it by
supervision missions year after year. The files also indicate insufficient coordination within
the Bank between the units responsible for RIC and the technical projects. Delays were also
caused by interdepartmental jealousy within the Govermment as to who should control the
supply of spare parts and equipment.
8.05   Given the problems IDA encountered on the execution of the new wharf, on which it
only financed the supervision, it might be argued that IDA would have been better off to have
avoided involvement in the new wharf. In the view of this report, it was essential that IDA



- 13 -
be involved in the development of the overall port as it was a project in which the training
inputs and general management improvement were as important as the civil works. Secondly,
if the new and repair works had been separated, the costs would have been significantly
higher, as it would have most likely resulted in a division of the work between two
contractors and two consulting firms. Lastly, IDA provided a very substantial technical input
into the overall project, resources which the Arab Funds might not have had at their disposal.
IDA's involvement ensured the ultimate success of the overall project.
8.06   Traffic forecasting is difficult especially in a country as poor as Guinea-Bissau. The
actual traffic forecast was done in 1980/81. Wide financial assistance increased economic
activities in the country, and with it the traffic. IDA's eventual agreement (para 4.06) to th.t
construction of the new wharf (financed by the Arab Funds), turned out to be of utmost
importance. The rehabilitated old wharf on its own would not be sufficient to handle the
increased number of cargo vessels and fishing boats. The absence of the new wharf would
have eventually reversed the improved operational outputs; thus a major part of the economic
benefits of the project would have been lost.
9.    Borrower Performance
9.01   Except for the problems noted in paras. 9.03 and 9.04, JAPG performed reasonably
well under a project that was repeatedly delayed by circumstances beyond its control. As
regards Government indebtedness to the Arab Funds, the Government made an ongoing effort
to repay its arrears which resulted in the Funds' resuming disbursements, only to have the
loan suspended again when follow-up payments became due. There was reasonable continuity
at the ministerial level of Government in the project.
9.02   Execution of the training assistance component was handicapped by the inability of
APG and the Borrower to select suitable counterparts with the result that the employment of
TA experts had to be repeatedly extended. The lack of incentive for most of the counterparts
(whose function was to assist and learn from the technical assistants) to dedicate their attention
to their jobs, had a detrimental impact on the TA program and its effectiveness suffered
irreparable damage. While it is understood that the Government has substantial difficulties in
paying the counterparts higher salaries than those of other staff, means must be found to
compensate the counterparts in order to get good results. The Borrower also frequently
changed the crews on the new buoyage boat after they were trained, which again necessitated
extension of training services. In addition, the buoyage vessel was laid up for more than a
year because of the lack of spare parts and fuel. On the other b _.J, the senior staff of
RODOFLUVIAL performed satisfactorily because they were ci.osen by the TA expert who
assessed their suitability.
9.03   One of the most frustrating situations encountered at the port was the lack of
transportation for the port workers. To pay the public transport fare would amount to some
35-40% of their wages, with the result that the laborers walked 10-15 km each day to get to
work, thus arriving late and leaving early. IDA arranged the purchase of two trucks from the
project proceeds. It took two years for the trucks to arrive and they were then used most of
the time by people other than the workers.



-14 -
9.04   Apart from the selection of counterparts and the lack of transport for port workers,
the Government performed reasonably well on a widely scattered multi-facetted project, which
involved the construction and repair of two wharfs, four river ports, eight ferry ramps,
navigational aids and lighthouses, and the supply and equipping of a buoyage ship. The
project also provided a considerable amount of technical assistance not only to Bissau port,
but also to RODOFLUVIAL, the trucking association, GUINEMAR, TAGB - the national
airline, and Silo Diata - the Public Bus Company, all of which benefitted these agencies.
Compliance with credit conditions is shown in Table 8 of Part Wll.
10.   Project Relationships
10.01 The relationship between the Government and IDA was close, and the correspondence
files indicate that the Government appreciated the high quality of the technical advice provided
by IDA staff.
10.02 AfDB's possible participation in the project (paras 4.08 and 8.04) was discussed in
Abidjan a year after the credit had been signed. The memorandum reporting the discussions
stated that AfDB "wished that in the future, meetings be organized at least once a year with
the Association's technical staff to exchange infonnation and coordinate action in the transport
sector". It is unfortunate that AfDB was not involved in the project as its contribution would
have been useful in financing spare parts for the equipment at the existing berth. Earlier, it
had been proposed that the Government furnish the parts, but its financial situation was such
that it was unable to do so. The issue of AfDB financing was again raised at a meeting
between AfDB and IDA in Washington in January 1985 1.3_, but IDA did not choose to
follow up the matter as suggested by the AfDB official who attended the meeting.
11.   Consulting and Other Services
11.01 The design and supervision of the civil works were carried out by a consultant
qualified under Bank guidelines. The appointed consultant was a national engineering
umbrella agency which distributes work to its members. The extent of the problems
encountered in both the design and supervision phases (paras. 4.04, 4.07, 5.08, 5.12 and
5.13) were valid reasons for concern by IDA staff overseeing the work. The project
demonstrates the importance of: (i) the Bank's selection process to ensure the consultants are
qualified; (ii) close involvement of Bank staff in the preparation and execution of its projects;
and (iii) the reporting procedures devised by the Bank to call attention to concerns regarding
performance by consultants. With regard to the first point, it would appear that it is not
enough to rely on the well-known name of an umbrella agency, but a close check should be
made on the actual firm which is chosen by the agency to do the work.
11.02 The members of the TA team were recruited on an individual basis which, in the view
of supervision staff, led to substantial ineffectiveness. 14/ A later supervision report noted
that the entire TA program had suffered because of the employment of individual experts
13/ Memorandum dated January 18, 1985
14/ Aide Memoire dated October 17, 1988.



- 15 -
rather than a company. 1S/ Nevertheless, in spite of many difficulties, the team eventually
completed its tasks. The team achieved significant improvements on port operations,
administrative and financial management. Unfortunately, the low technical level of their
counterparts gave cause for concern as to the quality of future management after completion
of the TA services.jI/ Also, attrition of these counterparts over the years led to none
surviving in office by the end of the project. However, steps have been taken under Credit
2174-GUB to continue strengthening JAPG management.
11.03 The contractor for the civil works performed well under the difficult circumstances of
not being paid promptly for works performed. The contractor showed willingness and
understand5ng in keeping the work going in the face of the large arrears owed to him during
much of the execution period. This finally forced the contractor to slow down in 1986, and
brought on a nine-month work stoppage in 1987-88. Work was promptly resumed when
arrears were paid and the project was eventually brought to a successful conclusion.
12.   Project Documentation and Data
12.01 The project was clearly defined in the credit documents, and the supervision reports
were thoroughly prepared.
15/ Aide Memoire dated February 14, 1989
1I6 Supervision report dated February 5, 1988.



- 16 -
PART II: PROIECT REYIEW FROM BORIOWER'S PERSECIVE
1.    Consultants, on behalf of the Borrower, prepared a project final report (which covered most
aspects of the project). The report was taken into account in the preparation of this PCR.
2.    We have requested the Government on several occasions to provide specific additional
comments to include in Part II, but no comments have been received as of June 18, 1991.
I



- 17 -
PARtT III: STAtSTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Credits
Credit                                            Year of
Title                   Purpose                 Approval      Status
Credit 878-GUB            Priority road rehabilitation  1979       Completed in
Roads Project                                                      1984
Credit 1473-GUB and a     Further road rehabilitation,  1984       Completed in
Special Fund administered   rehabilitation and                     1989
by IDA                    reorganization of the
National Ferry System, road
maintenance cost recovery
Credit 1531-GUB           Equipment, spare parts and   1984        Completed in
Reconstruction Import     material for the agricultural            1986
Credit                    and transport sectors
Credit A-014-GUB          Equipment, spare parts and   1986        Completed in
Supplemental              material for the agricultural,           1990
Reconstruction Import     transport, power and other
Credit                    production sectors
Five-year program of
support to the MES and
Credit                    SET to strengthen planning   1986        Underway
Infrastructure            and management of
Rehabilitation Project   transport and urban projects
Sources: PCRs for First and Second Highway Projects, and Black Books.



- 18 -
2. Projoct Timetable
2. __~h
Date            Date             Date
Planned 1/       Revised 2/       Actual 2/
Pre -deatific.tion                                                 02/78
Identification                                                     09/79
Preappraisal                                                       06/80
Appraisal Mission                10/80                             02/82
Post-Appraisal Mission                                             06/82
Loan Negotiations                06/81                          04/27-28/83
Board Approval                   07/81                            06/23/83
Credit Signature                  NA                              07/19/83
Credit Effectiveness             01/82                            02/23/84
Credit Closing                 06/30/88         06/30/89          06/30/90
Project Completion               12/31/87                         06/30/90
1/ Source: Project Brief dated November 20, 1979, and credit documents.
2/ Source: Correspondence files.



- 19 -
3.A. Credit Disbursements
Disbursements (in US$ million)
Credit 1392 - GUB
IDA Fiscal Year                                                     Actual % of
and Quarter          Estimated Cumulative 1/  Actual Cumulative ZI  Estimated
1984    3                           2.40                 0.00                 0
4                           2.96                 2.60                88
1985    1                           3.69                 2.78                75
2                           4.44                 2.96                67
3                           5.22                 3.19                61
4                           6.04                4.81                 80
1986    1                           6.87                 5.96                87
2                           7.73                 7.03                91
3                           8.63                 8.27                96
4                           9.46                 8.77               93
1987    1                           10.26                9.29                91
2                          11.19                 9.79                87
3                          12.06                10.55                87
4                          13.08                11.18                86
1988    1                           14.05                11.64               83
2                          14.99                12.31                82
3                          15.99                12.58                79
4                          16.00                13.15                82
1989    1                             --                13.67                85
2                            -                  13.89                87
3                            _                  14.90                93
4                            _                  15.01                94
1990    1                             -                  15.43               96
2                            -                  15.51                97
3                            -                  16.09               101
4                            -                  16.84               105
1991    1                                                17.23               108
1/ Source: SAR, May 83
ZI Source: Statements of Development Credits.
Note: The differences between the amount of the credit and the funds disbursed is accounted for by currency
variations in the U.S. Dollar as the credit was actually denominated in SDRs.



- 20 -
3.B. Credit Allocations
(SDRs Millions)
CaoeaAggraissl           Final
1. Civil Works                              5.40                    7.14
2. Goods                                    2.10                     2.18
3.a. Consultants Services                   1.00                     1.20
b. Consultants Services                    0.30                    0.55
c. Consultants Services                    0.75                    0.73
d. Consultants Services                    0.85                    0.01
e. Consultants Services                    0.90                    2.43
4. Refunding PPF                            0.75                     0.62
5. Unallocated                               2.85
14.90                   14.86
Funds Remaining in Special Account            --                     0.04
14.90                   14.90



-21 -
4. Key Performance Indicators
June 8, 1990
Appraisal Target at
Project        Supervision     Actual
Completion      Date             Achievement
__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   (6-8-19 90)
Infrastructure
Lot 1 - New Quay       USS '000        16,500           16,500           16,911
connect. bridge
container storage
Lot 2 - Construct.     US$ '000          943              943            1,018.8
Office/Apt. Bldg.
Houses                No. built           8                8                8
Lot 3 - Procurement    US$ '000         2,170           2,170            2,356
ship,
equipment/repairs
Lot 4. A River Ports    No. built         4                4                4
4. B Old Quay       USS '000         2,000            2,000            2,724.2
4. C River Ramps    No. built           8                8               8
Training - JAPG
Overseas Training     No. trained         5                5                5
Transport Company
Establish T.C.        No. estab.          1                1                1
Establish Transport   No. estab.           1               1                1
Association
Institutional Support -
MT & Transport
Company
Establish new         No. estab.          2                2                2
departments
Source: Supervision Report dated June 21, 1990



- 22 -
5.A. Proiect Cost
(in millions of US Dollars)
Agoraisal 1/            Actual 2/
LoaI  Foreian   Total   Loca   Foreion   Total
1. Rehabilitation of existing berth  0.17  2.69    2.86   0.40       3.24   3.64
2. Rehabilitation of four river ports    0.09  1.12  1.21   0.25     2.30   2.55
3. Rehabilitation of four ferry ramps   0.08  0.12    0.20   0.15    2.10   2.25
4. Navigation aids                 --      2.26     2.26    ---      2.52   2.52
5. Apartment building             0.08     1.89     1.97   0.20      1.40   1.60
6. Consultant's services:
(a) project preparation (PPF)     -      0.80    0.80    ---       0.80   0.80
(b) supervision                 0.16     1.91     2.07   0.50      2.64   3.14
(c) technical assistance        0.38     2.15     2.53   0.50      3.00   3.50
Total Base Cost               0.96    12.94   13.90   2.00      18.00  20.00
7. Physical contingency           0.04    0.70    0.74    --         -
8. Price contingency              0.36     2.36    2.72    -
Total contingencies           0.40    3.06     3.46    --                -
Total project cost            1.36    16.00   17.36   2.00      18.00  20.00
I/Source: SAR, page 12.
a/Source: Supervision Report dated November 10, 1988, and updated on the basis of the disbursement records
as of March 27, 1991.



6. Project Results
A. Port of Bissau Traffic
(in tons)
General
Cargo             Tankers           Fishing Boats            Other Boats                         General                  Percentage
Year            Container         Vessels       _                                                                       Total        Cargo         Total       Chwnge
Traffic                                                                                               Boxes       Traffic        Cargo       General
TEU                                                                   Passenger   Unspecified       Nos.       Appraisal       Ton         Cargo to
Tons               Tons                 Tons        Boats         Boats                     Forecast                  Appraisal
Nos      Cargo     Nos.      FueL       Nos.      Fish        Mos.          Nos.                                                 Forecast
lop.                           88,840              21,694                                                                      75,000      110,534
Exp.                            14,901                                                                                         2500         14.901
1985   Total            MA      80    103.741       6      21,694       NA                       NA             MA                    t             1243 9          +3.7
lop.           452             72,826              23,213                1,013                                                 77,000       97,052
Exp.            14              19,978                                                                                         27,000       19,978
1986   Total           466      80     92.804       9      13.213      129       1.013            4                         222       104.000      117.030         -12.0
Ex.            7828            45,835              33,558                8,209                                                 78,000      137.602
Exp.            28              23.411                                                                                         30,000       23.411
1987   Total           812      81    119.246       15     33558       225       8,209            3              2          326       108,000      161.013         +10.4
1Np.           1841           117,688              20.235                1,760                                                 79,000      139.683
Exp.            82              31,M                                                                                           31,000       31,7M
1988   Total   1_ 923    105  1_49"461               7     20.23S      345       1760 _           6          _   1          464  _  110fW          171.456         +35.9
lop.         2,047            120,661              33,334                3.041                                                 80,000      157,036
Exp.           127              23,268                                                                                         32.000       23,268
1989   Total         2.167    108    143929         8      33334       527       3.041            3              6          652       112.000      180.304         .28.5
Imp.         2.300            128,236              32,760                4,197                                                 82,000      165,193
Exp.           264              43,316                                                                                         332000       43.316
1990   Total         2.564    118     171,552       10     32,760      428       4,197            4              4          562       115,000      20509           +49.2



6. Proiect Results
B. Bissau Port Indicators
General Cargo Traffic              Vessel Time          Indicators - Hours                      Productivity Indicstors T/hr.
Year
lop. * Exp.    Nos.    Tons per   Total in    Waiting   Alongside   Loading &    Length of    Tons per           Tons per     Tons per    Tons per
Tons      Vessels    Vesset        Port        for        Berth      Unloading      Berth        Meter        Hour of       Hour         Hour
Berth                 Operations       N           Berth      Operation    Alongside    in Port
1985               103,741        80       1.297          NA         NA           NA           NA          130           798           NA           KA           MA
1986                92.804        80       1,160       177.6       47.6        130.0         78.3          130           714         14.8          8.9          6.5
1987               119.246        81       1,472       245.8       85.5        160.2         98.7          130          917          14.9          9.2          5.9
1988                             105       1,423       226.1       68.1        158.0         88.6          130         1,150         16.1          9.0          6.3
1989               143108                  1333        159.0       43.0        116.0         71.0          130         1.107         18.8         11.5          8.4
Months 1-7          90,000        62       1,454       171.3        50.9       120.4         73.7           130        1,187         19.7          12.0         8.5
1990 1/
Months 8-12         81,552        56       1,454       115.0        30.0        85.0         52.0       Zl 260           753         27.9          17.1        12.6
.m      ./   I                                                II                -     I                                                                   
1/      New wharf was opened to traffic in July 1990, and since August 1990, the new wharf-berth, length 260 M, is used exclusively for general cargo
vessels.
2/      2-3 berth capacity



- 25 -
C. TAPO - Balance Sheets
(at December 31, 1986-1989)
(Unit 1000 GP)
1986            1987            1988             1989
ASSETS
CURRENT ASSETS                    324254          824586         2683077           5694618
Casb and RbMA                      29057           76319          572708            469154
Receivable                        284128          652183         1931944           4704715
i   Invaortyi.                     10341           96084           178425           520749
Foreign texhan  huloss
ndma                                 728
LESS
CURRENT LIABILMTIES               147021          455393         2096023           2393546
S $uppliers                        17830           40457           132133           338940
Governmntc tax"                    52690           32844           71593            174050
Bank overdraft                                                      4560
Fowigp exchange gal
Others                             76501          382092          1887737          1880556
Current maturiies
Net Current Acis
FXEMD ASSETS                     4597027         4864299         5129231          42967532
LAss -Depreciations              3747260         3688448         3924935           4223167
OlIir Asst
TOTAL NEIT ASSE rTS               849767         1175851          1204296         38744365
LIBILITIES                       1300000         1545043         1791349          42045435
Long Term Debt                                    226330          419255          37045904
CapIal                           1300000         1300000         1300000           1300000
Cuiulatlve Results                                                 18713             72094
Current Year Income                                18713           53381           3627437
Dlepnr to be paid Gov.
Revaluation Surplus
TOTAL UA13ILMIlES                                2000436         3887372          44438981
Source: Peb./Marcb 1991 Supervision Mission for Credit 2074-GUB.



- 26 -
D. IAPG - Income Stemnents
(1986 - 89)
funk Q0Q0
im           1297        1982
OMRTING REVENUES
pod Rw *.                           47991          906855         2570577         5826131
ObWo                                                12281           11643            9296
TOTAL OPERATING REVENUES            4778           919136         2$82220         5835427
OPIAINQO WXENSES
&AffSkts                             na.            615            492651        1'7I
Materiais n4 Sevices                 n             117451          207400          688478
Tax"e.                               na.              308             445             347
* .thers                             n.a.             680            6232           112W
Subtt Working Expms.                  a.           384354          76728          177658
.prewauon and  Amort                 n..           214188-         2364W7  .       29832
Ptuviwwo                             n,a.         :313843         158122           112503
Subtotal Expenses                    n.a.          914387         2524440       :1S323
Fiancial cots                        n.a.            1626            1007              96
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES             n.a.          916013         2525447         2187419
OPERATING INCOME (LOSS)
Other Charga s
-thtra4rdiny losses                  n.a.           --8219           19$9           11097
ExaatdiSrgains                       n.e.           23810
Opating inom  (Losso)                i              18714
Inooeno Tax                          n.a.               0
Incomc altor Tax (Loss)              na.            18714           53381.        360;437
* Pot Rev. tocal currency and foreoi  exchange
Source: Feb./Mar. 1991 Supervision Mission from Credit 2074-GUB.



- 27 -
E. JAPG Ratios
(1986 - 89)
1926          19S7          18              2i
Wodcing Ratio ()              na.          41.82%        27.37%         30.44%
Opwatin; Ratio (X)            n.A.         99.66%        97.80%         37.49%
DebtEuity  tio               01100          15/85         23177          88/12
Cu t Eltio                    2.21           1.81          1.28          2.38
lt    on Averap nett fixed     0            0.02           0.04          0.09
D*stevice coverage            1.53          1.31           1.49          1.09
WORXING CAPITAL
Cask (-months)                n.a.          0.20           0.81          0.26
Receivable (months)           7.10          8.51           8.98          9.67
Inventoties (montfl)          n.a.           1.53          0.96           1.42
Source: Feb./March 1991 Supervision Mission for Credit 2074-CUB.



- 28 -
F. Ecaomic Reevaluation - Cost Benefit Analysis - PART 1
(US$000,000)
Invest-           Cost-   Improved   Shift   Handling
ment   Main-  Avoidance    River    Road-     via                Net
MU  Stra tenance   Bgnefit Transpor RiverDI                  Fishing  Benefit
I/      Z/       _/        41       _1        6/       7/         81
1984  3.44                                                            -3.44
1985  4.72                                                            -4.72
1986  3.20                                                            -3.20
1987  2.93                                                            -2.93
1988  1.83                                                            -1.83
1989  0.46                                                            -0.46
1990  2.00    0.20                0.03     0.00              2.10    -0.06
1991          0.20                0.03     0.00              2.10      1.93
1992          0.20      3.94      0.03     0.00     0.75     2.10      5.13
1993          0.20      2.73      0.03     0.00     0.15     2.10      4.51
1994          0.20      2.83      0.03     0.00     0.26     2.10      4.51
1995          0.20      2.94      0.03     0.00     0.37     2.10      4.51
1996          0.20      3.05      0.03     0.00     0.48     2.10      4.51
1997          0.20      3.17      0.03     0.00     0.60     2.10      4.51
1998          0.20      3.29      0.03     0.00     0.72     2.10      4.51
1999          0.20      3.42      0.03     0.00     0.85     2.10      4.51
2000          0.20      3.55      0.03     0.00     0.98      2.10     4.51
2001          0.20      3.69      0.03     0.00     1.12      2.10     4.51
2002          0.20      5.89      0.03     0.00     2.71      2.10     5.11
2003          0.20      4.04      0.03     0.00     1.46      2.10     4.51
2004          0.20      4.19      0.03     0.00     1.62      2.10     4.51
2005          0.20      4.35      0.03     0.00     1.78      2.10     4.51
2006          0.20      4.52      0.03     0.00     1.95      2.10     4.51
2007          0.20      4.70      0.03     0.00     2.12      2.10     4.51
2008          0.20      4.88      0.03     0.00     2.30      2.10     4.51
2009          0.20      5.07      0.03     0.00     2.49      2.10     4.51
2010  -3.84    0.20     5.26      0.03     0.00     2.69      2.10     8.35
ERR   13.70%
See Attachment 1 for footnotes explaining column headings.
See Attachment 2 for the basis of the traffic data.
See Attachment 3 for the queuing analysis



- 29 -
Attachment I
Page 1 of 3
The investment stream covers the entire project. It is assumed that after 20 years, the
salvage v2lue of the current project investments for the (i) rehabilitated commercial
quay; (ii) 4 river ports; (iii) 4 river ramps is 33.3% of the initial cost; the respective
salvage values of (iv) the navigational aids and the survey vessel is 20%; and of (v)
the building is 33.3% - a total of US$3.84 million made up as follows:
0.333 x (3.64 + 2.55 + 2.25 + 1.60) + 0.20 x 2.52.
The navigational aids included the purchase of the buoyage vessel which is used 50%
of its time for general hydrological and hydrographical surveys. Half of the vessels
cost is therefore disregarded in the cost/benefit analysis. The cost of the navigational
aids is taken as US$1.42 million. This reduction is shown in 1989 in column 1.
Annual maintenance expenditures: rehabilitated quay: -2%; 4 river ports and 4 ferry
ramps: -1%; nav. aids and vessel: -2%; building: -2%.
3/    Traffic is expected to increase by 4% per year starting from 1990. Average cargo
carried by vessel is expected to increase by 2% per year. Additional costs without the
rehabilitation of the existing quay: the quay will most likely have collapsed by
1990/92, thus leaving the country without alongside berthing facilities. This would
require unloading and loading operations in mid-stream and in addition require the
purchase of specialized equipment costing US$1.32 million. Equipment costs: 2 small
tugs x US$300,000; 6 lighter barges x US$80,000; 3 mobile cranes x US$80,000.
The economic life of this equipment is about 10 years, and the average annual
maintenance cost 7.5% - i.e. US$0.1 million. This equipment would be suitable for
the traffic development until the year 2002 when additional equipment in the order of
US$0.70 million would have to be purchased. This would bring the total investinent
in equipment in the year 2002 to US$2.0 million. Working in mid-stream wouldi
increase the vessels' overall "time-in-port" by an average of 3 days. The average cost
per ship-day is US$6,000 (as against US$9,400/day assumed at appraisal), i.e. an
additional cost of US$18,000 for an average load of 14,000 tons per vessel, or
US$12.9 per ton. Fuel for tugs, additional cargo handling materials and wages for
double handling would add US$2.0 per ton. Substantial parts of the cargoes to Bissau
are shipped in non-liner vessels and surcharges are frequently imposed. It is assumed
that 90% of the vessels' additional costs would be imposed upon the country. With
185,600 tons of cargo per year in 1992, 274,700 tons in 2002 and 376,000 tons in
2010, the additional cost per ton to the country's economy would amount to
US$13.6/ton. The total cost to the economy would therefore be in:
1992 US$2.52 million
2002 US$3.74 million
2010 US$5.11 million
including maintenance of equipment US$2.62 million until 2002 and US$3.90 million
after that. In the years 1992 and 2002 when equipment must be purchased, the annual
costs would be US$2.62 + US$1.32 = US$3.94 million, and US$3.89 + US$2.0



- 30 -
Attaghment I
Page 2 of 3
million = US$5.89 million respectively. All costs occurring in the stream of
expenditure of this alternative are considered as cost-avoidance benefit of the
implemented project.
The benefit to the river traffic stemming from the rehabilitation of the old wharf and
introduction of navigational aids is about US$5.0/ton for the entire barge traffic. The
average quantities are 6,500 ton/year as against 9,000 tons forecast at project
appraisal. The level of traffic is expected to remain the same for the time being.
The quantities of traffic which shifted from road to river are estimated at 2,000
tons/year as against 8,500 tons estimated at project appraisal. The benefits are
estimated at US$2.0/ton. The level of traffic is expected to remain the same for the
time being. The benefits, because of their size, are ignored in column 5.
Additional costs of handling via barges would be incurred with the rehabilitation of
the existing wharf. Because of space constraints on this wharf, cargo handling outputs
are not expected to increase. The rehabilitated wharf would by 1992 have reached its
maximum capacity with a cargo throughput of about 186,000 tons of general cargo
and containers as well as 5,000 tons of fish imports. The decision would have to be
taken whether to construct additional wharf facilities or to resort to an alternative
solution: unloading and loading operations in mid-stream for any quantity exceeding
186,000 tons. This analysis considers the "unloading and loading in mid-stream"
alternative. This would require the purchase of specialized equipment estimated to
cost US$0.7 million comprising: 1 small tug x US$300,000; 3 lighter barges x
US$80,000; 2 mobile cranes x US$80,000. The economic life of this equipment is
about 10 years, and the average annual maintenance cost US$0.05 million. This
equipment would be suitable for the traffic development until the year 2002 when the
existing equipment would have to be replaced and additional equipment in the order of
US$0.70 million would have to be purchased. This would bring the total investment
in equipment in the year 2002 to US$1.4 million. Similarly, working in mid-stream
would increase the vessels' overall "time-in-port", thus increasing the cost of cargo
handled by US$13.6 per ton on average. With 185,600 tons of cargo per year in
1992, 274,700 tons in 2002 and 376,000 tons in 2010. The total cost to the economy
would therefore be in:
1992         US$0.75 million (equipment + maintenance only);
2002         US$2.71 million (operation + equipment + maintenance;
2010         US$2.69 million (operation + maintenance only; purchase of new
equipment for US$1.4 million for use after 2010 is not shown here).
7/    The annual increased fish landings because of the prnject are estimated at 3,500 tons.
Estimated value of fish landed: US$1,500 - 2,500/ton; added value to economy 30%;
i.e. 0.3 x 3,500 x 2,000 = US$2.1 million.
8/    Net Benefit comprises the sum of the benefit - columns 3, 4, 5 and 7 less the sum of
the cost - columns 1, 2 and 6. The ERR is 13.70%.



- 31 -
ttachment 1
Page 3 of 3
Note: The appraisal report assumed that a series of "minor repairs" estimated to cost
some US$2.8 million each could be undertaken every few years, thus replacing the
initial major repair. The state of repair of the old wharf deteriorated substantially
between project appraisal and start of repair works, and the above assumption could
not have been maintained.



- 32 -
Attachment 2
Page 1 of 2
Economic Reevaluation - Traffic Data
Cargo           Tons Tons/Hr Tons/Hr  Hours  Hours   Inter
Imp+Exp    Nos    per Alongs. Alongs. Alongs. Alongs. Arrival
"ear (000 t) Vessels  vessel    with without   with without  Hours
Part B  Part B  Part B    art B
(1)    (2)    (3)    (4)    (5)    (6)    (7)    (8)
1985  103.7     80   1296
1986   92.8     80   1160      8.9    8.9  130.3  130.3    111
1987  119.2     81   1471      9.2    9.2  160.0   160.0    111
1988  149.5    105   1424      9.0    9.0   158.2  158.2    110
1989  143.9    108   1332    11.5   11.5  115.9   115.9       84
1990  171.6    117   1467    15.8   12.0   92.8   122.2       82
1991  178.5    119   1495    17.6   12.0   84.9   124.6       76
1992  185.6    122   1525    18.1   12.0   84.0   127.0       74
1993  193.0    124   1555    18.7   12.0   83.2   127.0       73
1994  200.7    127   1585    19.2   12.0   82.4  127.0        71
1995  208.8    129   1616    19.8   12.0   81.5   127.0       70
1996  217.1    132   1648    20.4   12.0   80.7   127.0       68
1997  225.8    134   1680    21.0   12.0   79.9   127.0       67
1998  234.8    137   1713    21.7   12.0   79.1   127.0       66
1999  244.2    140   1747    22.3   12.0   78.3   127.0       64
2000  254.0    143   1781    23.0   12.0   77.5   127.0       63
2001  264.2    145   1816    23.6   12.0   76.7   127.0       62
2002  274.7    148   1852    24.4   12.0   75.9   127.0       61
2003  285.7    151   1888    25.1   12.0   75.2   127.0       59
2004  297.2    154   1925    25.9   12.0   74.4  127.0        58
2005  309.0    157   1963    26.6   12.0   73.7   127.0)    57
2006  321.4    161   2001    27.4   12.0   72.9   1'7.0       56
2007  334.3    164   2040    28.3   12.0   72.2   127.0       55
2008  347.6    167   2080    29.1   i2.0    71.5   127.0      54
2009  361.5    170   2121    30.0   12.0   70.7   127.0       53
2010  376.0    174   2163    30.9   12.0   70.0   127.0       52



- 33 -
Attachment 2
Page 2 of 2
The table shows expected traffic development between 1985 and 2010. The data for
1985 to 1990 are taken from statistics provided by the JAPG:
(1)    Cargo - imports and exports are expected to increase by 4% per annum after 1990.
(2)    Number of vessels is expected to increase at a rate of 2% per annum after 1990.
(3)    The average cargo carried by vessels is estimated to increase pro-rata considering (1)
and (2) above.
(4)    Productivity is estimated to increase on an average of 3% per annum stemming from
improved facilities, access and storage areas.
(5)    The old wharf is estimated to have reached its capacity and would not be able to
increase productivity after 1992.
(6)    Because of increased productivity, vessels will remain for less time alongside the new
wharf in spite of increased tons per vessel (column 3).
(7)    Because of its limited capacity, the rehabilitated old wharf is not expected to be able
to handle cargo above 185,600 tons. The economic analysis considered the
introduction of barge operations in mid-stream (see attachment 1). The hours
alongside for the vessels using the old wharf are therefore assumed to remain the
same after 1992 when mid-stream operations would have had to commence.
(8)   Inter-arrival hours. This column defines the time between arrival of vessels, having
taken into consideration the aforementioned activities.



- 34 -
Attachment 3
Page 1 of 2
Economic Reevauation - Oueuing Analysis
Inter-  Hours   No.   Utili- P(O)   Wait/  Waiting Time  Vessels
Arrival Alongs.   of   zation     Service   Hrs    in   in
Hours    with  Berths  Rate        Time    per   Port  Queue
_[SU   EW.R      -     -      -   RAW B   Y=    H 
(1)     (2)   (3)   (4)   (5)   (6)       (7)    (8)   (9)
1990   82     92.8   2.7   .42   .36   .28    25.8  118.6   0.3
1991   76     84.9   2.7   .42   .36   .27       23.0  107.9   0.3
1992   74     84.0   2.7   .42   .36   .28       23.5  107.5   0.3
1993   73     83.2   2.7   .42   .36   .29    1".0  107.2   0.3
1994   71     82.4   2.7   .43   .35   .30    24.6  107.0   0.4
1995   70     81.5   2.7   .43   .35   .31    25.1  106.6   0.4
1996   68     80.7   2.7   .44   .35   .32    25.7  106.4   0.4
1997   67     79.9   2.7   .44   .34   .33    26.3  106.2   0.4
1998   66     79.1   2.7   .45   .34   .34    26.9  106.0   0.4
1999   64     78.3   2.7   .45   .34   .35    27.6  105.9   0.4
2000   63     77.5   2.7   .45   .34   .36    28.2  105.7   0.5
2001   62     76.7   2.7   .46   .33   .38    28.9  105.6   0.5
2002   61     75.9   2.7   .46   .33   .39    29.6  105.5   0.4
2003   59     75.2   2.7   .47   .33   .40    30.3  105.5   0.5
2004   58     74.4   2.7   .47   .32   .42    31.1  105.5   0.5
2005   57     73.7   2.7   .48   .32   .43       31.9  105.6   0.6
2006   56     72.9   2.7   .48   .32   .45       32.6  105.5   0.6
2007   55     72.2   2.7   .49   .31   .46       33.5  105.7   0.6
2008   54     71.5   2.7   .49   .31   .48    34.4  105.9   0.6
2009   53     70.7   2.7   .50   .31   .50    35.3  106.0   0.7
2010   52     70.0   2.7   .50   .31   .52    36.2  106.2   0.7



- 35 -
Attachment 3
Page 2 of 2
(1)    Inter-arrival hours: represents the average time intervals between vessel arrivals.
(2)    Hours alongside new wharf: hours alongside berth are considered as "service time" no
other vessel can berth alongside the same stretch of wharf.
(3)    Number of berths: the length of the new wharf is 260 m while the average vessel
length is 100 m. Based on shipping pattern frequenting small ports in West Africa,
substantial numbers of vessels are 80 m long. In many cases, ships berthing alongside
have bow or stern protruding beyond the end of the wharf. The average number of
berthing posts has therefore been taken as 2.7.
(4)    Utilization rate of berth: is obtained by the following formula: _(2)
(1) x (3)
The occupancy rate is satisfactory for the number of berths available.
(5)    P(O): the percentage of vessels not waiting out of the total of vessels arriving.
(6)    Wait/service time ratio:     1
(2)
(7)    Waiting hours per vessel: this average relates to all vessels, even those which do not
actually have to wait. To establish the average actual waiting time for the queuing
vessels, the following formula will apply:
L?)
1 - (5)
e.g. in the year 2000, 28.2 = 42.7 hours as against an average of 28.7 hours for
1 - 0.34
all vessels.
(8)    Hours in port: comprising (2) + (7). The actual hours in port does not increase
substantially over the years because of increased productivity.
(9)    Vessels in queue: the average number of vessels waiting in the queue.
Note: The actual formulae used are from M/M/n dealing with (i) M = exponential inter-
arrival time; (ii) M = exponential service time; (iii) n = numbers of servers (berths)
taken as 2.7. The exponential distribution represents a typical scenario of complete
randomness. We have taken average loads per vessel on arrival as total annual
traffic/number of vessels. However, in real terms, cargo per vessel spreads between
350 tons and 5,000 tons. This justifies the use of exponential distribution for service
time.



- 36 -
7. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff lnauts
(Staff Weeks)
GUINEA BISSAU PORT
Fiscal Yc r  78   79    80    81       82     83    84    85   86    87    a8    89         90   91   Total
Preappraisal           20.7    11.5  11.2                                                              43.4
Apprlmal                             25.3  27.0                                                        52.3
Nogotatons                                   3.9                                                        3*9
Supervision                                        15.1    7.0  11.8  11.8   4.8   4.7    3.9          59.1
Other        0.3  2.6  8.4    0.4   4.9            0.8    0.5                                    0.1  18.0
Total        0.3  2.6  29.1    11.9  41.4  30.9  15.9    7.5  11.8  11.8   4.8   4.7    3.9   0.1  176.7



- 37 -
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S M isnsion Data
ParforrAnce
Stage of                    Month/   Nmuer of           SW        Specialization        Rating         Types of    Date of
Proiggt  CvclYr                         Persom       in Ffie       ReDrfstnted        SWus I/          Problem      Raeort
Throuah Ateraial
Pre-identification        02t78           1          0.5         PE                                               03/31/78
Identification           09/79            2          1.0         PE, EC                                           10/19/79
Pre-appraisaL             06/80           1          1.0         FA                                               08/07/80
Preparation               02/81           2          2.0         fA, EC                                           03/16/81
Appraisal                 02/82           3          3.0         PE, fA, EC                                       03/31/82 I/
Post-appraisal            06/82           1                      fA                                               N.A.
Suoervision
Supervision  1            10/83           2          2.0         PE, C                 1                         12/19/83
Supervision  2            12/83           1          0.5         FA                    2             H 0          03/13/84
Supervision  3            04/84           1          1.0         fA                                               07/19/84
Supervision  4           07/84            1          0.5         PE                    2             H,T          09/10/84
Supervision  5            12/84           2          1.0         PE, FA                2              N           03/18/85
Supervision  6            07/85           2          1.0         PE, FA             3,3,2,2           _/          08/27/85
Supervision  7           09/85            1          0.5         fA                   NA                            04/86
Supervision  8           01/86            3          1.5         DC, HE, FA           NA                          02/10/86
Supervision  9           02/86            1          OS         PE                 3.2,2,2                       03/13/86
Supervision 10           05/86            1          1.0         FA                 2,3,2,2                       07/08/86
Supervision 11           09/86            3          3.0         PE, FA, C          3,2,2,2                       11/10/86
Supervision 12           02/87            1          1.0         PE                 3,3.2,2                       04/06/87
Supervision 13           07/87            1          1.0         rE                 3.3,2,2                       08/18/87
Supervision 14           01/88            1          1.5         PE                 1,1,1,1                       02/05/88
Supervision 15            10/88           1          1.5         PE                 3,2,2,2                       11/10/88
Supervision 16           02/89            i          1.5         PE                 2,2,2,2,3                     03/31/89
Supervision 17            02/90           2          2.5         PE, HE             2,2,1,2,3                     04/05/90
Supervision 18           05/90            3          3.0         PE, HE, fA         2,2.1,2,2                     06/21/90
Supervision 19           02/91            2                      HE, FA                                               n.a.
PE - Port Engineer
EC - Economist
FA - FinanciaL Analyst
C  - Consultant
HE - Highway Engineer
De - Division Chief
/  1. Problem free or minor problem.
2. Hoderate problems.
3. major problea.
FP  Financial
N   Managerial
T * Technical
P xPolitical
0 * Other
Issues pper.
F format of form 590 revifwed as of 06/85.



- 38 -
8. Status of Credit Covenants
COMPLIANCE WITH CREDIT CONDITIONS
Project
Aareement                        Condition                  Sttus
Section 2.02         Engineering consultant to be employed   Complied with.
for the supervision of Parts C and D of
the Project; and management        Complieed with.
consultants (port management experts)
to be employed to improve JAPG's
operations and management.
Section 2.03         Procurement of goods and services   Complied with.
according to guidelines.
Section 2.04 (a)     Insurance of goods to be financed   Not yet applicable.
under the project.
Section 2.04 (b)     All goods and services to be financed    Complied with.
out of the proceeds of the credit to be
used exclusively for the purposes of
the project.
Section 2.05 (a)     Furnish IDA with copy of all tender and  Complied with.
contract documents.
Section 2.08         Candidates to be nominated to act as    Complied with.
counterparts to the port management
experts employed as Line Managers
(see 2.02 above).
Section 3.04 (a)     Plan for reduction of jAPG's staff to be  Complied with.
submitted to IDA (by 1.1.1985).
Section 3.04 (b)     All staff trained abroad must be    Complied with.
retained in JAPG's employment.
Section 3.05         Establishment of management and     Complied with.
operational information systems.
Section 4.01         Establishment of a commercial       Complied with.
accounting system (by 1.1.1985) and
maintenance of appropriate accounting
practices.
Section 4.03         JAPG to prepare plans to reschedule    Complied with.
the repayment of all debts overdue to
the Government.
Develooment Credit Aoreement
Section 3.01 (c)     The Government shall relend part of  Complied with.
the proceeds of the credit to JAPG
under a subsidiary Loan Agreement to
be approved by IDA.



-39 -
Section 3.02 (c)     The consultants to be employed for the  Complied with.
supervision of the project works shall
report directly to the Project
Management Unit.
Section 3.06         The Government to submit to IDA an    Complied with.
organization chart for a new
independent transport company to be
created under the project.
Source: Supervision Report dated November 10, 1986 and updated March 1990.



