Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7789
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
GUJARAT COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT
(CR. 961-IN)
MAY 26, 1989
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfomnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Appraisal Year (1979)                         US$ = Rs   8.6
1980                                                 Rs   7.9
1981                                                 Rs   9.1
1982                                                Rs   9.7
1983                                                Rs  10.5
1984                                                 Rs  12.5
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVmATIONS
ACCF     -  Assistant Chief Conservator of Forests
ACF      -  Assistant Conservator of Forests
AG       - Accountant General
CCF      -  Conservator of Forests
CFP      -  Community Forestry Project/Gujarat
CFW      -  Community Forestry Wing/Gujarat
CIDA     -  Canadian International Development Association
DCF      -  Deputy Conservator of Forests
EFA      -  Extension Forestry Assistant 3ujarat
FAO/CP   -  Food and Agriculture Organization/Cooperative Program
FEW      -  Forestry Extension Worker
FY       -  fiscal year
FYP      -  Five Year Plan
GFD      -  Gujarat Forest Department
GOG      -  Government of Gujarat
GOI      -  Government of India
GSFDC    -  Gujarat State Forest Development Corporation
ha       -  hectares
IDA      -  International Development Association
lakh     -  one hundred thousand
kg       -  kilograms
mJ       -  cubic meters
M&E      - monitoring and evaluation
MT       - metric tons
NCA      -  National Commission on Agriculture
NCAER    -  Nationa:l Commission on Agricultural Economics/Research
NGO      -  non-government:al organization
NREP     -  National Rural Employment Program
NSFP     -  National Social Forestry Project
ODA      -  Overseas Development Administration (British)
PA       -  Project Assistants/Gujarat
PIR      -  Planning and Information Resources Office
RLEGP    -  Rural Landless Employment Guarantee Program
RO/RFO   -  Range Officer/Range Forest Officer
SAR      -  Staff Appraisal Report
SFD      -  State Forest Department
SIDA     -  Swedish International Development Agency
TER      -  Training, Extension and Research
USAID    -  United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFPICI.A USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C 20433
U.S.A
Olke ah DOtheCtCefAhfW
Opatatu EwIVolutn
May 26, 1989
NEKORANDUN TO THE EMECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on India
Gujarat Community Forestry Project
(Credit 961-IN)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled 'Project
Cc'mpletion Report on India - Gujarat Community Forestry Project (Credit
961-IN)" prepared by the Asia  Regional  Office.   No audit of this project
has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OMCIAL Us'E ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
GUJARAT COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT
(Cr. 961-IN)
Table of Contents
Paze No.
Preface ............................................... "4 .........................  1
Basic Data Sheet .....................................................      ii
Evaluation Summary    .      ................................................  iv
OVERVIEW OF PROJECT BY IDA PROJECT STAFF ...........................         1
A.  Project Objectives ...................................         1
B.  Implementation .......................................         3
C.  Operating Performance ...... ...............                   4
D.  Production and Distribution of Benefits ..............         7
E.  Marketing of Project Output ..... .............                7
F.  Organizational Issues   .........................   .         8
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I.  INTRODUCTION ....      .........................................   9
A.  Sectoral Context ........    ...........................       9
B.  The State      ............................................   9
C.  Energy Consumotion .......     ............................   10
D.  Forestry in Gujarat .......     ...........................   10
E.  Contribution of Forests to the State's Economy .......        12
F.  Forestry Institutions .......     .........................   13
G. Forestry Activities Undertaken during the
Plan Periods                  .. ..  14
H. Social Forestry in Gujarat           ....15
I. Project Finance....                                           17
II.  PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL                 19
A. Background                ...19
B. Project Preparation             . . .19
C. Appraisal . .                                                 20
D.  Retrospective Analysis--Identification of Issues             22
E.  Accounting and Auditing Procedures    .        .24
F. Annual Planning          .. ..                                24
G.  Reimbursement Procedure .        .                            25
H. Project Targets and Goals          .. .25
I.  Project Description ....... ...              .     ....      25
J.  Benefits and Economic Justification.                         28
K. Project Financing. ..                                          29
III. IMPLEMENTATION ...          . . ..               ...               31
A.  Initiation ............................... . . .....**...     31
B.  Revisions       ............................................  31
C.  The IDA Missions ................ ....................        32
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contenta  (Cont'd)                                          Pate No.
D.  Target Achievements ............ ... .. ....  .... .... .. ..  33
E. Pr:oject Impact .*.............*..........*s ....*** . ...    35
F.  Implementation Schedule ... .....*O.* ..............         36
G.   Costs           .......00          -6.....       .  0       37
H.  Performance of Consultants and Contractors ......oo.         38
IV.  OPERATING PERFORMANCE ... . ...    ... ...... .. ..              39
At General ...o......  o..ooo.oo#                                39
B. Monitoring and Evaluation .... ......            ...........  39
V.  FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS .........................        63
A.  Pre-Project Analysis ...............        .......se.       63
C. Assumptions          .4............ ............              64
D.  Data Base     .                                              64
E. Inflation Adjustments . . .    ..  ....... *0*. . .......     65
F. Financial Analysis ..040 ..................-.......           69
G.  Economic Analysis .......................* ... .             69
VI. FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE ................... s .............. #      77
A.  Expenditure Incurred  ............. * .............. .       77
B.    Analysis   ...... **..  .............. *     ............ . .  78
VII.  INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE     .     .................... of      81
A. Management and Organizational Effectiveness  ........         81
B. Growth .......................        .     ...   .....       82
C. Consultants        .......#  ........#*#                      84
D.  Compliance with Credit Conditions ..............85
VIII. CONCLUSION ..........so.......  o  ....                           87
ANNEXES
I.  Physical Achievements vis-a-vis SAR Targets
II.  Staff Position and Staif Costs
III. Summary Project Cost
IV.  Details of Reimbursement from IDA
V.  Details of Chronological Process of Reimbureement from IDA
VI.  Details of International Training and Individual Study Tours
under the Community Forestry Project, Gujarat
VII. Key Movements
VIII. Statement Showing the Physical Achievement under Community
Forestry in Gujarat
IX. Statement Showing the Physical Targets and Achievements under
the Community Forestry Project, 1980-85
X. Statement Showing the Distribution of Seedlings to Farmers by
Size of Holding under Community Forestry Project
COMMENTS FROM THE BORROWER
ATTACHMENT: Comments from the Government of Gujarat,
Forest and Environment Department
MAP: IBRD 14322R



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
IWDIA
GUJARAT COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT
(Cr. 961-IN)
Preface
Attached are the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Gujarat
Community Forestry Project, prepared by the Government of Gujarat Forest
and Environment Department, and a PCR Overview prepared by IDA's Asia
Technical Department.
The project entailed a credit for US$37 million, which became
effective on June 24, 1980. The credit closed as scheduled on December 31,
1985, by which time it was fully disbursed.
The draft report has been read by the Operations Evaluation De-
partment (OED), and copies were sent to the Borrower and its agencles for
comments in  February  1989.    Comments  received  from  the Government of
Gujarat Forest and Environment Department appear as an Attacbment.



-ii-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
GUJARAT COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT
(Cr. 961-IN)
Basic Data Sheet
KEY PROJECT DATA
Appraisal                       Actual as
Estimate         Actual         % of SAR
Total Project Cost (USS million)                   76.0             82.2            108
Credit Amount (US$ million)                        37.0            37.0             100
Date of Board Approval (mo/day/yr)               12/11/79        12/11/79
Date of Effectiveness (mo/day/yr)                06/24/80        05/24/80
Date Physical Components Completed (mo/yr)         03/85           03/85
Credit Closing Date (mo/day/yr)                  12/31/85        12/31/85
Economic Rate of Return                            172 *           15.6              92
Financial Rate of Return                           13              11                84
Institutional Performance                                         good
STAFF IWUTS (Staff weeks)
FY75 FY76 FY77 FY78 FY79 FY80 FY81 FY82 FY83 FY84 FY85 FY86 FY87 FY88
Preappraisal  25.6  0.7  C.i 24.9 36.1
Appraisal                            63.9 21.7
Negotiation                               11.2
Supervision                                8.8 11.6 22.2 14.9  3.3 12.7  2.1
PCR             -                _ -         …1.2  0.4
25.6  0.7  0.1 24.9100.041.7 11.6 22.2 14.9  3.3 12.7  2.1  1.2  0.4
-9   TM   ME-   F-3  F          - F   - 
Appro.aJ E=ste (USS ilU4nn.        0.2   2.0   7.0  14.5  24.0  34.U  37.0
;Ac6l (U=a4 Iig)                      0   6.7  12.2  20.4  29.1  34.3  31.0
AcumL as Z ot App.aamL Z1tat.         -   335   175   141   121   101   100
Date , RL=L Diamwint - 10/25/85
-s        E DMa
Det    No. 0±  TotL   _          Pamm            d        at
(m9fr)  P u    In Fie             Rucrg  a/ Ts b/ P         8 e/
Apyn==l      B0/79      6         96             -           -
Ssmxnn noC    02/80     1          9             1           -         -
S41vnamz    D11/80     3         21             1           2        -
9cplrnvi.n     0/81o    1          5             1           2        -
94qmwrm=    W04/82      3         24            2            2         I
9up aiJizz    11/82     5         30             1           1         T
9qrrvum.o     Q5/84     2          6             1           2         T
SincLw.mcn    02384     1          5             1           2         T
aqplVnza.c    I084     2          8             1           2         T
Sup ri:ica    04J85     1         10             1           2         T



-lil-
,M    1FA= DAL
:mw * G a    Qe at          d c/Gwez  a 04
scaL Ye  os BoMe    : Apz1i 1 - I4c  31
..,-Nm alt Ozxeq        S Et    (RM)
_~y Rge    s   : AppEdml Yew US. a Re 8.60
IT8SCUMMA Y    A       : R79 U1 = RB 8.10
FM USS= ' R 7.90
E    MMl 1 Be 8.95
I   Ul=S Pe 9.65
I= US1 =a 10.30
PMu  =S  3 RB U.90
ENS MM aPs am0
FM US$1  Rs a12.0
As 1- Exdgm-t   ar tff P=Uln; 2 - ki         PedAmru; 3- )tjr fnu
b/ 1--         2- S i,n    3 -
C.' ! 7 Flcaw; M4- M- pdaJ  T - TaL: p7- pW1.±L.; 0-
4   m13 mims fam 7 kaM7.



- iv -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
GUJARAT COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT
(Cr. 961-IN)} 
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.       The Gujarat Community Forestry Project represented one of the first
two IDA investments in Indian social forestry, the other being the Uttar
Pradesh Social Forestry Proiect. IDA involvement now extends to nine states
in India including follow-up projects in both Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat. This
project reflects much of the experience of the broader IDA investment, and
many of the lessons discussed below have been incorporated into the design of
recent projects.
Obiectives
2.       Thirty-one percent of the plantation planned for the state was on
community woodlots. Another major proportion was on Government land, with 59Z
benefit distributed locally. The remaining minor percentage, 10?, was by
private farmers on their own land.
3.       The major task of the state Forest. Department handling the tree
plantation program was to encourage local appreciation for trees and partici-
pation in activities. To support the programs, the Forest Department was to
strengthen its capacity for extension, research, and monitoring and
evaluation.
4.       The Gujarat project was appraised in March 1979 and became effective
January 1980, with an IDA credit of US$37.0 million.
Project Implementation
5.       The project started up promptly and progressed on a timely basis. It
closed as scheduled in December 1985, being disbursed faster than either the
appraisal estimate or the South Asian profile disbursement rate. Credit
amount w.s fully disbursed.
6.       There were revisions in project design, determined during the mid-
term review. Espacement requirements were changed for plantations, the design
was changed on fuel-efficient devices, and innovative approaches were intro-
duced to deal with the vast expansion in farm forestry (e.g., contract
nurseries and basketting of fingerling seedlings for distribution).
Operational Results
7.       Far surpassing original expectations, the component for plantation of
trees by farmers for their private land was extraordinarily successful (target
of 30 million seedlings to be distributed and achievement of 800 million).



- v 
While motivation for farm forestry had been expected to be production of fuel-
wood and other materiale for home consumption, farm forestry's success was due
to commercial incentives. The success brought new unanticipated issues,
including potential environmental risks, need for better marketing arrange-
ments, and weakness of research with regard to agroforestry and other tree
management methods.
8.       To support the expanding interest in private planting, the project
moved toward small decentralized (accessible) nurseries, and intensified
extension. Further qualitative improvemerts are still needed in areas such as
research, extension and monitoring and evatluation.
9.       As for the community plantation components, the Forest Department did
best with 'supervised woodlotse where its staff performed the work. But
communities did net take over management as hoped, for a variety of economic
and sociological reasons. The 'self-help woodlots scLhemes never really took
off for the same reasons, and the fact that poor people would not volunteer
labor as expected.
10.      Predictably, the Forest Department capably handled the technical side
of plantations on government lands. However, on the social side, it has been
slow to consolidate arrangements for distribution of benefits.
Findings and Lessons
11.      The issue arises of how much responsibility should be transferred
away from government, as has already begun with farm forestry and establish-
ment of contract nurseries. There is a fundamental financial consideration
since these Departmental plantations are about five times as expensive as
farmers planting on their own land, given the high labor costs incurred by
FYorest Department. This would seem to imply that, to the extent that wood
production can be handled economically on private lands or through similar
means (para. 12), Forest Departments should turn over that responsibility.
They could then focus on areas where Forest Department must still be involved,
for instance production of fuelwood or assistance to the poor in meeting
subsistence needs for wood, and provision of technical expertise for planta-
tion and nursery operation.
12.      Forest Departments have begun to experiment with new plantation
approaches, a key one being tree tenure schemes, whereby poor farmers and
landless persons lease public land at nominal fees and take the benefits of
the trees they grow there. Gujarat is trying such an arrangement in its
follow-on project.
13.      Not only should social forestry look toward the supply side of the
equation, but also toward demand. Fuel-efficient stoves are recognized as an
effective way of reducing wood demand, when stoves are appropriately designed
and installed. Gujarat has managed to distribute some 10,000 improved stoves
and 1,000 fuel-efficient crematoria.
14.      Social forestry experience has raised several questions about the
organization of forestry. Some functions which can be handled better by the
private sector (e.e.g, some commercial production), or by other organizations



- vi -
(e.g., field contacts by agricultural extension, seedling distribution and
stoves by NGOs, etc.) should be released by the Forest Department. This also
avoids building an overly large, expensive forestry bureaucracy.
15.      On the whole, the project was well conceptualized.  Social forestry
was still being pioneered during this project; however, the overwhelming
success of farm forestry could not be anticipated. Also, social forestry may
need to evolve as public awareness grows. For example, strip plantations have
been effective in introducing not only to the public but also to the Forest
Department the idea of trees for public benefit; thus, despite their lower
rates of return, strip plantations still serve a useful purpose as soil
forestry begins to evolve. The one component based on erroneous assumptions
was village woodlots; communities were often unable to taken on organiza-
tional responsibilities for woodlots, or had poor incentives because woodlots
were too small to yield benefits or else benefits were unclear. Also, land
was not always available.
Sustainability
16.      Gujarat has launched expansive plantation and seedling distribution
programs through various schemes, of which IDA financing is only one part.
The public demand for these programs has grown over the last ten years, as has
Forest Department commitment to meeting that demand.   In terms of quantity of
trees planted and output produced, U.P. has the capability to handle its own
programs and even teach others.
17.      There are, however, qualitative aspects for which the Department has
not established so firm a capacity; the strengthening of qualitative perfor-
mance has comprised a major justification for follow-on IDA lending to social
forestry in Gujarat. First, institutional weaknesses have resulted in poor
delivery of edvice to farmers, inefficiencies, etc. Second, little effort has
been put into the distribution and marketing aspects of tree production.          See
Third, subsistence fuel needs of the poor, and urban population fuel needs,    Bororer's
thave not been satisfactorily addressed.                                          Comments
Bank Performance
18.      The project was generally well conceptualized.  No one could have
anticipated the substantial response to farm forestry; the appraisal mission
did overestimate the direct costs for farm forestry (seedling production).
Regarding the village woodlots component, the appraisalftmission might have
foreseen common property problems, particularly in the self-help woodlot
schemes which IDA pressed in spite of forestry officials' misgivings.
19.      Supervisions occurred fairly regularly, and a useful exchange of
views between mission members and forestry officials often occurred. A number
of forestry officials took increasing initiative and responsibility over the
five years, even helping supervise and formulate other IDA projects once they
left their social forestry positions.
20.      IDA showed flexibility during project implementation and allowed the
project to adopt new ideas (e.g. kisan nurseries), and to modify concepts
(e.g., self-help village woodlots components).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
GUJARAT COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT
(Cr. 961-IN)
Overview
1.       The Social Forestry Directorate of the Gujarat Forest Department has
prepared a full Project Completion Report in keeping with the Bank guidelines.
This section covers issues which warrant further discussion from the Bank
perspective, including questions about the appropriateness of original project
objectives and design.
A. Proiect Obiectives
2.       The original project targets provided for plantation of 105,440 ha of
plantations on public and village lands in Gujarat. The project, which was to
be administered by the State Forest Department, was to employ laborers from
the poorest section of the population. In Gujarat, 30 million seedlings were
to be distributed to private farmers, equivalent to about 20,000 ha of planta-
tion. Benefits were conceptualized as production of fuel, fodder and other
products for home consumption, generation of employment and environmental
stabilization. Of the 16,680,000 mt anticipated in Gujarat, 732 was to
consist of fuelwood and fodder, 82 poles, and the remainder timber, fruits,
oilseeds and bamboo. Thus, the overwhelming proportion of production was
expected to go for subsistence products such as fuelwood and fodder.
3.       Clearly the Project was viewed essentially as a Government rural
development effort, where the "beneficiaries" were enjoined to participate
"first in planning, then protection of the village forest, and later in
management and harvesting." The self-help woodlots components were to guide
the way for later phases of the social fcrestry program, although they still
aimed at production of subsistence materials.
4.       But several things were beyond the perception of either the Bank or
the State Forest Department at the time of appraisal. First, commercial
incentive, for personal profit emerged as the most powerful incentive for tree
planting; eventually in Gujarat the State far exceeded its target of 30 mil-
lion seedlings, distributing sosie 800 million under the project and various
additional schemes. Not only were expectations low on total demand, but also
on commercial potential. Many farmers have said they prefer to sell the trees
they grow, and continue using home materials (dung, agricultural wastes, etc.)
and residuals from the trees for subsistence purposes. This had not been
expected.
5.       Related to the unanticipated commercial incentive was the fact that
communities did not show much motivation or ability to gradually take over
management and protection of community woodlots, which were intended to deal
essentially with subsistence needs. However, it should be noted that there
was a misperception regarding peoples' incentives to volunteer their labor for
subsistence benefits provided by village woodlots.



-2-
6.       The project started up just before "social forestry" began to gain
its exceptional momentum in India.  The Forest Department's relationship to
the rural public in the past had been one essentially of policing. The Forest
Department did not expect the public to take such a positive view toward
growing trees: just educating farmers to appreciate social forestry was
considered a major objective in the project. The skepticism about public
responsibiiity has continued, although to a declining con ributed toward some
foresters' reluctance to turn over management of community plantations.  When
rural communities are not motivated to assist in community woodlots, and
foresters are not anxious to hand them over to local people then
implementation is impaired.
7.       What factors have given rise to this situation?  To begin with, India
has become very rapidly a leader in the social forestry field, and we have
noted that these projects commenced only at the beginning of the Indian
experience. Secono, it seems that Bank and Indian economists alike over-
estimated the demand for fuelwood. They may have failed to factor in suffi-
ciently the amount of home materials that were used and would continue to be
used. Recent surveys have shown that woody material from twigs, bushes and
fallen trees constitutes about two thirds of total fuelwood consumption.
Furthermore, lops and tops from trees grown commercially are also used for
fuel and fodder.
8.       The project shows a number of lessons which could be used in the
design of future social forestry projects, including:
(a) to the extent that markets are accessible and prices for wood
products are attractive, commercial incentives for growing will
constitute a powerful incentive for planting and for public
participation; however, Forest Department plantings will to some
extent help generate interest and demonstrate know-how;
(b) private planting, especially for commercial purposes, induces greater
public motivation for protection. Furthermore, it costs about one
fifth the amount per tree on Forest Department-handled plantations;
thus, private planting should receive continued support in the
future;
(c) village woodlots seem workable only under special sociological condi-
tions, and therefore, any efforts to increase community responsi-
bility will demand particular attention in project design;
(d) to support expanded private planting, the number of small, decentra-
lized nurseries should be expanded; some nurseries can be run on a
contract or private basis and this should be encouraged where
feasible;
(e) the greater emphasis accorded to private plantings means that exten-
sion on tree planting will have to be strengthened considerably;
See Borrower's (f) Bank and borrower need to differentiate, at an early stage, their
Comments        production objectives from their welfare goals; private planting may



-3-
See                not  ncorporate any special benefits for the poorest farmers and
Borrower s          landless rural persons, but is justified because of increased
Comments           production and income benefits; however, to the extent that projects
wish to provide subsistence materials or specific benefits to the
extremely poor, special project components would be necessary.
Much of experience gained under the project has been incorporated in Indian
National Social Forestry Project now underway (Cr. 1611-IN), in which Gujarat
is one of the participating states.
B. Implementation
9.       A major issue concerning the original project concept, which is not
discussed by the Borrower's PCR. is the concept of charging for seedlings
distributed for private planting. Initially, the Bank generally favored
imposing a nominal charge on seedlings while the Gujarat Government was not in
favor of such a practice.
10.      Later, when the Bank was formulating the National Social Forestry
Project (1984/85), the Bank defined its position more fully. The Bank urged
that a certain number of trees (those needed to meet a family's subsistence
needs) be given free, and for the remainder the state charge a price equal to
the full direct cost of production. Gujarat continued to have reservations
about the idea of charging for seedlings at all.
11.      Evidence shows that it took the Bank some time to define its policy
on seedling pricing and the distribution of free seedlings. Experience also
See        shows that a policy of charging for some seedlings and not the others
Borrower's complicates record keeping and leads to some misrepresentations. At this
Comments   time, it is not too clear whether charging for seedlings does motivate farmers
to take only the number needed, thus providing them with better care. Also it
is not too clear to what extent free seedling distribution is necessary, at
least in the beginning, to promote private planting.
12.      Bank social forestry in the broader context of the entire social
forestry programs was not dealt with directly until the preparation and
appraisal of the National Social Forestry Project. During implementation of
the initial projects, there were at least five schemes besides the IDA-
financed projects supporting social forestry. including four GOI centrally
sponsored schemes (Rural Fuelwood Program, Drought-Prone Areas Program, Small
and Marginal Farmers Scheme, and National Rural Employment Program) and the
state schemes. Of the 457,919 ha planted in Gujarat at that time, the IDA-
financed project comprised about 552 of trees planted but only about 45Z of
financial outlay (see Annexes 1-a and 1-b). It should be noted that the
various schemes have in fact adopted different approaches, varying plantation
criteria, seedling pricing, etc.
13.      The above suggests that the Bank has to take account of the broader
forestry context and policy framework in project design. For instance, if the
Bank would insist on seedlings pricing based on actual cost, free seedlings
might still be available without restriction under another scheme, which would



- 4 -
only undercut farmer participation in the Bank-financed nurseries. Another
lesson may be the need for more active cvordinatlion among schemes, even though
Bank experience has shown consistently the difficulties in trying to achieve
interagency coordination.
14.      The Bank provides a substantial amount of organizational support for
social forestry. The percentage of project costs devoted to management,
staffing, research, extension and training in Bank-financed projects has
ranged from 302 up to nearly 702; the average runs about 30-35X. By conLrast
most GOI centrally sponsored schemes provide to a maximum of 52 of total costs
for organizational support. It is conceivable that the staff, resources and
support activities from the Bank-financed projects are often utilized to
implement other schemes. The Bank should use this as a leverage to promote a
more uniform approach to social forestry development.
C. Operating Performance
15.      Farm Forestry.  The project completion report does not mention the
environmental and economic issues which have arisen with the vastly increased
See        number of trees planted on private lands.  However, this subject deserves
Borrower's mention because it has affected social forestry in this and other projects.
Comments   Fears have been expressed that: (a) the Eucalyptus species has been over-
emphasized for farm forestry distribution; (b) forest departments have
promoted private planting to feed large wood industries;0 (c) fast-growing
species planted on farmers' lands may lower the water table or have other
undesirable effects; (d) the plantation of large numbers of the same species
risks all the undesirable repercussions of monoculture; (e) good agricul-
tural land providing essential food crops has been converted over to tree
growing;2' and (f) agricultural labor has been displaced since trees need much
less labor input than crops. At a conference on the subject of eucalyptus
planting held in Southern India in 1984, the only point of consensus for
participants was the lack of sufficient research to prove either the presence
or absence of ill-effects on farmers' land.
16.      Since then, the British ODA has embarked on a special research
project to systematically study the effects of fast-growing species on sites
and crops, and other research initiatives have been started in various places
in India. While definitive results take some time to emerge in the case of
tree trials, evidence now available indicates that environmental risks--and
benefits--depend on the agroclimatic conditions and management methods under
which trees are grown.
17.      What is the experience in this regard from Gujarat project?  Farmers
have shown a marked preference for species like eucalyptus because they are
fast-growing, coppicing, not browsed by livestock except for very young seed-
lings and, at present, have an attractive market value. Even when the Forest
Department has urged farmers to take a variety of seedlings, they still
express their preferences. But to be objective, extension under the projects
1/  Note that Gujarat does not have any pulp and paper mills.
2/ Annex 3 shows that only a small proportion of farmland has been planted
up.



has been weak, as both the Bank Mid-term Review and the PCR have pointed out.
both in terms of the scope and regularity of contacts. and the quality of
recommendations. Future projects should strengthen extension, develop better
information on the effects of fast-growing species (this depends on research
outcomes), and formulate recommendations which make sense technically and yet
still respond to farmers' priorities.
18.      Regarding the issue of equity in farm forestry, noting that larger
farmers took a disproportionately higher number of seedings during the first
phase is based on the fact that large farmers have more land available for
tree planting. However. the number of small and marginal farmers
participating in the program was also smaller. While there is nothing wrong
that a larger portion of seeding was distributed to large farmers, it was
unsatisfactory that the number of small and marginal participants was below
the number of large farmers.
19.      However the situation improved drastically during implementation of
the second phase when Gujarat eventually established some 2,936 nurseries:
725 departmental, 651 operated by schools, and 1,562 run on contract by
farmers ("kisan" nurseries). The establishment of this broad nursery network
stands as one of the major accomplishments of the project.
20.      Extension.  The PCR claims some successes in extension (Gujarat PCR,
Chapter 7), Bank missions had seen the need for more intenseve extension.
Could the Borrower and Bank have better anticipated the needs in this area?
As noted before, no one expected the farm forestry response would be so
strong. But on the other hand, no one envisioned a need for comprehensive
field extension either.
21.      By 1984, Bank staff concluded that social forestry extension should
be coordinated with the T&V system of agricultural extension, for three main
reasons: first, T&V already had a large field staff whose sole job was to
regularly contact farmers and bring them recommendations; second, linkages
with T&V would help coordinate forestry and agriculture recommendations, and
avoid potential for conflicting information; third, forestry could avoid
building a large field bureaucracy which was beyond its capacity to support.
However, it should be recognized that the T&V system only addresses farmers,
and therefore other provisions must be made in social forestry to meet the
needs of the landless.
22.      Woodlots.  The Gujarat PCR mentions problems in identifying land.
There are other factors which have affected the viability of the woodlots
concept as well. One of the fundamental problems has been the failure of the
Forest Department in handing over responsibility fir management of the
woodlots--and the failure of communities to take that responsibility. First,
communities may lack interest or organizational capability to manage woodlots.
As with management of common property resources generally, social fractionali-
zation (e.g., strong caste divisions) makes it difficult to reach consensus on
how land should be used and who should receive benefits.
See         23.      Secondly, incentives involved may not be attractive. which is often
Borrower 8 the case when the amount of wood to be produced is too small to motivate
Comments



- 6 -
people. Sometimes this happened because the woodlots were small and the
number of beneficiaries high; for the future, the lesson is that larger
woodlot areas (or sp&ller number of beneficiaries) should be provided,
although this may be aifficult when much land is not available for woodlots to
begin with. (Uncultivated land has often been assumed to be available free
for woodlots. when in fact it is subject to a number of usufruct rights such
as grazing and fuel collection). Another important factor which undercuts
incentives is the fact that the Forest Department expects to take a high
percentage of the wood harvest in order to recover costs. This has happened
because maintenance, protection, etc.--tasks which theoretically should have
been taken over by the community--continued to be done by the Forest
Department, for reasons listed in para. 6. It is hard to imagine that
communities will want to continue setting aside land for woodlots when Forest
Departments take the majority of the produce. Thus, the woodlots model must
be managed to be more cost-beneficial which implies earlier, greater community
responsibility.
24.      Yet another related factor concerns difficulties by Forest Department
staff in formulating agreements with communities for woodlots. Contacts were
made with village leaders, but often without the consensus or even knowledge
of the community at large. Arrangements as to responsibilities and turnover
of management were often unclear, and details on who were beneficiaries and
how much they would get were virtually nonexistent. Forest Department staff
lacked training in this kind of work; experience shows that it demands skill
and perhaps some sociological input.
25.      The lesson in all this for the supervised woodlot scheme is that such
woodlots can only be established under certain conditions, including adequate
land availability, attractive cost-benefit incentives, and community cohesion.
The latter, given the prevailing social organization and increase" population
pressures on the majority of rural villages in India, makes it an exception-
ally difficult task.
26.      In the supervised scheme, but especially in the self-help scheme, it
was envisioned that the poor could volunteer labor in return for benefits.
See        The PCR seems to agree (para. 4.13).  Furthermore, it had been assumed that
Borrower's resources would benefit the poor. But in reality, it depended mainly on who
Comments   controls the community land and resources.  It may be that equal distribution
to all residents would be the most feasible arrangement, since the village
woodlots model seems a less-effective vehicle to help the poor.
27.      Species Selection and Other Technical Inputs.  Supervision missions
have noticed that in some nurseries, eucalyptus seedlings have been taken, but
other species remained in surplus. This has raised the question of whether
Forest Departments have adequately attempted to encourage farmers to try other
species, and how extension could help.
28.      More research needs to be done on management techniques for tree
growing, given different objectives. For example, the research wing in UP
questions whether fodder and fuelwood producticn can be undertaken efficiently
with the same trees. The need for management research is particularly impor-



tant for farm forestry where growing of crops may be related to trees. For
instance. PCR notes that espacement was changed from appraisal recommenda-
tions. Other issues requiring more research attention include tree improve-
ment. contour planting, and soil cornservation approaches.
D. Production and Distribution of Benefits
29.      Statistics on growth rateE and yields have been less than satisfac-
tory. In Fart, this is because, on Departmentalicommunity plantations, little
felling and distribution of mature trees has taken place to date, and arrange-
ments for distribution of benefits are vague if they exist at all. But this
has also occurred in large part because monitoring and evaluation did not
develop to the desired capacity during the project. The projected yields and
production could have been ascertained from existing stands by measuring
present volume, etc.
30.      Recent IDA supervision missions have pointed out the lack of detailed
plans about how tree benefits would be distributed, when, and to whom. The
lack of local involvement in the plantations, resulting from unawareness of
benefits forthcoming seems to have contributed heavily to the poor participa-
tion.  In part, the poor plans for distribution occurred because project
design did not put strong enough emphasis, and in part because Forest
Departments delayed taking up the subject. But IDA has required in its
second-phase National Social Forestry Project that distribution of benefits be
decided clearly from the beginning, ideally at the time before planting when
other plans are still taking shape.
E. Marketing of Project Output
31.      As noted by the Mid-term Review, the marketing projections originally
envisioned at appraisal proved outdated, given the unanticipated overwhelming
response to farm forestry. The Mid-term Review suggested that studies be done
across the board on forest products.3/ The studies which were done eventually
related to another exercise, the "wood balance study." There are also needs
to improve profitability; for example, the pilot soproach pursued during the
first Project entailed substantial input from the Forest Department, with
production on a widely scattered basis. This meant a large investment from
the Forest Department in terms of training staff, and deploying staff through-
out the project area to small sites. Furthermore, certain economies of scale
in production, collection and sale of cocoons could have been achieved by
focusing production only in certain areas.
32.      The lessons to be learned for future Bank projects in social forestry
are: (a) marketability requires attention early in the project. including
projections of future supply and demand, for instance where market gluts might
occur; (b) just because a scheme is directed at the rural poor does not mean
that it cannot be profitable; in such a scheme. economic objectives such as
3/  With special attention to potential saturation of the pole market in
Gujarat (Mid-term Review, para. 49).



- 8 -
cost recovery and economies of scale can be met simultaneously with poverty
objectives; by supervising too closely and investing more staff time than
necessary, the Forest Department is narrowing the profit margin for the bene-
ficiaries.
F. Organizational Issues
33.      Paragraphs above such as those on extension and woodlots have already
mentioned some organizational aspects; and the Borrower's PCR deals with a
number of other organizational considerations.  But there are two more which
deserve further mention here.
34.      First of all, the Government of India encouraged Forest Departments
to create a separate wing for social forestry, which most states, including
Gujarat, did. The idea was that such separate wings were necessary in order
to promote consciousness of social forestry, and to focus forestry staff on
social aspects rather than the traditional "enforcement-oriented" forestry to
which they were accustomed. It was expected that forestry staff would resist
transfers to the social side. Gujarat created a separate social forestry
organization, with a separate line of command; in many districts, there are
two separate forestry organizations, one territorial and one social.
35.      The question has begun to arise of whether this separation between
social and territorial forestry is actually desirable in the long run, and
whether the two sides should now be integrated. Some critics claim that,
because of the attention devoted to social forestry, valuable staff and
resources have been drawn away from other forestry work; social forestry has
career growth, additional responsibilities, benefits and status such as
vehicles. Another issue is that there is not such a clear differentiation
between social and territorial forestry conducted on government lands; both
should elicit loe0l cooperation if not participation, and should aim at
addressing local needs. Also there is the idea that the Forest Department
should devolve to the private sector what the latter can do as (or more)
efficiently, and that it should avoid creating a larger bureaucracy when other
services (e.g., agricultural extension) can take responsibility; as a result,
the Forest Department's own responsibilities might be consolidated.
36.      The second organizational issue worth mentioning in this overview is
the failure to develop a strong monitoring and evaluation capacity. Although
during appraisal stress was put on developing a strong capacity, monitoring
and evaluation was accorded a lower priority than much other project work, and
sometimes staff assigned to it were relatively unqualified. Rather than being
understood as a tool for management, monitoring and evaluation were viewed
more as a report-generating function. A workshop on M&E was held in February
1986, to train staff from all the Indian projects and clarify any remaining
questions on the subject. In collabotation with fcrestry officials from
different states in India, a Guide :o Monitoring and Evaluation has been
produced. This, in combination with computerized data processing, will hope-
fully improve the situation. This institutionalization of M&E may be expected
to greatly improve the situation in this second phase.



- 9 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
GUJARAT COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT
(Cr. 961-IN)
I. INTRODUCTION
A. Sectoral Content
1.1      Forests in India cover 23% of the total land area and are spread over
some 75 million ha. However, the designated forest area includes lands above
snow line, deserts, marsh lands, etc., too. Also large stretches of forests
are barren, degraded or underproductive. The actual forest cover is estimated
at about 19Z of the geographical area of the country.
1.2      These meager forests are unable to bear the ever increasing burden of
685 million (1981) populace of the country which is largely agrarian and
mostly uses non-commercial sources of energy for meeting its energy needs.
The domestic requirement of fuelwood is estimated to grow tc 255 million m3 of
fuelwood and 65 million m3 of timber (Report of the National Commission on
Agriculture - NCA, 1976, IX Volume).
1.3      Accordingly, if the present plantation programi were to be continued,
then the demand of 502 coniferous timber and most of the industrial hardwood
could be met, but there would still be a very large gap between demand and
supply of fuelwood because an additional 75 million m3 over the present
production of fuelvood would be required by 2000. which would mean afforesting
some 450,000 ha annually. But due to constraints in both availability of land
and finance it would be more practical to assume an annual target of
225,000 ha annually (target fixed by the NCA, 1976).
1.4      The country had, therefore, to adopt a two-fold strategy for develop-
ing its forestry sector, firstly to better organize and develop properly the
production forestry program to cater to the needs of the wood-based industries
(particularly pulp and paper) and secondly community forestry program to
supply fuelwood, fodder and small timber and minor forest produc.. to the rural
people. Encompassing both the objectives is the recognition of the vital role
that forests play in the conservation of soil and moisture. In 1976, with
these objectives in view, the National Commission on Agriculture recommended
that each State should reorganize its Forest Department into two separate
wings, one to remain in charge of its traditional production forestry and
wildlife and the second to develop community forestry. The Forest Departments
of Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh were the first to create community forestry
wings.
B. The State
1.5      Gujarat State covers an area of 19.6 million ha and has a population
of 34 million (1981) with an annual growth of 2.72%, 68.9Z of which live in
rural dreas. In spite of being highly industrialized, agriculture and allied
activities still contribute 39.4% (1982) of the net domestic product.



- 10 -
1.6      Scheduled tribes constitute 15Z and Scheduled Castes 72 of the popu-
lation, with tribals living mainly in the hilly forested eastern regions of
the State and the Scheduled Castes being dispersed throughout the State.
Working force accounts for 32.2S of the total population.
1.7      The State has 18,275 villages, with an average of about 1,280
persons/village, whereas 352 have less than 500 persons.
1.8      Livestock forms an iategral part of village life.  An average rural
household owns over two cattle which supply the basic needs such as milk,
draught power, manure and cow-dung. The cattle generally graze in the waste
lands (5.8 million ha in the State) but their diet is also supplemented with
leaves, crop residues, grain stubble and cut grass.
1.9      Population growth has increased the pressure on land.  In addition,
increases in the cattle and buffalo population have resulted in overgrazing of
village gaucher and over exploitation of fodder from the forest areas.
C. Energy Consumption
1.10     The present consumption of fuelwood in Gujarat is estimated at 7.372
MT (Gujarat - Wood Balance Study - 1984). Of this 7.007 MT is used for house-
hold purposes only. Fuelwood provides for only 36.5? of total household fuel
needs. Agriculture waste 4.222 MT (14.22), dung cake 4.8 MT (10.7z), kerosene
357 M liters (16.2Z), Liquified Petroleum Gas 0.184 MT (14.1Z) and coke 0.657
MT (7.4Z) are the other major contributors towards household fuel needs. Most
of the fuelwood used for household purposes is collected as non-monetized
commodity by women and children. In some of the areas women and children
spend up to 3-4 hours a day on search and collection of fuel. Other uses of
fuelwood are 0.125 MT by hotels, restaurants, sweet meat shops, 0.1 MT for
cremation and 0.14 MT for the other uses including for industrial purposes.
D. Forestry in Guiarat
Environmental Conditions and Forest Types
1.11     Gujarat State divides naturally into two principal regions, mainland
Gujarat in the east and the Saurashtra-Kachchh peninsula, in the west.
Mainland Gujarat consists of alluvial plains and its eastern border is formed
by hill ranges with altitudes of 300-700 m. The Saurashtra-peninsula is an
area of low hills (75-100 m altitude) that is joined to the mainland by a neck
of low-lying land. Kachchh adjoins Saurashtra to the north and is an undulat-
ing, dry rocky region with the Rann of Kachchh, a vast expanse of arid, saline
mudflats, occupying most of its northern and south-eastern areas.
1.12     Three different seasons can be demarcated, viz., summer--March to
June, monsoon--July to September and winter--November to February. In the
arid north and northeast areas temperatures can be extreme, dipping to 1°C in
winter and shooting to 45C in summer. The rainfall also varies considerably.
It ranges from 1,000 to 2,000 mm in southeast mainland Gujarat, to 200 to 400
mm over most of Kachchh.



- 11 -
1.13     The forests of Gujarat can be grouped into four major types.
(a) moist deciduous forests found in the southern-most districts of the
mainland (Surat, Valsad and Dangs districts) which form state's major
source of commercial timber and bamboos (Tectona gradis, Adina
cordifolia, Dalbergia sissoo, Terminalia crenulata and bamboos-
-Bambusa bamboos and Dendrocalamus strictus);
(b) dry mixed deciduous forests of the central mainland and those parts
of Saurashtra with moderate rainfall (600-800 mm/annum). Tree
species are similar to the moist forest type but growth and quality
are poorer;
(c)  dry scrub forests located in the northern and western regions of the
state. Acacia species, Anogeisus latifolia, Azadirachta indica,
Erythrina subersoa and zizyphus species and thorny shrubs occur
frequently in these areas and trees are used primarily for fuelwood;
bamboo (D.strictus) occurs only in hilly areas; and
(d) mangrove forests confined to the sea coast. Main species of the3e
areas is Avicennia officinalis, which is of inferior quality and is
used mainly as fuel.
1.14     Forests of Gujarat support a rich heritage of wildlife.  There occur
about 40 species of mammals and over 425 species of birds in the forests of
Gujarat.  Important among them are the Asiatic lion, Wild Ass and Flamingo.
1.15     Virtually all forest areas within Gujarat are owned by the State and
.managed by the Gujarat Forest Department (GFD).  The total area now adminis-
;           tered by GFD covers 1.96 million ha divided into reserved (61.7Z), protected
(5.9Z) and unclassed (32.4Z) forests.  Thus, only 10.03? of the state's geo-
graphical area is forest covered.  Barren, uncultivable lands and grazing
areas comprise some 5.8 million ha.
1.16     This deficiency in forest resources is more acute than comparisons
suggest. Firstly, the distribution of the forests is uneven, substantial
blocks of forest being confined to hill areas along the eastern border of
mainland Gujarat and in the southern and western area of Saurashtra.
Secondly, productivity of more than half the forest areas is low, either
because of aridity and low soil fertility or because of degradation through
improper use and biotic factors. An understanding of forest conservation is
lacking in most sectors of the community as traditionally, the forest has
been regarded as apparently an inexhaustible source for supply of free produce
and as a reservoir of land for alternative uses. Over the past two decades
GFD has expanded considerable efforts to improve productivity by forest reha-
bilitation, improved nanagement and greater control of illegal degradation.
Since 1969, GFD has also embarked on a program of Community Forestry designed
to increase local awareness of the need to replace forest resources.
1.17     All areas under the immediate jurisdiction of GFD are managed under
the supervision of its territorial staff in accordance with forest working
plans, prepared and revised at regular intervals by GFD. As a result of
unsatisfactory performance, exploitation by private timber contractors was



- 12 -
abolished by early seventies and since then all harvesting operations have
been jointly undertaken by GFD or by Forest Laborers Cooperative Societies
(FLCS).
E. Contribution of Forests to the States Econo2m
Production
1.18     According to the GFD's records the annual production from State's
forests is 150,000 m3 of timber, 150,000 T on fuelvood, 73,000 T of bamboos,
12.5 MT of grass and number of Minor Forest Products (MFP) such as Mahuda
flowers and seeds, bidi leaves, gums, honey, oil seeds, etc.  In addition an
estimated 1.186 MT of fuelwood is collected by privilege holders.
Economic
1.19     Total revenue from state forests in year 1984-85 was Rs 244.6 million
as against total expenditure of Rs 383 M. Contribution of forestry to the
state's domestic production is estimated at a meager 0.4X. However, forests
play an important role in the economy of the tribals and landless laborers.
Annually more than Rs 124 million are paid as wages to laborers employed on
forest development activities creating 12.3 million mandays of labor. The
harvesting of annual forest crops provided additional 4 million mandays of
labor. In addition the Gujarat State Forest Development Corporation (GSFDC)
provides for about 3.5 million mandays of employment on collection of MFP.
Bulk of this employment is generated during the non-agricultural season.
Forest-based Industries
1.20     The industries directly supported by forests are:
(a) 3,037 (184) mostly small saw mills;
(b) two paper and pulp mills using about 100 thousand tons of bamboo each
year;
(c)  four katha factories using about eleven thousand Acacia catechu trees
every year'
(d) number of small straw board factories which use grass for pulp manu-
facture; and
(e) number of small-scale industries manufacturing toys, textile
accessories, etc.
1.21     The saw mills in turn support industries of housing, furniture,
pencils, packing boxes, etc. The forest also support a large number of small-
scale and household industries using MFP such as, Timru leaves, Mahuda and
Karanj seeds (oil), Mahuda flowers (cattle feed), grasses, ayurvedic
medicines, tannin, gums, lac, etc.
1.22     The forests also provide considerable benefits to members of
scheduled castes, marginal farmers and landless laborers (who form the bulk of



-13 -
the population in and around the forests) in the form of free fuelwood, fruit,
flowers, grazing, honey, poles for hut construction and bamboo (either free or
at subsidized rates) for cottage industries. Work in forest areas also
provides the main source of employment for these people.
1.23     Naverthele s, shortages of primary forest products, especially fuel-
wood, building poles and fodder are becoming increasingly severe and are
likely to become worse in the future, unless timely steps are taken. Although
rehabilitation and improved management of the existing forests would help
alleviate the situation, the magnitude of the problem and the inequitable
geographic distribution of existing forest resources are such that the long-
term solution lies in the afforestation of new areas. Presently, many areas
such as roads, rail and canal reserves and especially village common lands and
other waste lands that could grow trees, are unproductive. Thus, afforesta-
tion of new areas, combined with rehabilitation of existing degraded forest,
would provide a reasonably well distributed forest resource, with environ-
mental benefits as well as increased forest products.
F. Forestry Institutions
1.24     The head of the State Forest Department is the Principal Chief
Conservator of Forests (PCCF), supported by four Chief Conservator of Forests
(CCF), responsible for forestry operations in State's forests, social fores-
try, for Wildlife management and development of forest settlement villages.
Also directly responsible to the PCCF is an Additional Chief Conservator of
Forests (ACCF) in charge of GFD's vigilance wing and Conservators of Forests
(CFs) for project planning, monitoring and evaluation, research and working
plans and administration.
1.25     At field level, there are presently 10 operational circles, each
under the direction of a CF. Four Circles (each with 4-7 divisions) are
responsible for production forestry and four circles (each with 4-5 divisions)
for community forestry. For Kachchh district, there is an over-lapping circle
which includes one community forestry division and two divisions for manage-
ment of forests. There is a circle for Wildlife management in charge of Gir
forests. In all there were over 6,700 technical and over 2,800 non-technical
staff manning the forestry organization in 1985.
1.26     There are four levels of formal forest institutional training.
Assistant Conservators of Forests (ACF) are recruited from Science graduates
and undertake one year course at the Indian Forest College. Range Forest
Officers (RFO), recruited from among science graduates, are given a one-year
course at the Rangers College at Rajpipla or similar institutes in other
States. Foresters (Extension Forestry / 4sistants - EFA) are recruited from
those having a secondary school certificate and are trained for eight months
within the State at the Foresters and Forest Guards School at Kakrapar.
Forest Guards (Protection Assistant - PA) are recruited from VII standard pass
candidates and taken directly into service. After a period of in-service
training, they are given a six months course at Kakrapar.
1.27     In 1949, schemes were initiated to establish FLCS in Gujarat, with
the aim of increasing financial returns to forest laborers and encouraging
responsibility among tribal people for the management and conservation of the



- 14 -
forests. All exploitation is now done either by FLCS or GFD. There are
presently 139 FLCS with a total membership of approximately 90,523 (98Z of
whom are tribal people), supervised by the Cooperatives Department and GFD.
GFD determines the number of forest coupes each year and allocates them to
FLCS, which then fell, extract and market the timber. Profits (from which all
harvesting and marketing expenees, including interest on loans are deducted)
are shared between GFD and FLCS in the ratio 80:20. In 1983-84, income from
sales amounted to Rs 75 million of which Rs 15 million were apportioned to
various FLCS as their 20Z share.
1.28     In 1976, the State established a Gujarat State Forest Development
Corporation (GSPDC) to improve the efficiency of collection of MFP, to develop
forest industries and to initiate grading and processing of minor forest
products. Unlike many other corporations of this type, GSFDC has concentrated
on the collection, processing and marketing MFP of high potential. Its
efforts have met with considerable success. During the year 1985, GSFDC
collected and marketed 6,000 tons of bidi leaves (used for manufacture of
local cigarettes), 4,000 tons of Mahuda flowers (an edible flower, which can
be used in the production of alcohol) and 943 tons of Mahuda seeds (which are
crushed for oil).
G. Forestry Activities Undertaken During the Plan Periods
1.29     Chief objectives of the schemes taken under various Five Year Plans
(FYP) in Gujarat have been:
(a) to increase the productivity of forests by optimizing the use of
forest land and water in keeping with ecological balance;
(b) to afforest barren and reforest degraded forest lands;
(c) to stop degradation of land due to forward movement of desert and
inward movement of salinity;
(d) zo improve the social and economic standard of the tribal population;
(e) to meet the needs of state's population and its industries; and
(f) to preserve rare flora and fauna and maintain the ecological balance.
1.30     To achieve these.objectives various plantation and development
activities to suit varying ecological, edaphic and climatic conditions have
been initiated in the various FYP's of the state. The forestry schemes can be
broadly grouped under following category:
(a)  schemes for optimum utilization of potential forest land;
(b) schemes for conservation and development;
(c) social forestry schemes;
(d) wildlife and environment conservation schemes; and
(e) welfare programs.



- 15 -
1.31     Emphasis on forestry sector has continuously grown under the succes-
sive FYP's of the State as could be seen from Table 1.1.
Table 1.1: PLAN INVESTMENT IN FORESTRY IN GUJARAT STATE
(Rs in crores)
Agriculture               2 of       I of
Sr.                         General    & allied    Forestry  Col. ,(5)  Col. (5)
No.  Plan period            sector       sector      sector    to (3)    to (4)
1         2                   3            4           5          6         7
1.   Third Five Year Plan   240.00         47.00       2.24       0.94      4.77
(1961-66)
2.   Three Annual Plan       211.00        49.00       2.20       1.04      4.49
(1966-69)
3.   Fourth Five Year Plan  545.00         75.00       3.92       0.72      5.23
(1969-74)
4.   Fifth Five Year Plan 1,005.00        145.00      12.68       1.26      8.74
(1974-78)
5.   Two Annual Plan         832.00        91.10      13.83       1.66     15.18
(1978 - 1979-80)
6.   Sixth Five Year       3,760.00       474.50      90.00       2.39     18.97
Plan
H. Social Forestrv in Gujarat
1.32     Social forestry in Gujarat can be divided into two phases viz. prior
to implementation of the World Bank assisted Community Forestry Project (CFP)
and the implementation of the CFP. In the first phase social forestry which
started with a modest beginning of 50 km strip plantation in 1970 rapidly
expanded both in quantum and scope of its activities. Ongoing Vanamahotsava
became part of social forestry program and seedling distribution increased
from 2.2 million in 1970 to distribution of 40 million seedlings in 1979.
Component of village woodlots, was added in 1974.
1.33     In 1980 social security through reforestation of degraded forests a
form of engaging labor on permanent basis and sharing of profits to provide
sustained basis of economic stability to landless laborers was started with
146   families.  Scheme to raise teak and bamboo plantations on marginal lands
belonging to tribals of Dangs district was introduced in 1977. Yearwise
achievements between 1970-79 are given in Table 1.2.



- 16 -
Table 1.2:
Strip plantations               Reforestation              Farm forestry
roadside/canal     Village      of degraded  Malki land    seedlings
Year            bank          woodlots       forests    plantation   distributed
ha             ha             ha           ha         (million)
(rainfed)
1                2               3              4            5             6
1970              125               -              -            -           0.2
1971              143               -              -            -           0.6
1972              220               -              -            -           1.7
1973              292               -              -            -           8.5
1974            1,968             906              -            -           8.5
1975            2,670           2,704              -            -          12.4
1976            1,955           2,280         2,000             -          17.0
1977            3,797           2,865         4,000            40          12.5
1978            4,033           4,153         4,100            59          41.7
1979            4,130           4,668         5,600            65          48.0
Total          19,333          17.576        15,700           164         151.1
Brief Description of the Project
1.34     It was envisaged that the primary objectives of the project would be
to increase supplies of fuelvood in rural areas. In addition, it would supply
polls, Bamboo, small timber, fodder, grass, fruits, oil seeds and other MFP
and also introduce improved stoves and create considerable employment oppor-
tunities for the rural areas, it would also stabilize the environment through
soil conservation measures.
1.35     During the five years, i.e., from 1980-81 to 1984-85, the project was
expected to;
(a) reforest 30,000 hectares of degraded forests;
(b) establish 37,440 ha of village woodlots;
(c) establish 37,000 ha of strip plantations along roads, canals and
railway sides;
(d) afforest 1,000 ha of privately owned eroded agricultural land;
(e) distribute 150 million seedlings free of charge to be planted by
farmers and others;
(f) develop sufficient nurseries to provide planting stock for the
departmental plantations and farm forestry;



- 17 -
(g) maintain and protect 25,000 ha of past plantations;
(h) provide community forestry staff including staff required to estab-
lish one new circle and two new divisions and supporting staff for
publicity, research, training, planning and monitoring;
(i)  construct staff houses, a project headquarters and two vehicle work
shops;
(j) provide vehicles to improve management, supervision and forestry
extension services;
(k) strengthen research activities and construct four research and seed
testing/storage centers; and
(1) constructing about 10,000 smokeless stoves and 1,000 improved
crematoria.
I. Proiect Finance
1.36     The project was envisaged to cost US$76 million out of which an IDA
credit of US$37.00 million was proposed. The proposed financing plan was as
shown belows
Panchayats     GOG/GOI         IDA            Total
$45 million           3.5           35.5          37.00            76.00
Percentage              5Z           47Z             48Z             100
1.37     This Project Completion Report is based on following sources of
information:
(a) original Project Report prepared by GFD;
(b) staff Project Report by IDA:
(c) Monitoring Report by Community Forestry Wing (CFW);
(d) office files of FCW;
(e) the GUJARAT gWood Balance Study - 19841 by CFW;
(f) personal knowledge and interviews with various concerned officials.



- 19 -
II. PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
A. Background
2.1      Since the formation of Gujarat State in 1960, the Govermnent of
Gujarat (GOG) became conscious of the gteat gap between the demand and supply
of fuelvood, timber, etc. It was also alive to the ecological risks to the
state from denudation, desertification, etc. As such GOG took a policy deci-
sion to extend forest frontiers wherever possible. In view of the adverse
land/man ratio, the only feasible proposition was to come out of the self
bound shackles of the forest department which had hitherto confined its
working to reserved forests only and spread its activity to non-forest areas.
2.2      Mr. R.D.H. Rowe, Senior Agriculture Specialist, World Bank (WB)
Resident office in India during orse of his visits to the state, saw the
efforts of the forest department in social forestry. He was of the view that
the WB would consider extending financial assistance to Gujarat for expanding
its social forestry program.
2.3      It was at about this time that, Government of India (GOI) apropos its
interim report of National Commission on Agriculture (NCA) on social forestry
sent a circular directing the state governments to send proposals for central
funding of social forestry projects. Thereupon, GOG requested the GFD to
prepare a prcject for submission to the WB.
B. Proiect Preparation
2.4      The preparation of the project was taken up on hand by GFD and the
task was entrusted to CF, Project, Planning, Monitoring & Evaluation, in the
first week of May 1978. He wa, helped by his assistants. GOG felt that it
would be better to get a consultancy team from WB to help in the project
preparation as it was first of its kind ever to be prepared in the country.
Accordingly, a joint team from Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) and the
WB visited Gujara_ in the second week of June 1978, and after reviewing the
same, gave some very valuable suggestions.
2.5      The then CCF was the prime architect of the framework of the project
outline, and the then ACCF was the main guide in drafting the report. The
project report was completed in a record time of three months. One of the
chief characteristics of the project design was its flexibility--a lesson
learned through past experience. The past experience of about 10 years was
evaluated. This exercise helped in enhancing the strengths and removing the
weaknesses o. Jarious project components.
AssumDtions
2.6      Following import ant assumptions were made while preparing the
project:
(a)  fruits, seeds, fodder, leaves, grass and other MFP would be given
free to the local people;



-20 -
(b) seedlings for planting under farm forestry would be distributed
absolutely free of cost; and
(c) all net benefits accruing from Malki land program would be granted to
the land owner.
C. Appraisal
2.7      As stated above, the project was prepared by GFD with the assistance
from team of FAO/WB Cooperative program. The project was appraised by an IDA
appraisal mission. The mission also analyzed the project for various project
indicators both for financial and economic costs and returns. The rate of
return at market prices was estimated at 13.32 while at efficiency prices at
17.0Z.
2.8      There were no significant changes in size content and completion
scheduled as originally defined and that which was ultimately executed. The
project took off from 1980-81 and was completed in 1984-85. The size of the
project was slightly increased from the original Rs 653.59 million to
Rs 706.31 million, out of this IDA share continued to be US$37 million. The
parties concerned, that is the GOG, GOI and IDA readily agreed for these
changes. In retrospect, it can be said that the changes have proved to be
beneficial.
2.9      Since GFD is a technical department, manned by officers who are
highly qualified, there was no difficult in executing thie project, as the
project had been prepared by them in adequate detail. Since no external aid
agencies were involved in the project formulation, there was no question of
appraising the GFD of any conditions relating to civil works, procurement,
reimbursement, etc.
Recommendations and Assurances
2.10     IDA required undertaking from GFD for following:
(a) about 9,200 ha of village woodlots would operate under the community
self-help scheme so that villages involved would accept full respon-
sibility for establishment, management and harvesting of said
woodlots;
(b) full time laborers required to live in degraded forest areas would be
assured adequate facilities, i.e. water supply and be given materials
for home construction;
(c)  improved stoves (10,000) would be built and demonstrated in at least
2,300 villages selected for the establishment of woodlots under the
community self-help scheme'
(d) improved crematoria would be provided both in urban areas (200) and
in villages (800) that established village woodlots under the
community self-help scheme;



- 21 -
(e)  a research program judged satisfactory by International Development
Agency (IDA) would be prepared by September 30, 1980;
(f) field staff including PA, EFA and RFO would live in or near areas
assigned for their operations and for this purpose would be provided
housing or rent allowances as necessary;
(g) two Communication Units would be established not later than September
30, 1980 and two additional units by September 30,1 981;
(h) the Public Relations Unit would be established not later than
September 30, 1980.
(i) GFD would keep separate accounts of expenditure made under the
project to be audited annually for each fiscal year, in accordance
with auditing principles consistently applied. GFD accounts would be
audited not later than nine months after the end of the financial
year, and the audit reports submitted promptly to IDA;
(j) the ACCF in charge of CFW, and supporting staff, would be appointed
and one new circle and two new divisions would be created by June 30,
1980;
Ck) the State Policy Review Committee and District Forest Committees,
would be established by June 30, 1980;
C1) a Monitoring Unit would be established no later than June 30, 1981
and would be headed by an officer of CF level and would submit a work
program to IDA for review no later than December 31, 1981;
gm) an Evaluation Cell would be established not later than December 31,
1982 and, submit a work program to IDA for review no later than June
30, 1983;
(n) GOG would agree with IDA by June 30, 1980 on the format and content
of contracts for the establishment of village woodlots and
afforestation of private lands; and
(o) not later than September 30, 1980 GOG would prepare and furnish to
IDA for its comments, proposals for sharing major forest produce of
revenue derived from its sale. Thereafter, GOG would implement these
proposals with such modifications or additions as agreed to with IDA.
2.11     The above recommendations were accepted by mutual consent during the
negotiations between the representatives of IDA, GOG and GOI.
2.12     Since no foreign expertise was involved and the program was to be
executed by the GFD itself, the project was not intended to be a vehicle for
institutional and managerial improvement.
2.13     The project took off in 1980 as intended.  There was no delay between
the signing of the contract and the implementation of the project. In order
to prepare for the 1980 planting season, retroactive financing of US$0.5 mil-



- 22 -
lion was provided, to cover expenditure on nursery, staff, equipment and
vehicles from June 1, 1979 until the signing of the project.
2.14     No local or foreign consultants were engaged for the implementation
of the whole project which was completely executed by the GFD. Albeit in some
components, as envisaged in the project, the help of non-government organiza-
tion was taken. No external aid agency was used in the execution of the
program.
D. Retrospective Analysis--Identification of Issues
2.15     Consequent to the rapid increase in human population, the hunger for
land for cultivation has been so acute in the state, that marginal and sub-
marginal lands totally unfit for farming have been brought under the plough.
Coupled with this, development program, irrigation projects and industrializa-
tion have also take a heavy toll of already meager forest areas to earn for
the state the dubious distinction of being one of the mot forest poor states
in the country.
2.16     Land being a very scarce resource, it was very correctly visualized
right from the beginning to utilize the unproductive vacant strips along the
roadsides, canal sides and railway sides.
2.17     This was followed by taking up community lands which were in a
degraded state due to constant use, abuse and misuse by overgrazing of village
cattle, i.e. to say the orbit was slowly enlarged to encompass broader
canvasses. Anutixer component, reforestation of degraded forests, envisaged to
cover degraded forest areas, usually in proximity of huge human resettlements,
rightly with the prime object of getting the optimum yield from a scarce
resource--land.
2.18     The scheme of malki plantation in privately owned lands in Dangs
district had as its objective, the proper use of land to stop it from further
deterioration by keeping it under tree cover rather than agriculture. This
was profitable to both the owner as well as the department and the nation as a
whole.
2.19     There is no denying the fact that the project was formulated within a
record period. However, this his cast a shadow over certain assumptions made
for the designing of models.
2.20     Theoretically, certain widths of lands should have been available on
either sides of the roads, canals and railways. However, in practice, it is
seen that there have been very large variations.
2.21     Classification of areas in Saurashtra and Kachchh, mainland Gujarat,
though extremely good in principle, had to be changed for strip plantations to
maintain uniform spacement. Cost factor coupled with effectiveness in protec-
tion, compelled the GFD to switch over to use of live hedge instead of wire
for fencing for the strip plantations. The cost of wire fencing was Rs 1,548
per ha as against Rs 1,018 per ha in case of live hedge fencing (1979-80).



- 23 -
2.22     Though the provision was made for digging of bore-wells along road-
sides in Saurashtra and Kachchh areas, the same had to be compromised due to
administrative constraints and investment involved resulting in bringing down
the rate of growth and biomass generation in these areas. Similarly.
construction of vasant bandharas in the degraded forest areas, earmarked for
afforestation provided to be the "Achilles heel", due to local factors.
Although greater emphasis was placed on planting Eucalyptus, Subabul and
Bamboo by the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) for various plantation models under
the project, local biotic and edaphic factors tilted the scales heavily in
favor of local species with the sole purpose of ensuring better survival and
rate of growth.
2.23     CFW exercised strict control over purchase of vehicles and machinery
and restricted same to essentials. As against provision of 819 automobiles
only 520 were procured. Similar control was exercised in case of other
machinery also.
2.24     However, in retrospect, it cannot be denied that the identification,
preparation and the appraisal of the project did concentrate on the right
issues and required only some minor changes necessitated by local factors and
conditions. However, the project did not suffer any setback due to these
factors.
2.25     The quality of the executing agency's present management has been
good; GFD did not face many problems because of the fact that this was not a
new program to GFD, but only an expansion and extension of the ongoing social
forestry program which GFD had initiated in 1969.
2.26     Management has proved quite receptive, responsive to the needs and
aspirations of the people, and has been quick to try innovative ideas. It
adopted a progressive outlook and effected necessary changes during the entire
period of the project. The Kisan Nursery Scheme and distribution of 2-3 week-
old basketted seedlings amply show this. The total commitment is amply and
sharply reflected in the project pe_formance. The organizational structure
designed for the project greatly facilitat4d the project implementation.
2.27     Although by and large the organizational infrastructure was already
operative, having been inherited, its functioning as a separate entity, at the
same time remaining under the umbrella of the GFD combined in it the advan-
tages of the traditions of discipline S.nd hard work with the independence of
decision making authority and the flexibility essential for effective imple-
mentation of the project. Gujarat was the first state to have an officer of
the rank of ACCF to head the project. One more operative Circle was consti-
tuted at Mehsana to supervise the works. The circles were so constituted as
to facilitate easy and effective control and execution of works. Moreover,
three functional units under CF, Training, Research and Communication (TRC),
CF, Planning, Information and Reporting (PIR) and CF, Monitoring and
Evaluation (M&E) were also created so as to provide the much needed support.
Extension divisions were also increased from 15 to 19, providing one Deputy
Conservator of Forests (DyCF), Extension for each district, except for Dangs
and Gandhinager districts. For assisting the DyCF's in the field work,
Assistant Conservator of Forests (ACF) were provided according to norms.



- 24 -
However, not more than two ACFs were actually posted per division. RFOs cadre
strength whic'& forms the backbone in the implementation heirarchy was worked
out separately for each model on specific norms. Moreover, regrouping and
reorganization of field charges was done for effective control of activities
and works. Normally, one RFO is provided for each taluka and he is assisted
by three to five EFAs who actually execute and supervise the field works. PAs
are essentially meant for maintenance and protection jobs. The above-struc-
ture had a great advantage in facilitating integration with other rural
development activities at the district and taluka levels. The upgrading of
the post of ACCF to that of CCF rank vested greater decision making authority
in the head of the CFW and the change proved to be greatly adiantageous.
E. Accounting and Auditing Procedure
2.28     Dy.CFs at District level are functioning as Treasury Offices.  They
draw money from treasuries by checks.  RFOs are at taluka level, who execute
the forestry activities, have the disbursement powers and make payment to
laborers on muster rolls or piece work basis as the case may be. They main-
tain cash books and render monthly accounts to the Dy.CFs by the end of each
month. The Dy.CFs consolidate all range accounts including the account of the
divisional head office and forward the same to the Accountant General (AG) by
second week of every month. Various account registers such as cash book, unit
book, contingent register, register of forest deposits, contractors and
disbursers, ledgers, etc. are maintained at the divisional offices. A copy of
voucher-wise details of expenditure is also submitted by each Dy.CF to CF in
charge of the Circle and the CCF. AG undertakes audit of accounts for all
forest divisions once a year along with a sample check of Range Forest Office
by rotation. There is also a system of annual inspection of offices by a
senior member of higher office, wherein all records are inspected and observa-
tions are made as to day-to-day working of the inspected office. This helps
the officer in charge update the office management.   Thus, there is adequate
financial control on the project.
F. Annual Planning
2.29     Proposals for works to be taken up in a specific year. called new
item proposals, are prepared one year in advance and submitted to GOG for
sanction. GOG undertakes pre-budget scrutiny after which it is admitted in
the budget proposals to be put up before the Legislative Assembly by the
Finance Department of GOG. After the budget is passed by the Legislative
Assembly grant is placed by GOG at the disposal of the Head of department and
Government Resolutions (GRs) sanctioning the expenditure are issued by the
administrative department. The schemes are executed within the budget provi-
sion so sanctioned. During the course of the year, if any additions or alter-
natives are needed, the department has to incorporate the same in the Eight
Monthly Revised EStimates submitted to GOG in the month of December every
year. The finance department after detailed scrutiny approves the eight
monthly revised estimates in the month of January. Thereafter, in February
and March, which is the end of the financial year, whatever amount is saved,
is surrendered to GOG before March 15 and reappropriation proposals from one
scheme to another are sanctioned according to the powers vested in head of
departments and/or GOG. Thereafter final revised grants are given to the
CFs/DyCFs. Appropriation accounts containing reconciled figures with the AG



- 25 -
are prepared on the close of the year and sent to the AG and GOG, explaining
the reasons for variations, if any.
G. Reimbursement Procedure
2.30     So far as the project is concerned, the same procedure is followed;
From the total expenditure incurred, the reimbursable expenditure is sorted
out and claims are preferred to IDA for reimbursement through GOI. IDA repre-
sentatives also carry out periodic auditing and reconciliation. In addition
to this, the reconciliation is carried out with GOI by the office of the CCF,
Community Forestry Project.
2.31     CF, PIR, appointed under this project looks after the work of infor-
mation. This office compiles and sends all the reports. The overall budget
is controlled by the CCF, who distributes the same amongst the CFs who in turn
distribute the same to the Dy.CFs.
H. Proiect Targets and Goals
2.32     The project document identifies following as its objects:
(a)  to meet the most urgent requirements in forest produce of the rural
population in the shortest time possible;
(b) to induce the village communities to actively participate in the
plantation program through appropriate extension and sharing of plan-
tation revenues; and
(c) provide additional labor opportunity of the right kir-4 in right
place, particularly to landless workers.
I. Project Description
2.33     To meet the above objects the project components provided for optimi-
zation of production both in terms of time and quantity instead of maximiza-
tion of financial gains. The plantation techniques and plantation designs
were designed accordingly. The important project components are detailed
below.
Strip Plantation
2.34     The project provided for raising 37,000 ha of strip plantations on
strips of land available along roads, canals, and railroads. Strip planta-
tions were to be raised through five plantation models designed to suit
edaphic, climatic and biotic factors and availability of water. The planting
density proposed varied from 641 plants per ha for roadside plantations in
Saurashtra and Kachchh region to 1,221 plants per ha for rail-roadside planta-
tions in mainland Gujarat and 2,500 plants per ha for canal bank plantations.
Provision of support watering was made in Saurashtra and Kachchh region and
for canal bank plantation.



- 26 -
Village Woodlots
2.35     Village woodlots, 37,400 ha, were provided for raising plantations on
village commons, called "gaucher" or waste lands. Three plantation models,
one for irrigated village woodlots for lands where water was available for
irrigation and two for rainfed plantations separately for Saurashtra and
Kachchh region and mainland Gujarat were provided. Planting density for irri-
gated village woudlots was proposed at 1,822 plants per ha and 1,156 and 1,267
plants per ha were to be planted in rainfed plantations in Saurashtra and
Kachchh and mainland Gujarat region respectively.
2.36     To provide for varied level of enlightenment of various village
communities, two set of modalities were proposed for all the three models.
While for villages where people are enthusiastic, self-help model was
proposed. This provided for raising of village woodlots by villagers at their
cost under the technical guidance of the GFD with only seedlings provided by
GPD. For other villages, supervised model was proposed wherein all the inputs
were to be provided at project cost. It was expected that 25Z of the target
will be achieved through the self-help model.
Reforestation of DeRraded Forests
2.37     The project also provided for reforestation of degraded forest areas
(30,000 ha) of Panchmahals, Bharuch and Banaskantha districts with fuelwood
and small timber yielding species. To rehabilitate the land soil-moisture
conservation works preceded the plantations. The planting density was fixed
at 2,000 plants per ha.
2.38     An innovative concept of social security through forest plantations
was proposed as alternate to the usual method of casual labor employment.
Under the program for social security through forest plantations, landless
tribal families were so employed as to provide an assured monthly income of
Rs 250 per month (subject to escalation). A 2.5 ha piece of land was to be
allotted to each family for afforestation every year. To create a sense of
belongingness, at harvest, the family was assured 20Z share from net proceeds.
This method was proposed to be progressively employed.
Malki Plantation
2.39     This component of the project provided for afforestation of 1,000 ha
of marginal and submarginal agriculture land of Dangs District. This scheme
provided for planting of 1,600 Teak and 178 bamboo seedlings per ha at project
cost and also for payment of subsistence allowance at the rate of Rs 250/- per
ha per annum for 15 years. At harvest, after 15 years, the crop was to be
harvested and sold by GFD with net proceeds after deducting the costs to be
apportioned to the owner of the land.
Farm Forestry
2.40     This component provided for distribution of 15 million seedlings free
of charge to private individuals as well as organizations. To support this
component vigorous extension campaign and technical support was provided. In
terms of number of seedlings this component provided for planting of 1.5 times
as many seedlings as by all the other components together.



- 27 -
Wood Saving Devices
2.41     As a natural corollary to the efforts to increase production of fuel-
wood, project also provided for popularization of fuelvood saving devices.
Efficient and smokeless stoves (10,000) were provided at project cost. Scien-
tifically designed crematoria (1,000) which reduce fuelvood requirement from
400 to 240 kg per crematoria were introduced to save on consumption of fuel-
wood for cremation.
2.42     To support and facilitate implementation of above components project
had provision for training, research, buildings, vehicles and equipments, etc.
Training
2.43     Project provided for training for both fresh recruits to meet
increased staff requirement and in-service forest officials for acquiring
necessary expertise needed for implementation of the project. Project
provided for training of 1,323 fresh recruits at various levels. Additional
facilities including staff were provided to increase capacity of forestry
training institutes in the state. Study tours were proposed to facilitate
exchange of information with other states in India. Provision was also made
for international training in forest economics, communications and other
social forestry related subjects.
2.44     Another noteworthy feature was the proposal for introduction of
orientation courses for people from various walks of life and organization of
1-2 day camps in villages for training of farmers.
Research
2.45     Rs 3.67 million were provided for research and seed testing in the
project. The project proposed for preparation of list of sublects for
research. The project envisaged the establishment of four Research stations
in different agroclimatic zones to carry out research projects.
Buildings
2.46     The project provided for construction of 2,078 residential buildings
and five garages, two workshop sheds and a building to house the state level
head office of CFW.
Vehicles and Equipments
2.47     Cars (5), jeeps (23), motorcycles (492), bicycles (1,668) were
provided by the project to facilitate effective supervision of works by
various ranks of forest officials. Vans (14), and buses (6) were provided for
effective extension program and group visits by both forest officials and
farmers. Projeact also provided for trucks (90), tankers (91) and tractor with
trailer (90) for transport of soil, manure, seedlings, water, plowing and much
other requirements.



- 28 -
2.48     Equipments such as pumps, sprayers, typewriters, audio-visual unit3
were also provided in the project. Total provision for vehicle and equipments
in the project was for Rs 30 million, 4.6Z of project costs.
OrRanization
2.49     Project provided for a separate organization, namely, CPW for project
implementation to be headed by an ACCF. At district level 19 divisions,
grouped in four regional units named as Circles, were provided. Separate
units were provided for monitoring and evaluation, research, training and
communication and planning, information and reporting, each headed by a CF.
Earlier there were 15 extension divisions grouped into three regional units
working within GFD. The new arrangement amounted to creation of separate wing
within GFD.
J. Benefits and Economic Justification
Yields
2.50     The main products expected from the project are fuelwood, poles,
bamboos, leaves and pods and edible fruits.  While yield of leaf fodder was
expected to start in the second year of the project and irrigated plantations
were to be harvested in the fifth year, it was only from the 8th year onward
that substantial yields were anticipated. Total anticipated yield of various
products over 35 years and their value at 1979-80 prices is given in Table
2.1.
Table 2.1:
Value at 1979-80
Product                Unit            Quantity             prices in million Rs
Fuelwood              MT                 9.897                    1,336.1
Poles                 M                 86.178                       775.6
Bamboos               M                 58.780                      581.4
Timber                M m3               0.497                      124.3
Fodder                MT                 2.205                       22.1
Fruits                MT                 1.812                      954.6
Neem seeds            MT                 0.178                       89.0
2.51     However, this does not include production due to farm forestry compo-
nent which as stated earlier, is about 1.5 times as big as rest of the
components put together in terms of number of plants to be planted. In addi-
tion, there will be saving due to the wood saving devices proposed in project.
Revenue
2.52     Though project outputs were valued at Rs 3,833.1 million, actual
revenue expected was only Rs 2,817.4 million. This is due to the fact that



- 29 -
almost all MFP were proposed to be allowed for free collection by local
people.
Employment
2.53     Unskilled labor.  The project was expected to generate a total of
38.4 million mandays of employment opportunities for unskilled labor over the
period of five years. This is equivalent to 25,600 people being fully
employed for five years. However, since forestry operations are seasonal, the
number of laborers employed during certain months of the year were expected to
be about 100,000. Largest number of laborers were expected to be employed
between the months of November to May. R.s 326.59 million, i.e., 50Z of
project cost, was for wage payment to laborers.
2.54     Skilled labor.  Skilled laborers like masons, carpenters and black-
smiths were to be employed for the civil construction activity. The activity
was expected to generate a total of 0.263 million mandays of skilled labor
over the project period of five years.
2.55     Technical and non-technical.  The project envisaged to engage 1,363
technical and 495 non-technical persons in the first year increasing to 3,055
technical and 756 non-technical persons in the fifth year of the project. A
total of 5.16 million mandays were expected to be generated by the project by
the end of the fifth year.
Benefits to Individuals
2.56     Under the component of social security through forest plantations,
600 families of landless laborers of marginal farmers were expected to be
settled by the end of the third year on forest plantation works and assured a
steady flow of income.
2.57     Under the activity of plantation in Malki land, about 500 Dangi
adivasis were to have been assured of substantially increased income from
their lands. Moreover, once the plantations were established, the adivasis
could pursue other occupations and earn additional income.
Environmental Benefits
2.58     Major environmental impact expected were general improvement in
status of land and quality of life. The increased availability of fuelwood
and small timber was expected to reduce burden on existing trees and reduce
hardship to poorer section of society who use both. The employment opportuni-
ties in rural areas were expected to help check out migration of rural folk in
search of job. Project provided for utilization of under-utilized/unutilized
resource for the general well being of society prove to shortages.
K. Proiect Financing
2.59     The information available at the time of start of the project was
quite adequate to make realistic forecast of the project results.



- 30 -
2.60     The investment for the whole project was very well planned right from
the beginning. GOGIGOI was to give 47S of the finance, the IDA 482 with
panchayats contributing 5S making a total of 100? which amounted to 653.59
million rupees. The project and its timing were most appropriate in further-
ing the sectoral plan because it coincided with the Sixth Five Year Plan
(FYP).  GOG/GOI has no difficult 3u mobilizing the resources, it was included
in the Sixth FYP.
Private Investment in Farm Forestry
2.61     It was envisaged that in farm forestry, as the seedlings were to be
supplied free by the GFD, there would be considerable investment by the
private individuals by way of labor on planting.



- 31 -
III. IMPLEMENTATION
A.   Initiation
3.1      There were no special problems in initiating the project as the
program was an extension of the ongoing social forestry program of GFD. The
nurseries were started in June 1979, and pre-monsoon works thereafter in
anticipation of the project. Thus, sufficient advance preparations were made
so that the planting program could be taken up right on schedule during 1980
rains. Thus, the preproject preparations ensured a smooth and satisfactory
start up of the project.
B. Revisions
3.2      The important changes that were made in the project design durlng the
implementation are listed below.
Strip Plantations
3.3      The project provided for varying designs depending upon species and
Zesthetic value of plantations. For first row in case of road side plantation
the spacing provided was 10 m apart. However, in 1982, the design was modi-
fied. The new design required planting at 2m x 2m except for first row of
road side plantations for which it was 5m apart. However, for the purpose of
reporting, the achievements were reported in terms of notional ha based on
number of plants as per models provided in the project.
Village Woodlots
3.4      The project provided different spacements for different species.
Three different spacements, viz. 3m x 2m for Eucalyptus and Subabul, 3m x 3m
for miscellaneous species and 4m x 4m for fruit trees prescribed by the
project, were adopted, up to 1981. In the year 1982, with the concept of
intensive management, densification in plantation was introduced and spacement
was uniformly reduced to 2m x 2m in rainfed areas and 'm x lm in irrigated
plantations except for fruit plants where spacement continued to be 4m x 4m.
However, for the purpose of accounting, achievements were shown in terms of
notional ha, as for strip plantations, as per norms of number of seedling
prescribed in the project.
Rehabilitation of degraded forests
3.5      In order to rehabilitate certain landless families and provide them
with employment, this program was envisaged. Initially, it was envisaged to
plant bamboo at 5m along the gradonies (terraced contours) and other species
at 3.5m x 3.5m spacing with 800 seedlings/ha. However, with the concept of
intensive management, densification was introduced under this component also.
From 1982 accordingly, the plant density was increased to 2,000 plants per ha.
The achievements were again shown in terms of notional ha of 800 seedlings per
ha as provided in the project.



- 32 -
Farm Forestry
3.6      Success of farm forestry component 4c directly linked with public
response. The component turned out to be a run away success with demand for
seedlings surpassing all expectations. The project provided for raising and
distribution of 150 million seadlings over a period of five years. It was
expected that 100 million to 150 million seedlings would be raised from funds
availed from other programs. However, dentand for seedlings rose from 44.8
million in 1980-81 to 210 million in 1984-85. 695.6 million seedlings were
distributed during the project period. This resulted in unexpected burden
over the project and demanded innovative approaches to satisfy the demand.
Concept of school nursery was further changed and a new concept of Kisan
nursery was introduced. Kisan provided for dispersed availability of seed-
lings and also worked as vehicle for transfer of technology. Another innova-
tion involved distribution of 2-3 week old Eucalyptus fingerlings locally
known as "dharuf raised in bamboo baskets with 0.5 dia. and 10-12 cm high
wall.
Wood Saving Devices
3.7      In case of fixed improved chullas, the original fixed model of two
pot holes design was replaced by portable one pot stove made from it,zal clay
with a few embedded iron bars for the wood to rest on, known as the "Dumroo
Chulla".
3.8      The project provided for installation of cast iron crematoria.  In
1980, cast iron crematoria were installed. However, subsequently fire brick
and caste iron bed design has been adopted and introduced. This modified
design was found to be more cost effective.
Other Activities
3.9      To increase public contact by forest officers short-term orientation
cour6es were arranged for middle level management officers of Gujarat Forest
Department and also other departments who are directly or indirectly involved
in tree planting activity.
C. The IDA Missions
3.10     The visits of the Missions were very fruitful as during the periodic
visits, they provided the opportunity for detailed analysis and also unbiased
views. They also provided for exchange and sharing of experience with those
of other states in solving similar problems, e.g., the 1982 mid-term appraisal
mission suggested a training for officers of monitoring and evaluation cell.
3.11     Similarly the mid-term mission of 1984 showed great appreciation for
the participation by the small and marginal farmers in farm forestry and the
involvement of students, social organizations and others in tree planting
activity. It was due to this, that the mission expressed that IDA would have
no objection for pernitting expenditure on raising seedlings under farm
forestry program irtespective of the targets fixed under the Project. They
also agreed that tne targets could be enhanced if necessary, by curtailing
other components. It was also during this visit that the members agreed that
more than four hectares could be taken up per village under village woodlot.



- 33 -
3.12     The mission also gave a valuable suggestion of exploring the possibi-
lities of settling the landless laborers on waste lands and getting forestry
work done through them on the lines of social security schemes. One of the
members of a mission suggested that rate of return for the project be recal-
culated. The mission also discussed in detail the research program and gave
valuable suggestions. They suggested carrying out the wood balance study.
They further suggested regarding the reorganization of divisions, modalities
for disposal of forest produce, strengthening of publicity wing by employing
professional consultants and speeding up of dissemination of progress in
energy saving devices. Certain changes in models for roadside plantations,
railroad side plantations and village woodlots in Saurashtra and Kachchh
region were also discussed. Finally, the mission suggested that in view of
the fine progress made, the GOG should start thinking of going in for phase-II
of the project.
3.13     The February 1984 mission raised remarks on monitoring and evaluation
and suggested coordination with Training and Visit program of agriculture
extension. Mission also impressed upon the need of wood balance study for the
state.
3.14     Thus supervision missions had a role to play in the successful imple-
mentation of the project as they gave timely and useful suggestions during the
project period. There were hardly any issues encountered during the supervi-
sion which remained unresolved or prolonged.
D. Target Achievements
3.15     The project targets for almost all components were more than
achieved. Componentwise target and achievements are shown in Table 3.1.



- 34 -
Table 3.1:
Component                                          Target         Achievement
-------- ha -----------
Strip plantations                                   37,000            37,590
Village woodlots
Irrigated                                  2,880              4,548
Rainfed                                   34,560             33,660
Reforestation of degraded areas                     30,000             30,250
Malki plantations                                    1,000              1,000
Total                                 105,440            107,048
Farm forestry (million seedlings)                      150              357.5 La
Smokeless stoves (numbers)                          10,000            10,937
Improved crematoria (numbers)                        1,000             1,106
la Additional 338 million under other program.
3.16     The farm forestry achievement needs special mention.  As discussed in
para. 3.6, overall achievements were more than 200Z of that anticipated.
Under the project 238Z of targeted seedlings were distributed. The enthusiasm
in some of the areas was such that the early procedure of CFW's extension
workers going, convincing and enlisting farmers' demands, there started a
system of advance booking. All the same CFW staff continued the extension
program to encouroge the regions and sections of society lagging behind.
3.17     While achieving project targets in full the costs on vehicles, staff
and building were restricted to achieve cost efficiency. Procurement of
vehicle was stalled wherever full utilization and economy was doubtful. So
also staff positions were reviewed from time to time and either the posts were
kept vacant or not created without affecting the implementation of the
project. However, construction of buildings was restricted mainly due to lack
of availability of suitable land.
Self-help Village Woodlots
3.18     However, the self-help model for village woodlots did not achieve
expected success and plantation targets were achieved through supervised
model. Main reasons assigned to lack of response from Village Panchayat (VP)
are, lack of resources and unwillingness to allocate funds from meager
resources for a long term project, the level of benefits of which have not
been established beyond doubt. The average annual income of more than 80Z of
the VPs is limited to Rs 8,200. The limited resources are required by the VPs
to carry out their day-to-day administration and provide civic amenities to
the community. Even where VP had extra funds which it could have provided for
raising village woodlot the socio-political reasons make it difficult for



- 35 -
village leadership to mark funds on a long-term project. In a democratic set-
up where the organization is required to show results within the time frame,
forestry does not find required emphasis due to its gestation period. More-
over, major returns from existing village woodlots were yet to start. Only
three village woodlots could be harvested during the project period.
3.19     To overcome this difficulty funds were mobilized from other sources
notably from centrally sponsored National Rural Employment Program (NREP). A
few voluntary agencies also contributed towards this activity. Initially,
attempts were made to route the funds through the Taluka Panchayats to the
VPs. But this experiment had to be abandoned due to administrative and other
problems and the component continued to be a CFW operated activity like super-
vised village woodlots except that the funds came from sources other than the
project.
E. Project Impact
3.20     The most important impact of the project is in creation of an aware-
ness and awakening to environmental problems and so the tree consciousness
among various sections of the society. One of the outcomes being emergence of
Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) like Sad-vichar Parivar, Viksat, Mahiti,
Friends of Trees, etc. committed to the cause of trees. This will go long way
in making the tree planting a peoples program. A more physical outcome of the
project is large-scale tree planting undertaken by farmers.  Though it is
being argued that behind tree planting by farmers motivating force was finan-
cial gain rather than any environmental consideration. This may be partly
true. Even conceding this argument project has created a definite stir in the
minds of public towards the importance and utility of trees and lastly has
shown that trees can also be grown economically. This, in the long run, may
result in raising of trees being considered normal agriculture activity with
ups and downs as for any other agricultural crop.
3.21     The success and the achievements in Farm Forestry may give a feeling
that major project impact is due to the farm forestry component alone. It is
the sum total of impact of all the components. Strip plantations and village
woodlots proved of great demonstration value. The departmental plantations
along with the vigorous extension approach provided the much needed force to
turn tree raising into a mass movement from a government sponsored program.
It may also be noted that the process of transfer of technology also started
during the project period (para. 3.6). So also the need for improving the
efficiency of the wood based devices like stoves and crematoria was firmly
established. More and more voluntary agencies like SEWA and Sad-Vichar
Parivar entered into this field.
3.22     The physical impacts of the project in terms of greening the sky-
line, aesthetic benefits, land preservation, environment improvement may not
be quantified yet are visible. The benefits in terms of produce have started
flowing through collection of MFP and fallen twigs but major production due to
project will be available only after few years of the project.



- 36 -
F. Implementation Schedule
3.23     The project was implemented as per schedule (Annex I).  However, in
some cases staff could not be appointed on schedule due to administrative
constraints and non-availability of suitable personnel. This, however, did
not have any adverse effect on the completion schedule of the components, as
the work was done through the local staff.
3.24     To summarize, it can be confirmed that the original time schedule was
realistic and the executing agency had no difficult whatsoever in sticking to
the time schedule.
Reporting
3.z5     CFW issued periodic progress reports to GOG and supervisory agency.
Since the project implementation wd.s as per schedule, there were no major
comments on these reports from either. This is not to undermine the utility
of these reports in keeping the CFW itself, GOG, GOI and WB informed of
progress of the project and also help facilitate a few readjustments as in the
case of farm forestry component.
Procurement
3.26     The materials to be procured for the project were mainly as follows:
(a) Materials for plantation work: (i) seeds, (ii) polythene bags;
(iii) fertilizers; and (iv) fencing material, i.e. wire and bamboos.
(b) Equipment and vehicles.
(c) Cement for construction work.
3.27     Seeds.  Though due to the sharp increase in the plantation targets
huge quantities of seeds were required, they were obtained locally by the
DyCFs concerned by employing local gang of laborers, headed by EFA. Good
quality seeds were collected from identified trees. These seeds were then
checked in the nursery for germination and viability before being sown.
Mechanical separation was done to remove, unviable or spoilt seeds.
3.28     Polythene Bags.  In the preproject period GFD experienced some diffi-
culties in time procurement of polythene bags. Aware of its increasing needs,
GFD had already established a polythene bag factory at Rajpipla in 1978.
During the project period, two more polythene bag manufacturing factories were
established at Rajkot and Mehsana. The three factories together have an
installed capacity to manufacture 650 tons of polythene bags annually. These
factories supplied for most of the GFD's needs including that of CFW's. There
was no difficult in procuring small quantities from market whenever required
urgently.
3.29     Fencing Material.  In the initial stage the fencing material used was
Bamboo and wire. Bamboos were obtained through the department and then
treated with tar and drilled locally, while the wire had been obtained by
inviting tenders. Later on when the fencing was changed to Thor, all the
material was obtained locally.



- 37 -
3.30     Fertilizer.  Fertilizers and pesticides were obtained locally from
fair price shops or retail outlets of agriculture cooperatives. No difficulty
was experienced as to availability of fertilizers and pesticides anywhere in
the state.
3.31     Equipment and Vehicles.  There is an established system of fixing
rate contract for a specified period for vehicles and such other equipments as
are required by various government departments. Same was followed for the
project also. There was some delay due to technical reasons, but on the whole
they were obtained in good time and were of required quality.
3.32     Cement.  There was some delay for the procurement of cement.  This
was mainly due to the fact that cement was a controlled item and in short
supply. Frequent change in the government policy for fixing the agency for
procurement of cement also delayed the procurement.
3.33     Since there were no external procurements for the implementation of
this project, there was no question of any conflict with national laws and
procedures. All the goods, equipments, vehicles, etc. were of local manufac-
ture and of a high standard which was uniform for all the 19 districts in
which the preject was being implemented.
3.34     Since the equipment used was local the question of international
competitive bidding for goods and civil works did not arise. No foreign or
local consultancy was used for the execution of the program.
G. Costs
3.35     The estimate cZ costs were worked out fairly accurately.  The actual
expenditure on project turned out to be Rs 706.31 million. This is only 8.1Z
higher than project provisions.
3.36     In light of the fact that achievements in case of most of the compo-
nents are marginally higher and substantially higher for farm forestry compo-
nent, this increase is justified. However, daily wage for labor rose sharply.
During project period the daily wage rate rose from Rs 5.50 to Rs 13.85.
However, densification, savings on purchase of vehicles and equipments, non-
filling of some staff positions, non-construction of some of the building
helped restrict the project expenditure (for detailed discussion on financial
performance refer to Chapter VI).
Financial Resources
3.37     The financing plan for the project had a share of US$37 million as
loan from IDA and RS 30.1 million to be contributed by Panchayats with rest
coming from the state plan. Table 3.2 gives the financing plan for the
project.



- 38 -
Table 3.2: PROJECT FINANCING
USS M       Panchayat        GOG/GOI       IDA         Total
z            3.5           35.5          37.0          76
2            5.0           47.0          48.0         100
3.38     The credit was to be made to GOI on standard terms and conditions and
was to be channelled to GOG on GOI terms and arrangements for development
assistance for the states. In order to ensure an early start to the project
and speedy and effective implementation, retroactive financing amounting to
RS 12.9 million was provided from June 1, 1979.
3.39     Adequate funds were made available by GOG for project implementation
and expenditure was reimbursed by IDA as per agreement. However, panchayats
could not ccatribute as expected. The shortfall was met by mobilizing funds
from finances available under National Rural Employment Program.
H. Performance of Consultants and Contractors
3.40     For this project, no consultants were engaged and all the works were
executed by the GFD through CFW.
3.41     Since most of the works were executed by the department including the
construction and civil works, the contractors had a very minor role to play in
the execution of the project.



- 39 -
IV. OPERATING PERFORMANCE
A. General
4.1      The executive agency implemented the project with enthusiasm and zeal
duly supported by GFD and GOG. The suitable technology had already been
evolved and established during the preproject period of social forestry.
However, the process of evaluation and evolution continued. The flexibility
provided in the project was used to make suitable amendment to the project, to
make the project a success, without changing the basic objectives and
structure of the project.
4.2      The physical achievements during the project, which were more than
two-fold of the achievements in the field of social forestry during the
preceding five years, with hardly any time lag, speak of the zeal and
enthusiasm of the agency. However, this is not to construe that the project
became target oriented and lacked quality or lost the basic objective of
achieving people's participation in social forestry program. The achievements
in farm forestry already discussed in detail in earlier chapters speak of
achievements in this direction.
B. Monitoring and Evaluation
4.3      The M&E Cell of the CFW provided continuous feedback on technology,
quality of execution and impact of extension campaign. The M&E Cell canvassed
surveys to study survival, growth, paople's participation, their attitude and
impact of various components. The details of data collected from sample
surveys of various components and inferences drawn have been published in the
form of a report viz. "Monitoring - Interim Report, Gujarat Community Forestry
Project', by the M&E Cell in 1984. The plantations up to 1983 were sampled
for the purpose of the report. Subsequently, in 1985-86 the M&E cell under-
took second round of survey for farm forestry and village woodlot components
raised for the period from 1980 to 1985. The data collected on the basis of
random sampling was analyzed and tabulated for different purposes. The final
report on the monitoring and evaluation of Village Woodlots and Farm Forestry
is under preparation. Some of the important inferences drawn by these surveys
are noted below.
Strip Plantations
4.4      37,590 ha of strip plantations are raised (target 37,000 ha) during
the project period under various models. Roadside and canal bank plantations
were raised from year one, i.e., 1980, of the project but railwayside planta-
tions were initiated only in 1982. The M&E also conducted a 52 sample survey
for roadside plantations in Saurashtra & Kachchh (S&K) and in Main Land
Gujarat (MLG) during October 1982 to June 1983 for detailed study and made
some general observations about canal bank and railwayside plantations. Table
4.1 ahows the species composition for strip plantations as per data collected
for plantations of up to year 1983 against project prescription.



- 40 -
Table 4.1:  C F P PHASE I s PERIOD 1980 TO 1983
Achievements based
S & K              M L G           on monitoring data
Name of Spp.       Rd    CB    Rly    Rd    CB    Rly    Rd        CB      Rly
First Row
Neem               60      -      -    20     -      -      0.5     -       -
Other shade        40                  80                  99.5
spp
Other Rows
Eucalyptus          5                  20                  5.12    0.21    8.62
Subabul            20            10    10           20     4.29             1.55
Misc. app.         75            90    70           80    51.19   97.21   48.07
(Israili Baval)                                           11.18    1.315   9.28
(Desi Baval)                                              17.94    1.22   30.93
(Bamboo)                                                   9.63             1.55
Note:  Rd - Roadside; CB - Canal bank;  Rly - Railwayside.
4.5      Major deviation from prescribed species composition is in low percen-
tage of neem in the first row and subabul in other rows.  Both are browse
species. High cattle population habituated to free grazing on these strips is
the reason assigned to this variation.
4.6      The average survival and growth statistics for roadside plantations
in MLG and S&K regions based or the sample survey are shown in Tables 4.2 and
4.3.
4.7      In S&K region, survival is low and rate of growth is slow.  The agro-
climatic factors are mainly responsible for this. Low rainfall, shailow
murrumy soils in the inland area and saline winds in the sea coast zone are
the main reasons for this. The nomadic nature of the graziers and high
population of cattle in the area constitute an important factor for the low
survival rate.
4.8      H&E cell also canivassed a survey of the people of villages adjoining
the sample plantations to estimate people's responses and attitude towards
these plantations. Table 4.4 gives people's reaction to these plantations.
As can be seen, 41.6Z of the people questioned liked the plantations with only
23.95Z opposed to them.



- 41 -
Table 4.2: STRIP PLANTATION - ROADSIDES (MAIN LAND GUJARAT)
Average Average
Sr.                               Survival  height    girthx
No.  Year   Type      Species         Z       in m      in cm      Remarks
1.  1980  Rainfed  Eucalyptus       79          3        20
Subabul        100         -         -
Casuarina      100          2       16
Others          56          3       15
Overall         67
2.  1981  Rainfed  Eucalyptus       64          3        12
Subabul         76         2        10
Casuarina       93          1        8
Others          79          2       11
Overall         68
3.  1982  Rainfed  Eucalyptus       42          2         7
Subabul         79       1.5         5
Casuarina       77          2        9
Others          79       1.5         5
Overall         78
4.  1983  Rainfed  Eucalyptus       56          2        12    Details of one plot
only in refractory
area
Subabul          -         -         -
Casuarina       51          3       12
Others49       1.5          6
Overall         80



_ 42 -
Table 4.3: STRIP PLAIITATION - ROADSIDES (SAURASHTRA AhD KACHCHH)
Average Average /a
Sr.                         Survival  height    girth
No.  Year         Species       Z       in m      in cm                Remarks
1.  1980-81   Eucalyptus         5         -        -0     Average girth not shown
Su-baval         11         -         -
17         -         _
Prosopis        100         -         -
Desi Baval       38      2.00         5
Others           27      1.25        10
2.  1981-82   Eucalyptus        27         -         -
Su-baval         24         -         -
46      0.18         2
Prosopis         17      0.40         2
Desi Baval       18      3.50        21
Others          100       0.4         2
3.  1982-83   Eucalyptus        43         -         -
Su-baval         33         -         -
48      1.80      3.50
Prosopis          5      0.80      1.00
Desi Baval       26      1.50      4.00
Others          100      1.00      4.00
4.  1983-84   Eucalyptus        34      0.75      3.00
17      0.45         -
Prosopis         19         -         -
Desi Baval       18      0.76      3.00
Others           33      1.00      3.00
/a Height and Girth observed during October 1982 to June 1983.



- 43 -
Table 4.4:
Response              I of people
Good                       41.60
Neutral                    34.45
Opposed                    23.95
4.9      The main reason assigned by those opposed to strip plantations is
that of loss of grazing land. Table 4.5 shows the reasons shown by the people
opposed to strip plantatiorns.
Table 4.5:
Z of people opposed
Reasons for disliking       to strip plantation
Loss of grazing                     61.40
Fear of loss of agriculture
production due to shade           19.30
Others                              19.30
4.10     Though no estimate could be made of benefit derived from these plan-
tations, following are listed as benefits availed by the villagers:
(a)  Grass growing in plantation area0 collected free of charge.
(b) Fruits, specially ber, available in plantation areas allowed to be
collected free.
(c) Dried and fallen twigs collected free of charge.
(d) 'Datun" (tooth brush stick) collected from baval trees.
Other important observations were:
(a) At places the expected widtlh of strip is not available for
plntation.
(b) The bore-wells provided for support irrigation in S&K region were not
dug due to high cost and unreliability of such wells in the region.



- 44 -
(c) While the Irrigation, Railways and Public Works Departments were
willing to cooperate, there was some misunderstanding at lower
functionary level.
Village Woodlots
4.11     6,601 Village Woodlots (VW) over 38,208 ha of village commons
(gaucher) were raised during the project period. Of this, 592 VW (3,836 ha)
are irrigated with remaining being rainfed. 1,165 (5,979 ha) of the total VW
mostly under rainfed conditions were raised under self help model. M&E cell
monitored this component through a sample survey in 1983-84, the res.ults of
which are published in the Monitoring - Interim Report, Gujarat Community
Forestry Project. M&E canvassed a fresh survey on 120 VW (10 being irrigated)
selected by systematic random sampling method in 1985. 35 of the selected VW
were raised under self help model. All the selected self-help VW were raised
under rainfed conditions. While physical count and girth-height measurements
helped estimate survival and growth pattern of VW, interviews with various
sections of local population provided basis to gauge people's reaction to the
component. The data collected is being analyzed and report is under prepara-
tion. Some of the important observations based on this survey are presented
below. The data was collected between November 1J84 to March 1985. Two years
and older VW (raised in 1980 and 1981) were treated as old and less than two
years old (raised in 1982 and 1983) as new. Those interviewed to elicit local
opinion and reactions were chosen from three broad groups identified as below:
(a) Village leaders (495) include Sarpanch, panchayat members including
lady members, other leading citizens of villages including those from
opposition parties and village level officials including government
officials.
(b) Low status (517), include small and marginal farmers, landless
laborers, scheduled castes and scheduled tribes and others subsisting
below poverty level.
(c) High status (155) include big farmers and other well off people of
the villages.
4.12     Survival rates for VW's of various years as estirm3ted during November
1984 to March 1985 are presented in Table 4.6. The overall average works out
to 63Z.



- 45 -
Table 4.6: SURVIVAL PERCENTAGE
Year of Plantation
Type of Plantation             1980       1981        1982       1983
Departmental plantation
Irrigated          -          75         93          74
Rainfed           42          65         69          78
Self-help plantation             32         45          47         75
(rainfed)
4.13     The data indicates that with advancing of age there is gradual reduc-
tion in survival rates. This is accepted normal mode of reduction of popula-
tion in plantations as well as natural forests. Higher survival is observed
in case of irrigated plantations which is explained by higher inputs and
intensive tending. However, lower survival rates observed in self-help VW's
demand analysis. One of the valid reasons could be direct technical inputs
instead of guidance. On the other hand greater involvement of community was
expected to lead to better results. In this connection, analysis of the mode
of implementation of the component may be useful. Barring few, most of the
self-help village woodlots were raised with the help of funds obtained under
NREP program. Thus, even under self-help model, financial inputs came from
government source rather than from community. Thus people did not find them
any different from supervised village woodlots. However, for maintenance of
these plantations, flow of funds under NREP was irregular. CFW did try to
maintain these plantations from savings from its resource. This may probably
best explain the low survival for self-help VW's. This supports the hypothe-
sis that self-help village woodlots are not a probability under the prevailing
socio-economic condition.
4.14     In this connection, it may be pertinent to analyze village leader-
ship's views on reasons for their choice between supervised VW's and self-help
VW's. The arguments given by village leaders are summarized in Table 4.7 and
4.8.



- 46 -
Table 4.7: REASONS FOR CHOICE OF DEPARTMENTALLY MANAGED WOODLOTS
(Leaders' response)
Old                 New
Reasons                                 Number       2       Number       Z
No funds                                  31        18         31        18
No technical and managerial experience   13          7         15         9
Other financial pLiorities                 3         2          4         2
Lack of leadership                         2         1          -
Village faction                            1         1          -
Table 4.8: REASONS FOR CHOICE OF SELF-HELP WOODLOT
(Based on village leaders' response)
Old                 New
Reasons                                 Number       Z       Number       2
Sufficient funds                           8        16         48       51
Village leadership                        11        22         18        19
Believe we have technical and
managerial experience                    2         4         12        13
To incraase panchayat income               7        14          6         6
4.15     Availability of funds seems to be the most determining factor for
chooning between the two models. Other important factors are strong village
leadership and unwillingness to share benefits.
4.16     For the community oriented program, knowledge and awareness of the
program among the various strata of society form first pre-requisite for
achieving desired success. Table 4.9 shows the overview of this aspect.



- 47 -
Table 4.9: RESPONDENTS WHO HAVE SEEN OR HEARD ABOUT THE VW
(Village lead... not Included)
(in percent)
Old VW             Now VW              Average
Occasion           Supervised Self-h-lp Supervisd Self-help Supervised Self-help
Before It started      15       12        2a        27         19       19
When It started        46       43        43        44        44        44
Several months later   80       23        31        16        s8        20
Not seen or heard      10       22         3        11         7        17
4.17     As can be seen few knew about the program before it started, most
came to know when it started. There is no appreciable difference between
supervised and self-help VW in this regard. This reflects at inadequacy of
participation at conception and planning stage which may be due to lack of
extension or apathy of villagers to community programs.
4.18     Perception of local population as to purpose of the program is impor-
tant to appreciate concerns and reactions to the program. The perception of
local population as to purpose of raising VW's is unfolded in Table 4.10
Table 4.10: PURPOSE OF RAISING VILLAGE WOODLOTS
(percent)
SuDervised VW                Self-help VW
Villagers      Leaders     Villagers       Leaders
Panchayat income                     49            69            54            68
Wood and wood product
for local use                      37            36            28            28
Reclamation of land                  12            22            14            14
Ornamental                            2             3             5             5
To stop distribution of
land to landless                    2             2             1             2
4.19     Both villagers and leaders perceive that main purpose of VWs is to
raise resources for Panchayat. The object of providing wood and wood products
conceived as first objective ranks second in perception of villagers. How-
ever, still about 302 (varying from 232 to 372) believe this to be the main
object.



- 48 -
4.20     Utilization of benefits from VW's to the satisfaction of local popu-
lace is important in determining the interest people take in the program in
future. At this stage not a single VW sampled for field survey is harvested
as same iave not matured. However, the questionnaire to the villagers
elicited opinion on plan for distribution of benefits. About 55-60Z of the
villagers (leaders excluded) agreed with the policy for distribution of bene-
fits with no perceptible difference being observed between people from
villages having supervised VW and self-help VW. About 20Z disagreed with the
plan of distribution and remaining either did not know of any such policy or
did not have comments. The suggestions offered by those who disagreed with
distribution plan a e summarized in Table 4.11.
Table 4.11: ALTERNATIVES PREFERRED BY VILLAGERS NOT AGREEING WITH
DISTRIBUTION POLICY
(in percent)
Hiah Status             Low Status
Alternative suggested           Supervised  Self-help  Supervised  Self-help
VW         VW          VW          VW
Free distribution to all            35           40          36           29
Free distribution to landless
and weaker section                 3          14           11           14
Sale to all villagers                2            -           2            1
Sale only to landless and
weaker section                     2            -           2            1
Sale by auction for income
generation to Panchayat           48          42           37          40
Other                                4            2           8            3
No opinion                           6            2           4           12
4.21     Sale for income generation to Panchayat ranks high for both the high
status as well as low status people. This may be due to preconceived notions
about such an activity. Other striking feature is concern shown by high
status people for low status as well as willingness of low status people to
share benefits with rest of the villagers.
4.22     It is also observed that high preparation of villagers of both the
sections advocate for selling by auction to augment panchayat income. This
indicates at keenness of people to improve financial position of the Village
Panchayat. This also indicates at lack of resources with Panchayat which is
depending on government to finance most of the developmental activities. The
villagers seem to be having an intense desire to have resources free of tags
to meet their development priorities. Under the circumstances, lack of
interest in self-help VW can only be expected. Initially villagers will have
to be shown capability of VW to produce resources through departmental VW.
Only in second rotation villagers be expected to be enthusiastic and opting
for self-help VW to get rid of strings attached with supervised VW.



- 49 -
4.23     The project proposes to transfer the management of VW's to Panchayats
in due course. Data was collected by M&E cell to review the progress made in
this respect for samples VW's. The status of planning and decision for
distribution of pioduce from supervised VW is represented in Table 4.12.
Table 4.12:
Old VW           Nei; VW
Number Percent Number Percent
1. Plans exist for disposal of
intermediate produce                        19      44        18      45
2. Decision for disposal of
intermediate produce take by:
(i) Panchayat                                2       5         4      10
(ii) G F D                                   13      30        10      25
(iii) Both                                     4       9         4      10
3.  Plans exist for disposal of
final produce bys
(i) Sale                                     9      21         8      20
(ii) Distribution                             3       7         4      10
(iii) Both                                     6      14         4      10
Total                             18       42       16       40
4.  Decision for disposal 'f final
p'-oduce take by:
') Panchayat                               2        5        2        5
(x,.  G F D                                   6      14         4      10
(iii) Both                                    10      23        10      25
4.24     It can be seen that plans exist for distribution of final produce for
about 45Z VW's. However, only for 201 to 25Z VWs there are plans for disposal
of final produce. Also GFD has taken decision in most of the cases, Panchayat
alone has taken decision in only 5i to 102 cases. s More active involvement of
Panchayats is called for in this regard.
4.25     Some of the other observations based on data collected, sample survey
and perception of M&E cell officers are listed below:
(a) One of the questions in the questionnaire leads to the conclusion
that over 85Z villagers believe of VW to be the best use of common
land of the village.
(b) Though survival rates are encouraging, growth rates specially in some
parts of S&K region are poor. Shallow soil and poor rainfall are the
main reasons for this.



-50-
(c)  Though concept of self-help VW could not make much headway with
villagers yet there is general awakening and interest in the program.
(d) Village leaders and more awakened villagers are unhappy with damage
to VWs and believe that CF can best protect the VWs as they find
difficult to punish fellow beings.
Reforestation of Degraded Forests
4.26     30,250 ha of degrading/degraded forest area is treated and afforested
under the project. M&E cell had collected data on survival, growth and
benefits derived by people from plantations of up to 1983. The proportion of
Eucalypts varies from 682 to 772 in various years against the 84Z prescribed
in the project. The estimated survival rates for Eucalypts and other species
for various years of plantations is shown in Table 4.13.
Table 4.13: RATE OF SURVIVAL
(in percent)
Species                       1980                 1981                 1982
Eucalyptus                     60                   96                   99
Other species                  79                   99                   99
4.27     Average growth i.e. height and girth estimatc" on the basis of the
sample survey carried out during May-June 1983 are shown in Table 4.14.
Table 4.14:
1980             1981              1982
Species                       height   girth   height   girth   height   girth
m.       cm      m.        cm      m.       cm
Eucalyptus                       2       10        1        9        1        8
Other species                    1        8        1        7        1        6
4.28     Other important observations are listed below:
(a)  Employment oppc'tunity to the villagers residing nearby these planta-
tions was found to be the most important benefit derived so far.



- 51 -
(b) Villagers have also availed of the grass growing in these plantations
and allowed to be collected free of charge.
(c) Vasant Bandharas, provided for the conservation of moisture in the
plantations, have not been constructed.
4.29     Survival and growth are satisfactory.  Observations as to benefits
derived are understandable as plantations are too young to provide any benefit
in the form of MFP or twigs. On the whole, the concept and the idea of flow
of benefits were well received by the villagers in spite of closure of the
areas for grazing.
Malki Plantations
4.30     1,000 ha of privately owned land unfit for agriculture in the Dangs
district is afforested with Teak and Bamboo under this component of the
project (target 1,000 ha). M&E cell canvassed an almost 1002 survey (December
1982) to study the survival growth and beneficiaries of plantations under this
component. Estimated survival and average growth statistics based on
observation made between March to May 1983 are viown in Table 4.15.
Table 4.15:
Year                          Survival       Average height       Average girth
2                 2                    2
1980                              89                1.75                  10
1981                              89                1.30                   9
1982                              86
4.31     In the initial period of the project, till suc1h time as the farmers
were explained, they were under the impression that the land will rest in GFD.
This fear made them avoid care and subsequent operations. This resulted in
low percentaf,e of survival and growth. However, while survival rate seems to
be satisfactory the growth is below expectation. This is explained being due
to impoverished nature of soil. In the wooded areas of the district though
soil is similar but is enriched by the humus formation. Thus application of
chemical and manure was recommended.
4.32     Table 4.16 gives the details of beneficiaries classified into big,
small and marginal farmers and area covered.



- 52 -
Table 4.16:
Big        Small       Marginal                 Area        Average
Year     farmers      farmers     farmers       Total     planted      per farmer
ha            ha
1980        46            9             4          59         200         3.39
1981        55           12             4          71         200         2.82
1982        24           15           23           62         166         2.68
4.33     Extent of area planted by beneficiary classes is presented in
Table 4.17.
Table 4.17:
(Area in ha)
Year         Big farmer       Small farmer       Marginal farmer         Total
1980          170.65              23.55                 5.80             200.00
1981          171.50              23.75                 4.75             200.00
1982          106.87              32.29                26.68             165.84
4.34     The project recommended greater preference for planting land of small
and marginal farmers. However, it is seen that during 1980 and 1981 more than
50Z of the beneficiaries are big farmers. By area, as much as 85? of the land
covered is of big farmers. However, the trend changed in 1982. Less than 40Z
of the beneficiaries are from amongst big farmers. This needs to be viewed
from the angle that in Dangs district the agriculture practices are primitive
and even big farmers do only single cropping with primitive methods. Thus
involvement of big farmers in the project will be desirable as a demonstration
value for the small and marginal farmers.
Farm Forestry
4.35     Farm forestry has emerged as the flag bearer of social forestry acti-
vity with distribution of 695.6 million seedlings, 357.5 million under CFP and
rest under programs, as against only 150 million provided in the project
during the project period the contribution of this component alone in terms of
increasing tree wealth of the state is about 6-7 times the contribution of all
other components put together. The added advantage of this component due to
low cost to government, wide dispersal, individual interest, personal atten-
tion contribute to the greater emphasis being laid on this component.



- 53 -
4.36     However, many fears are being expressed in different quarters as to
success, class of beneficiaries, species used and land diverted for planting
trees under this component. Lack of information in the form of reported data
allows room for conjecture. M&E cell being aware of the issues involved has
laid considerable stress on monitoring of this component. A sample survey was
canvassed in 1983-84 and analysis reported in the Monitoring - Interim Report.
Fresh survey was canvassed in 1985-86, the results of which are analyzed and
report is under preparation (1986). In this survey data in respect of 2,270
recipients of seedlings out of selected 3,600 was found complete and analyzed.
It was observed that 52X of the recipients were marginal farmers, 252 small
farmers and 232 big farmers. Detailed break up of the recipient farmers by
farm size and category is shown in Table 4.18.
Table 4.18: DISTRIBUTICON OF FARMERS BY FARM SIZE (OPERATED AREA)
Scheduled    Scheduled                                 Average No.
Caste        Tribe                                    of seedlings
(SC)         (ST)        Others    Total             planted by
Farmers      Number        Number       Number    Number      Z     a land-hold
Marginal        134          282           764     1,180      52          3,800
Small           33            93           440       566      25         7,800
Big             18            20           486       524      23        13,800
Total       155           395         1,690     2,270    100
6.82        17.42                    1002
4.37     Species composition of seedlings lifted by farmers is shown in
Table 4.19.



- 54 -
Table 4.19: PERCENT SPECIES COMPOSITION OF SEEDLINGS LIFTED
I of seedlings         Z of farmers lifting the seedlings
Species            lifted           Marginal       Small      Big       Total
Eucalyptus          84.2              31.4         16.3      15.4       63.1
Subabul              6.5               5.0          2.3       2.5        9.8
Desi-babul           0.5                0.3         0.2       0.1        0.7
Gando-babul          1.6               0.2          0.&       0.8        1.4
Saru                 4.3               4.4          1.6       1.6        7.6
Bamboo               6.0               2.2          1.0       0.4        3.6
Fruit trees          0.3               3.2          0.8       0.5        4.5
Ornamental trees     0.1               1.0          0.2       0.2        1.4
Others               0.1               1.0          0.2       0.2        7.9
Total           100.0                                               100.0
4.38     As can be seen Eucalypts form over 84X of the plants planted.
Subabul, Saru and bamboo are other preferred species. Financial returns from
small timber that can be availed from Eucalypts, Subabul and Saru and the high
prices of bamboo in market justify the preferences for these species. Greater
emphasis on Eucalyptus can be credited to less damage by cattle and ease with
which it can adapt to wider range of agro-climatic variations. Average
survival based on sample survey for various species under irrigated and
rainfed conditions are shown Jn Table 4.20.
Table 4.20: PERCENTAGE OF SURVIVAL BY TYPE OF SPECIES SEPARATELY FOR
RAINFED AND IRRIGATED AREA
Species                  Rainfed                   Irrigated
Eucalyptus                45.87                      52.72
Subabul                   16.85                      53.82
Desi babul                53.97                      68.88
Saru                      37.67                      68.39
Bamboo                    33.50                       4.34
Fruit trees               16.66                      63.63
Others                     0.72                      48.48
4.39     Low survival rate of Subabul under rainfed conditions and Saru under
irrigated conditions calls for detailed investigation. High rate of survival
under irrigated conditions is expected due to high inputs and intensive
tending.



- 55 -
4.40     Exact place of planting has bearing on the agriculture production as
well as the growth of trees. Table 4.21 gives details as to place of
planting.
Table 4.21:
Farmers
Place/location                             2     Marginal   Small   Big   Total
Previous fallow                           9.5       30         37      33   100
Previously cropped                        8.7       33         29      38   100
Bunds, boundaries, etc.                  56.1       47         27      26   100
Homestead, houselet, etc.                25.7       77         15       8   100
4.41     It is observed that 81.8Z of the farmers have planted trees on field
bunds, boundaries, homesteads, etc. Only 18.2Z have planted on agricultural
land. Only 0.7X of farmers have planted on agricultural land. Only 0.72 of
farmers have planted on previously cropped land. It is noteworthy that home-
stead planting has been most common (77Z) amongst marginal farmers. Planting
in agricultural field does not show any marked variation amongst the three
types of farmers.
4.42     However, a study on the basis of number of seedlings planted in
different locations brings out a different picture--58.42 seedlings have been
planted in previously fallow (22.152) and cropped (35.9Z) lands and only 41.5?
seedlings on bunds, boundaries (34?) and homesteads (7.5Z). This shows that
few farmers have planted large number of seedlings in their agricultural
fields both fallow and previously cropped. This is expected as availability
of land in homesteads and field bunds etc. is limited. However, the higher
portion of farmers planting on bunds, boundaries, homesteads, etc. shows the
wide base farm forestry has taken.
4.43     Another issue that was probed by the M&E cell was the end uses for
which seedlings are planted. The farmers were requested to specify reasons as
to why they have planted trees. Table 4.22 gives the percentage of farmers by
farm size class opting for various reasons of planting.



- 56 -
Table 4.22: PERCENTAGE OF FARMERS' REASONS FOR PLANTING TREES
Percentage of farmers
Reasons                                   Marginal      Small     Big       All
To meet fuelwood need                        16           18       17       16.9
To meet fodder needs                           3           6         6       4.5
For sale                                      20          27       29       23.7
For ornamental purpose                        12           9        6        9.8
Others                                        49          40        42      45.1
Total                                  100          100      100     100.0
4.44     There is a very large percentage (452) of farmers whose answers fall
in the category of 'other reasons". It may be on account of their unclear
concept or reply or due to the reason that the material will find its use in
meeting domestic needs of small timber.  It may also be  -  to indecision
which is understandable due to large proportion of farmers planting on field
bunds and homesteads. However, this calls for a more detailed investigation.
4.45     M&E cell also enquired as to future intentions of farmers about
planting trees. 52Z of the farmers intend to plant next year. On choice of
species, preference was for Eucalyptus (842), Subabul (42), Saru (42) with
rest opting for other species. This is quite close to what they have already
planted. The farmers who did not want to plant next year were (48X) asked for
reasons for not planting. Table 4.23 gives percentage of farmers by farm size
class giving various reasons for not planting.
Table 4.23: REASONS FOR NOT PLANTING NEXT YEAR
Percentage of farmers
Reasons                                Marginal      Small     Big      Overall
Enough trees                               35          25       36         9.0
No additional space                         76         16        8        36.3
Poor growth                                46          32       22         9.7
Early damage to seedlings                   54         31       15        25.5
Other reasons                               46         19       35        19.5
Total                                100         100      100      100.0
4.46     The largest number (36.3?) cannot plant because of lack of space.
High proportion of marginal farmers explains this. The next important reason
is early damage to seedlings (25.5Z). This reasons is very much pertinent in
dry-land farms, which remain open during most part of the year.



- 57 -
Innovations in Nursery
4.47     The enlarged farm forestry program demanded widespread nurseries and
several fold expansion of infrastructure, to mix required number of seedlings.
The CFW devised technical as well as infrastructural means to meet the demand.
It was also felt that while CFW may continue more technical work like
Research, Extension and Motivation along with the planting program, the basic
nursery program can be slowly transferred to people. The school nursery
program initiated in 1976 with the sole objective of publicity and extension
was expanded to contribute substantially towards seedling production. Kisan
nursery program was initiated in 1982 to provide for dispersed seedlings. On
technical front "Dharul 2-3 week old basketed seedlings, distribution was
started. Below are details of these programs and achievements therein.
School Nurseries
4.48     The school nursery program started in 1976 with following objectives:
(a) to involve school children in nursery raising work and to develop in
them love for trees;
(b) to provide means for mobilizing resources for schools; and
(c) to plant up the vacant land in the school compounds.
4.49     She objects were diversified in the subsequent years to include the
object of providing dispersed seedlings to meet the demand for seedlings.
Under this program, raw material i.e., polythene bags, seeds, manure, pesti-
j          cides are supplied by CFW.  Students raise seedlings in school compound under
i          the technical guidance of the CFW.  The seedlings are brought back by the CFW
for distribution under its seedling distribution program at prevailing rate of
production. The amount so earned by school children is used for development
of school. During project period 36.7 million seedlings were raised in school
nurseries. Detailed yearwise break up of number of nurseries, number of
seedlings raised and amount earned is given in Table 4.24.
Table 4.24:
1980-81   1981-82   1082-83   1983-84   1984-85   Total
No. of Nurseries           109       217        677       801       651    2,455
No. of seedlings (m)      0.82      2.20       7.34     14.71     11.63    36.70
Amount earned (M Rs)      0.12      0.33       1.10      2.21       1.75     5.51



- 58 -
4.50     M&E cell monitored the utilization of earnings by school through a
sample survey. Details of various uses to which earnings are put are shown in
Table 4.25.
Table 4.25:
Use                            Z amount utilized
Educational tours                           27.40
Games kits                                  10.14
Books                                       21.66
Implements                                  14.30
Civil works                                  6.76
Uniforms                                     8.64
Others                                      11.10
4.51     Major difficulty encountered was in summers when schools close.  Many
schools encouraged children living nearby to take care during summers. Some
employed wage-labor too.
4.52     Kisan nursery program was initiated in the year 1982 with the twin
objectives of providing dispersed seedlings and utilizing infrastructural
facility in the form of source of water and land available with farmers to
meet the enhanced requirement of seedlings. Under this scheme, farmers raise
seedlings under the instructions of CFW which are bought back by CFW for its
requirement under seedling distribution program at prevailing production cost
of CFW. Polypots, seeds, chemical, manure and insecticides, etc. are supplied
bv CFW. The scheme has been appreciated by one and all and is being suggested
by GOI to other states. Yearwise details of number of nurseries, seedlings
raised and amount earned are given in Table 4.26.
Table 4.26:
1982-83     1983-84      1984-85     Total
No. of nurseries                         563         884        1,562       3,009
No. of seedlings raised (million)    21.10         27.93        28.42       77.45
Amount earned (million Rs)              3.16         4.19        4.20       11.61



- 59 -
"Dharul Distribution
4.53     Dharu distribution program provided a major technical break through
and also facilitated the process of transfer of technology. Seeds are sown in
about 6 inch deep 4-5 wide baskets, 2-3 week old fingerlings, 500-1,000 per
basket are distributed to bulk indentors in basketed form only during trans-
planting season. The farmers transplant these fingerlings to polypots at
their farms. The farmers thus save on transport which tend to be difficult
and costly during monsoon. CFW saves on polypot and tending. However, exten-
sion service of CFW provides for technical know-how. During the project
period 58.52 million "Dharu3 (fingerlings) were distributed.
Smokeless Stoves
4.54     The physical target of installing 10,000 smokeless stoves for project
has been exceeded by installing 10,937 stoves by 92 and also 1 year ahead of
stipulated period.
4.55     The utility and performance of smokeless stoves installed during four
years 1980-81 to 1983-84 was monitored through a 5? systematic random sampling
by the M&E cell between October 1985 to January 1986.
4.56     The use of device to avail of the benefits is the test to assess the
success of the program. The data is presented as follows about the use in
Table 4.27.
Table 4.27:
Number        Z
No. of stoves in use                       124          25
No. of stoves not in use                   159          32
No. of stoves removed                      153          31
Beneficiaries not traceable
or stove not established                  64          12
Total                                 500         100
4.57     The benefits derived by the beneficiaries who regularly use the
stoves are analyzed as shown in Table 4.28



- 60 -
Table 4.28:
Number        2
Less firewood required                      101         81
Less time consumed                           85          69
No smoke nuisance                           107         86
Safe in use                                  38         31
4.58     However, the beneficiaries who do not use or have removed the stoves
have attributed various reasons for the same. Among the reasons, 402 sampled
villages believe that more firewood is consumed and 252 feel that stoves
require frequent repairs and more time consumed in cooking.
4.59     As regards maintenance of the stoves, almost 642  feel that repairs
cannot be carried out by self or by ar isans in the village.
4.60     About 522 families who are beneficiaries have 6 to 10 members and
above 802 villagers use firewood for cooking their food.
4.61     This leads to following conclusions:
(a)  252 beneficiaries only making use of the device provided, leads to
believe that type and design of the stove are not popular among the
villagers;
(b)  Absence of follow-up through extension to assess reaction of the
beneficiaries for undertaking modifications and changes in the
design.
Crematoria
4.62     By establishing 1,106 crematoria during 1981 to 1983, the target
stipulated in the project is surpassed by above 102. Locationwise, 92?
crematoria are installed in the rural areas and the rest in urban areas mainly
at Taluka places.
4.63     For monitoring, 7.52 sampling has been done.  From each division,
four crematoria are selected by systematic strati-field sampling with a random
start. In the manner, 76 crematoria are selected.
4.64     The monitoring data has been collected in respect of 68 crematoria as
the remaining were destroyed or badly damaged. The work was completed during
period October 1985 to January 1986.
4.65     The aspect of actual use of the facility provided and its maintenance
are crucial and important. The data about the same is presented in Table
4.29.



- 61 -
Table 4.29:
Use of crematoria    No. of dead bodies cremated
Year      Yes           No       1982        1983        1984
1981       10             6       467         580         455
1982       11             6        73         157         124
1983       23            12         -         111         327
44           24       540          848        906
65%          35Z
4.66     It clearly indicates that in successive years, number of dead bodies
cremated in crematoria has increased indirectly suggesting that slowly the
device is gaining in acceptance.
4.67     As regards condition of the crematoria, 37Z crematoria are without
roof and about 43Z require repairs.



- 63 -
V. FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. Pre-Proiect Anallsis
5.1      Financial and Economic indicators were estimated in 1979-80 before
initiating the project. It involved a set of assumptions as to costs and
benefits due to the projects. The cost structure as provided for various
components in the project was considered broken into material, labor,
miscellaneous expenditure for planting, vehicles and equipments, buildings,
staff and to other overheads. The benefits were estimated on the basis of
prescribed composition of species, anticipated survival and yields and the
estimated foregone benefits due to the project.
5.2      The farm forestry and wood saving devices components were dropped
from the analysis. The farm forestry component was dropped as it was not
considered feasible to estimate the prior land use of land likely to go under
tree cover, the models which will be used, the variations in without project
situation and such issues which could have contributed to large variation in
costs, benefits and foregone benefits.
5.3      The wood saving devices were dropped due to lack of information and
inability to estimate utility of these units. However, the minimum level of
utilization at which benefits equal costs at 1O rate of interest was
estimated at 19 cremations per crematoria per annum. Smokeless stoves are
expected to save 402 of wood consumed for cooking by the family opting for the
smokeless stove.
5.4      The financial and economic indicators as estimated in 1979-80 for the
project are listed in Table 5.1.
Table 5.1:
PV costs     PV benefits      NPV @     R 0 R
@ 10Z in     e 102 in         10   in    Z
----------- million Rs ------------
Financial              -            -              -        13.3
Economic             299.6        597.4          297.8      17.0
B. Deviations
5.5      During the project implementation period, as noted earlier, changes
were made to adjust to the field conditions. Major changes, as detailed in
Chapter III, were in the plant density, the mode of fencing and protection for
various plantation models. The cost structure changed along with these
changes. The wages for labor, which are being linked to price index rose
sharply in stages, from Rs 5.50 at the time of preparation of project to Rs
13.85 at the end of the project. The costs too rose accordingly.



- 64 -
5.6      The species structure was adjusted to suit local field conditions as
explained in earlier sections of this report.
5.7      The monitoring cell of CFW has monitored the success of various plan-
tation models. The anticipated survival percentage and growth can now be
replaced by a more accurate estimate based on survival rates as estimated by
the monitoring cell and yields based on the growth pattern for fuelwood and
poles and actual yields derived for some of the MFP.
C. Assumptions
5.8      With the data available at this stage it is possible to make a more
accurate estimate of the various financial and economic indicators. The exer-
cise to estimate revised indicators on the basis of data available is being
undertaken with the following broad assumptionss
(a) cost yet to be incurred on maintenance of plantations shall be on the
basis of the rate per ha for various models as adopted in 1984-85
with adjustments therein for inflation; and
(b) inflation, success and growth and such other data required for esti-
mation of costs and benefits, if not available for specific years may
be taken as average of previous three to five years.
D. Data Base
Costs
5.9      The actual costs incurred for the project are summarized in
Table 5.02. From the available data yearvise costs can be broken into staff
salaries, operating costs, vehicle and equipments, plantation models, etc. as
shown in Table 5.2.
Table 5.2: STATEMENT OF ITEMWISE EXPENDITURE (ACTUAL)
(In million Rs)
Project  Actual               Staff    Vehicle &
year     year   Planting   salaries  equipment  Building  Overhead   Total
0     1979-80   12.590      4.662       0.907         -      0.547     18.706
1     1980-81   38.366    12.725        8.044     6.309      4.642     70.086
2     1981-82   53.652    20.541        7.153    *8.878      5.440     93.664
3     1982-83   78.288    28/539        4.201     9.515      9.699    130.242
4     1983-84   94.147    39.112        1.780    14.210      8.674    157.923
5     1984-85   65.292    61.858        0.121     5.299      7.978    140.548



- 65 - 
5.10     The costs yet to be incurred on maintenance and protection of planta-
tions raised under the project have been estimated at the per ha rate of
1984-85 and are shown in Table 5.3.
Yields
5.11     The yields of various products due to project have been re-estimated
on the basis of the details of plantation models, viz. species composition,
density, survival data as collected by the monitoring cell and growth
estimates arrived at on basis of samples taken in different agro-climatic
zones. The yields of various products as estimated is shown in Table 5.4.
This does not include yields due to farm forestry and savings due to wood
saving devices.
Benefits Foregone
5.12     There is some loss of grazing lands being covered by trees and closed
for grazing. However, here it may be noted that, the grazing available from
these lands is negligible due to over grazed and degraded state of such lands.
It has been widely accepted that these grazing grounds served as mere exercise
grounds yielding hardly anything for grazing. Moreover, there are many
unaccounted benefits, like availability of fuelwood twigs, datun (the tooth
brush stick from Acacia nilotica), gums and also the environmental, aesthetic,
land improvement and shelter belt or wind break effect, etc. which far out-
weigh the meager losses due to grazing. Therefore, it is not felt necessary
to take account of grazing losses. The malki plantation component alone may
cover the areas where agriculture crop was grown previously. However, the
loss is accounted for by the subsistence allowance given and included in the
costs. In the project appraisal report benefits foregone are estimated for
fodder and fuel. The fodder in the appraisal missions report includes
grazing. Loss of fuelwood due to closing of plantation may not actually be
there at all. The lands offered for plantation are degraded and hardly able
to provide any fuelwood. There are few places where some twigs may be avail-
able. At such places, the root stock that provides for twigs, after protec-
tion sprouts profusely providing increased yields as experienced in one of
village woodlots harvested in village Nari of Shavnagar district where 26,158
trees were harvested as against 12,000 planted. Thus, it is not necessary to
estimate fuelwood losses.
E. Inflation Adiustments
5.13     The revised economic and financial indicators are required to be
estimated to get a realistic picture of the project. For the same of
convenience of comparison it is desirable that the revised estimates are with
reference to 1979-80 prices, i.e., the same year which was for before project
analysis.  This will require adjustment for inflation.
Inflation
5.14     The wholesale price index for all commodities (1970-71 = 100) for
1979-80 to 1983-84 are given in TAble 5.5. The wholesale price index for
1984-85 is not yet available. The average inflation of previous four years
may be taken to give an estimate of inflation in 1984-85 over 1983-84. The



- 66 -
Table 5.3: STATEMENT OF ITEMWISE EXPENDITURE
(ESTIMATED AT PER HA RATE OF 1984-85)
(In M Rs)
Project        Actual                             Staff
year            year           Planting         salaries              Total
1               2                3                4                   5
6          1985-86           42.473            1.722                 44.195
7          1986-87           19.050            1.722                 20.772
8          1987-88            7.258             1.722                 8.980
9          1988-89           10.207            1.722                 11.929
10          1989-90           17.408             1.722                19.130
11          1990-91            13.065            1.722                14.787
12          1991-92           11.321             1.722                13.043
13          1992-93             7.116            1.722                 8.838
14          1993-94           10.010             1.722                11.732
15          1994-95            17.157            1.722                18.879
16          1995-96           12.864             1.722                14.586
17          1996-97             3.170            1.722                 4.892
18          1997-98             7.007            1.722                 8.729
19          1998-99             9.946            1.722                11.668
20          1999-00            17.157            1.722                18.879
21          2000-01            12.864            1.722                14.586
22          2001-02           11.170             1.722                12.892
23          2002-03             7.007            1.722                 8.729
24          2003-04             9.946            1.722                11.668
25          2004-05            17.157            1.722                18.879
26          2005-06            11.505            1.722                13.227
27          2006-07             7.734            1.722                 9.456
28          2007-08                 -            1.722                 1.722
29          2008-09                 -            1.722                 1.722
30          2009-10                 -            1.122                 1.722
31          2010-11                 -            1.722                 1.722
32          2011-12                 -            1.722                 1.722
33          2012-13                 -            1.722                 1.722
34          2013-14                 -            1.722                 1.722
35          2014-15                 -            1.722                 1.722
36          2015-16                 -            1.722                 1.722
37          2016-17                 -            1.722                 1.722
38          2017-18                 -            1.722                 1.722



- 67 -
Table 5.4: ESTIMATED YIELDS (REVISED)
Bamboos         Leaf                     Bor
Year  Fuelwood  Poles    Katas    Manvels   fodder  Grass  Fruit   fruit  Seed
'00 T      '00 No.  '00 No.  '00 No.   '00 T   '00 T  '00 T   '00 T  '00 T
1       2         3         4         5          6        7       8       9      10
1          -         -        -          -        -      107
2          -         -        -          -        -      238        -     -       -
3          -         -        -          -        3      380        2     3       -
4          -        -         -          -       23      474        6     6       -
5        58       711         -          -       66      568       14    11       -
6       142    2,041         54        108      141      491       20    16       -
7       141    3,867         20         40      239      410       29    21       -
8       795   15,047    1,472        8,574      212      320       55    21       4
9     1,292   26,913    2,228    12,239         232      368      102    21       9
10     3,761   20,456    3,200    18,526         148      423      168    21      16
11     4,476   23,180    2,547    14,739         126      492      238    21      21
12     2,585   31,684    5,330    25,800         137      520      354    21      29
13     2,002    6,725    4,326    18,963         121      546      398    21      29
14     2,712   20,272    6,227    27,870         127      498      398    21      29
15     1,071   17,692    5,475    22,667         112      495      398    21      29
16       996   19,553    8,842    33,773         177      469      398    18      29
17       830   19,601    6,177    25,393         135      508      398    15      29
18       992   24,510    9,535    12,089         131      495      398    10      29
19       255    6,891    7,766    29,779         125      514      398      5     29
20     3,485   12,101   10,442    41,904         150      470      398      -     29
21     4,527   17,909    6,157    25,368         155      474      440      -     36
22     2,313   24,439    9,159    37,102         145      476      499      -     48
23     2,301   181974    7,578    29,419          86      546      576      -     64
24     2,558   24,722   11,210    42,874          84      542      614      -     78
25         58      711    6,072    25,853        107      530      703      -     95
26     2,026   11,182    9,316    37,297         173      445      703     -      95
27     2,383   18,236    8,110    30,084         195      350      703      -     95
28     1,359   22,415   20,905    78,495         163      252      703      -     95
29     1,335   22,821   20,041    66,819          90      215      703     -      95
30     4,611   25,021   31,478   115,895          31      170      703      -     95
31     3,716    1,139   24,045    91,970           6      123      612      -     85
32     2,780       913   21,429    79,351         23      105      488      -     78
33     3,436    1,239    1,726        6,550       42       85      331      -     44
34     3,595    1,291    1,639        3,945  .   56        59      173      -     23
35       761       579          -          -      53       53        -      -      -
36.      965    1,956           -          -      50       42        -      -      -
37       876    2,010           -          -      33       31        -      -      -
38       697    4,267           -          -      14       17        -      -      -
Total   65,890  451,038  253,595   963,486   3,910  13,300  12.122   273  1.334
Note: 1. Yields due to farm foestry component not included.
2. Totals may not tally due to rounding.



- 68 -
conversion factors needed to convert current prices of various years to
1979-80 prices are shown in column 4 of Table 5.5.
Table 5.5:
Conversion factor
All India wholesale price index   Inflation over        to convert to
Year     1970-71 = 100 all commodities        previous year      1979-80 prices
1979-80              217.6                         -                      1
1980-81              257.3                        18.24              0.8457
1981-82              281.3                         9.33              0.7736
1982-83              288.4                         2.52              0.7545
1983-84              311.8                         8.11              0.6979
1984-85              841.5                         9.55              0.6871
Source: Socio-Economic Review, Sujarat - 1983-84 A Bureau of Economics &
Statistics, Sujarat State, Candninajar Publication.
Pricing
5.15     The current (1984-85) financial and economic prices, as derived from
current market prices are shown in Table 5.6. The deflated prices for
1979-80, using conversion factors from Table 5.5 are shown in columns 6 & 7 of
Table 5.6.
Table 5.6:
Rate/Unit with reference
Sr.                            Rate/Unit in 83-84             to 79-80 prices
No.   Product        Unit     Financial    Economic    Financial        Economic
1    Fuelvood         T          200           250          140             175
2    Poles          Piece         15            18        10.50          12.60
3    Manvel         Piece       4.25          5.25            3           3.75
4    Katas          Piece         13         15.75           9.              11
5    Leaf fodder      T           20            70           14              49
6    Grass            T           20       '    70           14              49
7    Bor fruits       T        1,500         2,250        1,050          1,575
8    Other fruits    T         1,000         1,300          700             910
9    Neem fruits      T        1,000         1,400          700            980



-69 -
F. Financial Analysis
5.16     The costs and benefits at market prices with reference year 1979-80,
i.e., adjusted for inflation are shown in Table 5.7
5.17     The analysis indicates a ROR of 11.2Z.  The NPV at 10  rate of
interest is RS 57,415 million. The benefits cost ratio at 102 rate of
interest is 1.14:1.
G. Economic Analysis
Efficiency Pricing
5.18     Key assumptions and adjustments made in the economic analysis of the
project in arriving at efficiency prices are same as used in pre-project
economic analysis by the appraisal mission.
5.19     Economic cost of unskilled labor.  The shadow wage rate of labor was
estimated at 687 of the financial rate (government rate) on the basis of
prevailing market rates during peak and lean seasons in the pre-project
analysis. The financial wage rate at the time of pre-project analysis was Rs
5.50 per day. The daily wage rate has changed in stages and has reached to Rs
13.85 by the end of the project period.  It will be ----- and time consuming
if an analysis is to be made to estimate shadow wage rate every time financial
wage rate changed. Also with-the detailed data available it may not be
possible to relate expenditure to various time slots to suit change in daily
wages of unskilled labor. Therefore, it would be reasonable to assume that
shadow wage rate for labor is 68Z of financial wage rate for the project as a
whole. The general ratio of labor, material and others is used to segregate
plantation expenditure into labor material and other.
5.20     Skilled Labor.  No shadow wage rate has been applied to skilled labor
as in the pre-project analysis.
5.21     Border Price ratio.  Different conversion factors, as in pre-project
analysis, has been used for the various expenditure and out-put components to
reflect the different degrees of deviation they are subjected to in the Indian
economy in relation to international (border) prices. The conversion factors
used are shown in Table 5.8.



- 70 -
Table 5,7: COST BSdffT STREM AT MAR(ET PRICE
(Si tI ion Ru)
Over       Fuel            Be         Leaf         Othier   Bar  l4ag.
Year Labor Material Other Staff VIE Bldg. head Total cod Pola Ka nvot  fodder Ora"   -uits fruit. aa"d Total  Nat
1  2      8       4      8    6    7      8    9    lo    11    12    18        14     18    16      17    18    19   20
0    9.    8.0      0.1   4.7  0.1  -       0.8  18.7  -      -     -     -       -      -      -      -     -      -   -18.7
1   24.7    7.8      0.2  10.8  6.8  8.8   3.9  89.3  -        -     -     -       -      0.1   -       -     -      0.2 -59.1
2   81.8   10.0      0.2  18.9  8.8  S.3   4.2  72.8  -        -     -      -      -      0.3   -       -     -      0.8  -72.2
S   44.8   14.2      0.4  21.S  3.2  7.2   7.8  98.8  -        -     -      -      -      0.5   0.2    0.3   -       1.0 -97.3
4   49.5   18.8      0.4  27.8  1.2  9.9   6.1  110.2  -       -     -     -       0.0    0.7   0.4    0.7   -       1.0 -97.8
S   81.8   10.0      0.3  89.4  0.1  8.4   5.1  89.6  0.8   0.7   -        -       0.1    0.8   0.9    1.2   -       4.6 -S4.9
6   20.4    6.6      0.2   1.1  -    -      -    28.2  2.0   2.1   -        -      0.2    0.7   1.4    1.6   -       8.1 -20.1
7    9.1    2.9      0.1   1.1  -    -       -    18.2  2.0   4.1   -       -      0.8    0.6   2.0    2.2   -    11.2  -2.0
a    8.4    1.1      0.2   1.1  -    -       -     s.7  11.1  18.8   1.8   2.6    0.8    0.4   3.8    2.2   0.8  87.9  82.2
9    4.6    1.6      0.2   1.1  -    -       -     7.6 18.1  28.8   2.0   8.7    0.8    0.6   7.1    2.2   0.6  62.8  85.2
10    8.2    2.6     0.8   1.1  -    -       -    12.2 82.7  21.6   2.9   5.6    0.2    0.6  11.8    2.2   1.1  98.4  66.2
11    6.2    2.0     0.2   1.1  -    -       -      9.4 62.7  24.8   2.8   4.4    0.2    0.7  16.6    2.2   1.8  114.9 108.5
12    8.4    1.7     0.1   1.1  -    -       -      8.8 36.2  83.2   4.8   7.7    0.2    0.7  24.8    2 2   2.0  111.9 103.6
18    8.4    1.1     0.1   1.1  -    -       -      5.6 28.0   7.1   1.9   5.7    0.2    0.8  27.9    2.2   2.0  77.7  72.1
14    4.8    1.S     0.1   1.1  -    -       -      7.8 88.0  21.8   8.8   8.4    0.2    0.7  27.9    2.2   2.0 1-6.2  98.7
1S    8.2    2.6     0.1   1.1  -    -       -    12.0 18.0  18.6   6.9   6.8    0.2    0.7  27.9    2.2   2.0  78.2  66.2
16    6.2    2.0     -      1.1  -    -      -      9.3 13.9  20.5   8.0  10.1    0.2    0.7  27.9    1.9   2.0  88.8  76.0
17    5.4    1.7     -      1.1  -    -      -      8.2 11.6  20.5   8.6   7.6    0.2    0.7  27.9    1.6   2.0  77.7  69.8
18    8.4    1.1     0.0   1.1  -    -       -      8.6 18.9  25.7   8.6   8.6    0.2    0.7  27.9    1.1   2.0  s8.6  78.0
19    4.8    1.8     -      1.1  -    -      -      7.4  8.6   7.2   7.1   8.9    0.2    0.7  27.9    0.6   2.0  58.2  S0.8
20    8.2    2.6     0.1   1.1  -    -       -    12.0 48.8  12.7   9.4  12.6    0.2    0.7  27.9    -         2.0  114.2  102.2
21    6.2    2.0      -     1.1  -    -      -      9.3 68.4  18.8   5.8   7.6    0.2    0.7  80.8    -        2.5 129.6  120.3
22    5.4    1.7      -     1.1  -    -      -      8.2 32.4  28.7   8.2  11.1    0.2    0.7  84.9    -        8.4 116.6  108.4
28    8.4    1.1      -     1.1  -    -      -      8.6 32.2  19.9   6.8   8.8    0.1    0.8  40.8    -        4.5 113.5 107.9
24    4.8    1.8      -     1.1  -    -      -      7.4  35.8  26.0  10.1  12.9    0.1    0.8  42.9    -       8.8  184.0 126.6
25    8.2    2.6      0.1   1.1  -    -      -    12.0  0.8   0.7   8.8   7.8    0.1    0.7  49.2    -         6.7  71.8  89.8
26    8.8    1.8      -     1.1  -    -      -      8.4 28.4  11.7   8.4  11.2    0.2    0.6  49.2    -        6.7  116.4 108.0
27    3.7    1.2      -     1.1  -    -      -      6.0 28.4  19.1   7.8   9.2    0.8    0.8  49.2    -        6.7 125.8 119.8
28    -      -        -     1.1  -    -      -      1.1 19.0  28.8  18.8  28.5    0.2    0.4  49.2    -        6.7 141.4 140.8
29    -      -        -     1.1  -    -      -      1.1 18.7  24.0  18.0  20.0    0.1    0.8  49.2    -        6.7 137.0 188.9
80    -      -        -     1.1  -    -      -      1.1 64.6  26.8  28.8  84.8    -        0.2  49.2    -      6.7 210.1 209.0
81    -      -        -     1.1  -    -      -      1.1 82.0   1.2  22.8  27.6    -        0.2  42.8    -      s.9 152.3 151.2
S2    -      -        -     1.1  -    -      -      1.1 88.9   t.0  19.8  28.8    -        0.1  84.2    0      8.8  122.8 121.7
8S    -      -        -     1.1  -    -      -      1.1 48.1   1.8   1.6   2.0    0.1    0.1  23.2    -        8.1  79.4  78.8
S4    -      -        -     1.1  -    -      -      1.1 80.8   1.4   1.8   1.2    0.1    0.1  12.1    -        1.6  68.8  67.2
3s    -      -        -     1.1        -      -     1.1 10.7   0.8   -      -       0.1    0.1   -       -     -    11.4  10.8
86    -      -        -     1.1  -    -      -      1.1 18.5   2.1   -      -       0.1    0.1   -       -     -    18.7  14.6
37    -      -        -     1.1  -    -      -      1.1 12.8   2.1   -      -       -      -     -       -     -    14.8  18.4
38    -      -        -     1.1  -    -      -      1.1  9.8   4.8   -      -       -      -      -      -     -    14.3  13.2



- 71 -
Table 5.8:
Conversion
Category                     factor               Remarks
Unskilled labor               0.84
Staff salaries                0.82
Materials                     0.70
Vehicle and equipment         0.70
Buildings                     0.70
Grass and fodde.              1.00         Considered to yield milk, a traded
commodity
Others                        0.80         Standard Conversion Factor used for
all other outputs being not traded
commodities
Results
5.22     The revised estimated rate of return for the project comes to 15.6X.'
The NPV at 10? rate of interest is estimated at Rs 206.152 million. The
benefits cost ratio at 102 rate of interest is estimated at 1.77:1. The costs
and benefits, at efficiency prices, due to project are summarized in Table
5.9.
Sensitivity Analysis
5.23     The economic analysis results are also tested for their sensitivity
to various outputs. They have not been tested for costs as 69.25? of costs
have been actually incurred.  Results of sensitivity analysis are noted in
Table 5.10.



- 72 -
Tble S9: COST BENiT STREAM AT EFPICIB4CY PRICE
Over       Fuel          3h3boo       L af         Other   80r   Ne:.
Year LAbor Material Other Staff VIE Oldg. head Total wood Pole  Kate* Nl4nv.l fodd.d  Or   fruite  fruita  eeed Total  Net
1     2      8        4     a    6    7      a    9    10    11    12    1S        14     1S    16      17    18    19   20
0    5.4    2.1      0.1   8.8  0.6  -      4.0  12.5  -       -     -      -      -      -      -      -     -      -   -12.5
1   18.9    8.6      0.2   8.8  4.6  4.0   8.1  40.3  -        -     -      -      -      0.8   -       -     -      0.8  -39.6
2   17.8    7.0      0.2  18.0  8.9  4.1   8.4  49.8  -        -     -      -      -      1.2   -       -      -     1.2  -48.1
3   25.4   10.0      0.3  17.7  2.2  5.4   5.9  66.7  -        -     -      -      -      1.9   0.2    0.3   -       2.4 -64.8
4   28.2   11.1      0.8  22.4  0.9  7.4   4.8  75.1  -        -     -      -      0.1    2.3   0.4    0.8   -       2.7  -72.4
S   17.9    7.0      0.2  82.3  0.1  2.8   4.1  64.0  0.8   0.7   -         -      0.3    2.8   1.0    1.4   -       7.0 -57.0
6   11.6    4.6      0.1   0.9  -    -       -    17.2  2.0   2.1   -       -      0.7    2.4   1.8    2.0   -    10.6  -6.6
7    8.2    2.0      0.1   0.9  -    -       -     8.2  2.0   8.9   -       -      1.2    2.0   2.1    2.6   -    13.8   5.6
8    1.9    0.8      0.2   0.9  -    -       -     3.7 11.1  15.2   1.3   2.6    1.0    1.6   4.0    2.6   0.3  89.7  36.0
9    2.7    1.1      0.2   0.9  -    -       -     4.9 18.1  27.1   2.0   3.7    1.1    1.8   7.4    2.6   0.7  64.C  59.7
10    4.7    1.8      0.2   0.9  -    -      -      7.6 52.7  20.6   2.8   8.6    0.7    2.1  12.2    2.6   1.2 100.6  93.0
11    3.5    1.4      0.1   0.9  -    -      -      8.9 62.7  28.4   2.2   4.4    0.6    2.4  17.3    2.6   1.6  117.8  111.4
12    8.1    1.2      0.1   0.9  -    -      -      8.8  86.2  31.9   4.7   7.7    0.7    2.6  24.8    2.6   2.2 114.4  108.7
13    1.9    0.8      0.1   0.9  -    -      -      8.6 2S.0   6.6   3.8   5.7    0.6    2.7  29.0    2.6   2.2  81.4  7.s
14    2.7    1.1      0.1   0.9  -    -      -      4.8 88.0  20.4   5.5   8.4    0.6    2.4  29.0    2.6   2.2 109.2 104.4
18    4.7    1.8      0.1   0.9  -    -      -      7.5 16.0  17.8   4.8   6.8    O.s    2.4  29.0    2.6   2.2  81.3  73.8
1S    1.5    1.4      -     0.9  -    -      -      4.6  18.9  19.7   7.e  10.1    0.9    2.3  29.0    2.8   2.2  68.3  82.s
17    8.1    1.2     -      0.9  -    -      -      8.2 11.6  19.8   S.4   7.6    0.7    2.6  29.0    1.9   2.2  80.7  78.5
18    1.9    0.8     -      0.9  -    -      -      8.6  18.9  24.7   8.4   3.6    0.6    2.4  29.0    1.3   2.2  86.8  82.6
19    2.7    1.1      -     0.9  -    -      -      4.7  3.6   6.9   6.9   8.9    0.6    2.8  20.0    0.7   2.2  61.4  56.7
20    4.7    1.8      0.1   0.9  -    -      -      7.8 48.8  12.2   9.2  12.6    0.7    2.3  29.0    -        2.2 117.0 109.5
21    8.5    1.4      -     0.9  -    -       -     8.8 63.4  18.1   8.4   7.6    0.8    2.3  32.1    -        2.8 132.4 126.6
22    3.1    1.2      -     0.9  -    -       -     5.2 32.4  24.6   8.1  11.1    0.7    2.8  36.8    -        3.8 119.3 114.1
23    1.9    0.8      -     0.9  -    -       -     3.6 82.2  19.1   6.7   8.8    0.4    2.7  42.0    -        S.0  116.9 113.3
24    2.7    1.1      -     0.9  -    -       -     4.7 38.8  24.9   9.9  12.9    0.4    2.7  45.0    -        6.1 137.3 132.6
29    4.7    1.8      0.1   0.9  -    -       -     7.5  0.8   0.7   8.8   7.6    0.8    2.6  51.2    -        7.5  76.4  68.9
26    8.1    1.2      -     0.9  -    -       -     5.8  28.4  11.3   8.2  11.2    0.8    2.2  81.1    -       7.5 120.7 118.4
27    2.1    0.8      -     0.9  -    -       -     3.9 83.4  16.4   7.1   9.0    1.0    1.7  81.2    -        7.8  129.2 12S.3
28    -      -        -     0.9  -    -      -      0.9 19.0  22.8  18.4  23.S    0.8    1.2  51.2    -        7.s 144.2 148.3
29    -      -        -     0.9  -    -      -      0.9 18.7  23.0  17.6  20.0    0.4    1.1  81.2    -        7.5 139.8  138.6
30    -      -        -     0.9  -    -       -     0.9 64.6  28.2  27.7  34.8    0.2    0.8  81.2    -        7.5 211.9 211.0
31    -      -        -     0.9  -    -      -      0.9 52.0   1.1  22.0  27.6.   -.       0.8  44.6    -      6.6 184.6 163.7
32    -      -        -     0.9  -    -      -      0.9 88.9   0.9  18.9  28.8    0.1    0.8  85.5    -        6.1 124.6  123.9
33    -      -        -     0.9  -    -      -      0.9 48.1   1.2   1.5   2.0    0.2    0.4  24.1    -        6.5  81.0  8o.1
34    -      -        -     0.9  -    -       -     0.9 80.8   1.8   1.4   1.2    0.3    0.3  12.6    -        1.8  69.8  68.4
35    -      -        -     0.9  -    -      -      O.  10.7   0.6   -      -       0.8    0.3   -       -     -    11.8  10.9
36    -      -        -     0.9  -    -       -     0.9 18.5   2.0   -       -      0.2    0.2   -       -     -    15.9  18.0
37    -      -        -     0.9  -    -       -     0.9 12.3   2.0   -       -      0.2    0.2   -       -     -    14.6  13.7
38    -      -        -     0.9  -    -       -     0.9  9.8   4.3   -       -      0.1    0.1   -       -     -    14.2  13.3



- 73 -
Table 5.10: SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
A. Sensitivity Analysis on Economic NPV
Estimate PV at       Switching
Variable                 1OZ discount rate        value          t change
…    ---- (million Rs) --…------
Benefits
Fuelwood                    147.7                -58.5
Poles                        93.2               -113.0
Bamboos Katas                26.6               -179.6
Manvel               36.7               -169.5
Leaf fodder                   4.7               -201.5
Grass fodder                 18.7               -187.5
Fruits                      122.4                -88.8
Bor fruits                   12.6               -193.6
Neem seeds                   12.2               -194.0
Total Benefits             474.7                268.5          -43.4
B. Sensitivity Analysis on Economic ROR
Level of Benefits                         Economic ROR
As estimated                                  15.6
Down by 20Z                                   13.3
Down by 50Z                                    8.9
5.24     As could be seen the economic rate of return for the project is quite
insensitive to variations in benefits. The economic ROR is 8.9Z even if
benefits are halved. NPV at 1OZ rate of ut:erest is positive even with full
loss of any one of the projects. A loss ot 43.4Z of all the outputs would
reduce a NPV to zero indicating a ROR of luz if benefits go down by 43.4Z.
Discussion
5.25     Table 5.11 below gives comparison of pre-project estimates and
revised estimates of various costs and benefits.



- 74 -
Table 5.11: COMPARISON OF APPRAISAL VALUES AND REVISED VALUES
OF VARIOUS CATEGORY OF COSTS AND BENEFITS
(At Efficiency Prices)
At the time              Based on actuals and
Item                              of appraisal                revised estimates
1                                      2                             3
Costs
Labor                               103.9                     104.9
Material                             40.3                      41.2
Others                                2.1                       1.4
Staff salaries                      80.7                       76.6
Vehicle and equipment  }                                       10.5 }
Building                }            72.7                      17.6    44.4
Overhead                }                                      16.3
Total                           299.7                      268.6
Benefits
Fuelwood                           218.3                      147.7
Poles                              134.8                       93.2
Bamboo - Katas                       50.9                      25.6
Manvel                     24.8                      36.7
Timber                                5.4                       _
Fodder
(a) Leaf fodder                     11.3                        4.7
(b) Grass fodder                                               18.7
Fruits                             107.6                      122.4
Bor fruits                           57.1                      12.2
Neem seeds                            9.9                      12.2
Total                           597.5                      474._
5.26     As can be seen the revised cost estimates are quite close to pre-
project cost estimates. This is due to lower increase in costs as compared to
inflation and cost effective implementation of the project and savings due to
densification of planting and modification in fencing. The revised estimates
of benefits are, however, lower than projected initially. Important reasons
for the same are lower survival percentage. The pre-project estimates were
based on an expected 80? survival. The actual survivals vary from 55Z to 90Z.
The average may be around 70Z only. Also 80Z of surviving Eucalyptus were
expected to yield poles which is not true. Field observations reveal that of
the surviving Eucalyptus seedlings only 45.9? yield poles in irrigated condi-
tions and 52Z under rainfed conditions. This is ascribed mainly to genetic
variation in Eucalyptus hybrid planted. In Saurashtra and Kachchh the growth
has been slower than anticipated. In rainfed conditions it may be necessary
to increase rotation to 10 years for the first crop and 8 years for coppice



- 75 -
crops in this zone. The yields have been calculated with these considera-
tions. No estimate has been made to estimate possible timber yield as the
same is negligible. As already discussed the loss of fodder has been
neglected. The bor graft have been only about 14? of the project provisions.
Therefore, yields too have been substantially reduced.
Limitations of ttse Analysis
5.27     Limitations as to scope and content of this analysis are listed
below:
(a) The farm forestry component, achievement undeL which has surpassed
the targets by more than 100? and has been the biggest success has
not been included in the analysis.
(b) Also the component of wood saving devices has not been included in
the analysis.
(c)  No residual value has been assignc'- to the buildings, vehicle, equip-
ment, etc. procured at project cost.   However, at the same time the
previous infrastructure has been taKen to be available free of cost.
(d) Other environmental benefits like, soil conservation, land improve-
ment, wind break effect, pollution control have not been taken into
account.
Ce) No account has been taken of aesthetic and recreational benefits
-which are substantial especially from strip plantations.
5.28     The unaccounted benefits seem to far outweigh the neglected foregone
benefits of grazing and some twigs collected. Thus actual benefits are higher
than shown in the analysis.
5.29     Real benefits will be still higher when the farm forestry component
is included for the analysis. Under the farm forestry component 695.6 million
seedlings (357.5 million under CFP) are distributed as against 102.65 million
planted under other components of the project. Thus actual tree planting has
been more under farm forestry component as compared to rest of the project.
Monitoring of the farm forestry has revealed the prior use of area planted
tuder farm forestry component, Table 5.12.



- 76 -
Table 5.12:
Sr.  Type of land assigned   % area of total area
No.     to tree farming        under tree farming    Remarks
1   Fallow land                       40.51          Peripheral
2   Land under cash crop              24.47          Planting is considered as
fallow land planting
3   Land under food grains            10.02
4   Land under mixed crops            25.00
5.30     Independent calculations have shown an economic rate f return of
26.12 (if 602 of seedlings planted survive) for Eucalyptus planted on fallow
lands. The plantations raised on bunds could be equated to fallow land
planting as loss of crop due to any shade could be fully compensated by the
windbreak effect. It has been estimated that about 56 million of the seed-
lings distributed have been planted on farm buds. The economic NPV at 10?
rate of interest due to these seedlings alone is estimated at Rs 166.11
(economic) which compares with the revised NPV estimates of Rs 206.152 million
for the rest of the project.



- 77 -
VI. FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
A. Expenditure Incurred
6.1      The project was estimated to cost Rs 653.59 million including
Rs 105.97 million provided for contingencies. Actual expenditure on the
project is Rs 706.309 million. The physical targets prescribed for the
project were more than met except for the building component which is only a
support activity. The physical achievements in the seedling distribution
component are especially note-worthy and the total project expenditure may be
seen in light of achievement in respect of programs for plantation, seedling
distribution and wood saving devices.
6.2      Table 6.1 gives component wise total expenditure against project
provisions.



- 78 -
Table 6.1:
(in million Rs)
Comparison
Proiect Details           Actual           Physical    Financial
Component      Physical  Financial  Physical  Financial  7 as Z of 3 8 as 2 of 5
Staff                      112.70                 152.78                    135.60
Operating
costs                     21.54                  32.20                    149.50
Vehicle &
equipment                 30.00                  22.17                      73.90
Building           2,086    30.76  Housing 985    41.14                      133.70
Others 7
Training &    New=1,323      8.21                   5.40                      65.80
Fellowship   Other-66
Research                     3.67                   0.88                      24.00
Strip
plantation     37.000   146.64         37,590   173.30       101.6        118.20
ha
Village
woodlots        37,440    97.42        38,208   127.15       102.1         130.50
ha
RDF ha            30,000    52.54        30,250    76.49       100.8         145.60
Malki Plan-
tation ha        1,000     1.90         1,000     1.73       100.0          91.10
Farm forestry
million            150    29.70         3,575    54.51       230.3         183.50
Maintenance
of past                    4.74                   5.24                    110.50
plantation
Stoves            10,000 }               10,937 }   3.92    1,094.0 }
Crematoria       1,000 )   4.50         1,106 }              111.6 }87.10
Monitoring &
evaluation                 3.30                   1.02                      30.90
Total                 547.62                 697.93                    127.00
Note:  Overall contingency provided in the project is 19.4X.  ;(2) Rs 8.379 mil-
lion were spent on payment of unpaid bills and completion of incomplete
works subsequently.
B. Analysis
6.3      As c*n be seen from Table 6.1 in all the plantation components the
rctual expen%diture has been in keeping with achievements, in view of antici-
pated contingencies except for the component for reforestation of degraded
forests. In case of farm forestry component while achievement has been



- 79 -
238.32, expenditure is only 183.5Z. The expenditure on staff and operating
costs has, however, been more even considering t.e contingencies provided.
6.4      As can be seen from Table 6.2, the inflation has been much higher
than contingencies provided in the project for various years. Considering the
case of the middle year i.e., 1982-83 while inflation over 1979-80 was 32.5Z.
contingencies provided were only 17.8Z. The daily wage rate for 1982-83 was
Rs 9.90 for first half and Rs 10.50 for second half which is 80 and 90.90?
higher than Rs 5.50 per day, the daily wage rate in 1979-80, for the first
half and second half of the year respectively. Thus, the inflation has been
much higher than anticipated. In view of the general inflation and daily wage
rate increase, the execution of pLcject has been highly cost effective. The
changes in fencing and plantation designs as noted in Chapter III and extra
care exercised in purchase of vehicle and equipment, number purchased being
lower than provided and appointment of staff have been also helped offset
higher costs than projected in other areas.
6.5      However, this needs be reviewed n light of the real inflation which
has been higher than anticipated. Daily wages, staff costs for few selected
categories, the All India Wholesale Price Index for all commodities and
contingency provision are compared for various years in Table 6.2.
6.6      As can be seen from Table 6.2, the inflation has been much higher
than contingencies provided in the project for various years. Considering the
case of the middle year i.e., 1982-83 while inflation over 1979-80 was 32.51,
contingencies provided were only 17.8Z. The daily wage rate for 1982-83 was
Rs 9.90 for first half and Rs 10.50 for second half which is 80 and 90.90?
higher than Rs 5.50 per day, the daily wage rate in 1979-80, for the first
half and second half of the year respectively. Tnus, the inflation has been
much higher than anticipated.  In view of the general inflation and daily wage
rate ;increase, the execution of project has been highly cost effective. The
tactical changes in fencing and plantation designs as noted in Chapter III and
extra care exercised in purchase of vehicle and equipment, number purchased
being lower than provided and appointment of staff have been also helped
offset higher costs than projected in other areas.



- 80 -
Table 6.2:
Item                          1979-80      1980-81       1981-92       1982-88      1988-84         1984-85
(a) Daily wage-rate
Rs/day                  5.50/6.0   3.0/ 7.2/ 7.6   7.96/ 6.7       9.9/10.5    11.4/ 12.0    13.2/ 13.85
(b) U Increase over           - /9.1   9.1/30.9/86.4   44.5/56.2    80.0/90.9  107.3/118.2  140.0/161.8
Rs 5.60
(a) All India Wholesale       217.6         257.8         281.8        288.4         811.8        841.6 /
price Index
1970-71 = 100
(b) U rise over 1979-80         -           18.2          29.8         82.5          43.8           57.0
Price contingency provides    2.6X          7.9X          18.5x         19.6x        19.6X          25.8X
U of project cost
Total contingencies              -          6.9x          12.2X         17.8X        2a.8x          29.6X
provided as X of
project cost
k  Inputs on the basis o   nt flation between 1979-80 to 1993-84.



- 81 -
VII. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
A. Management and Organizational Effectiveness
7.1      The organization developed in the course of implementation of the
project, into a homogenous unit with live control system. The physical
targets were doubled with the launching of the project. Expectation on exten-
sion front increased manifold. This required not only expansion of the
organization but also positive extension approach and perseverance as it
required reaching to the area which up till now were showing resistance. The
organization showed great adaptability and resility. While higher levels of
hierarchy showed great understanding of the society, the middle and lower
levels rose to the occasion with disciplined but o, n ended approach providlng
for both way communication. The training programs both at home and abroad
effected a positive change in attitude towards public, thus helped to get best
out of the organization to make the program success.
7.2      The changes made to the organizational structure are as following:
(a)  The Appointment of an ACCF, later upgraded to that of CCF to head the
CFW, has made the organization more effective by investing in --
greater decision making power, while at the same time remaining under
the umbrella of the GFD.
(b) Making a separate wing for the Community Forestry PRoject which is
solely entrusted with the execution of this project only and not
burdened with any other works.
(c) Establishment of four major functional positions, including (i) CF,
Phase-II for carrying out the long term planning including the prepa-
ration of phase-II, (ii) CF, PIR to carry out the concurrent plann-
ing, keep records and attend to the reporting required at all tires,
(iii) CP, M&E entrusted with the job of carrying out concurrent
monitoring and evaluation and suggest remedial measures to resolve
any gaps or short-comings in the present approach, design and tech-
nique, (iv) CF, TKC whose function involves carrying out research on
problems connected with the project including finding out a suitable
mix of specifies for a particular area, appropriate spacing, optimum
water and fertilizer regime to get the maximum growth in different
climate-edaphic zones of the state. He is also entrusted with the
work of communicating with the masses to bring home to them the
beneficial effects of tree planting and the ill-effects of
deforestation.
7.3      Divisionalization on the pattern of territorial forestry has yielded
rich dividends because it has invested in the DyCF full powers so far as the
division is concerned without referring back anything to his superior. The
staff patter of CFW was restructured to improve efficiency at the implementa-
tion level. In the project, norms for lower staff were indicated component-
wise. However, to avoid territorial overlapping, facilitate synthesized
implementation of different components and provide effective extension without
wasting much time on journeys, area of operation were fixed for various ranks
of field staff by talukas and villages. A taluka for a RFO and compact block



- 82 -
of 20-25 villages for an EFA were the units most commonly used with suitable
adjustments wherever necessary. Thus, RFOs and EFAs were assigned implementa-
tion of all the components in their area instead of only one component
requiring unwieldy jurisdiction as proposed in the project.
7.4      However, in the final years, i.e., the fourth and fifth of the
project, it was felt that it Is necessary to separate execution and extension
duties at field level to lay breater emphasis on extension. From within the
available RF0s and EFAs such adjustments were made that a team of a RFO
assisted by 2-3 EFAs was relieved of executive duties and made available for
motivation and extension.
7.5      In other areas like financial management, information systems, budge-
tary controls and procedures, billing and accounts, hitherto time proven
systems of GFD have been continued because their effectiveness has been proved
beyond any shadow of doubt over a period of time.
B. Growth
7.6      There has been a very apprxciable growth at all levels in the
executing agency since the execution of the project. The comparisons are
given in Annex II. Since CFW is part of a government department, the recruit-
ment, training and promotions were in conformity with the policies of GOG and
hence there was no question of any conflict with the GOG.
7.7      Training.  Four different types of training were envisaged in the
prcject:
(a) Basic training for forest officers of various cadres to meet require-
ment of personnel for the organization;
(b) Specialized training for inservice officials to provide for specia-
lists for the project;
(c)  Orientation courses for officials of other government departments,
local bodies, banks, etc.
(d) Training camps for farmers, village level workers and village leaders
to explain advantages and technique of tree planting.
7.8      The project had an in-built provision for imparting pre-service
professional training to ACFs, tMes and RP-s every year. Number of forest
officials of various ranks imparted basic training during the project period
are shown in Table 7.1.



- 83 -
Table 7.1:
Year       A C F         R F C        Forester          Pa            Total
T      A     T       A      T      A       T      A        T        A
1980-81  11    11      43     45    145    145       ^       -      199       199
1981-82  10    10      43     43    145    145       -       -      198       198
1982-83  10    10      43     43    145    145       -       -      198       198
1983-84  10    10      43     43    145    145    160    160        358       358
1984-85  10    10      43     43    145    145    160    138        358       336
Total    51    51    215    215    725    725    320    258    1,311    1.289
7.9      The basic training for Indian Forest Service (IFG) cadre officers is
imparted at Dehradun whereas for the Gujarat Forest Service (GFS) cadre at
different institutes located throughout India. The Range Forest Officers are
given training at Gujarat Forest Ranger College (GFRC) at Rajpipla. In addi-
tion, seats are allotted in vario :s other colleges situated throughout India.
GFRC was first to introduce social forestry in the ctvrric.ilum for RFOs in
India.
7.10     EFAs and PAs are trained in tw-o institutes located in the state at
Kaltrapar and Dangs.
7.11     Under the program for specialization provided in the project 10
forest officials took advance courses in the field of agro-forestry systems,
planning and management, communication, rural sociology, forestry research
designing, forest economics, etc. at internationally reputed training insti-
tutes. Three officials of the state participated in the International Social
Forestry Study Tour to Philippines and Thailand organized by Food and
Agriculture Organization. The list of officials who took specialized training
abroad and participated in the International Social Forestry Study Tour is
appended at Annex X. In addition, study tours were organized to other states
of India to study Social Forestry techniques in other parts of the country.
7.12     Orientation courses for officers of o >er departments were arranged
at the GFRC at Raipipla. Table 7.2 gives a list of various departments/cadres
and number of officers from them who attended these orientation courses.



- 84 -
Table 7.2:
Number who attended the
Department/Cadre                                   orientation courses
Taluka Development Officers                                  128
Bank officers                                                 26
Directors, Rural Development Agency                           14
Assistant Project Officers                                    21
District Panchayat                                            19
Taluka Panchayat Members                                      80
National Cadet Corp. (NCC)                                   500
ACF                                                           28
RFC                                                           70
Gram Sevaks                                                  300
7.13     Another program envisaged motivation and orientation of village level
workers, panchayat members and farmers. The training for farmers was
organized in the form of 2-day camps, called "Shibirs". Activities in
Shibirg included talks, discussions, field viaits to various works of CFW and
farm forestry sites. During the project period, 296 training camps were
organized and 17,542 farmers participated in the training courses.
7.14     Obstacles in Recruitment.  The major obstacles in the recruitment of
RFOs cadre have been the late examination for the selection by the Gujarat
Public Service Commission due to which, most of the candidates opt for other
vocations and very few are left in the field to appear for the Rangers course.
Tough nature of the job, lack of school facilities for children in the
interior and poor social life act as demoers for the attraction of top quality
incumbents on the forestry jobs.
C. Consultants
7.15     No foreign consultants have been used in the Project and hence the
question of planned transition from foreign consultants to local talent does
not arise. This project has been conceived, planned and executed by GFD hence
the consultants had no role to play whatsoever, except for seven days
consultancy at the time of preparation.
7.16     As already stated above, no consultarnts were used at any stage of the
project, hence the question of consultants carrying out special studies does
not arise.



- 85 -
D. Compliance with Credit Conditions
Agreed     Actual Date/
Ret.          Nature                                 Date       latest e*iomat.   Status
Dated Covenants
PA 2.10       Submitssion to the Association       6/30/S0      Completed
model contracts for village
woodlots and afforestation
on private land.
PA 2.18       Appointment of an ACCF In            6/30/S0      Completed
charge of CFW
PA 2.14       Establishment of a State Policy      6/30/S0      Completed
Review Comnittee and District
Committees for each district.
PA 2.07(d)    Preparation and submission to the   9/80/80       Completed
Association of a Research Program.
PA 2.11       Submission of proposal for sharing  9/30/80       Completed
of major forest produce or
revenues thereof.
PA 2.12(a)    Establishment of a Public Relation  9/30/80       Completed
Unit and two Comunication Units
PA 2.12(b)    Establishment of a Monitoring Unit  9/30/61       Completed
PA 2.16       Establishment of a Monitoring Unit  6/80/80      Completed
PA 2.16       Submission of work program for       12/81/e1    Completed
Monitoring Unit
PA 2.16       Establishment of Evaluation Unit    12/81/82    Completed
PA 2.16       Submission of work program for       6/30/83                        Proposals in MAE
Evaluation Unit                                                     Manual being Imple-
mented
PA 2.07(a)    Take suitable measures to ensure                                    With the introduction
that about 9,200 ha of VWs be                                       of a NREF scheme to
mnanged by the villages                                             finance panchaysts
for their managed
village woodlots,
this component Is
picking up satisfac-
tory progress.
PA 2.07(b)    Make arrangement for construction                 Completed
of about 10,000 Improved stoves



- 86 -
Agreed    Actual Date/
Ref.        Nature                           Date      latest estimate  Status
PA 2.07(c)   Installation of about 80a      9/Jf/80    Completed
village and 200 urban crematoria
PA 2.08     Field staff of CFW shall have near                        HousTng program
areas of operation and shall be                           delayed
provided with houses or rent allowance
PA 2.09     Adequate facilities shall be                              Audit report
provided for full time laborers.
PA 8.02     Audit reports shall be furnished by                       Audit report for
Association not vater than 9 months                       period March 81, 1983
after the end of the fiscal year.                         received January 1984
7.17
Government of Guiarat
1.  Issue formal Government Order to the Agriculture and   Formal order issued
Forest Departments that a Subject Matter Specialist    on August 21, 1984
should participate in fortnightly T&V training
sessions at subdivisional level to provide technical
input for forestry extension to the extended by VFW
to farmers.
2.  gorward preparation report on second phase project           Report completed
before March 31, 1984                                       April 30, 1984
3.  Commission Wood Balance Study to suitable consultant   Study started in
so that interim report is ready before July 31, 1984   June 1984 and final
report submitted in
May 1985.
Community Forestry Wing
4.  Prepare demand/supply study for small timber and             Initial study made
poles in Kachcbh District to ascertain that present    in anticipation of
levels of farm forestry plantations on irrigated            completion Wood
land is justified.                                          Balance Study
5.  Ascertain that benefits from railwayside plantations   Action being taken
be shared by neighboring villages
6.  Forwarding copies of half yearly reports to NDO as           Understanding reach
soon as they are prepared but not later than three          to forward copies
months after the end of the reporting period                of half yearly
reports prepared
for GOI.



- 87 -
VIII. CONCLUSION
8.1      Late Prime Minister Shrimati Indira Gandhi once said, "If we are to
green India, the foresters should break the shackles of their self-imposed
exile of working within the narrow precincts of Reserved and Protected forests
and come out in the open to grow trees wherever it is possible".
8.2      Gujarat Community Forestry Project has just done that.  Trees have
been grown in farms and factories, homes and offices, schools and temples.  In
fact, trees have found a place everywhere.  Still, however, social forestry in
Gujarat is in an active process of evolution: being composite and diversified
activity, dealing as it is with diverse land uses and different groups of
people, warrants a different solution under varying conditions.  It cannot be
made uniform or put in a straight jacket.  It has to be constantly reviewed
and modified whenever and wherever necessary. Compared to Agriculture exten-
sion, it cannot be denied that forestry extension is a much more difficult
task mainly due to time frame of forestry and the fact that farmers have not
viewed tree growing as commercial proposition in the past, still however,
keeping the above facts in view, it cannot be denied that in a short span of
over a decade, it has become a spectacular success in Gujarat. New vistas
have been opened up and new grounds broken making Social Forestry a multi-
dimensional activity. Gujarat Forest Department has demonstrated how it can
become an instrument of multi-purpose and overlapping use of land. The credit
for success goes to the people of Gujarat, the GOG and the GFD. Gujarat being
a forest poor state, social forestry has come as a saviour to bridge the gap
between demand and supply and alleviate the hardships of the poor, in respect
of these commodities, by showing that vood and wood products can be available
to them and at their doorstep.
8.3      The project document described the three basic objectives of the
project as:
(a)  meeting the mot urgent requirements in forest produce of the rural
population in the shortest time possible;
(b) inducing the village communities to actively participate in the plan-
tation program through appropriate extension and sharing of planta-
tion revenues; and
(c) provide additional labor opportunity of the right kind in right
place, particularly to landless workers.
8.4      Fuelwood required for cooking needs of rural poor was identified as
the most important and urgent need. The second priority was for small timber
needed for rural housing. It was observed that at present it is difficult to
meet the requirement of small construction wood and bamboos for the GOG's
rural housing program for landless and other weaker sections of society which
the GOG intends to further develop. Third priority was for increasing supply
of grasses and tree leaves as fodder for cattle population. Thus, the goal
was to make villages self-sufficient and in course of time self-reliant in
regard to their forest based needs and immediate objective was to show way to
achieve the goals and to move towards the goal as far as possible under the
existing constraints and with the means available.



- 88 -
8.5      The project components can be broadly listed as:
(a)  raising 165,440 ha of plantation under various plantation models
through direct efforts:
(b) planting of 150 million seedlings through other agencies, mainly
farmers on farm bunds, marginal and submarginal farm lands, home-
steads; and
(c) installation of 10,000 smokeless stoves and 1,000 improved crematoria
to popularize these wood saving devices.
8.6      A vigorous and effective extension campaign to achieve people's
participation was provided to achieve the underlying continuum of the project.
8.7      The achievements in physical terms against these targets can be
listed as:
(a) raising of 107,048 ha of plantation under various plantation models
through direct efforts;
(b) planting of 695.6 million seedlings (357.5 million under project and
338.1 million under other programs) through other agencies, mainly
farmers; and
(c) installation of 10,237 snokeless stoves and 1,106 improved
crematoria.
8.8      While there is no direct measure for effectiveness of extension
campaign nor vas any specific managerial or organizational mechanism specified
for the purpose, the achievements spec4allv in the field of farm forestry
clearly indicate at the success of the oxtension campaign.
8.9      The exceptional achievements in toe field of farm forestry might have
resulted in bias in favor of the second priority of the project, the small
timber, from the first priority, assigned to fuelvood production, as planting
by individual favors pole yielding trees for the financial returns they
provide. Yet all the trees planted contribute to fuelwood production if not
wholly then partly through lops and tops. Also as the achievements under
other components too are more than envisaged, the production due to excessive
achievements under the farm forestry component are unanticipated addition-
ality. Thus the project has achieved more than targeted in terms of produc-
tion of physical product.
8.10     However, project s.;ccess needs to be viewed from a wider perspective
in terms of the progress mate towards achieving the goals aimed at rather than
only in terms of physical achievements which at best are indicators. The two
mot important achievements of the project lie in creating a tree consciousness
among the masses and showing that the tree growing can be pursued commercially
even on inferior lands with little risk. It has been effectively shown that
the means exist within the village in the form of village commons, roadsides,
canal banks, homesteads, field bunds and inferior farm lands on which trees



- 89 -
can be grown successfully. The fuel and small timber needs, therefore, can
bet met without much difficulty in most of the villages by proper utilization
of such unutilized, under-utilized or mis-used lands. Thus a definite
progress has been made towards the cherished goal of a self-reliant village,
the Gandhian concept.
8.11     However, while much has been achieved more remains to be done.
Though land resources which can be availed of without affecting the other uses
of land have been identified and shown to be able to provide for the forest
product needs, it still requires an organization which can consolidate the
gains by organizing intensive afforestation efforts at micro-level and
mobilize finances to provide for afforestation program. Most of the inferior
lands belong to poorer farmers who lack resources to withstand the gestation
period required for trees to grow. The Panchayats and other such organiza-
tions owning the community lands or such other lands rarely have resources to
put these lands to optimum ase under an afforestation program. Financial
institutions are showing some interest in providing financial support but lack
organizational capability to plan, evaluate and mange the forestry programs.
Over a period of time, they may be able to build up their organization for the
purpose.  In the Phase-II of the Community Forestry Project, the Malki p.anta-
tion component bis been extended to the small and marginal farmers in all the
districts of Gujarat with some modifications to provide necessary support to
weaker sections for tree growing.
8.12     Other important field where much remains to be done in fodder produc-
tions. The provisions of inter-cropping of fodder crops andlor improvement of
grass in plantation areas could not be implemented as envisaged. The reason
could be the extra organizational efforts needed for management of fodder. As
distribution mechanism for various produce has yet to develop fully, it
required considerable organizational time to manage distribution. It is
likely that when Panchayats take up the responsibility of village woodlots,
which could be expected once the major yield from first rotation are made
available to them, they may take keen interest in growing fodder and provide
necessary help. Fodder production is a direct necessary support program to
the afforestation program as most of the time previous use of the land
diverted to tree raising was grazing. With this in view it is proposed to
develop fodder farms in phase 1I of the CFP.
8.13     Under the program of popularization of fuelwood saving deviLes too
the achievements surpass the targets. However, the enthusiasm expected for a
program which starts yielding immediate benefits to individuals is lacking.
Often the devices are lying unused as seen in paras. 4.58 to 4.71. While this
could be understood and appreciated for the program of improved crematoria
because of the sentiments involved, the same cannot be argued for the smoke-
less stoves. The difficulty seems to be with the design or the implementation
and calls for a detailed study to make necessary amends.
8.14     Yet another field which demands greater attention is the research.
The success of farm forestry calls for development of variety of models suited
to varying requirements and agro-climatic combinations. There is urgent need
to develop genetically superior varieties of species to provide higher yields
at shorter rotations and cost savings. According to a survey carried out in
Gujarat, only 45.92 of Eucalyptus planted under irrigated conditions and 522



-90 -
under rainfed conditions (Gujarat Wood Balance Study - 1984) are putting up
health growth to yield expected pole and fue.wood. This low proportion af
pole yielding trees is ascribed to genetic variations.   This results in loss
-f low-mass production and under-utilization of inputs. Such a situation
needs to be remedied urgently.
8.15     Whatever may be the shortcomings the program has reached levels where
from it needs to be shaped with biases based on requirements. According to
the "Gujarat-Wood Balance Study - 1984k if the present level of program is
continued er^ugh poles would be produced by 1990 to meet local requirements
with a marginal surplus. However, a continued shortage of fuelwood and timber
is expected. Community Forestry Program, therefore, needs to give greater
emphasis on fuelvood production.
8.16     IN the field of transfer of technology major break-through is
achieved through the "Dharu" distribution program and Kisan Nursery scheme.
The process may be pursued with needed organizational and financial support to
a stage where GFD's role is reduced to extension and dissemination of research
findings as in case of agricuiture.
8.17     The success of the project is unparalleled in similar socio-economic
and political conditions. Break-through has been achieved and ways have been
shown out of the grim reality of shortage of cooking fuel and small timber for
rural masses which constitute about 702 of total population.   The gains need
to be consolidated and program used to be institutionalized.
J



INDIA
GUJARAT CONNUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT (CREDIT 9S1-IN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Physical Achievements vis-a-vis SAR Taraets
Category                  Unit         1980-81           1081-82           1982-88 A988-84                      1984 86 5          Total
1                     2          8       4        5        6        7        e        9        10       11       12       18       14
Plantation Establishment
Strip                       he      4,000   4,027    6,0oo    6,147    8,000    8,197    1,000    9,076   10,000   10,143   37,000   87,590
Village Forest              he      4,560   4,679    6,000    6,144    7,680    7,701    6,880    9,203   10,820   10,681   87,440   88,208
Rehabilitation of
degraded forests          ha      6,000   5,953    6,000   8,000    6,000    8,000    6,000    6,000    6,000    6,297   80,000   a0,260
Malki Plantation            he        200      200      200      200      200       166      200      200       20      214    1,000    1,000
Seedlina Production       million
E-ucGlyptu                        a83.000  80.060   79.800   88.764  120.000  122.866  140.000  148.245  147.800  164.802  620.600  S58.715
Leuceana                     }
Acacla nilotica              }      0.600   0.496    0.700    0.680   11.000   10.484   80.000   81.08   24.000   21.049  o6.200   68.716
Acacit tortils               }
Others                             16.500  18.665   19.500  101.954  160.000  159.240  185.000  206.300  210.000  217.6S7 696.900  784.861
Total  50.000  59.210  100.000  101.954  1SO.O0   159.240  185.000  206.800  210.000  217.657  696.000  784.861
SeediUng Distribution     Million
Eucalyptus                         83.000  32.960   79.800   78.e47  120.000  122.239  140.000  126.800  147.800  s84.482  520.600  494.628
Louceana 
Acacia nilotica                     0.600   0.480    0.700    0.676   1) '00   10.011   a0.000   a0.600   24.000   24.727   66.200   66.898
Acac a tortilla 
Others                             16.600  15.860   19.600   20.478    19.00   26.950   15.000   86.600   88.200   33.198  108.200  184.676
Total   50.000  48.800  100.000   99.800  150.000  169.200  185.000  196.400  210.000  192.897  695.000  895.697
Management A Maintenance
Stove Distribution          No        SOO      295    1,500    1,517    2,400    2,442    5,500    e,678         -        -   10,000   10,978
Crematorium Construction    No          -        -      1SO      279      240      289       600      586        -        -    1,000    1,106
8uildina Construction       No
(a) A                                 154     181       126       e8      127      110      124      1IS         -        -      G81      484
(b) 8                                 178      88       184       69      114      106      189       144        -        -      610      407
c) C                                  46      go        48       21       41       a1       32        81        -        -      167      113
d)D                        1S          4       18        5       10       10       10        10       11        -        -       48       8o
is) E                        1          -       -         1        -        -        -        -                                    I -  -  1  1
Total      890     265      321      168       292      25e      855      811 a1.88                            992
Vehicle Procurement         No          -      869        -      489        -      1SO         -                      -                 1,608
Training                              199      199      198      198      198      198       368      868      869      36e    1,312    1,809
P = Provided
A = Actual



ANNEX II
- 92 -                                Page 1
INDIA
GUJARAT COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT (CREDIT 961-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Staff Position and Staff Costs
(Cost/Actual (Rs. in lakhs))
SAR  SAN           COST  80-81  81-82  82-83  83-84  84-85
SAR
(a) Head Office
Addl. C C F                    1    1            0.29   0.31   0.32   0.34   0.43    0.55
D C F (HQ)                     1    1            0.25   0.17   0.20   0.22   0.26    0.32
P 0                            1    1            0.18   0.17   0.20   0.22   0.25    0.32
O s                            I    1            0.14   0.12   0.13   0.15   0.20    0.24
O S (Acctts)                   1    1            0.14   0.12   0.13   0.15   0.20    0.24
H C                            1    1            0.11   0.10   0.12   0.14   0.14    0.17
Accountant                     4    4            0.18   0.28   0.30   0.48   0.37    0.51
Clerk                          2    2            0.12   0.12   0.14   0.13   0.16    0.22
Steno Gr. I                    1    1            0.12   0.11   0.11   0.'1   0.20    0.25
Steno Gr. II                   1    1            0.11   0.07   0.07   0.10   0.14    0.16
Steno Gr. III                  2    2            0.14   0.12   0.13   0.14   0.18    0.23
Typist                         2    2            0.02   0.12   0.13   0.14   0.17    0.22
Messenger                      4    4            0.16   0.18   0.14   0.15   0.18    0.23
Driver                         2    2            0.12   0.12   0.13   0.14   0.17    0.22
Watchman                       1    1            0.04   0.04   0.04   0.05   0.05    0.08
Junior Engineer                1    1            0.12   0.10   0.10   0.14   0.16    0.18
(b) P I R
C F (Planning)                 1    1            0.27   0.26   0.31   0.32   0.34    0.39
D C F (Planning)               1    1            0.25   0.19   0.20   0.21   0.26    0.32
A C F (Reporting)              1    1            0.19   0.11   0.13   0.15   0.23    0.29
D T L R                        1    1            0.14   0.16   0.12   -        -       -
S O                            1    1            0.15   0.11   0.15   0.17   0.23    0.29
S A                            2    2            0.22   0.13   0.05   0.22   0.24    0.32
Draftsman                      1    1            0.13   0.C8   0.40   0.11   0.13    0.16
Surveyors                      6    4            0.48   0.36   0.36   0.43   0.49    0.76
Steno Gr. II                   1    1            0.11   0.17   0.07   0.10   0.14    0.16
Steno Gr. III                  1    1            0.07   0.17   0.06   0.07   0.08    0.12
Typist                         2    2            0.12   0.11   0.13   0.15   0.16    0.22
Accountant                     1    1            0.07   0.07   0.08   0.09   0.09    0.12
Drivers                        3    3            0.18   0.19   0.19   0.23   0.24    0.33
Messenger                      1    1            0.04   0.05   0.05   0.05   0.05    0.08
P A (Orderly)                  3    3            0.12   0.14   0.15   0.16   0.18    0.17



ANNEX II
-93 -                                 Page 2
SAR  SAN            COST  80-81  81-82  82-83  83-84  84-85
SAR
P. R. W.
D C F (P.R.)                    1    1             0.25   0.17   0.20   0.21   0.26    0.32
Steno Gr. III                   1    1             0.07   0.05   0.07   0.10   0.09    0.12
Driver                          1    1             0.06   0.06   0.06   0.07   0.08    0.11
P A (Orderly)                   1    1             0.04   0.04   0.05   0.05   0.06    0.08
Phase II Proiect Preparation                     1983-84,  1984-85
C F                             -    1             0.25   -       -       -      -        0.32
A C F                           1    1             0.19   -       -       -      -        0.32
R F 0 (Survey)                  1    1             0.13           -       -      -        0.16
P A (Orderly)                   2    2             0.08   -       _       -      -        0.16
Surveyor                        4    4             0.32   -               -      -        0.51
Draftsman                       1    1             0.13   -       -       -      -        0.16
Steno Gr. III                   1    1             0.07   -       -       -      -        0.11
Accountant                      1    1             0.07   -       -       -      -        0.12
Driver                          1    1             0.06   -       -       -      -        0.11
Messenger                       2    2             0.08   -       -       -      -        0.16
T R C (Raipipla)
C F                             1    1             0.27   0.23   0.31   0.28   0.39    0.40
A C F                           1    1             0.19   0.11   0.26   0.15   0.16    0.15
D C F (Training)                1    1             0.25   0.19   0.20   0.21   0.24    0.33
D C F (Research)                1    1             0.25   0.19   0.20   0.21   0.24    0.33
D C F (Communication)           1    1             0.25   0.19   0.20   0.21   0.24    0.33
0 S                          0.14    1             0.14   0.12   0.13   0.14   0.16    0.21
H C                             1    1             0.11   0.10   0.12   0.11   0.14    0.16
Accountant                      1    1             0.07   0.07   0.08   0.09   0.11    0.11
Steno Gr. II                    1    -             0.1    0.06   0.07   0.10   0.11    0.16
Steno Gr. III                   3    3             0.21   0.18   0.20   0.23   0.26    0.33
P A (Orderly)                   4    4             0.16   0.17   0.20   0.20   0.20    0.31
Driver                          4    4             0.24   0.24   0.26   0.28   0.27    0.30
Messenger                       1    1             0.04   0.04   0.05   0.05   0.10    0.32



ANNEX II
- 94 -                                Page 3
SAR  SAN            COS?  80-81  81-82  82-83  83-84  84-85
SAR
Communication Unit
A C F (Sociologist)             2    2  4,4,4,4  0.38   0.22   0.2o   0.60   0.92    1.15
R F 0 (Audio-visual)            2    2  4,4,4,4  0.26   0.20   0.28   0.44   0.55    0.71
R F 0 (Village Training)        2    2  4,4,4,4  0.26   0.20   0.23   0.41   0.55    0.65
Lady Social Worker (Stove)    2    2  4,4,4,4  0.40   0.65   0.49   0.58   0.57    0.57
Artisans                       10   10  20, 20,  0.40   0.65   0.49   0.58   0.57    0.57
20, 20
Typist                          2    2  4,4,4,4  0.12   0.11   0.12   0.10   0.30    0.44
Drivers                         8    8  16, 16,  0.48   0.46   0.52   1.12   0.30    0.78
16, 16
Cleaners                        2    2  4,4,4,4  0.08   0.08   0.10   0.21   0.24    0.33
Messengers                      2    2  2,2,2,2  0.08   0.08   0.09   0.19   0.22    0.30
CIRCLE (n. s.)
C F                             4    4            1.08   1.04   1.18   1.06    .135   1.69
A C F (Planning)                4    4            0.76   0.50   0.52   0.80   0.92    1.15
P A (Orderly)                   4    4            0.16   0.16   0.20   0.21   0.24    0.33
Dy. Engineer                    4    4            0.72   0.49   0.52   0.60   0.52    1.15
Jr. Engineer                    4    4            0.48   0.38   0.38   0.58   0.63    0.81
Asst. DRaftsman                 4    4            0.24   0.20   0.31   0.34   0.39    0.52
S 0                             4    4            0.60   0.42   0.42   0.61   0.80    1.03
S A                             4    4            0.44   0.27   0.31   0.44   0.38    0.81
0 S                             4    4            0.56   0.41   0.56   0.56   0.63    0.52
Accountant                      8    8            0.56   0.56   0.60   0.73   0.76    0.81
Clerk                           4    4            0.24   0.18   0.27   0.28   0.32    1.84
Steno Gr. II                    4    4            0.48   0.20   0.29   0.39   0.55    0.44
Steno Gr. III                   4    4            0.44   0.24   0.26   0.31   0.35    0.71
Typist                          4    4            0.28   0.19   0.26   0.28   0.32    0.47
Drivers                         8    8            0.48   0.48   0.52   0.57   0.65    0.44
Messengers                     12   12             0.48   0.55   0.50   0.58   0.67    1.05
Watchman                        4    4            0.15   0.17   0.16   0.19   0.22    0.30
Workshop
Foreman                         2    2            0.14   0.12   0.14   0.17   0.18    0.25
Lathe Operator                  2    2            0.14   0.11   0.14   0.14   0.18    0.25
Mechanic                        2    2             0.14   0.12   0.14   0.18   0.18    0.25
Welder                          2    2             0.14   0.13   0.14   0.14   0.18    0.25
Helper                          2    2            0.08   0.08   0.10   0.10   0.11    0.15
Driver                          2    2            0.12   0.12   0.13   0.14   0.16    0.22



ANNEX II
- 95 -                                 Page 4
SAR  SAN            COST  80-81  81-82  82-83  83-84  84-85
SAR
Divisional H.Q.
Field Staff
D C F                          19   19             4.75   3.40   3.65   3.71   4.68    5.44
A C F                          20   20 26, 43,   1.90   1.00   1.17   3.58   8.98   11.58
53, 64
R F 0 (Extn)                  183  144 216, 246  2.79  15.47  16.49  19.40  34.04   48.16
357, 401
Forester (Extn)               452  343 536, 919 36.16  23.26  23.13  59.47  85.80  120.57
1.232,1,444
P A                           330  204 568, 454,13.20   9.25   9.93  23.35  27.40   35.95
567. 744
Planning Staff
R F 0                          19   18 19, 19,   2.47   1.93   2.05   2.00   2.49    3.04
19, 19
Typist                         19   18 19, 19,   1.14   1.08   1.15   1.29   1.47    1.89
19, 19
S A                            19   18 19, 19,   2.09   1.27   1.38   1.97   2.21    2.14
19, 19
Surveyors                      19   18 19, 19,   1.52   0.63   1.22   1.28   1.47    2.14
19, 19
Office Staff
H C                            19   19             2.09   2.00   2.21   2.00   2.49    3.04
S A                            19   18             2.09   1.17   1.35   1.65   1.68    2.14
Accountant                     38   36             2.66   2.56   2.71   3.30   3.36    4.28
Steno Gr. III                  19   18             1.33   1.19   1.19   1.40   1.57    2.01
Office Clerk                   21   19             1.26   1.14   1.28   1.34   1.55    1.05
Clerk for RPO                 183  144 247, 316 10.98   7.55   4.76  11.64  20.13   29.94
357, 401
Driver (Car)                   19   18             1.14   1.13   1.16   1.28   1.47    1.89
Driver (Truck-Tractor)         92   75 113, 175, 5.52   4.94   5.60   9.26   8.92   11.66
196, 218
Cleaner (Truck, Tractor)       92   75 113, 175, 4.60   3.02   3.44   5.31   6.08    8.04
196, 218
P A (Orderly)                  19   18             0.76   7.48   0.88   1.00   1.08    0.30
Messengers                     19   18             0.76   0.82   0.83   0.88   1.00    1.30
Watchman                       19   18             0.76   0.75   0.56   0.88   1.00    1.30



ANNEX II
-96 -                                 Page 5
SAR  SAN            COST  80-81  81-82  82-83  83-84  84-85
SAR
Monitoring Staff (1981/82 - 1984-85)
C F (M)                         -    - 1,1,1,1   0.27   -        0.28   0.26   0.44    0.38
Forest Economists               -    - 1,1,1.1   0.25   -        -       0.21   0.26    0.32
Head Survey Team                -    - 11,11,1   0.25   -        -       -      0.23    0.32
Sociologist                     -    - 1,1,1,1   0.25   -        0.12   -       0.16    -
Survey Supervisor               -    - 4,4,4,4   0.48   -        -       -      0.55    0.67
Survey Asstt.                   -    - 8, 12,    0.88   -        -       -      0.65    2.02
16, 20
Steno Gr. II                    -    - 1.1.1,1   0.11   -        0.07   0.10   0.10    0.16
Steno Gr. III                   -    - 1,1,1,1   0.07   -        0.06   0.08   0.08    0.11
Accountant                      -    - 1,1,1.1   0.07   -        0.07   0.09   0.09    0.12
Typist                          -    - 5,5,5,5   0.30   -        0.30   0.14   0.40    0.56
Dri. ar                         -    - 4,4,4,4   0.24   -        -       -      0.33    0.45
PA/Messenger                    -    - 4,4,4,4   0.16            0.18   0.10   0.22    0.31
S O                             -    - 1,1,1,1   0.15   -        0.11   0.17   0.20    0.25
S A                             -    - 5,5,5,5   0.55   -        0.35   0.22   0.47    0.63
0.56



INDIA
GUJARAT COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT (CREDIT 961-IN)
PROJECT COMPI .ION REPORT
Summary Project Cost                              p = P,@,itioI as Po eC
I * Aetlum  1,Dd*1U    ta
No. ,.
~~~~~~~to              9      to       i         t to    2       to1 b. B.  of ,13
_._ ;i  t     S_,8XL1P_      M*sx31->1 _M  >-I}.AA9m                             A_&og          lea ;
r      A       p a        P            A         p        A        P       A P             A
-....    2           3     4.   _         _       ,     ,_,,            _,        ,,        ,_    _     __       , _ __ _ _ , _ . ,  _ 9 . ,   _, , ,   .   . . _, ,. @0 9*  *2  *2  *4
Stott S1tto            -   .  .661  13.9sO  2.12$  1*0.350   0.546  23.046   20.539   26.810  3n.112   39.530  4l11a  3*2.760 84a.*e
0"-otlaq Cost *         -      -       3.480   1."1    3.90o   4.92   4*4-        t.931    4.170   1.314   5.040  6.255   ' .'410  32.o4
V.#,Oa. a              _ -    0.1    3.090  6.064    5..S    1.4w    5.900   *-201   3.4s          1.70    3.469    0.003   3.CO11 21.20
woo din g a 1s.I       -       -      10.W9  6.3090 .Sw         6.616     .      9.StS    3.590   *4.2t6    - 24.23    3.26*0  48.144
Sa.b-leMa       -      5.569  39.090  39.3)    1.715    V-.49I  42.610  50.693  30         674101  39.210  91.14611  5901 -42.124
,teioat  I r-ta1ia.1ps  -     0.547    2.540  40.  *.n  s_C    *045    1.23       I."2    6. we   6.116   1.490   1.212   6.2*    :.2'2
VW"  a iI*s1!      -       , -                               -                                  M ,    F.A 0. 7>'Ot,  .200    .1n    p   *.6*  1.6W    0.662
e         lots       -      31       9.10  16.467   15.IC0    -9..    20.40   20.17417;22S-.20   101.541                  91.! W.4 23-J2            1
i$ft e    et           -      2v740   $..t1    7.430   10.396  tO.0    11 .690   34.00    13.066O  *17.2    *l4S6            2._    17X 
1.. of                                                                                       titF  :11o   30ft    $  $+   'l l0 
Jrget:|v of P:"to j.,tos O.       0.2;0  0.1"      C."      0.      6. 'as   0-. ;w   0.42  °* %t -011   --'            I.X -9"S 0 ,;
49911CtgQ
Strip p*at*nq          -       .*010   2-6?0  a.9x    a .no   n.9"   a.*S   >.I"   l$75   4.                J      4f.9S2 146.640 17.r-4
past pIlting'
Fam iu stry            -      2-.0    4.960  6.210    4.21;    8.090    5.-10   0.16"    6.S10  15.692   7-160  *2-042   217.00  so.654
Sub-I@e01 s           15.459  40.%60  4.41 di   S4.039  64.252     .400  17.440   1.19)0  13.0118  10.430 *1*.03d  332.-40  422.951
SS.                                    G e.  _  0.03   0.01.3   0.510    0.740 530   3Z.0*3    1.30   2.on    1.SW    0.03*    4.200 " .23
AblItetIW  t Evll"Otoe. -      -        -       -      ;-P    *.09    0   *.16   O. 35    0.1      0. 5*    0.0l0   0. 33    31. 390    1.2#1
IQIL BASE :lS#        - X t .515  4*.010  99.             ; 9.11   *t5.41  t14.070  *40.127  120.600 116.141  133.9A0  1d.W3J  543.-6   616-1ss
O'bysb*  f.rn.Itq e*tt t-              3.S"             A - .*;t    -     4.940    -       4.740    -       5.1)0    -      22.W       -
Ifti *ntmdtn.1
P*lv* r.mm*....e@u.I.  .       -       2.60   -        7.S10     _      tS.490     -      213-690    -     34.600    -      R3.4iJ    -
C.$Wfb MIAL.      *t.900 2t.55  61 .670 79.000  *07.930  105.141  135-30w  14e.120  149.030  116.241 1.3.660  114.24*  t41.11 6   1A.i i>
UOJ l} tt II    S ro.iire%       -t                 le-tal act-.I wrptndilute       676. 3:S                                                          Xn
10*81 t  s          4°O                               lotal        6O1.93t 
* - - *. **.e -- *-. --.-.t~. .of ouPat4 bIlls and cmW)tiol



ANNEX IV
INDIA
GUJJARAT COMMNITY FORESTRY PROJECT (CREMIT 061-INl
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Details of Rlombursmsnt frm IDA
(Milion Rc)
Category                      1979-S0         19S0-91        1981-82         1962-a          1968-64         1984-85         Total
P      A       P       A       P       A      P       A       P       A       P       A
I. Civil Works               -       -  8.066  8.471   6.260   8.782   6.176  5.282   0.826   7.615        -  2.826  17.827   22.620
II. Equipmnt A Vehicle   0.684  O0a64   7.840   5.631  4.102   6.005  4.060   2.986   2.415   1.244   2.688   0.058  21.e4   15.508
III. Direct Planting
Expendituro         9.60a   8.503 22.089  26.492  29.711  85.837 87.620  48.094  48.961  69.329 49.738  62.107 191.619 239.912
IV. Staff Salary          2.6e4   2.664  7.722  6.986  10.142  11.812  12.722  16.868  14.795  21.128  18.880 26.141 64.775  84.006
V. Training              0.64?  0.647  1.690  0.937   1.810  0.518   1.080   1.027   1.860   1.168   1.340   1.212   7.817    5.89s
VI. Stoves A Crematories      -       -  0.016   0.007  0.869  0.466   0.622   0.564   0.726   1.121   0.742   0.008   2.476   2.1I4
Grand Total          12.246  12.248  45.422  48.626 50.894  S6.420 61.280  78.706  64.072  91.795  71.281 91.910 n 0.147 869.605
P = Provided
A = Actual
Note: Re 4,208 mliion spent in 1986-86 were reimbursed towards expenditure on unpald bills and completion of incomplot works.
'-C



ANNEX V
INDIA
GUJARAT COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT (CREDIT 961-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Details of Chronological Process of Reimbursement from IDA
(In million Rs)
Total reim- Reimbursement Reimbursement
Budget      Total        bursable    to be claimed    actually         Claims to be
Period                  provision  expenditure  expenditure   as per WAR           claimed         acceDted
-_______________----------- Rs -------------------------------    Rs              USS
Retroactive Finance
(6179 to 13.4.80)         12.900       21.575         21.575        12.248          12.248      12.248   1.424
1930-81
(14.480 to 31.3.81)       80.269       79.8&0         76.175        45.422          43.526      43.526   5.061
1981-82
(1.4.81 to 31.3.82)      105.341      105.141        100.219        50.894           56.420     56.420   6.560
1982-83
(1.4-82 to 31.3.83)      141.034    140.7201        132.048         61.280           73.706     73.706   7.524
1983-84
(1.4.83 TO 31.3.84)      176.314      176.241       165.478         64.072          91.795      91.795   8.578
1984-85
(1.4.84 TO 31.3.85)      175.842      174.583       166.312         71.231          92.027      92.027   7.535
1985-86
(1.4.85 TO 30.4.85) la  142.000         8.169          8.169              -           4.492      4.091   0.268
Total               833.700      706.309       669.976        305.147         374.214    373.813  37.000
/a  Expenditure incurred in 1985-86 for inadjusted bills and completion of incomplete works.



- 100 -                          ANNEX VI
INDIA
GUJARAT COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT (CREDIT 961-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Details of International TraininR and Individual Study Tours
Under tho Community Forestry Pro1ect. Guiarat
Period of      Name of
training/      Institution/
Name of Officer             tour            University          Name of Course
Shri AS Kapashi, IFS        5.7.82 to       Commonwealth        Vth Planning &
CF                      30.9.82         Forestry            Management
Institute,          Course
Oxford, UK.
Shri AP Mishrat IFS         15.4.83 to        *     *           Training in
CF                      28.6.83                             Social Forestry
Shri BR Joshi, IFS          1.7.83 to         *                 VIth Planning
CF                      30.9.83                             & Management
Course
Shri DPS Verma, IFS         1.7.83 to
CF                      30.9.83
Shri Pradeep Rhanna, IFS    1.9.82 to       Yale University.    Project
Dy. CF                  23.5.83         USA                 Economist
Shri Ashok Koshy, IAS       23.1.83 to      Went on Study tour organized by
Jt. Secretary to Govt.  6.2.83          FAO to Philippines, Thailand, etc.
Shri MN Mehta, GFS              0
Dy.CF
Shri FM Panthaky, GFS           *                *
Dy.CF
Shri AG Pinto, IFS          16.7.84 to      Commonwealth        Specialist
CF                      3.8.84          Forestry Inst.      Forestry Course
Oxford, UK          1984
Shri RL Java, IFS               1*
CF
Shri MB Mehta, IFS
CF
Shri PA Malwade, IFS        1.9.84 to            *              Training in
CF                      14.9.84                             Agro-Forestry
system



ANNEX VII
- 101 -                          Page 1
INDIA
GUJARAT COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT (CREDIT 961-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Key Movements
Circle/Division               Name                            Period
Addl. CCF (CFP)               Shri MN Vaishnav           11.1.80   to 12.12.80
BK Jhala            13.12.80   to  19.8.82
C C F (CFP)                     n  BK Jhala              20.8.82   to  14.1.85
a  BP Lakhani            15.1.85   to till to
date
C F. PIR                           BK Jhala              19.1.80  to 12.12.80
AS Kapashi           13.12.80  to  30.6.82
a  HA Vaishnav             1.7.82  to   6.9.82
KR Patel               7.9.82  to  27.4.84
SK Sinha              28.4.84  to   3.5.84
R RL JavF                  4.5.84  to   6.5.85
DPS Verma              7.5.85  to till to date
C F, Monitoring                 a  BR Joshi               24.6.81  to   8.6.82
HA Vaishnav            6.9.82  to   3.9.82
AA Vaidya              4.9.82  to  29.9.82
I  GA Patel               30.9.82  to  10.5.85
*  Ashok Kumar            11.5.85  to till to date
C F, Phase-II                      R RS Pathan             6.1.84  to  10.5.84
"  MB Mehta               11.5.84  to  28.2.85
C F, TRC                           BR Joshi               Feb.'81  to June '81
DPS Verma            June '81  to Sept.'81
RL Java               15.9.82  to   2.5.84
"  RR Joshi                3.5.84  to   6.5.85
KR Ladva               6.5.85  to till to date
Principal, GFRC                    JV Aras              Sept.'79  to 2.5.84
BN Srivastava          3.5.84  to till to date
DyCF, REsearch                 n   Siddique Abmed         June'81  to Sept. '81
BN Srivastava        Sept.'81  to 2.5.84
"  JA Khan                 3.5.84  to till to date
DyCF, Trianing                 '  HL Trivedi            June '81  to till to date



ANNEX VII
- 102 -                           Page 2
Circle/Division               Name                           Period
DyCF, Communication           Shri BK Dudani            June '81  to Feb. '82
a  YR Ladwa             Feb. '82  to till to date
DyCF, Irg., Kakrapar           a  PJ Joshipura              1980  to  May '84
a  MV Desai              May '84  to till to date
ACF, Guards School             n  RG Shimpi                 1982  to Jan. '85
n   SL Datwani          Jan. '85  to till to date
DyCF, PIR                          JR Parmar             20.1.81  to  28.9.81
DS Doshi             30.9.81  to   6.6.82
nK  Rawal            27.6.82  to  21.6.82
JR Parmar            28.6.82  to 16.10.82
NS Ghasura           28.6.82  to 16.10.82
DS Doshi            17.10.82  to  21.4.83
GV Joshi             22.4.83  to   3.9.83
DS Doshi              4.9.83  to   5.9.83
PC Solanki            6.9.83  to  23.5.84
"  MS Kapoor             24.5.84  to till to date
DyCF, Headquarter                  DS Doshi             17.10.82  to  17.4.83
VS Holihosur         18.4.83  to  30.9.83
n  Pradeep Khanna        1.10.83  to  23.5.83
n  PC Solanki            24.5.83  to till to date
DyCF, Monitoring                   DS Doshi             26.2.83   to till to date
DyCF. Economist                n  P. Khanna              13.6.83  to till to date
CF, EC, Ahmedabad              n  DM Naik                 1.4.80  to 12.12.80
n  BR Joshi             13.12.80  to  31.3.81
n  GA Patel               1.4.81  to  27.4.81
n  BR Joshi              28.4.81  to  19.6.81
U  PA Malwade            20.6.81  to   8.6.82
n  Ashok Kumar            9.6.82  to till to date
DyCF, Ahmedabad                    VJ Unadkat            28.4.80  to   4.5.84
n  JK Kulkarni            5.5.84  to till to date
DyCF, Nadidad                  n  ALI Shaikh              1.4.80  to  31.3.83
n  JN Shetty              1.4.83  to till to date
DyCF, Godhra                   n  JN Shetty               1.4.80  to  31.3.83
TD Kaushal            1.4.83  to   4.6.83
n   Satyavirsinh          5.6.83  to  15.2.83
n  BK Mondal             16.2.84  to till to date



ANNEX VII
-103 -                           Page 3
Circle/Division               Name                           Period
DyC!, Dohad                   Shri MD Vasavada            1.4.80  to 14.5.84
MP Chauhan            15.5.84  to till to date
DyCF, Surendranagar                SP Bahatia             1.4.80  to  31.3.84
S. Kadrisan           1.4.84  to  23.5.84
Smt. Meera Agraval        24.5.84  to till to date
CF, EC, Bharuch               Shri HP Chothia             1.4.80  to 31.11.82
"  RL Java               1.12.82  to 27.12.82
JP Agraval          30.12.82  to till to date
DyCF, Navsari                  a  FM Panthaky             1.4.80  to 12.10.82
"  AS Negi              13.10.82  to till to date
DyCF, Vadodara                 a  BK Dudani              1.11.80  to  10.6.82
a  NA Shaikh             11.6.82  to  17.6.82
a  PC Solanki            18.6.82  to  15.9.83
a  GV Joshi               6.9.83  to till to date
DyCF, Bharuch                  a  MT Vazirani             1.4.80  to  27.1.83
a  DS Doshi              28.1.83  to  15.4.83
*  hc bRAHMBHATT         16.4.83  to till to date
DyCF, Surat                    a  KK Mody                 1.4.80  to  31.8.82
n  FM Panthaky            1.5.82  to till to date
DyCF, EC, Mehsana              a  GR Karnik               1.4.80  to  30.8.84
•  DPS Verma             31.8.84  to till to date
DyCF, :Mehsana                 "  VC Desai                1.4.80  to 30.12.82
•  NS Ghasura           31.12.82  to   3.4.83
•  APT Kathooria          4.4.83  to   2.9.84
a  KM Rawal               3.9.84  to till to date
DyCF, Sabarkantha (South)      a  GM Gandhi               1.4.80  to  19.2.82
AP Jethwa            20.2.82  to till to date
D;Cf, Sabarkantha (North)      a  VJ Unadkat              1.4.80  to  28.4.80
n  GM Gandhi             29.4.80  to  15.1.81
a  YR Ladwa              16.1.81  to  29.4.82
a  AP Jethwa             30.4.82  to  21.5.82
a  YR Ladwa              22.5.82  to 31.3.83
RG Joshi              1.4.83  to till to date
DyCF, Banaskantha                  KD Gaonkar             1.4.80  to  3.10.80
a  KM Raval              4.10.80  to  25.6.81
GL Rajpara           26.6.81  to   2.7.81
"  DS Doshi               3.8.81  to 17.10.82
-        *11



- 104 -                        ANNEX VII
Page 4
Circle/Division               Name                           Period
DyCF, Kachchh                 Shri HL Trivedi             1.4.80  to  11.8.91
a   Siddique Abmeda      11.7.81  to  28.1.84
0  SM Patel              29.1.84  to  28.2.84
n  HL Lalka               1.3.84  to till to date
CF. EC, Rajkot                 3  MB Mehta                1.4.80  to   1.7.80
a  BK Jhala               2.7.80  to  10.9.80
AP Mishra             11.9.80  to   3.6.84
RS Pathan              4.6.84  to till to date
DyCF, Rajkot                       VV Tripathi            1.4.80  to  1.12.80
n  SP Chawla             2.12.80  to  26.2.81
H HC Brahmbhatt          27.2.81  to  15.4.83
a  MN Mehta              16.4.83  to  17.6.84
a  SP Chawla             18.6.84  to till to date
DyCF, Amreli                   a  VC Farooqui             1.4.80  to 10.10.80
•  NJ Rajput            11.10.80  to   9.5.84
a  HS Singh              10.5.84  to till to date
DyCF, Bhavnagar                '  MN Mehta                1.4.80  to 6.4.83
a  MA Saiyed              7.4.83  to till to date
DyCF, Junagadh                 :  GT Lalchandani          1.4.80  to  15.4.83
a  KN Rana               16.4.83  to till to date
DyCF, Jamnagar                 a   SP Chavla              1.4.80  to  24.6.81
a  PN Bhatia             25.6.81  to 22.4.83
a  MS Simon              23.4.83  to till to date



INDIA
GUJARAT CONNUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT (CREDIT 961-IN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Statement Showing the Physical Achievement Under Cmmunity Forestry in Cuiarat
(in ha)
Sr.                                                               Phu!ieal *chievement durino
No.      Cotegory                up to 1979-80      1980-81                                         1983-84          INW-4Ir          Total              Remark.
1. Stt7 D W  notation
Ro-a bid16,411                                3,827         5,847            7,697           6,931             7,896           4B,299
Rallwaysid                        -               -             -              200           1,610             1,867            a,"7
Canal side                   2,M2               200           400              400             8as               60W            4,957
19s.38           4.027         8.247            8.197           9.076            10,148           Be.92a
2. Villae Woodlots
Irri I t d                               ~      225   (62)    899      (74)    689     (170    n27    (117)   1,696    (179)   8,86   (692)  Figures in 0 show
No. of Laborrer
Rainfed                      17,676  (2,206)  4,286  (656)  6,621  (1,026)  6,244  (1,084)  6,897    (956)   7,84   (1,128)  46,969 (7,060)
Self-help                                        6 C9   (46)    124    (61)  1,768    (878)  2,479    (896)   1,589    (800)   5,979 (1,1e6)
17.676  (2.206)  4.,79  (7Z8)  6.144  (1151)  7.701  (1.627)  9.20a  (1.468)  10.681  0.602f  51.784 (8.807)
3. Reforestation of
Deornded Fore to
Fu l-tim, labor                   -              a8e  (146)    692    (247)    492    (207)    600     (278      60    (276)   2,570    (276  Figur io    0 show
No. of labo rer
Coasa  labor                16,700            5,617         6,408           5,608            5,400            5,757            48,360
1S. 7%          65.95          6.000           6000                O               .297           45.950
4. Malki Plantation (Dngp)         164     (72)    200   (59)    200      (71)    1"      (62)    220      (91)     214     (99)   1,164   (454)  Figur   In 0 sto
No. of farmers
S. Wood Sovino D vico
proved Stoves                     -             296         1,617           2,652            6,673                -            10,987
Crematoria                       -                -           279             289             s6e                               1,106
S. Free Distribution of
Soedlings (Cror*e)         14.86             4.88          9.98           16.92            19.64            19.24             84.42
7. Stat  Sche
^   bl   ton of degraded
ftrm lnndo   o                                  -           202    9267)    804    (408)    861    (460)      450    (547)   1,807 (1.677)  Figures In 0 *hoe;,:
No. of f armers
Is



INDIA
GUJARAT COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT (CREDIT 961-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Statement Showing the Physical TarRets and Achievements Under the Community Forestry Proiect 1980-85
(Figures in ha)
1980-81         1981-82        1982-83        1983-84        1984 -85        _  Total
Tar.   Achie-   Tar.   Achie- Tar.   Achie- Tar.   Achie- Tar    Achie-   Targ.   Achieve-
emnt            ment           ment           ment           ment               ment
Strip Plantation
Roadside                3,800    3,827  5,700  5,847  7,600  7.597  6,900  6,931   7.600   7,686  31,600   31.888
Railwayside                 -         -      -       -      -    200  1,600  1,610   1,800   1,857   3,400    3,667
Canal side                200       200    300    300    400    400    500    535        600     600   2,000    2,035
Total              4.000    4,027  6.000  6,11Z  8.000  8.197  9.000  9.077  10.000  10,143  37,000   37.590           1
Village Woodlots                                                                                                            °
Irrigated                 240       225    480    399    720    689    720    827        720   1,696   2,800    3,836
Pzinfed                 4,320    4,285  5,520  5,621  6,960  5,244  8,160  5,897   9,600   7,345  34,560   28,393
Self help                   -        69      -    124       -  1,768       -  2,479        -   1,539        -    5,979
Total              4,560    4,579  6.000  6.144  7,680  7.701  8.880  9.203  10.320  10.581  37.440   38.208
R.D.F.                  6,000    5,953  6,000  6,000  6,000  6,000  6,000  6,000   6.000   6,297  30,000   30,250
Malki Plantation          200       200    200    200    100    166    200    220        200     214   1.000    1,000
Improved stones (Nos)    500        295  1,500  1,518  2,500  2,552  5,500  6,573          _       -  10,000   10,937
Crematorias (Nos)           -         -    150    279    250    239    600    588          -        -   1,000    1,106
Free distribution of    25.0       48.8   26.3   99.8   29.6  159.2   32.9  195.4    36.2   192.4   150.0    695.6
Seedlings (Nos. in M)            (30.0)        (62.5)         (75.0)         (80.0)          (110.0)            (357.5) /a
R.D.F.L.                    -              200    202    300    304    350    351        450     450   1,300    1,307
la  Figures in ( ) shown in Free distribution of seedlings under Community Forestry Project.



INDIA
GUJARAT COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT (CREDIT 961-TND.
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Statement showing the Distribution of Seedlings to Farmers by size of holding under Community Forestry Proiect
1980-81   2   1981-82   Z    1982-83   2    1983-84   2   1984-85   2   Total    Average
2
No. of Seedlings (M)
0.1 0 2.0 ha             13.32   49    30.75    40    34.93    37    67.14   44    48.36   33   194.52          40
2.1 - 4.0 ha              8.48   31    15.89    25    41.21    44    45.12   30    41.31   29   152.01          31
Over  4.0 ha              5.56   20    17.81    27    10.19    19    40.24   26    55.74   38   137.54          29
Total/Average          27.36  100    64.45   100    54.33   100   152.50  100   145.43  100   404.07         100
Average planted (ha)
0.1 - 2.0 ha             2,532   42    5,468    46    5,673    42   16,568   40   22,328   41   52,569          41
2.1 - 4.0 ha             1,805   30    3,547    30    5,974    44   11,350   27   17,753   33   40,429          32
Over  4.0 ha             1,752   28    2,927    24    1,818    14   13.704   33   13,816   26   34,017          27
Total/Average          6.089  100   11.942   100   13,465   100   41,622  100   53.897  100  127,015         100
No. of farmers /a
0.1 - 2.0 ha            16,548   71   49,241    82   53,614    81   57,489   50   69,692   46  245,584          59
2.1 - 4.0 ha             3,628   16    4,916      8    9,240    14   35,087   31   52,345   35  105,216         26
Over  4.0 ha             3,098   13    5,945    10    3,454       5   21,152   19   29,289   19   62,638        15
Total/Average         23,274  100   59.802   100   66,308   100  113.728  100  150.326  100  413.438         100
La  Estimates given may include same farmers having received seedlings more than once.



- 109 -                     ATTACHMENT
TEL RES. 3156
g  .                                KOTS ANtNXE
Ref. No.: CFF/8/A -  9C: 2-  of 1988-89    39A0A1
.B. P. akhani , IFS
CHIEP CONSERVATOR OF FORESTS
SOCIL FORESTRY
OUIARAT STATE                                         March 28, 19i9
Mr. Graham Donaldson,
Chief,
Agriculture, infrastructure and
Human Resources Division, .
Operations Evaluation Department,
C/o.Resident Mission in India, World Bank,
55, Lodi Estate, New Delhi - l0 003
Dear Hr. Donaldson,
GuJarat Community Forestry Project (Cr.96.1-TN)
Project Completion Report
----------------------------------------------
We are in receipt of a copy of the Project Completion Report
from Hr.  ;iichaei Baxter,  Cnief Agriculture Unit.   The  report
consist of report submitted by the state social forestry unit
and Evaluation Summary and Overview of Project by IDA staff. As
states report has been accepted.   We have no comments to  offer
on  same  and  propose to circulate the same.   We are  also  in
general agreement with the issues raised in the Evaluation
Saummary and overview.   However,  few issues need be  clarified/
elaborated  specially  in view of follow up action which may  be
more  for  information than for incorporation  in  tne  relevant
parts. Enclosed are our views of such issues.
Yours sincerely.
(B. P. Lakhani)
Copy alongwith a note on Evaluation Summary and Overview of PCR,
submitted  to the Secretary to Government,  Forest & Environment
Department, Sachivaiaya, Gandhinagar, with reference to letter
dated February 13,  1959,  from Mr. Graham Donaldson, Chief, for
favour of information.



- 110 -
NOTE ON EVALUATION SUMMARY AND OVERVIEW OF
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
------------------------------------------
A reference has been made to the issue of distribution of benefits in
para 10 of the Evaluation Summary. State has been aware of the issues
and have come out with policy resolutions for distribution and sharing
of benefits specially from strip plantations and community woodlots
(Copy of orders enclosed). In this connection, it may be pointed out
that as the social forestry plantations have come up for harvesting
only recently, the concept has to go through a process of evolution.
In this connection first policy resolution, were issued by the state
goverrment in 1983 which have been modified in 1985. Thus policy is
dynamic and is being evolved.
On the subject of marketing of tree production (para 17 of evaluation
summary) a study is proposed under the project. Regarding fuel needs
of the poor and urban population, these are two ends of spectrum. It
will be seen that the distribution policy of 1985 attempts to address
the issue of fuel needs  of  rural  poor.   Urban fuelvood needs could
only be addressed by providing more wood in the market. All the
components do so by objective or else.   In urban areas the need is to
popularise substitutes. It may further be added that all tree growing
attempts to address the issue of fuel for rural poor at least in terms
of lops and tops.
Para-8 (f) of the overview emphasizes on distinction between com-
mercial and welfare goals and reflects at incompatibility of both.
Farm forestry is seen as commercial preposition. It will be seen that
81.82 of the beneficiaries of the farm forestry programme have taken
to bund boundary and homestead planting (table 4.21 of PCR) which in
most of the cases  is  non-commercial.    Also  farm forestry on large
scale creates non-marketable lops and tops in rural areas which do go
to the rural poor.
The concept of charging for seedlings have been debated at many oc-
casions.  Since 1985, Gujarat  has  been pursuing a policy of progres-
sively reducing free  distribution  and  increasing price of seedling.
The present policy  is  to  provide  a maximum  of 400 free seedlings
restricting  total  availability  from  government  nurseries  to 2500
seedlings and charging Rs.  0.10  per seedlings for seedlings provided
in addition to 400. A study has also been proposed to study impact of
pricing of seedlings on the farm forestry programme.
Para 15 of overview raises the environmental concern due to mono-
cultures, Eucalyptus, etc. It is proper to take stock of such issues.
However, the environmental issue needs to put in proper perspective.
Over the year farm forestry has not covered more than 1% of total land
or 22 of agricultural land in  the  state.   Large part of these lands
were unutilized. Obviously while it is desirable to research and have
scientific data regarding such issues, there is no need of anxiety.



- ill -
Para 23 of the overview raises the questions of incentives for raising
and protecting community woodlots and distribution of benefits. It
may again be mentioned that the state has come out with a policy for
distribution sand sharing of benefits wherein adequate provisions have
been kept for the benefit to poorer sections and all the profits from
such woodlots to Panchayats, instead of 502 being retained by govern-
ment.
Par&, 26 fu,rther raises the issue of equity in distribution of bene-
fits. The benefits from woodlots are not adequate enough to be shared
by all and the village leadership is found willing to favour poors.



- 112 -
English Version
Distribution of benefit from strip
plantations & Village Woodlots...
Gov. of Gujarat
Forest & Environment Department
Resolution No. TRS-1082/6138/V2
Sachivalaya, Gandhinagar
Dtd. 8th Nov. ' 1985
Read: 1) Reso. No. TRS/1082-6138/V2 Dtd. 29.4.83
2) Reso. No. TRS/1082-6138/V2 Dtd. 29.4,83
Preamble:
The extent of forests in Gujarat State is limited, not only this there
is an acute  shortage  of wood  in  certain  districts.   To meet the
shortage and also to provide for the requirement of firewood and small
timber to people locally, roadsides, canal banks, railway sides and
village pastures availed from Panchayat have been afforested under the
Community Forestry Programme. With the aim that people get facility
of forest products and participate in this programme, resolution was
issued regarding distribution of forest products and providing share
in the income to Panchayet from harvesting of matured trees raised
under the afforestation programme.
Resolution:
As contained in the resolution, the issue regarding the distribution
of minor and major products and allocation of more share of the net
profit after sales to Panchayat was under consideration of the
Government. After reconsideration on the question the Government
resolves as under:
Strip Plantations: (Roadsides, Canalbanks & Railwaysides)
1) Income before final felling:



- 113 -
Village people be allowed to take headloads of minor forest
produce derived from strip plantation viz- grass, leaves, pods,
dry fallen firewood, gum, brush (datun) flowers and fruits free of
cost without damaging the existing trees & Plantation.
Its case any special type of fruit & flower bearing trees in any
area are found in abundance, then, the forest department should
sell the flowers and  fruits  by  public  auction.   The 1002 sale
proceeds such derived from strip plantations, will be deposited
with the Taluka Panchayat in whose jurisdiction the strip falls,
under the information and advice of the forest department.
2) At the time of final follinga
a) Labourers employed on exploitation of trees be allowed to
carry logs & tops having gltth 20 cm. & below for firewood on
gratis.
b) Pieces above 20 cm and species used as timber material be
prepared and stacked by the side of harvested area and dis-
tributed to landless, small and marginal farmers from areas of
Panchayats adjoining the area of strip on advice of the Pan-
chayat at 602 of market rate for household use.
c) After satisfying the demand as per (b) or after one month of
harvesting remaining material will be auctioned by the forest
department through an open auction as per rules of the forest
department.
d) The 502 of net revenue derived from the material so sold by
public auction by FD will be allotted to Taluka Panchayats for
the development works of Taluka and the rest 502 of net profit
will be deposited in forest account.



- 114 -
Village Woodlots
1) Before Final Fellings
Village people be allowed to take headloads of minor forest
produce like grass, leave&, fruits & flowers, pods, dry fallen,
firewood, gums etc. derived from village woodlots free of cost
without damaging the existing trees and plantations.
But in case any special type of fruit, flower & minor forest
produce bearing trees in any area are found in abundance, the
forest department will allow to carry forest produce on an annual
lease without damaging  the  existing  trees.    The net income be
given to village panchayat.
2) At the Time of Final Fellina:
When the final felling of matured village woodlots is carried out
as per the technical guidance of forest department:
a) Labourers employed for exploitation of village woodlot be
allowed to take material having girth 20 ems & below as
fuelwood on gratis.
b) Pieces above 20 cm and of species used as timber be stacked
near the felled area and be sold on advice of the panchayat
to landless, small and marginal farmers for their domestic
use at 60Z market rate.
c) After satisfying the demand as per (b) or after one month of
harvesting remaining timber and fuelwood will be auctioned as
per rules of the forest department.
d) Of the net income from the open auction sales and sale
proceeds of the material sold as per (b) together 1) 25Z of
the income will be kept by the Forest Department as deposit



- 115 -
and will be used to raise new woodlot on harvested area or
other area which Panchayat allocates from its gauchar orland
protection of village woodlots 2) 75Z of the income be
apportioned to the Village Panchayat for public development
works.
This resolution is issued after obtaining the concurrence of Finance
Department on the file of even number on 7th Oct.'1985.
By and in the name of Governor of Gujarat
Sdl- P.M. Asari
Section Officer,
Forest & Environment Dept.,
To,
Principal Chief Conservator of Forests,
Gujarat State, Vadodara
Chief Conservator of Forests,
Social Forestry, Gujarat State,
Vadcdara
pml1311



IBRD 14322I
25                                                                                     )                                                                                                                                            25.
4 SP Sq J            GUJARAT Ci-.                                                  -STRY PROJECT
P        A   K    I    S        T    A   N                        i                                                                                   SIrAl E  :01  .SrS
FOREST REGIONAL BOUNDARIES
STATE FORESTS
/   t  c  ,    ;,  F5    5v                                      3ISOHYETS OF MEAN ANNUAL RAINFALL I..)
)                        ~~~~~~~RANN OF KUTCH
K  ~C  H    /   h    ~  ES  X  S   a   \   -  RIVERS
/  t /   I  M A H E S-A N                                                 DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
INTERATIOA BOUNDARIES
/K A                                                                                         T                            C         H     /  I _ DHIN  I- -  STATE    BOUNDARIES
f  Ef                     </                                        \g             M          A         H         A         V ;                                                                 [~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AL.
GSURENDRANAGAR                         KHE   A E $  ,  )                         1L
-I&R A S LFr R A
JAMNAGA                                                   A  AG                                                                                                   I-
)  A;E S / F 2, / O SL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5                                                                                100
|   57  -n\  4   W  AMRELI  R R H A W  f'    X /    X       X        f         i                                   KILOMETERS
AMRELI              BHA                   D      M     N 4X @ 
JLINAGAQ/I-V t,
AMEELIDI
DAMAN 
20'   Tfrm rsna f- b1- nO W-V,I IlVrY0f TM Vklsev rDr0So Oral9 R-k-  fl M. Si-  f
FEBRUARY 19S9



