Document of               FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFCIAL USE ONLY
Reper No. P-2650-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXEC'UTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO INDIA
FOR THE
GUJARAT COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT
November 20, 1979
Thls bennKet bus a erieted ditdbuti  nd may be _ad by reipients ony in the pefonmane of
their ofiial duti.  Its ontents may m otherwise be dbied withot World BmDk audb.iaton.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of November 7, 1979)
Rs 1.00       =  Paise 100
US$1.00        =  Rs 8.2575
Rs 1.00       =  US$0.1211
Rs 1,000,000  =  US$121,100
(Since September 24, 1975, the Rupee has been fixed
against a "basket" of currencies. As these currencies
are floating, the US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is
subject to change. Conversions in the Staff Appraisal
Report were made at US$1.00 to Rs 8.60, which represents
the projected exchange rate over the disbursement period).
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CFW     -    Community Forestry Wing
FLCS    -    Forest Labor Cooperative Societies
GFD     -    Gujarat Forest Department
GOG     -    Government of Gujarat
aOI     -    Government of India
KVIC    -    Khadi and Village Industries Commission
CCF     -    Chief Conservator of Forests
CF      -    Conservator of Forests
GSFDC   -    Gujarat State Forest Development Corporation



FOR OFF-iAL UkE JNLY
INDIA
GUJARAT COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              India, acting by its President (GOI).
Beneficiary:           State of Gujarat.
Amount:                US$37 million.
Terms:                 Standard.
Relending Terms:       As part of Central assistance to States for devel-
opnent projects, on terms and conditions applicable
at the time. Exchange risk to be borne by GOI.
Project
Description:         The project would increase supplies of fuuewood in
rural areas of each of the State's nineteen districts.
It would also provide poles, bamboo, small timber
and other minor products from the same plantations.
Achievement of these objectives would be facilitated
by the gradual shifting of responsibility for the
establishment, maintenance, protection and harvesting
of village woodlots from the Government of Gujarat
(GOG) to village panchayats. The project would also
introduce improved stoves and crematoria as fuelwood
conservation measures, provide considerable paid
employmnent to the poorest section of the population
and he:Lp to stabilize the environment. The principal
project risks are: (i) that the free distribution
of seedlings might lead to excessive waste, (ii) that
villages would be reluctant to assume responsibility
for their woodlots, and (iii) that the better-off
villagers would pre-empt most of the benefits of
village woodlot production.  Special care would be
taken to minimize these risks through careful moni-
toring, the provision of incentives, and public
information and education.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their ofVicial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:
(US$ millions)
Local    Foreign    Total
Staff, Vehicles, Equipment, Housing,
and Operating Costs                        20.8        1.9        22.7
Training and Fellowships                      0.9        0.1          1.0
Research and Seed Testing                     0.3        0.1          0.4
Plantings                                    34.3        1.0         35.3
Farm Forestry                                 3.4        --           3.4
Stoves and Cremation Facilities               0.5        --           0.5
Monitoring and Evaluation                     0.3        0.1          0.4
Sub-Total                              60.5         3.2        63.7
Physical Contingencies                        2.6        --           2.7
Price Contingencies                           9.3        0.4          9.7
Total                                   72.4        3.6        76.0
Duties and Taxes                              2.3        --           2.3
Project Cost Net of Duties
and Taxes                                70.1        3.6        73.7
Financing Plan:
(US$ millions)
Local    Foreign    Total
IDA Credit                                   33.4       3.6        37.0
GOI/GOG                                      33.2       --         33.2
Village Panchayats                            3.5       --           3.5
70.1       3.6        73.7
Estimated
Disbursements:
IDA FY           FY80   FY81   FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86
Annual              0.2    1.8    5.0       7.5    9.5   10.0    3.0
Cumulative          0.2    2.0    7.0    14.5   24.0   34.0   37.0
Rate of Return:         About 17%.
Appraisal Report:       No. 2601a-IN, dated November 20, 1979.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTI'VE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO
INDIA FOR THE GUJARAT COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to India for the equivalent of US$37 million on standard terms, to
help finance a community forestry program in the State of Gujarat. The
project would increase supplies of fuelwood and other forest produce in
rural areas, offer paid employment to the poorest segment of the population
and help to stabilize the environment.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(2431-IN dated April 9, 1979), was distributed to the Executive Directors
on April 13, 1979. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Back.ground
3.        India is a large, low-income country with 640 million people whose
average income is US$150 per annum.  The agricultural sector dominates the
economy, employing over two--thirds of the labor force and contributing over
40% of value added. Although smallholder agriculture provides a fullsome
subsistence to many, the land base is inadequate to provide all families in
rural areas with an adequate livelihood under current conditions, and many
who are landless or nearly landless have only an insecure grasp on the means
of existence. Industrialization in India has not been rapid enough to bring
about the economic transfonnation that has led to higher productivity and
rapid urbanization in some other countries. The urban population was 18%
of the total in 1960, 20% in 1970 and is 21% now.  The share of manufacturing
has grown slowly and since the late 1960s has remained roughly constant at
16% of GDP.
4.        Economic growth has been slow in the past, with GDP growing at a
trend rate of 3.6% per annum from 1950 to 1975. Agricultural output grew at
2.4% per annum over the same period. Slow growth in agriculture acted as a
drag on overall growth, not only because of its sheer weight in the total, but
also because of the need to use scarce foreign exchange to import food. Growth
in industrial output has been higher at 5.2% per annum between 1950 and 1975,
but not as high as in many other developing countries nor as high as can be
expected.
1/   Parts I and II of this report are substantially the same as Parts I
and II of the President's Report for the Second Maharashtra Irrigation
Project (Report No. P-2624-IN), dated September 26, 1979.



- 2 -
5.        This slow growth has persisted despite a quite creditable domestic
saving and investment performance. Domestic saving has grown from 9% of GDP
in 1951 to the current high level of 22%. Gross domestic investment has risen
from 10% to 21% of GDP over the same period. Foreign savings have never
financed a large portion of domestic investment and have financed no more than
5% of investment since 1970. Foreign savings have been important in financing
imports, and a shortage of foreign exchange has acted as a constraint on the
economy for most of the period. External assistance has been low both as a
percentage of GDP and in per capita terms. Net external assistance is less
than 2% of GDP now, has never risen above 3% and fell to less than 1% in the
early 1970s. Exports have grown relatively slowly--5.4% per annum in US
dollar terms and 2.8% per annum in volume terms between 1950/51 and 1975/76.
So far during the 1970s, exports have grown much more rapidly, by 18% per
annum in US dollar terms and 8% in volume terms over the period 1970/71 to
1976/77. During the same period imports grew by 17% per annum in US dollar
terms but only by 2% per annum in volume terms, reflecting a 28% fall in
India's terms of trade over the period.
6.         India has the capacity to grow and develop at a more rapid pace than
has been achieved so far. Although the industrial sector is small compared to
the size of the total economy, it nevertheless has a highly diversified struc-
ture and is capable of manufacturing a wide variety of consumer and capital
goods. Basic infrastructure--irrigation, railways, telecommunications, roads
and ports--is extensive compared to many countries, although considerable
gaps remain. India is rich in human resources and institutional infrastruc-
ture, although there is much scope for improvement. India is reasonably
well-supplied with natural resources, not only land and water but minerals,
including oil, gas and coal. With good economic policies and sufficient
access to foreign savings, India should be able to manage these considerable
resources to accelerate the longer-term growth trend.
Recent Trends
7.        India has managed faster growth during the recent past.  Growth of
GDP in 1978/79 is estimated to be between 3% and 4%; this is a strong perform-
ance coming on top of the previous year's 7.2% growth in GDP and considering
agricultural output grew less than 2%. Even this agricultural growth is
highly creditable given the previous years' record harvests in most crops.
Industrial output grew by 8-10% in 1978/79. Over the four years, 1975/76 to
1978/79, growth in real GDP, agricultural output and industrial output has
averaged 5.3%, 4.4% and 6.9% per annum, respectively. Although these rates
represent growth over the depressed base of the early 1970s, they are signi-
ficantly higher than the longer-term past trend and comparable to the target
growth rates for the medium-term future. Buoyant domestic demand, upward
adjustment of depressed agriculture prices and world inflation have lead to
significant increases in prices during the first half of 1979. The wholesale
price index increased by 16% between mid February and September. Together,
food, food products, crude petroleum and mineral oils contributed over two-
thirds of this increase. However, prices of almost all commodities have
moved up significantly during the first months of 1979/80. Although in part
reflecting a seasonal rise in food and food products, the trends observed do



- 3 -
indicate a distinct departure from the relative price stability of the past
four years. The inflationary trend is likely to continue during the second
half of 1979/80, although at a slower rate, given the July 1979 price in-
creases in oil, steel and coal and continuing world inflation. Although the
current inflationary pressures need not seriously impair medium-term growth
prospects, given available aggregate resources and production capacity, sig-
nificant improvements are likely to be required in the organization of key
sectors if an economic slowdown is to be avoided.
8.        I'he 1978/79 foodgrain crop exceeded the 1977/78 record crop of 126
million tons, and many non-food crops did well. The 1978 monsoon rains were
timely and adequate, although severe flooding in some areas destroyed both
lives and property and ruined some crops. The basic inputs into agricultural
production continued their rapid growth of the recent past. Additions to
area under irrigation have dloubled from 1.3 million hectares a year during
the five-year period ending 1973/74 to 2.6 million hectares a year during
1977/78 and 1978/79. Fertilizer consumption in 1978/79 reached 5 million
nutrient tons, an increase of 18% over 1977/78. This growth is impressive,
particular'ly since it follows two successive years of very high growth--18%
in 1976/77 and 26% in 1977/78--so that fertilizer consumption is now 75%
higher than it was in 1975/76. However, prospects for sustaining the record
crop levels of the past two years in 1979/80 do not look good. The onset
of the monsoon was delayed this year and subsequent rainfall has been defi-
cient throughout much of the country. Early indicators are that jute, rice
and sugar cane output have already been adversely affected. Continuing
power cutbacks and recent shortages in diesel fuel for irrigation pumps are
also likely to contribute to the shortfall.
9.         [he growth of industrial output in 1978/79 came from a sharp rise
in the output of food industries, particularly sugar, a modest increase in
textiles, important increases in the hitherto depressed engineering sector
and the revival of demand for consumer durables. Production would have been
still higher but for recurring shortages of steel, coal, railway wagons and
electric power and capacity constraints in fertilizer, cement, vegetable oils
and petroleum products. Labor unrest also constrained output in some indus-
tries, particularly in textiles, steel and mining; man-days lost in 1978 ex-
ceeded the high level of 1977 and only in 1974 were the number of days lost
higher. Power production increased by 12% but continuing shortages in many
States necessitated power cluts and curbs on new demand. During the first
quarter of 1979/80 supply bottlenecks in basic industrial inputs began to
retard overall industrial production. In addition to coal and steel, cement,
sugar, cotton textile and cotton yarn output fell below last year's levels.
Strong demand has continued to sustain other important industries such as
fertilizers and chemicals, but it appears increasingly unlikely that these
can counterbalance the constrained sectors.
10.       The trade deficit grew and both the current account surplus and the
balance of payments surplus of recent years shrank in 1978/79. The import bill
is expected to reach US$8.4 billion, which brings the average rate of increase
in US dollar terms to 19% per annum since 1976/77. Non-foodgrain imports rose
even more dramatically by 28% per annum over the past two years. The growth



- 4 -
of imports and the liberalization of import control policies represents a
desirable adjustment to enhanced foreign resources. Although exports grew
much faster during the 1970s through 1976/77 than earlier, export growth
in 1977/78 and 1978/79 has slowed somewhat. After rising by 12% in 1975/76
and 23% in 1976/77 in US dollar terms (virtually all growth in export volume),
export earnings rose by only 9% in 1977/78 (with little or no volume growth)
and an estimated 8% in 1978/79 (with 5-8% volume growth). Although part of
the decline is attributable to unfavorable conditions in foreign markets,
export profitability has been allowed to deteriorate somewhat. With net
invisible receipts in 1978/79 estimated the same as in 1977/78--US$2 billion--
the widened trade deficit resulted in a significantly reduced current account
surplus, from US$1 billion in 1977/78 to US$400 million in 1978/79. Despite
some increase in net aid disbursements from their low level in 1977/78, the
increase in reserves declined from about US$2 billion in 1977/78 to about
US$1.5 billion in 1978/79 to reach US$7.4 billion. Exports during the first
three months of this fiscal year are 32% higher than the same quarter of
last year. Although part of the increase is due to the dollar depreciation
and recovery in coffee prices, the prospects of sustaining a volume growth
of at least 7% during 1979/80 appear good. Imports in the first quarter of
1979/80 are around 7% higher than the same period of the previous year. How-
ever, the impact of recent increases in petroleum prices are only partially
reflected in this figure. India's total POL import bill for 1979/80 is
likely to reach $3.2 billion, $800 million higher than earlier estimates.
As a result, there should be a sharp deceleration in the rate of growth of
reserves sufficient to significantly reduce the number of months of imports
covered by reserves during 1980.
Development Prospects
L1.       The circumstances that have brought about the currently favorable
economic situation hold the promise of continuing into the future given conti-
nued policy improvements. The faster growth of the recent past has been made
possible by the much-increased inward flow of foreign exchange from increased
exports, workers' remittances and external assistance; greatly improved agri-
cultural performance; the impressive saving effort; the liberalization of
import controls; and expanded public expenditure on development programs.
Although sustaining the high growth rates of the recent past into the future
is by no means automatically assured, India has a level of resources with
which to manage the economy that had never existed before. The comfortable
foreign exchange position, the large foodgrain stocks and the absence of
strong inflationary pressures have eased the pressures to deal with short-
term crises and freed India's economic managers to plot a more ambitious
course for the economy. The policy improvements needed to achieve the better
performance now possible have begun in some important areas but in others
have yet to be initiated.
12.       The Draft Plan, which was released in March 1978 and is expected
to be finalized and approved by the National Development Council later this
year, sets out India's development strategy for the five years 1978/79 to
1982/83. The principal objectives of the Draft Plan are to achieve within
a period of ten years: (i) the removal of unemployment and significant



- 5 -
underemployment, (ii) an appreciable rise in the standard of living of the
poorest sections of the popu'Lation, and (iii) provision by the Government of
some of the basic needs of the people in these low-income groups. While the
Plan recognizes the importance of achieving more rapid expansion of the economy
than in the past to meet the employment and welfare objectives, the targeted
rate of growth at 4.7% per annum is lower than projected in most earlier Plans.
According tD the planners, this reflects in part the increased emphasis given
to the distribution rather than the level of income generation, and in part
the need for greater realism in the macro-economic assumptions underlying the
Plan. While the trade-off between growth and distribution is not immediately
obvious from the Plan model, the adoption of a more realistic growth target
is in itself well justified -- even at 4.7% per annum, the targeted growth
rate is higher than actually achieved during any of the previous Plan periods,
and is substantially above the longer-term trend growth rate.
13.       In agriculture, the economic policies, development programs and
secular trends all seem favorable for a period of sustained high growth.
Fertilizer prices have been reduced progressively from their very high level
in early 1975 and despite some fall in market foodgrain prices, the fertilizer:
foodgrain price ratio has fallen to a clearly profitable range. Good harvests
and higher farm incomes provide the money to finance higher fertilizer pur-
chases, creating something of a virtuous circle. Pricing policies for many
crops--rice, wheat, sugarcane, pulses and others--have concentrated recently
on supporting prices to maintain incentives to farmers rather than trying to
administratively control prices to contain inflation. The ambitious irrigation
and rural electrification investment program in the new Five-Year Plan, if
fully fundetd, will help provide the water control needed to increase yields
directly and to induce further productivity-increasing investments. The
effective reorganization of the agricultural extension service will raise
yields as it takes hold gradually across India. Finally, there are several
heartening trends in foodgrasin production: one is the steady growth of area
planted to high-yielding varieties of rice; another is the growing adoption
of summer rice cultivation in the traditional wheat-producing areas (Punjab
and Haryanal). These two trends along with the other favorable developments
have caused rice production to rise impressively in the last two years.
Another good omen for foodgrain production is the rapid growth of winter
wheat cropping in traditionall rice areas (West Bengal, Assam and Orissa).
14.       'En industry, despite some uncertainty in industrial policy and
the lack of strong policy stimulus to improve efficiency in the industrial
structure, recently strengthened demand forces along with adroit input supply
management should allow the industrial sector to continue to grow at the
improved rate of the recent past, at least for the near- and medium-term
future. Over the longer term, growth of industrial production at or above
the rate experienced in the recent past--e.g., 7% per annum during the last
four years--will require some changes in policy to induce a more efficient
industrial structure. Recent industrial policies have sent mixed signals
to private manufactures and investors. Some, such as reserving certain lines
of production for small-scale enterprises or prohibiting the location of new
firms in municipal areas, have been restrictive. Others have been stimula-
tive, such as the raising of the exemption limit of industrial licensing for



capital investment or favorable adjustments in the pricing and production
controls in several major industries, including cement, steel, and textiles.
In addition the liberalization of import controls is of considerable benefit
to increasing industrial production. However, there are some worrisome supply
shortages that are currently threatening continued rapid industrial growth.
Many can be handled through imports, if needed, as long as India maintains a
healthy foreign exchange position. However, two supply constraints likely to
persist in the future -- namely, rail transport and power -- cannot be eased
through imports. The new Plan contains a major power investment program to
increase capacity rapidly. The railway investment program is more modest.
Another crucial input into both of these sectors, and into most other major
sectors, is coal, whose supply needs careful management.
15.       The main reason for expecting sustained growth in industrial pro-
duction is improvement in demand prospects for each of the four major sources
of industrial demand. The first is market demand for manufactured consumption
goods, which is expected to pick up in response to the increase in disposable
income due in particular to the good agricultural harvests. Although its
effect has been delayed somewhat, this broad-based demand is finally making
itself felt and is expected to continue into the future as long as the growth
in agricultural output continues. Another source of demand is public expendi-
ture on development projects, which has grown in a major way in the last few
years and is scheduled to continue to grow under the new Five-Year Plan.   A
third source of growth is export demand for industrial goods. There has been
a sustained growth in the export of manufactures such as engineering goods,
garments, gems, finished leather and some chemical products. This export
growth should continue in the future with proper policy support. A final
source of growing demand is private investment by both the household and
corporate sectors. There are as yet only a few signs of this growth, such
as increased disbursement by term lending institutions and increased use of
inputs; investments should become stronger as growth in the other sources of
demand continues and as capacity limitations begin to constrain production in
more industries. The net result of increasing demand should be continued high
growth in industrial production in the near and medium term within existing
policies.
16.       Import policy is an area where there has been significant improve-
ment in the recent past; but some improvement in export policy is required
to raise incentives to export. India has liberalized import control policy
significantly in the past two years and imports have responded. Future growth
in imports, and in the benefits of price stability, enhanced production and
increased efficiency which imports bring, will depend to a great extent on
how the now liberalized policy is administered. A delicate touch is required
to yield the benefits without bringing about undesirable damage to vulnerable
industries. India has the foreign resources to allow imports to grow at the
rapid rates of the past two years for a few more years and continue to relax
the very severe restraints imposed on the economy during the early 1970s by
suppression of imports. But, given the import liberalization undertaken so
far and the expected growth of imports, by the end of the Plan period (1982/83),
foreign exchange reserves will have fallen to six months of imports, or less,
and some adjustment in the balance of payments will be required. Part of the



- 7 -
adjustment will very likely be a reduction in the growth rate of imports; the
import bill need not grow 15% in volume terms indefinitely to sustain the
target growth in GDP. Part of the adjustment must come from the achievement
of a growth rate of exports in the vicinity of 7-8% or higher in volume terms.
Faster export growth is needed not only to provide the foreign exchange to
sustain the rapid growth in imports but also to allow foreign demand and
competitiorn to improve the efficiency of Indian industry. Finally, part
of the adjustment should come from an increased net transfer of external
assistance,
17.      I]ndia's population policy continues to aim at reducing the birth
rate to 33 births per thousand people by 1983 through completely voluntary
acceptance of fertility control methods supplied by a family welfare system
integrated with the supply cf basic health, maternal and child health and
nutrition services. Since 1977, the family planning achievements in terms
of number of acceptors have been below that needed to achieve the 1983 goal
or even to keep the birth rate from rising above its current level. The
low performance is primarily the result of the reaction to the harsh birth
control poLicies introduced during 1976. Since then family planning perform-
ance has been gradually returning to the rising trend which was discernible
before it was disrupted by t:he intensive drive of 1976/77. Given continued
support for the program of family welfare, India's rate of population in-
crease should remain below 2% per annum and fall to 1.5% by 1990.
18.      'In addition to stimulating overall economic growth and constraining
population growth, reduction of poverty in India requires special attention
to ways of raising the income and productivity of low-income groups. More
than one-t'hird of the world's poor live in India and more than 80% of the
Indian poor belong to the rural households of landless laborers and small
farmers. The prospects for alleviating their poverty by providing these
families with more land are not good because of the virtual absence of un-
cultivated arable land, the slow progress in implementing land reform and
the limited amount of land ithat would be available if land reform were carried
out. Estimates of the amount of land that would be available if land reform
were carried out vary greatly. One estimate is that there would be about
9 million hectares available for distribution. This compares to roughly
45 million families in the two poorest groups in rural India: landless
families and families owning less than one hectare of land, whose average
holding is 0.31 hectares. An approach to the amelioration of poverty more
promising than land reform is the creation of more employment opportunities
for the landless and small farmers in rural areas. Although the basic thrust
must come from the market by a more rapidly increasing agricultural output,
there will be a role for employment-intensive rural works programs. The new
Plan provides for increased rural employment both through direct employment
schemes and through ambitious programs of investment in rural infrastructure
*          in additicn to the more general rural development programs.



- 8 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
19.       Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 57 loans and 117 development
credits to India totalling US$2,530 million and US$7,235 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,002 million had been
repaid, and US$3,168 million was still undisbursed as of July 31, 1979.
Annex II contains a summary statement of disbursements as of July 31, 1979,
and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
20.       Since 1957, IFC has made 17 commitments in India totalling US$64.0
million, of which US$15.9 million has been repaid, US$7.6 million sold and
US$6.9 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$33.6 million, US$25.6 mil-
lion represents loans and US$8.0 million equity. A summary statement of IFC
operations as of August 31, 1979, is also included in Annex II (page 2).
21.       In recent years, the emphasis of Bank Group lending has been on
agriculture. The Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor
Irrigation and other on-farm investments through agricultural credit opera-
tions. Major irrigation, marketing, seed development, and dairying are other
agricultural activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank Group
has been active in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer sector
and, through its sizeable assistance to development finance institutions, in
a wide range of geographically scattered medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises. IDA financing of industrial raw materials and components for
selected priority sectors has been instrumental in facilitating better
capacity utilization in industry. The Bank Group has also been active in
supporting infrastructure development for power, telecommunications, and
r-ailways. Family planning, water supply development, and urban investments
have also received Bank Group support in recent years.
22.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities. The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, industry, power, urban development and water
supply remains highly relevant. Projects designed to foster agricultural
production through the provision of essential inputs such as credit for
on-farm investments, improved water management and intensification and stream-
lining of extension systems, form an important aspect of the Bank Group's
program for the next several years. Special emphasis will be given to proj-
ects benefitting small farmers. Projects supporting water supply, sewerage,
and urban development also form an integral part of the Bank's lending
strategy to India for the next several years. Lending in support of infra-
structure and industrial investments will focus on agriculture-, export- and
energy-related projects.
23.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in large part to the response of the aid community, India has success-
fully adjusted to the changed world price situation. However, the basic need
fDr foreign assistance, to augment domestic resources, stimulate investment



- 9 -
and accelerate economic growth, remains. As in the past, Bank Group assist-
ance for projects in India should include, as appropriate, the financing of
local expenditures, India iimports relatively few capital goods because of
the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic capital goods industry. Con-
sequently, the foreign exchange component tends to be small in most projects.
This is particularly the case in such high-priority sectors as agriculture,
irrigation, rural water supply and medium- and small-scale industry.
24.       Although the growth prospects of the economy have improved, India's
poverty and needs are such that as much as possible of India's external capi-
tal requirements should be provided on concessionary terms. Accordingly, the
bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been, and should continue to
be, provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA funds that can reasonably
be allocated to India remains small in relation to India's needs for external
support, and India may be regarded as creditworthy for some supplemental Bank
lending. Ihe ratio of India's debt service to the level of exports was 12%
in 1978/79 and is projected to remain below 20% through 1995/96. As of
September 30, 1979, outstanding loans to India held by the Bank totaled
US$1,548 million, of which US$639 million remained to be disbursed, leaving
a net amount outstanding of US$909 million.
25.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements,
and 12% of net disbursements as compared with an estimated 62%, 27% and 38%,
respectiveLy, in 1978/79.  On March 31, 1978, India's outstanding and dis-
bursed external public debt was US$14.8 billion, of which the Bank Group's
share was US$4.30 billion oi- 29% (IDA's US$3.66 billion and IBRD's US$0.64
billion). Because Bank Group assistance to India is predominantly in the form
of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly. In 1977/78,
about 16% of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank Group.
PART III - FORESTRY IN INDIA AND GUJARAT
Forestry in India
26.        India's forest lands are substantial; about 23% of the total land
area, or 75 million hectares, is classified as forest. Yet the forestry and
logging sector contributes only about 1.5% to the net domestic product.
Domestic rounSwood requirements by the y ar 2000 are projected to be nearly  3
290 million m :  fuelwood, 225 million m ; industrial roundwood, 65 million m
Continuation of existing plantation programs should ensure the supply of
industrial hardwood, but fuelwood and coniferous roundwood would continue to
be in short supply. Programs of plantations and investments need to be
substantially stepped up if these shortages are to be met.



- 10 -
27.        India's strategy for forestry development reflects the need, first,
to develop production forestry programs to supply the growing need of the
domestic wood products industry and, second, to develop community forestry
(also referred to as social forestry) programs to supply fuelwood, fodder,
small timber and minor forest produce to the rural population. In order to
carry out the required programs, the National Commission on Agriculture (1976)
recommended that each State reorganize its Forest Department into two separate
wings, one to supervise traditional production forestry and wildlife activities
and the other to develop community forests.
The State of Gujarat
28.       The State of Gujarat, with an area of about 196,000 sq. km., has a
population of about 31.5 million (1978), of which 72% live in rural areas.
Although Gujarat is highly industrialized by Indian standards, agricultural
and allied activities still contribute 36% of the net domestic product of the
State. Gujarat has more than 18,000 villages, with an average population of
1,050 people. A significant percentage of the population belongs to tradition-
ally disadvantaged groups: scheduled tribes (14%) and scheduled castes (7%).
29.       Forests cover about 10% of Gujarat's land arel.  In 1974-77, State-
owned forests annually produced an average of 150,000 m of timber, 300,000
tons of fuelwood, 73,000 tons of bamboo and 22,000 tons of fodder grass, in
addition to a wide variety of other minor forest products. The forests also
support a number of industries, including over 600 sawmills and a large pulp
and paper mill, and provide raw materials for a wide variety of cottage
industries. The forests' contribution to State revenue is about Rs 100
million per year (2.2% of the State's total revenue). Work in forest areas
provides the main source of paid employment for marginal farmers, landless
laborers and members of scheduled castes living in and around these areas.
30.       Nevertheless, shortages of primary forest products, especially
fuelwood, building poles and fodder are severe and are likely to become even
worse in the future. Although rehabilitation and improved management of the
existing forest areas would help alleviate the situation, the magnitude of
the problem and the inequitable geographic distribution of existing forest
resources are such that the long-term solution lies in the afforestation of
new areas. Presently, many areas such as road, rail and canal reserves and,
especially, village common lands and other wastelands that could grow trees,
are unproductive.
31.       In 1972, fuelwood and dung cake accounted for 84% of the energy
requirements of rural households.  Kerosene, coal, charcoal and soft coke
rnade up the balance. It is rare to find electricity or gas being used for
cooking and lighting in rural areas. Cooking is done on open fires or on
small, open stoves made of clay and sand which burn at very low thermal
efficiency.
32.       In rural areas, about 80% of domestic fuel is collected free by
women and children who spend up to three hours a day in search of firewood,
cattle dung and crop wastes. Fuelwood remains the preferred source of rural



- 11 -
energy, but its growing scarcity has obliged villagers to burn cattle dung
which could otherwise be profitably utilized as farm manure.
Community Forestry
33.       In 1969, Gujarat launched a community forestry program and embarked
on the establishment of fuelwood plantations along roadsides and canal banks.
Encouraged by the success of this early program, the State expanded its efforts
in 1974 and established the first plantations on village common lands follow-
ing an intensive publicity campaign as to the benefits of village woodlots.
In 1976 the! program was further expanded to include efforts at rehabilitating
the State's degraded forests with fuelwood and pole plantations. By 1978 some
35,000 ha of plantations had been successfully established, including over
10,000 ha of village woodlots, 10,000 ha of plantations on degraded areas and
9,000 ha of- plantations alongside roads and canals. To date, an average of
8 ha of trees have been estasblished in over 1,500 villages.
34.       The main objective of the present community forestry program is to
provide fuelwood in rural ar-eas where it is needed most. It has been possible
to design the plantations, hiowever, so that they also provide poles, bamboo,
fodder, grass, fruits, oilseed and gum without seriously affecting fuelwood
yields.  Another facet of the program is the "farm forestry" scheme whereby
free seedlings and advice are provided by the State to individuals and groups
that will plant trees on their own lands.
Forest Institutions
35.       The head of the Gujarat Forest Department (GFD) is the Chief Con-
servator of Forests (CCF) assisted by two Additional Chief Conservators, one
responsible for forestry operations (which at present includes the community
forestry program) and the other for wildlife management. Also directly
responsible to the CCF are itwo Conservators of Forests (CF), one for project
planning, mnonitoring and evaluation and one concerned with the control of
illegal activity in the forest. At field level, there are presently nine
operational circles, each under the direction of a CF. Four circles (each
with 4-7 divisions) are responsible for production forestry and three circles
(each with 5 divisions) for community forestry. The remaining two circles are
responsible for wildlife management, research and working plans. In total,
the Department's forestry staff is composed of 91 professionals, 1,740 tech-
nical staff, and 3,215 vocational staff.
36.       In 1949, the first Forest Labor Cooperative Societies (FLCS) were
established in Gujarat, with the aim of increasing financial returns to forest
laborers and encouraging responsibility among tribal people for the management
and conservation of the forest. All exploitation is now done either by FLCS
or GFD.  There are presently 147 FLCS with a total membership of approximately
68,000 (94% of whom are tribal people) supervised by the Cooperatives Depart-
ment and GFD.
37.       In 1976, the Gujarat State Forest Development Corporation (GSFDC)
was established to improve the efficiency of forest exploitation, to develop



- 12 -
forest industries and to initiate grading and processing of forest products
by tribal people. Unlike many other corporations of this type, FDC has
concentrated on the production of minor forest products of high potential.
Its efforts have met with considerable success. In 1978, it organized the
collection, grading and marketing of 132,000 bags of bidi leaves (used for
manufacture of local cigarettes), about 5,000 tons of mahuda flowers (an
edible flower which can be used in the production of alcohol) and 1,155 tons
of mahuda seeds (which are crushed for oil).
Bank Group Assistance to Indian Forestry
38.       The Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project (Credit
609-IN) is the initial phase of a major project aimed at the establishment
of a forest-based industry in Madhya Pradesh. The recently completed feasi-
bility study, financed under the Credit, has recommended the establishment
of an integrated industrial complex comprising a sawmill and a pulp mill.
The Kandi Watershed and Area Development Project involves reforestation and
pasture development over some 18,000 ha of Punjab's Siwalik Hills. It is
expected to be presented to the Board later in FY80.
39.       In early 1978, in recognition of the need to expand community
forestry activities, GOI and the Bank agreed to examine the possibilities
of developing projects in Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh. The Uttar Pradesh
Project for US$23 million was approved in June 1979.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
40.       The project was prepared by the Government of Gujarat (GOG) with
assistance from FAO/CP. It was appraised in March/April 1979, and negotia-
tions were held in Washington, D.C. in October, 1979. The Indian negotiators
included Mr. M.K. Dalvi, Additional Inspector General of Forests, GOI;
Mr. J.K. Sibal, Director, Department of Economic Affairs, GOI; Mr. H.K. Khan,
Secretary, Department of Agriculture, Forests and Cooperation, Gujarat; and
Mr. K.P. Karamchandani, Chief Conservator of Forests, Gujarat. The Staff
Appraisal Report (No. 2601a-IN, dated November 20, 1979) is being distributed
separately. A Supplementary Project Data Sheet is attached as Annex III.
P'roject Description
41.       The project's primary objective would be to increase supplies of
fuelwood in rural areas. Secondary objectives would be to provide poles,
bamboo, small timber (for agricultural implements among other things), fodder,
grass, fruits, oilseeds and other minor products from the same plantations.
In addition, the project would introduce improved crematoria and stoves as
fuelwood conservation measures, provide considerable paid employment to the
poorest section of the population (tribal people, scheduled castes and the
landless) in tree planting and maintenance, and help to stabilize the



- 13 -
environment.. The project would be implemented in all of the State's nineteen
districts located throughout mainland Gujarat and in the Saurashtra/Kutch
region.
42.       During the five-year implementation period the project would:
(a)  etxpand and strengthen the Community Forestry Wing (CFW) of
t:he Gujarat Forest Department through the provision of
t:echnical and support staff, construction of staff housing
and other buildings, development of training programs and
research activities and provision of vehicles and equipment.
(b)  establish about 105,000 ha of forest plantations, including
about 37,000 ha of village woodlots, reforestation of about
30,000 ha of degrarded government forests, strip plantings on
aibout 37,000 ha along roads, canals and railroads and
afforestation of about 1,000 ha of privately owned land;
(c)  expand State nurse!ries to provide planting stock for
project and farm forestry; and
(d)  promote fuelwood conservation measures, primarily through
the construction of 10,000 smokeless stoves and 1,000
improved cremation facilities.
43.       GOG recognizes that GFD cannot meet the State's needs for forest
products by itself and that villages must be encouraged to operate their own
community schemes. Therefore, the project's aim is to gradually shift respon-
sibility for the establishment, maintenance, protection and harvesting of
village woodlots from GFD to village panchayats. Although this shift cannot
be entirely accomplished within the project period, villages participating
in the project would take oni responsibility for these activities on about
9,200 ha of village woodlots (Section 2.07(a) of Project Agreement).
44.       'Village Woodlots.  To expedite the transfer of responsibility
for establishing and managing woodlots from GFD to village panchayats,
two schemes involving different levels of community participation would
be introduced. In both cases, plantations would be established either
on land belonging to panchayats or on government land vested in panchayats.
(a)  The Village Self-lhelp Scheme would include those villages
prepared to accepit full responsibility for the establishment,
management and harvesting of woodlots.  Villages in this
scheme would be expected to pay from their own resources
the labor costs of preparing, planting, maintaining, pro-
tecting and harvesting their own woodlots. Technical
assistance, seedlings and other inputs required would be
provided by the CFW. The village panchayat would retain
all the profits. A written agreement, defining the obliga-
tions of both parties, would be concluded between GFD and
the village panchayat.



- 14 -
(b) The Supervised Village Scheme would include those villages
without existing woodlots and unwilling at this stage to
accept full responsibility for woodlot establishment and
subsequent management and harvesting. For a management
fee (25% of direct costs), CFW would advance funds for all
plantation activities and would recover direct costs from
the sale of forest produce. Harvesting of fuelwood, poles,
bamboo and timber would be undertaken by villagers under
the supervision of CFW staff. The area developed would be
limited to 4 ha per village. The gross value of major
forest produce would be split 50:50 between CFW and the
village panchayats.
fly June 30, 1980, GOG would prepare and furnish to the Association model
contracts for the establishment of village woodlots and the afforestation of
private lands (Section 2.10 of Project Agreement).
45.       Reforestation of Degraded Forests.  Depending on prevailing labor
conditions in the area, this component would use either of two approaches.
The first approach would involve the use of casual laborers employed by CFW
to establish and maintain plantations and Forest Labor Cooperative Societies
(FLCS) to harvest and market the produce. The second approach would be to
provide full-time employment to groups of 9 to 15 tribal families, housing
them near the areas to be forested and providing them with adequate facilities
(Section 2.09 of Project Agreement). Under both approaches, GFD would keep
80% of the proceeds from the sale of the produce; the remaining 20% would be
provided to the Cooperative Societies under the first approach and to the
resettled families under the second approach.
46.       Afforestation of Private Lands.  As a pilot effort, CFW would encour-
age tribal families to return marginal agricultural land in forest areas to
trees, under a variety of contract arrangements. For example, an estimate
would be made of the annual cash return from growing food crops on an area of
at least 2 ha. CFW would advance these monies to the farmer in semi-annual
installments and repayment would be made from future forest product sales.
CFW would establish and maintain the plantation for three years, after which
the farmer would assume responsibility for maintenance. CFW would supervise
harvest and sales and, after recovering its direct costs, including cash
advances, would return all net profits to the owner.
47.       Strip Plantations.  Plantations along roads, irrigation canals,
and railways would be CFW's responsibility. Villagers would be allowed to
collect fodder grass and other minor produce, but fuelwood, poles, bamboo
and small timber would be sold by GFD in urban areas. Net profits would be
split on a 50:50 basis between CFW and the panchayats.
48.       Nurseries and Farm Forestry.  To meet the increased planting require-
ments of the project, the number of nurseries for raising nursery stock for
the State's community forestry programs would be expanded from the present 210
to 440 (mostly temporary) and some existing sites would be enlarged. From the
nurseries and temporary distribution centers, CFW would continue to provide



- 15 -
about 30 million seedlings (principally fuelwood and fruit) annually free of
charge to people who request them and would also give instructions on planting,
care and utilization of the plants. CFW would monitor the distribution of
seedlings a,nd their survival rate.
49.        Fuelwood Conservation Measures.  CFW would promote the use of an
improved stove which requires less fuel than present stoves and can be adapted
by simple improvements to existing stoves at low cost (approximately Rs 50 per
stove). Demonstration stoves would be constructed in each village establish-
ing a self-help woodlot for a total of about 10,000 improved stoves (Section
2.07(b) of Project Agreement). The project would also provide for construction
of improvecl cremation facilities which would reduce the amount of fuelwood
needed per cremation from 400 to 240 kg. These units would be established in
about 800 villages with self-help plantations and in about 200 cities (Section
2.07(c) of Project Agreement).
50.       Research.  The main objective of the research program would be to
increase tree productivity and decrease establishment and maintenance costs.
The project would also provide for increased seed testing and storage facili-
ties.  Four field stations and a small research institute would be established
and equipped under the project. A research program acceptable to IDA would
be prepared and furnished by September 30, 1980 (Section 2.07(d) of Project
Agreement).
51.       Training.  The project would support a program of increased staff
training, which would include regularly scheduled in-service and pre-service
training, through the provision of additional staff, buildings, vehicles and
equipment. The project wou:Ld also provide short-duration fellowships for
domestic (12 man-months) and foreign (8 man-months) study. In addition, a
total of 40 man-months of fellowships would be funded for project staff to
attend training courses and workshops to develop extension techniques in
community forestry. Two one-year domestic fellowships in extension tech-
niques and two two-year overseas fellowships for project economists would be
provided.
Project Implementation
52.       The Project would expand and strengthen CFW through the appointment
of an Additional CCF, who would be directly responsible to the CCF for all
community forestry affairs, and through the establishment of one new community
forestry circle and two new divisions by June 30, 1980 (Section 2.13 of the
Project Agreement). Special support units would be created, including a pub-
lic relations unit at the headquarters level and two communication units
responsible for publicity at the village level by September 30, 1980, and two
additional. communication units by September 30, 1981 (Section 2.12 of Project
Agreement). A monitoring unit would be established by June 30, 1981, and its
work program submitted to IDA for review by December 31, 1981 (Section 2.15 of
Project Agreement). An evaluation cell would be established by December 31,
1982, and its work program would be submitted to IDA for review by June 30,
1983 (Sect:ion 2.16 of Project Agreement).



- 16 -
53.       The project would finance costs of CFW staff, vehicles, equipment
and staff housing. Since much of the success of CFW's activities would depend
on regular and frequent visits to village panchayats and individual farmers,
and supervision of other plantations, it is essential that field level staff
and their supervisors live near their work. For this purpose GOG would pro-
vide housing or rent allowance as necessary (Section 2.08 of Project Agreement).
GOG housing policy would continue to encourage the use of rented accommodation
where possible. Since suitable rental lodging would not be available in many
areas, the project would provide housing for about 50% of project staff. The
project would also finance construction of a headquarters building for the
GFD Community Forestry Wing. Other office accommodations would be rented.
Because project plantings would be scattered over a large area and effective
project management requires staff mobility, the project would provide for
additional vehicles at headquarters, circles and divisions. Motorcycles
for Extension Rangers and bicycles for Extension Foresters and Protection
Assistants would be provided on credit. Credit terms and travel allowances
'would be set up so as to provide incentive for purchase and utilization of
motorcycles and bicycles by field staff.
54.       State- and District-level committees would coordinate community
forestry activities with other Government programs. A State Policy Review
Committee would be established under the chairmanship of the State's Minister
for Forests to make overall policy decisions and to ensure coordination between
various Government departments. District Forest Committees would be estab-
lished in each district, under the chairmanship of the District Collector,
to coordinate activities of various departments at the district level. The
District Committees would prepare annual district plans for the establishment
of village woodlots. The above committees would be established by June 30,
1980 (Section 2.14 of Project Agreement).
Marketing Arrangements
55.       Fuelwood, poles, bamboo, and timber from all areas but village
woodlots and degraded forest reforested by CFW using casual laborers would
be marketed by CFW either from roadsides (in the case of roadside plantations)
or from sale depots through the current practice of auctions. FLCS would
be responsible for marketing products from degraded forest areas reforested
with casual labor. GOG would prepare and furnish to the Association, by
September 30, 1980, its proposals for the sharing of major forest produce or
its revenue (Section 2.11 of the Project Agreement).
56.       The Khadi and Village Industries Commission (KVIC) would continue
to handle the marketing of non-edible oilseed. KVIC representatives located
in strategic villages collect and pay for the seed brought in by villagers,
which is then transported for storage and processing into soap, etc. by small,
*Locally owned enterprises that obtain credit for equipment and working capital
from KVIC.
57.       Minor forest produce such as gum, bidi leaves, doli and mahuda
flowers would continue to be purchased from villagers and tribal people by
GSFDC, which would also continue to help tribal people set up cooperatives



- 17 -
to process these products further. In view of the acute shortage of forest
products, nLo marketing difficulty is foreseen for any of the products gen-
erated by t:he project.
Cost Recovery
58.       On the basis of thte proposed arrangements for sharing project out-
put, the project's financial rate of return would be 5%; i.e., the returns
would pay off government investments in the project, including staff and other
recurrent costs, in 34 years and yield a 5% interest rate on such investment.
The corresponding cost recovery index for the project over the entire period
(34 years) would be 51%, if recovered at 10% interest. This index is consi-
dered satisfactory, given that the project would provide employment to a
disadvantaged section of the population, meet some of the basic needs of rural
communities and yield substantial additional indirect benefits by improving
the environment, and because advisory staff costs are generally not recovered.
Project Cost and Financing
59.        The total project cost, over five years, is estimated at US$76.0
million, of which US$3.6 miLlion represents foreign exchange expenditures.
Duties and taxes included in total costs are estimated at US$2.3 million.
The proposed credit of US$37 million would finance about 50% of total project
cost excluding duties and taxes. The balance of the project cost would be
borne by the Government of Gujarat and local panchayats. The credit would be
made to GOI on standard terms and channelled to GOG on GOI's terms and arrange-
ments for development assistance to the States.
60.        In order to ensure an early project start, retroactive financing
up to US$500,000 would be provided for expenditures incurred after June 1,
1979, in providing planting stock and in doing advance work for land prepara-
tion and plantation protection for the 1980 planting season.
ProcuremerLt and Disbursements
61.       Direct plantation works (US$38.7 million), including nursery expen-
ditures, planting, protection works, and farm forestry would be scattered over
a wide area and would be carried out over different periods of time. There-
fore, contracts following competitive bidding would not be practical. Nursery
works, including the production of seedlings, would be carried out through
force account by CFW. Land preparation, planting and maintenance for village
plantations would also be carried out by CFW with varying degrees of partici-
pation from village panchayats. However, some materials such as fencing wire,
tools, and fertilizers would be procured under local competitive bidding
procedures, which are satisfactory. Contracts for civil works (US$3.7 mil-
lion) wouLd be small and widely dispersed in time and place and, therefore,
would not be suitable for international competitive bidding; they would be
let following local competitive bidding or by force account in accordance
with established GOG proce(lures that are satisfactory to IDA. Design and
supervision of housing and building construction would be carried out by GFD
or the Public Works Departraent. Vehicles (US$2.7 million) would be purchased



- 18 -
over three years; as adequate maintenance and availability of spare parts
would be of paramount importance, this would necessitate purchase of locally
made vehicles of types already used by government departments.  Thus, procure-
ment would be by local competitive bidding under existing government procedures
which are acceptable to IDA. Research equipment would be required in small
lots and would not, therefore, be suitable for procurement under ICB proce-
dures. These items and other miscellaneous equipment (US$1.0 million) would
be bulked whenever possible and procured through local competitive bidding
exceDt where valued at less than US$20,000, when they would be purchased by
prudent shopping through usual trade channels. Stoves and crematoria (US$0.5
million) would be built under force account. The balance of project costs
(US$29.4 million) would be staff salaries and related expenditures (US$16.3
million), training (US$0.7 million), and contingencies (US$12.4 million).
62.       Disbursements under the Credit would cover 100% of the cost of
training; 100% of foreign expenditures for imported equipment, or 70% of ex-
penditures for locally procured vehicles and equipment; and 55% of expendi-
turEs for direct planting, civil works, CFW staff salaries, and stoves and
crematoria.
63.       Disbursements for all force account work, salaries, local training,
petty contracts involving payments up to Rs 100,000, and other procurement
involving expenditures up to Rs 50,000 for vehicles and equipment would be
against statements of expenditures certified by the Additional CCF for Com-
munity Forestry. Full documentation would be required for all other disburse-
ments. For the purpose of disbursements against statements of expenditure,
CFD's institutional and staffing capabilities, as well as budgeting, account-
ing, internal control and auditing are adequate and satisfactory.
Project Benefits and Risks
64.       The increase in forest produce expected under the project would
benefit a large proportion of the State's population, but enhanced employ-
ment opportunities and the right to gather free fodder, fruit and other minor
produce would favor the rural poor.  From project year 10, the average annual
production of fuelwood from the project village woodlots would be about 390,000
tons, of which 45% would be utilized by rural people. Annual project output of
fuelwood would be sufficient to satisfy the need of about 2.5 million people
at the current annual consumption level of 165 kg per capita. In addition, an
average of 4.8 million poles and large bamboos would be produced annually.
Fruit production would be sufficient to provide 10 kg annually for six million
people. The greater abundance of fodder would also result in additional milk
production of about two million liters annually. The introduction of some
10,000 improved stoves and 1,000 crematoria would result in savings of some
16,000 tons of fuelwood annually. Moreover, project production of fuelwood
would divert to agricultural land considerable quantities of cow dung and
vegetable waste, which would otherwise have been used for cooking.
65.       Over the five-year project implementation period, 105,440 ha of
idle or underutilized land would be brought into productive use, largely
through use of labor. In total, 38.4 million man-days would be required for



. 19 -
project activities, equivalent to 25,600 people fully employed for five years.
Since most forestry operations would be concentrated over a two- or three-
month period each year, at least 100,000 laborers would obtain temporary
employment each year; most of these would be from among the disadvantaged
sections of the population.
66.       The major environmental impact of project plantations is expected
to be on soil conservation and, in some cases, restoration of soils. In
arid areas of western and northern Gujarat, plantations would assist in
arresting wind erosion. In alkaline areas in the east of the State and wetter
areas of the south and east, soil stabilization by tree roots, accumulation
of leaf litter and reduction of the impact of rain on the soil will restrict
run-off and, in hill areas, reduce siltation of rivers.
67.       The return to the economy has been calculated for each planting
component, excluding farm forestry for which data are uncertain, and for the
project as a whole, including the cost of technical support but excluding
research. Only directly quantifiable benefits have been included. On this
basis, the overall rate of return of the project is estimated at 17%.
68.       The principal project risks are:  (i) that the free distribution
of seedlings might lead to excessive waste, (ii) that fewer-than-expected
villages would be willing to participate in the self-help scheme, and (iii)
that the better-off people in the village, being the more powerful, would
be the major beneficiaries of woodlot produce. The CFW monitoring unit would
conduct spot checks on the survival rate of seedlings and would study the
overall impact of the free clistribution; GOG and IDA would jointly review
the merits of free seedling distribution in project year 4. Special care
has been taken to provide aclequate incentive to villages to participate in
the self-help scheme; these include receiving 100% of all woodlot benefits
and priorit:y for the introduction of smokeless stoves and cremation facili-
ties. Finally, steps would be taken to inform villagers of their rights and
otherwise assist the village panchayats in arriving at an equitable distri-
bution of forest produce among villagers.
69.       Overall risks are, therefore, manageable and worth taking in view
of the present need and the expected benefits to the large number of poor
villagers involved. An interim evaluation would be carried out in year 4 of
the project, so that any necessary adjustments can be made to facilitate
attainment of project objectives.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
70.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the Asso-
ciation, the Project Agreement between the Association and the State of Gujarat,
and the recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section
1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to Executive
Directors separately.



- 20 -
71.       The features of the draft agreements of special interest are
listed in Section III of Annex III.
72.        I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
73.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
November 20, 1979



INDIA - SOCIAL tNDICATORS DATA SHE                      Page  1  of  i
LAND AREA ( HOUSAND SQ. KM.)               INDIA                      RanfliECR GROUPS (ADJUSTEr A`IAGE'
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE
TOTAL          3287.6                                                 SAME        SAME    NEYT HIGER.
AGRICULTUL     1818.3                               MOST RECENT    GZOGRAPHIC   INCOME       INCOME
1960  /    1970 A ESTIMTE  b       RZGION kc  GROUP /d   GROUP >
GNP PER cAprA (US$)                  60.0        90.0    180.0           191.1      209.6      467.5
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KLOGRMS OF COAL hQUIVALENT)    142.0        181.0    218.0             69.1      83.9       262.1
POPULATION ANtD VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, NT-YEU  (MILLIONS)   434.9        547.6    631.7w.
URRA  POPULATION (PENCBT Or TOTAL) 17.9        19.7      20.7.          13.2       16.2        24.6
POPULATION PROJECTItONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 MLLIONS)                     973.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                    1643.0
TMAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REAlCD                2150
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. DI.                     132.0       167.0    192.0            86.6       49.4       45.3
PER SQ. 3M. AGRICULTURAL LAND    247.0      308.0    347.0           330.2      252.0       149.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PEILCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        40.8       42.5      42.0            44.3       43.1       45.2
15-64 YRS.                        55.7       54.6      55.0            52.4      53.2        51.9
65 YSS. AND ABOVE                  3.5        2.9       3.0             3.1       3.0         2.8
POPULATIObt GROWTH ATEA (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             1.9         2.3      2.1             2.4        2.4        2.7
UM1AM                             2.551t      3.3      3.1             4.1        4.6        4.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER TOUSAND)    43.0         40.0     35.0            44.4       42.4       39.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PEU THOUSAND)    21.0        17.0     14.0            16.4       15.9        11.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATZ             3.2         2.9      2.4             3.2        2.9        2.7
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTMRS. ANNUAL (TSOtSANtS)    64.0      3782.0   4518.0
USERS (PERCENT OP MARRIED WOI)    ..         12.0     16.9             7.9       12.2       13.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF OOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)        100.0       102.0    101.0            99.4       98.2       99.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMNTS)                   95.0        92.0     89.0            93.0       93.3       94.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PEU DAY)         51.0       53.0      48.0            56.1      52.1        54.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE      19.0        16.0     12.6            10.4       13.6       17.4
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    28.0        22.0      18.0           19.2       18.5        11.4
REALTH
LIFE EXECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   43.0        48.0      51.0            49.1      49.3        54.7
INFANT KORTALITY RATE (PEU
TEEOUSAND)                           *-       134.0       ..              ..      105.4       68.1
ACCESS TO SAPE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              *-        17.0     33.0            31.5       26.3       34.4
URBAN                              ..        60.0     83.0            63.9       58.5       57.9
RURAL                              ..         6.0     20.0            20.1       15.8       21.2
ACCESS TC EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        18.0     20.0            15.7       16.0       40.8
URBAN                              *-        85.0     87.0            66.8       65.1       71.3
RURAL                              *-         1.0      2.0             2.5        3.5       27.7
POPtrLATICN PER PHYSICIAN        5800.0h    4890.0   3135.0           7107.9   11396.4      6799.4
POPULATICN PER NURSING PERSON    9630.^OLh   5220.0   6320.0         12064.0    5552.4      L522.1
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                          25%0.OLi   2020.0   1231.0           2738.4    1417.1       726.5
URBAN                              ..         ..        ..              ..      197.3      272.7
RURAL                              ..         ..        ..              ..    2445.9      1404.4
AONISSLONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..         ..        ..              ..       24.8       27.5
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             ;.2         ..       5.2              ..        5.3        5.4
URBAN                             5.2         ..       4.8              ..        4.9        5.1
RURAL                             5.2         ..       5.3              ..        5.4        5.5
AVERAGE NiUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
IMOTAL                            2.6         2.8
UMAN                               ..         ..        ...
RURAL                              ..         ..        ..              ..         .          .
ACCESS D) ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELL.NGS)
IOTAL                              ..         ..        ..              ..       22.5       28.1
URBAN                              ..         ..        ..              ..       17.8       45.1
lURAL                              ..         ..        ..              ..        ..         9.9



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED A ERAGES
INDIA                          - NDST RECENT ESTIMATE ) a
SAME        SAME      NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960 /b     1970 lb ESTIMATE /b       REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 61.0        72.0       79.0            59.5        63.3        82.7
KALE                  80.0        87.0      94.0             74.9        79.1        87.3
FEMALE               40.0         55.0      63.0             43.7       48.4         75.8
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  20.0        29.0       28.0            19.5        16.7        21.4
MALZ                 30.0         39.0      38.0             27.8       22.1         33.0
FEMALE                10.0        17.0      18.0             10.0       10.2         15.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z OF SECONDARY)   8.0           6.OLI      ..              1.3        5.6          9.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            29.0        40.0       42.0            42.2        41.0        34.1
SECONDARY                          16.0        17.0         ..              ..        21.7        23.4
AIRLT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        28.0         33.0      36.0             25.5       31.2         54.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.7         1.0        1.2             2.3         2.8         9.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POpULATION                          5.0        21.0       24.0            15.5        27.2        76.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..         0.1        0.5              ..         2.4        13.5
NEWdSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  11.0        16.0       16.0             6.2         5.3        18.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  4.0           6.3       3.8              ..         1.1         2.5
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)   188670.0    226870.0  261000.0/k
FEKALE (PERCENT)                   31.3        32.6       32.2            21.4        24.8        29.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              73.0        73.0       73.0            66.3        69.4        62.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 11.0        11.0       11.0             9.6        10.0        11.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                43.0        40.2       39.2            35.8        36.9        37.1
MALE                                 57.1         52.3      51.3             52.3       52.4        48.8
FEMALE                               27.9        27.1       26.2            15.7        18.0        20.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.0          1.1       1.1              1.3        1.2          1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   26.7         26.3/1       ..              ..          ..        15.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEhOLDS  51.7         48.971       ..              ..          ..        48.2
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.1          6.771       ..               ..         ..         6.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.6         17.271       ..              ..          ..        16.3
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
UqBAN                                ..          ..       83.0            86.5        99.2       241.3
RURAL                                ..          ..       73.0            74.2        78.9       136.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..         ..              ..        91.9       179.7
RURAL                                ..          ..       50.0            50.4        54.8       103.7
ESTIMIATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..          ..       47.0            44.3        44.1        24.8
RURAL                                ..           ..      52.0            52.4        53.9        37.5
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of che indicator and the most populaced country in each group.  Coverage of countries among tne
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
*b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
'c    Sooch Asia;  'd Low Income (S230 or less per capita 1976);  /e  Lower Middle Income (5281-550 per capita,
1976);   _   1978 mid-year population is estimated at 640.4 million;   iR  1951-6~0;   'h  1962;
i959;   <i '967;  /k  1978 mid-year labor force is estimated at 261 nillion;   i1  1964-o5.
Most Recenc Estimate of GNP per capita is for 1978.
August, 1979



rrxIOO r SMIA  rIAONage  3 o:z
Notes:  Althoigh the data ar  darnw fro   am ures generally ;Judged the -Set authoritative sod reliable, it  &csi Uas  be noted tint thee any not be itrts'--
tiuna.lly comparble because of the tuck of standarldi sd dsfl.ssties sad concept. used by diffarst oo..striea Ia eofl1etlmg the data  Phe dat tar, nonetael-sa
useful to describe order  of  agnitude, indicate trends, and sharacteriesew asrimoajar differenesa between countrie..
The adJusted group  a    gesse  foe cock indic-tor u-  piSltio-eight.d geometric Manss, emeAldig the estee     vIalue  of the indicator and the sost luopesatad
coutry is eag  group.  Due to lack sf data, group averages of all. indicators for Capital. Surplus Oil  sporten and of indicatores of Acces  to Water sod floreta
Diseps..a, Hdussing, I ...a IsDtoteibutics. sod Poverty for other country gnoups are peypsl.tion-weighted geometric wmen wIthout exclusion of the extreme vsl.ue and
the most populated coutry.  Si-ce rtca coege of cotrimea   og the kodleatoes d...ads on awisiltyof  aaan   aat  unf-. osatios mot be emerised
he relating averages of one indicator to another.  Theme averages are sally usefusl us avprouimatie  of  xpete:' alugwhen    pSrIm   the valuses of one
indicator at a, time awing the ocioutry mnd reference groups.
1MW AiEA (thoused sq hk)                                                                  Mccas to gereta Dlisposa   percent ofpp          u)-  2totl  urban.          - iral-
Toa.-Total     aurface area compriulig 1sod ure.ansd Inlansd raters.Useropole(ta,ubnadrrl)evd by=                                                     eret  dSposld
A.gri-,ltural -  Iloat recent estimate of sgrieultua.1 area used temporarily              Percentages of their respective popsl.atieme. Ime-ta. disposal ~I' S Include
or Permsnrotly for oropo, pastures, maket and kitchen gardens or to the collection and disposal, with or sitbemt treatmest, of hissn -srtr
lie fal.io.                                                                             snd  aste-water by water-boone systems or tEas use of pit prifles mmd e.allr
hastallatiosis
GNP PERl CAPITA (US$) - GiNP per capita estimates at current msarket prices,                ajIAhemt    ero 4yag  - Pegailatio  divided by nmber of practIcing piystiein
calculated by saea  occriamthod as World Bssk Atlas (:1976-768 basic)                     quIiufied    i-7blil.scoo  at university level.
1960, 1970, tad 1978 data.                                                              RRM      on :ie   a..i   Pa_O   - Pepsation divided by sister of practiciag malc
y SLWTIN PERCAPITA - Annua  co-optios of c trilenergy                             tend feal* gradiuate miSs, practical1 sisree, end assistant aurses.
(col  od  igite  ptroleum, natural gas sod hydro-, nuclear and geo-               Rhplai            D e    osital      I-  ttl  urban  wad rural.- Pspulatbon (total, urban,
ibermaI         ~ciy  Le Ikiiograa- of coal rquivsleet per ca.Pia   a9d  era0diiedb  ter respectv   mitro   optlbd vilable in
electricity)6 dt..                                                                    public and private general end speei.11oed bostpit.1 sad reshbilhtatio.coenters.
Hospitals are estshlishaets permanently Staffed by at least one physioiao.
POPUIATION AN1 VITAL STATISTICS                                                             lstablishmeats providing primeipally cus todial care are not seclded. Ruoral
Tota. Ppuiaion  PEAfea   milos-AsoJuy1191,97,adhospitals, bowever, inclad. health sad medical centere not persnetly Staf fed
1977 data,                                                                              by a physician (but by a. medical sesietst, nurs, midwife, etc. ) which offer
Urban upulation (Percent of total) -Rito of urban to total pinlatis;                      ho-patient a-datioa and proide a, limited range of medical fanilitia..
different definitioc   o .f urhan arcas may affect comparability of data              Admssonso    r' I    tal  ed-Total sumober of  dadissio.s to or discharges from
amongcountr-e; 1960, 1970, acid 1975 data,                                               hoptasdl2ded    the,o.hr of bed..
PooltioProjoction,
Puoslation in year  01) - Current popultloa projecti.on  rer  baurd on              HOUSING
1975 total population by age and  eo tad their mortal:Lty and fertility             Average Soe ofHseod(esa   e  nscd) - oa.  ra.an   ua  -
ratc ~.crjoctio P pronotors for ourtallty ratoo comprise of three                    Aheneehld cossso      vapafhdvd erosar   iigqatr   o
ecoauouiog  ifo  -oetaooy at birth incre..asing  eith country's                 their main meals. A hoarder or ledger may or sem        otbancueyi  h
Per capita iocoo  lcv-1, tad fema.leisfe -op-tancy utahiliciag at                     houseehold for Statistica.l purposes.
T7.5 Yearo.  ft- ;arster- for fcrtility  -atc also h,-v three levels                Avaag  smbr of p-su   e  om-ttl   rt   o   oal - Average  onb-s
asouniog dcolino  in fertility acoordong to inomea level sod punt                     of personse Per romh   l   ra,adrrleeped conventional deelliogo,
reall  Planning perforuasco. Ea-h country is then ass [gnd one of these               respectively,  Chellings emclsde n00-permanent structues and unwcopied parto.
cine oodiain   f  crtsilty rod fortility trends for projeotio                       A..ess to Eleetfkolty (peroent of dweliiogs) - total. urhan, tas rural -  Con-
purposes-                                                                             venticeal dwellings witht electrlicty ho living quarters an percentage of
St.tionacy populatico - Is.o a  tatioaary population there le no groeth                 total, urban, sand rSafl doelluinge respeetively.
ciose tthc birth -tlo is Iqual to thc doath cab, sod ~ale the age
structur  reaico constant. This i sachieved only after fertility rates           EDUXiTIOI
decline to the repinoemont level of unit net repr-ductiic  rate,  hben              AStjidd   rlintPio
each coorats  comen replaces otocf canotly.  The staticoary pops-                     Prsr   col-ttl   aesdfas-tustotal, Sale tsd.fesleearll
muon slo  saestimated cc Iho basis of tke Projected oharauterietios                    setoal gsa  h   rmr   ee        ecntages of respective primary
of the populaticoniothe year 2000, and the rate of de,cline of fertility                schcol-agi popualations; oorslly includes children aged 6-fl1 years hut
rate to repiacc"ot IeI,                                                                 adjusted for different lengths of prinary education; for coutries  ith
Yea  tatian.ry popsiatica is reached - The year  hben Statiosary Ppopalatiun              universal  dsuation enro11senIt may smoed 100 percent Since Some Pupils
ohor has beon reoohcd.                                                                  are below or shove the official school age.
population lcaoitr                                                 i~~~~~ ~~~~eooodary  oh1il -tot,al  alefand femal  - Ccwabted aS a   e; ae.ondary
Pec so. ka. - Mlid-yps-a  pops.iatl   per squr .  s. meer(100 hectares) of                euainrsuoSat jeat fur yasof approved primary lestructico;
total area                                                                              provides general  -octiona1, or teacher training instructions for psp,la
per sa  .. ho. ug  Io.rnl land - Computed as abov  for saricltural landusualy of 12 to 17 ye-  of age;  urrespood-nc courses are g-eral1y
oaly.                                                                                    .. luded.
PbD.Iat        e e'--.t) - Children (0-1t years ), eorkiag-agr                   Vocaional earollatot (PeretofsVndr) -.Vctiomal tstitution. inclode
(1-iynSitad setired (65 year  and ove r) as proestoges of mid-year                 techoical, industrtial,n orohe     =rors   hish operate i.d.peOdeotly or aS
popeslatico; 1960, 1970, tad 1977 data.                                                   departments of Secondary institutions .
Poisulatlon irowib~    1Pr t&to1ta  - A-aa - arIoeth rates of total mdd-                  Pu,prlt,-tece  ratio -  rmry n  secodary - Total etudents earo1l'od In
yaar PpooIatios  Ao-93I07     _70td 1970-f7.                                              prmr   o   euda4ryevel  diide  by  bre of teachers in the  orro-
Pouato  Ioth                   ur~'"ban - Annual grooth rates of urban                sponding levels.
ppltosfor 195-0  1;66-0  no  1970-75.                                             Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to reed and   rite) a
OrsdeOBirth  ate _op.I thousad)   An ..oal lic  birtha per thousand of  id-               .aperorotage of total adult poplatice aged 15 years and Over.
year Popult Io;1   , 1970, and 1977 data.
Crude Death Rate 'Per thosoand) - A_nua  deaths Per thousand If aid-year              CCIPCPIPTICU
~i96IatloFI96lii7, cod 1977 data-                                                PsegrCs(Per thousand Populiation) - Passeoger oars oumprise motorcr
Gros PerdcioBt                rg   ubro  agtr               os   ilha                    seaIng Clean than eight persons; .acludeo sebalances, hearses sod silitary
ia her canarprocd-ti-e period of si  cpriooapr.enet ag-                                 vehicles.
spciiccrtliy        taes; usually flo-pyar scrgos ending ic 1960,                  hadic lociver  (Per thosd popuaio)- All types of rasrsfor radi.
170, and 1975.                                                                         brodcasts to geea   ulcprthousand of popuition; eooludea tliceaned
Faadl  F I-ning - Acc-ptcr-  A-..oa  (thousads) - An-o1  unber of                         receivera in countries and is years she. regiatratiun  of radionesn  Is
accptcro of birbh-cotr-l d-ci-  order  -upi-  of oatio...l fealy                        effect; data for recent yeare Say sot be oomparable s1Ioc   -otoo-rica
plectiog progr-s                                                                        abo1isbed licensiag.
fonly.P1aooolcg - door  (Prcent o4f ourrid oce)- P-rortage of maried                    TV Revrs(per thisuand poessltion) - TV receivers for broadcas t to geaeraI
Ioc   f ch Id -hauin  sgr15    yar   wbo uett-car doic                               psblio per tiousnd PoposIato; eccLudssc  soft....sd Tv rccei-cer n loouatcir
to tll carried  --c cc coe age group.                                                   tad in years  h.. registration of TV Sets ata in effect.
Ff100 All) IIUPlITION                                              leas~~~~~~~W7papec  irculation (per thousand ooj -aloo)- Shoes Ithe sce-e circultIon
ofD  N  NURITOd PrdcitprCpt                           ce   fprcptf "diygeneral ~terst  eespape.r , defior  asapeiodical publication
Indrot-  erCeit(19t9-71-100) -Id.fpe.pi.dented peleorily ts reco.rding genral nvea   It Ic conuidered to be "daily"
anua  produ'tic or all food comdities  Froductis esolodes aced and                      if it a,ppeas at leas.t four times a rec.
feed and itonclcodar yea  bss.  Coossoditiec cccer prlesr7 gocds                      CInem  Annua Attendanc  per Capita per Year - Cased on the  -iui- of ti,ctarl
(e.g.  ..ara. -tasnled of sugar) ohlch are edible aod ocotalo astricot               sldduring the year  Iocluding adminions to drive-in cinemas and mobile
(e.g. cfe  nod, Ir  ar-ccud) Aggregat, prcduotso  of each country                       aita..
ishads atlsi  average prodace  price weights.
rer caPIta supply of colo-s-  Ipe-cct of. rcoireaeata) - Computed from              LA1033  100RCEC
-eargy eqivoIct of act food soppli-o a-ilable is ..untry per capita                 Total Labor Porce (thous ands) - Elcnoically motive Persoos, incaluig arced
per dny.  cA-ilabie  uppli_s coprise do-etic prodctioa, imports lens                  forces and unemployed but  -oclding housewicra  otudests, etc. iDfis.itios-
coot,ad clan cc  in tock.  Net -upplico coo1lde animal feed, seeds,              in varioun countries are sot comparable.
q-antitie  suod is focd p-occ-iag, and loose  In diotrihuiticn. Rlequir-            FITZ!c jpprcent), -FPeale labor force as percentage of tctal labor force.
ocota  -Ie estimated by PAO based oa phyciologic-l n-eda for noAg 9l3ltu(~pgrc5pt( - Labor force in farming , foretry, hunting and
sotiosty nod islb-      osdoifcsorohca  tepre-tur-, body eright.,                     r-igas prcentage of total labor forc..
age nodscdIotribti_soof Ppopoits'-, and aso   10 pro-a-t for                       Industry (percent) - Labor force ie miaiug, oopatruti-n, soufacturiug and
osate at hoocebol le_el                                                               electricity, eater td gan as percentage of total labor force.
fcc  npit suply  Ljtcio [cro-  Per JAy) - Fr-teso coolest  iprPart icipation gate (p:eret) - total sl,adfmle - Participation or
capits net supply of food per doy. Net supply of foso[ is defined as activity rates are computed as tstal, male, and feanlr labor force a- Per-
above. Peqoicc-coto for all I_otrocs catabliohed by CiDA provide for a                 eetages of total, aale and female popslatios of all ages respectively;
ei.inis  alo1-o  ci li gross oif toto1 prtisper dsp sod 20 graeou  of                 i96i, 1970, scd 1975 data.  Th-eseare lIds participation  rates reflecting
anit1 scd p.1cc protris, of ouclh 10 grom  should hr animal protein.                  age-se   tructuc of the ppulatica, and bog time trend.  A Pro estimates
Thes  tstda-do are 10-cr than tboar of 75 graa  of tstal proteis and                  ere fr.. natIonal souroes.
23 cres  of  -sIol protein so to averge for the world, proposed by FAO              Econoic Deedency oatio -  antis cf Population under 15 and 65 and over to
in tIc Third Wcrid FPood du-ocy.                                                       h   ao  force is age group of 15-64 years,
Per capita prttic supply froo  siosI and puloc - Frotria supply of food
de-ivd froc -timals an   ussise sprds.                                            INOM  DISTPIUJTION
Child    Os" 1-si Ibrtalt  RatZe or"thousnd)   - isul staprhoan                         Percentage of Private Income (ht l.   eth   e   hu-  oth In cash and kind) - ReceIved by rioheet
is age grop 1-1 years, to childrens ic this ago group; for mot devel- 5 Peroent, richest 20 peroent, poorest 20 Percent, nod Po..r..t hO p-eret
oPisig -o-t-- Os ots deriv-d fro  iife taies.                                           of households. 
HEALTH                                                                                  POVERTY TAOIST GROUPS
life lpectay at        crs- Averag   noser of ye-r  of life                       Estimated Absolute Pbrrt Inelcom  Leve  (s  perl c"api~ta)f  -uban and rura  -
remalshg at birth; 1901970ad 1977. data.                                                Absolute poverty incom  lee  is that mos   ee   e              hch a micima
infrm  Maortslity hato (Pccth Alota) - Oscl deaths of :nfants under sac                   sutritio..ally adequte diet plu .e.....tial son-food r-qoirceweto i5 oct
ye"  f Me pe, th...-d Ii- bi,th..                                ~~~~~affordable.
Acoc-i to dare Water (orecIn  of popo1atio) -ito~tal,urEban, and rural -                Estimated Rclative Poverty Iscm   ee   0$Per eanita(-ubn                    ua
i-loebe of peopl  (tota, -bhan, and rrl  sihros bl.eacces  to                           Rural relative poverty i.s  levelin us-third of averagepr capIta
ssfc  atrc  -opply ;iso1ndcs treated surfac   atora or sosteated but                    Personal lao-- of the country. Urban 1-ce  is deri-rd  'rom the rural line
.,csin Iose   -ter c-o  as tOht f'rom protected boe        priago,                mith adjustarat for higher o-t of living is urban area..
an   aiay se1o) as per-etsg9s of th-ur r-speoti- populations. Io                 Estimated Popla.tion Relor hbclte Poety Income level              .. (erct' -  rban and
an, oanarea a public foostmls cc standpoot locatedisot acre than                        rurl - Peres  o  ppuatco(uba   ndrua)sereabotepr"
200 meters frn a too-  MoY cc conidered an being sithiR  reasonble
a__s  of that hous-   In rura  arena reasonable access scad imply
thst thIch--ufe Io or acher  of tbe ho-shold do not hav  to upend aEconomic and Coo ia1 Data . sa
diosr-por ti-otr p-t of the dsp io fetching tbe ftodlyl. cater leeds                                                       onob  Analysis and Projections Department
August 1979



ANNEX I
3~cUUVa TM?A                                Page 4 of 5
W PS& Cm  IN 1977: t   150
GNU X&flOWL PUCS IN 1977/17                                                                  haL 5X  W  PAM9 tU. content erico)
______. _t                                       1960/61-1964/65     1965/W-1"96/70    1970/71-1976/77
GNW at Market trice             101.47      100.0                                                  3.9                 3.8                 3.2
Gross Domestic  lnestmnt         21.65       21.3
Gross National Saving            22.77       22.4
Current Account Balace  d/        1.04        1.0
lesnurce 2-lanc    d/           - 0.31        0.3
OUy,j. ULAOR FOR= AN~D ?RCfVI?YMT IN 1971
Value Added (at factor cost)         Laor Fare               V.A. Par Worker
us$ BIn.         S                j.                     I 1S        % of Nattonal Average
Agriculture                       24.5           46.6               130.0     72.1           IUt               64
Industry                          11.8           22.3               20.2      11.2            5e2            I1
Seryice-                          16.3           31.1               30.2      16.7            5U              1"
Intel/avetrag                     52.6          100.0               180.4    100.0            292             lo0
COmw Fixw"                                                     /
qeeral GoVer mat                                            Central C_r  t
1977775197X/  197/7519778  1S7 4 /75-1bn/9
Currant Receipts                 164.42         18.9          18.2                             95.62         11.0           10.5
Current 3zpnditures              157.29         15.1          16.5                             l52           10.9            9.9
Current Suxplua/Deficit            7.13          0.8           1.6                              0.J5         U.S.            0.6
Capital    eadituroa  f/         62.58          7.2           7.0                             43.31          5.0            5.0
Sxternal AsAistence (st)  Al       9.82          1.1           1.6                              9.82          1.1            1.6
MOMI. CRIT AIMD M3CR                1970/71    1973/1    1974/75    1975/76    197617    1977/78        Spteber 1977       S<et_er 197S
(Is B11l1.a matctending at end of period)
osey and Qusi Mony                   121.4      198.4      220.3       254.7      308.9      365.1          334.8            395.8
bak  Credit to Governmt (at)          52.6       57.3       95.3       101.1      110.2      129.7          119.3            139.5
3Bak Credit to Commrcial Sector       64.6      107.0      126.7       153.9      185.1      210.0          195.3            223.5
(Percentage or Index Number)                              Janury 1978       Januarr 1979
Money and Quasi Money as % of CF      30.1       33.5       31.5        34.5       38.8        41.9
Ubolasale Price Index
(1970/71 * 100)                    100.0      139.7      174.9      173.0      176.6       185.8         114.5             184.6
LAnul percentage chang  in:
Wholesale 1ticr index                  7.7       20.2       25.2       - 1.1        2.1         5.2          3.2               0.1
Bank Credit to Govermnt (net)         10.8       12.3        9.2        6.1         9.0        17.7         13.4              16.9
Bank Credit to Commrcial Sector       19.4       22.6       18.4       21.5        20.3        13.5         16.6              14.4
/bs per capita 01W aetimate is At market prcaes, calculated by the convrsion technique used in the lWrld Atlas.
All other convmrsiona to dollars in thia table are at the average exchange rate prevailing derl.s Sle period cowered.
bl Quick 2 tieeteo.
c_  Coputed frm trend line of GW  at factor cost aorie. including one obe4rvation before first year and one
observation after last year of listed period.
d/ World Bank estimates; not aecosarily consistent with official Natinoal Accout Statistics.
at Iransfera betwen Centre and States have been netted out.
ff All loans and advances to third partis hae b-en netted out.
g/ mxternal grants and lo"s, less principal repayments, as recorded in the Central budget.



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
h/         h/
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS            1975/76    1976/77    1977/78    1978/79                 MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1975/76 - 1977/78)
(us$ million)                                                      US$ Mln.        %
Exports of Goods                 4,672      5,753        6,276       6,800              Engineering Goods              610         11
Imports of Goods                -6,449    -5,928        -7,237      -8,400              Tea                            417          7
Trade Balance                    -1,777     - 175        - 961      -1,600              Gems                           377          7
NFS (net)                           310       360          650         700               Clothing                      331          6
Leather and Leather
Resource Balance                -1.467        185        - 311      -  900                       Products              278          5
i,                                                             Jute Manufactures              267         5
Interest Payments (net)          - 216      - 180         - 50          -                Iron Ore                      265          5
Other Factor Payments (nel:)         -         -            -           -               Cotton Textiles                248          4
Net Transfers  J/                  470        730        1,400      1,300                Sugar                         244          4
Others                      2,530         45
Balance on Current Accoun:      -1,213        735        1.039         4o0
Total                       5.567        100
Official Aid
Disbursements                 2,341      1,953        1,628       1,805              EXTERNAL DEBT, MARCH 31. 1978 -
Amortization                  - 531      - 560        - 645       - 725                                                   USS billion
Transactions with IMF               242     - 337        - 330       - 158              Outstanding and Disbursed                14.8
All Other Items                    - 45     - 216          384         205              Undisbursed                               4.3
Outstanding, including
Increase in Reserves (-)         - 794    -1,575        -2,076      -1,527                    Undisbursed                        19.1
Gross Reserves (end year)        2,172      3,747        5,823       7,350                                               h/l/
Net Reserves (end year)  !t/    1,365       3,276        5,668       7,350              DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1977/78           15.0  percent
Fuel and Related Material%                                                               IBRD/IDA LENDING. DECEMBER 31, 1978
Imports                          1,417      1,581        1,817      1,980                                                     US$ million
of which: Petroleum            1,417      1,581        1,817      1,980                                                 IBRD          IDA
Exports                             43         37           33       n.a.               Outstandi-.  -.d Disbursed         613         3,864
of which: Petroleum               22         21           18       n.a.               Undisbursed                        615         1,992
Outstanding, including                 _/
Undisbursed             1,228         5,856
RATE OF EXCHANGE
June 1966 to mid-December 1971           US$1.00 - Rs 7.5
Rs 1.00 = US,5O.133333
Mid-December 1971 to end-June 1972 :  US$1.00 = Rs 7.27927
Rs 1.00 - USjO.137376
After end-June 1972                  :  Floating Rate
Spot Rate end-December 1978          :  US$1.00 = Rs 8.188
US$1.00 = Rs 0.122
h/ Estimated.
i/ Figures given cover all investment income (net). Major payments are interest on foreign loans
and charges paid to IMF, and major receipt is ioterest earned on foreign assets.
j/ Figures given include workers' remittances but exclude official grant assistance, which is
-   included within official aid disbursements.
k/ Excludes net use of IMF credit.
1/ Amortization and interest payments on foreign loans as a percentage of merchandise exports.
m/ Excludes exchange adjustment, but includes us$ 22 million due to third parties.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of lo
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30, 1979)
US$ million 1/
Loan or                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower        Purpose               Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
41 Loans/                                              1,163.2
55 Credits fully disbursed                                     3,338.6
267-IN     1971   India    Wheat Storage              --          5.0      .22
294-IN     1972   India    Bihar Agricultural
Markets                --         14.0      .29
312-IN     1972   India    Population                  --        21.0    1.41
342-IN     1972   India    Education                   --        12.0    6.38
356-IN     1973   India    IDBI I                     --         25.0    8.65
378-IN     1973   India    Karnataka Agricultural
Markets                --          8.0    5.73
390-IN     1973   India    Bombay Water Supply I   --            55.0    9.62
427-IN     1973   India    Calcutta Urban
Development I          --         35.0    1.24
440-IN      1973   India    Bihar Agricultural
Credit                 --         32.0    3.64
456-IN      1974   India    HP Apple Processing
& Marketing            --         13.0    8.44
481-IN      1974   India    Trombay IV Fertilizer   --           50.0      .98
1011-IN     1974   India    Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD 52.0          --      24.20
482-IN      1974   India    Karnataka Dairy            --        30.0   21.55
502-IN     1974   India    Rajasthan Canal CAD        --         83.0   38.54
520-IN     1974   India    Sindri Fertilizer          --         91.0    4.74
521-IN     1974   India    Rajasthan Dairy            --         27.7   17.97
522-IN     1974   India    Madhya Pradesh Dairy    --            16.4    7.36
526-IN     1975   India    Drought Prone Areas        --         35.0   13.59
1079-IN     1975   IFFCO    IFFCO Fertilizer           109.0      --      17.73
1097-IN     1975   ICICI    Industry DFC XI             96.3      --       6.36
532-IN     1975   India    Godavari Barrage
Irrigation             --         45.0   13.58
541-IN     1975   India    West Bengal Agric.
Development            --         34.0   15.68
'562-IN    1975   India    Chambal (Madhya
Pradesh) CAD           --         24.0    9.14
572-IN      1975   India    Rural
Electrification I       --         57.0   24.58
585-IN     1975   India    Uttar Pradesh Water
Supply                --         40.0   26.68
598-IN     1975   India    Fertilizer Industry         --       105.0   67.94
604-IN      1976   India    Power Transmission IV   --          150.0   92.40



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 18
US$ million 1/
Loan or                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No. Year   Borrower         Purpose               Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
609-IN     1976   India    Madhya Pradesh
Forestry T.A.          --         4.0      2.57
610-IN     1976   India    Integrated Cotton
Development            --        18.0    16.06
1251-IN    1976  'India    Andhra Pradesh
Irrigation           145.0        --    119.40
1260-IN      1976   India    IDBI II                  40.0        --      27.25
1273-IN      1976   India    National Seeds I          25.0       --      24.22
1313-IN     1976   India    Telecommunications VI  80.0           --      24.14
1335-IN      1976   India    Bombay Urban Transport 25.0          --      12.99
680-IN     1977   India    Kerala Agric.
Development            --         30.0   29.82
682-IN      1977   India    Orissa Agric.
Development            --         20.0   17.42
685-IN     1977   India    Singrauli Thermal
Power                  --        150.0  123.90
687-IN     1977   India    Madras Urban
Development            --         24.0   17.06
690-IN      1977   India    WB Agric. Exten-
sion & Research        --         12.0   12.00
695-IN     1977   India    Gujarat Fisheries           --         4.0    2.48
1394-IN      1977   India    Gujarat Fisheries          14.0      --      14.00
712-IN     1977   India    Madhya Pradesh
Agric. Dev.            --         10.0    9.73
715-IN     1977   India    ARDC II                     --       200.0   48.32
720-IN     1977   India    Periyar Vaiyar
Irrigation             --         23.0   18.19
728-IN     1977   India    Assam Agricultural
Development            --          8.0    7.34
1473-IN      1977   India    Bombay High Offshore
Development           150.0       --      81.35
736-IN     1977   India    Maharashtra
Irrigation             --         70.0   55.89
737-IN     1977   India    Rajasthan Agricul-
tural Extension        --         13.0   12.09
740-IN     1977   India    Orissa Irrigation           --        58.0   52.72
1475-IN      1977   ICICI    Industry DFC XII           80.0      --      45.10
747-IN     1978   India    Second Foodgrain
Storage                --        107.0   97.88
756-IN     1978   India    Calcutta Urban
Development II         --         87.0   67.92
761-IN     1978   India    Bihar Agric.
Extension &
Research               --          8.0    7.75



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 18
US$ million 1/
Loan or                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No. Year   Borrower         Purpose               Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
1511-IN     1978   India    IDBI Joint/Public
Sector                 25.0       --      25.00
1549-IN     1978   TEC        Third Trombay
Thermal Power         105.0       --      94.38
788-IN     1978   India    Karnataka Irrigation    --           117.6  108.23
793-IN     1978   India    Korba Thermal Power        --        200.0  179.43
806-IN     1978   India    Jammu-Kashmir
Horticulture          --         14.0   14.00
808-IN     1978   India    Guajarat Irrigation         --        85.0   81.15
815-IN     1978   India    Andhra Pradesh
Fisheries              --         17.5   17.50
816-IN     1978   India    National Seeds II          --         16.0   15.99
1592-IN     1978   India    Telecommunications VII 120.0          --      73.00
824-IN     1978   India    National Dairy             --        150.0  147.28
842-IN     1979   India    Bombay Water
Supply II              --        196.0  196.00
843-IN     1979   India    Jaryana Irrigation         --        111.0   97.64
844-IN     1979   India    Railway Modernization
& Maintenance          --        190.0  177.06
848-IN     1979   India    Punjab Water Supply
& Sewerage             --         38.0   36.87
855-IN     1979   India    National Agricultural
Research               --         27.0   27.00
862-IN*    1979   India    Composite Agricultural
Extension              --         25.0   25.00
871-IN     1979   India    NCDC                       --         30.0   27.48
1648-IN     1979   India    Ramagundam Thermal
Power                  50.0       --      50.00
874-IN     1979   India    Ramagundam Thermal
Power                  --        200.0  200.00
889-IN     1979   India    Punjab Irrigation          --        129.0  129.00
899-IN*    1979   India    Maharashtra Water
Supply                 --         48.0   48.00
911-IN*    1979   India    Rural Electrification
Corp. II               --        175.0  175.00
925-IN*    1979   India    Uttar Pradesh Social
Forestry               --         23.0   23.00



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 18
US$ million 1/
Loan or                                                 (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower        Purpose              Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
947-IN*    1979   India    ARDC III                   --        250.0  250.00
1743-IN*    1979   India    Thal Fertilizer           250.0       --    250.00
Total                                  2,529.5   7,234.8
of which has been repaid               960.7       53.0
Total now outstanding                  1,568.8   7,181.8
Amount Sold                    133.3
of which has been repaid   112.2        21.1
Total now held by Bank and IDA         1,547.7   7,181.8
Total undisbursed (excluding *)          639.1   2,454.1
* Not yet. effective.
1/ Prior t.o exchange adjustment.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 18
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1979)
Fiscal                                                     Amount (US$ million)
Year                    Company                         Loan      Equity      Total
1959         Republic Forge Company Ltd.                 1.5        -          1.5
1959         Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.                  0.9        -          0.9
1960         Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                      1.4        -          1.4
1961         K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                           0.2        -          0.2
1963-66      Precision Bearings India Ltd.               0.7        0.3        1.0
1964         Fort Gloser Industries Ltd.                 0.8        0.4        1.2
1964-75-79  Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.               11.8        1.4       13.2
1964         Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.                  1.0        0.3        1.3
1967         Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                     1.0        0.1        1.1
1967         Indian Explosives Ltd.                      8.6        2.9       11.5
1969-70      Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.                  15.1        3.8       18.9
1976         Escorts Limited                             6.6         -         6.6
1978         Housing Development Finance
Corporation                                4.0         1.4        5.2
TOTAL                                53.6       10.4       64.0
Less:  Sold                                   5.9        1.7        7.6
Repaid                               17.0         -        17.0
Cancelled                             6.2        0.7        6.9
Now Held                             24.5        8.0       32.5
Undisbursed                           4.5        0.6        5.1



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 18
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding rea-
sonably weLl. Details on the execution of individual projects are below. The
level of disbursements was UJS$538.3 million in FY79 or 39% of Bank Group com-
mitments to India in that year. The undisbursed pipeline of US$3,093 million
as of September 30, 1979, reflects the lead time which would be expected given
the mix of fast- and slow-disbursing projects in the India program.
Ln. No. 1097   Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100.0 million loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: July 1, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
Ln. No. 1475   Twelfth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$80.0 million loan of July 22, 1977
Effective Date: October 4, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
These loans are supporting industrial development in India through
a well-established development finance company and are designed to finance
the foreign exchange cost of industrial projects. ICICI continues to be a
well-managed and efficient development bank financing medium- and large-scale
industries, which often employ high technology and are export-oriented. Loan
1097 is fully committed and disbursements are slightly ahead of schedule.
Disbursements under Loan 1475 are also ahead of schedule.
Loan No. 1260  Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40.0 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Loan No. 1511  IDBI Joint/FPublic Sector Project; US$25.0 million loan of
March 1, 1978; Effective Date: May 31, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1I83
Loan 1260 is designed to assist the Industrial Development Bank of
India in promoting small- and medium-scale industries and in strengthening the
State Financial Corporations involved.  Loan 1511 is designed to encourage the
pooling of private and pubLic capital in medium-scale joint ventures.  The
project a'Lso assists IDBI in carrying out industrial sector investment studies
and in strengthening the financial institutions dealing with the state joint/
public sector.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 18
Cr. No. 440    Bihar Agricultural Credit Project; US$32.0 million credit
of November 29, 1973; Effective Date: March 29, 1974;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project provides US$32.0 million in support of a lending program
for 50,000 tubewells and pumpsets investment in the Tirhut Division of Bihar.
Because of slow disbursements caused by a lower than estimated Dollar/Rupee
exchange rate and by low unit investment costs compared with appraisal esti-
mates, IDA agreed to extend the closing date to March 1980 and expand the
project area to cover the whole State. Physical targets have now been
achieved and the credit should be fully disbursed by the revised closing
date.
Cr. No. 715    Second Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
(ARDC) Project; US$200.0 million credit of June 1, 1977;
Effective Date: August 24, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
Cr. No. 947    Third Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
(ARDC) Project; US$250.0 million credit of August 20, 1979;
Effective Date: December 7, 1979 (expected);
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Lending to farmers under the Second ARDC Project (Cr. 715) is pro-
ceeding well and the credit is expected to be fully disbursed by the closing
date. The Third ARDC Project (Cr. 947) would continue lending to farmers
upon completion of the second project.
Cr. No. 747    Second Foodgrain Storage Project; US$107.0 million credit of
January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 17, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
As of September, 1979, satisfactory progress was being made in
the construction of bag storage warehouses, despite problems of land acqui-
sition at some sites. However, construction of flat bulk warehouses and
port silos is not expected to be completed until 1985, as a result of delays
in the employment of consultants and the longer time required for the prepa-
ration of technical specifications and tenders and the construction itself.
Cr. No. 456    Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing Project;
US$13.0 million credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:
September 26, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project encountered prolonged initial delays due to managerial
arLd technical problems. These problems have been largely resolved, but con-
struction progress remains slow due to material shortages and severe winter
conditions. Initial packing house operations were undertaken in the last
two seasons with favorable response from farmers. The project is scheduled
for completion by December 1980.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 18
Cr. No. 806    Jammu-Kashmir ]Horticulture Project; US$US$14.0 million credit
of July 17, 1978; Effective Date: January 16, 1979;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1984
The principal executing agency, J&K Horticulture Produce Marketing
and Processing Corporation, is under strong management and rapid progress has
been made in start-up operations with only minor slippage. The project's
research activities, however, are behind the original schedule due to poor
organization,.
Ln. No. 1313   Telecommunications VI Project; US$80.0 million loan
of July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
Ln. No. 1592   Telecommunications VII Project; US$US$120.0 million loan
of June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 30, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
Both projects are progressing satisfactorily, although as of
May, 1979, when they were last reviewed, imports of electronic switching
equipment and local production of electro-mechanical switching equipment
were behind schedule, resulting in a reduced growth rate for the installa-
tion of direct exchange lines. Institutional improvements envisaged under
the projects have been achieved, and the financial situation of the Posts
and Telegraphs Department remains sound.
Cr. No. 481    Trombay IV Fertilizer Expansion Project; US$US$50.0 million
credit of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: August 21, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Cr. No. 520    Sindri Fertilizer Project; US$91.0 million credit of
December 18, 1L974; Effective Date: February 27, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
Ln. No. 1079   IFFCO Fertilizer Project; US$US$109.0 million loan of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: April 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
Cr. No. 598    Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105.0 million credit
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Ln. No. 1743   Thal Fertilizer Project; US$250.0 million loan of August 20,
1979; Effective Date: December 31, 1979 (expected);
Closing Date: November 30, 1984
The Trombay IV project has been commissioned, about 18 months
behind schedule due to longer-than-expected delivery times for critical
equipment, although the nitrophosphate plant is still having some operational



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 18
problems. The Sindri project has also been commissioned and commercial pro-
duction is expected shortly. The IFFCO project was delayed by about a year
as a result of a change in feedstock from fuel oil to naphta and delays in
completion of engineering contracts. However, project construction is now
proceeding satisfactorily and commissioning is expected within the next six
months. Credit 598 is designed to increase the utilization of existing fer-
tilizer production capacity. The project has encountered delays in sub-project
preparation and investment approvals by the Government. Further, some of the
sub-projects identified earlier may not materialize because of reconsideration
by the Central and State governments.  IDA has agreed to a list of sub-projects
to replace the ones that are likely to be dropped. Because of the above, the
project is likely to be delayed by about 18 months.
Cr. No. 294    Bihar Agricultural Markets Project; US$14.0 million credit
of March 29, 1972; Effective Date: July 31, 1972; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
Cr. No. 378    Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project; US$8.0 mil-
lion credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: September 7, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Substantial progress has been achieved in the implementation of
the Bihar project (Credit 294). As of May, 1979, when the project was last
reviewed, construction works had been completed for 29 of the 50 markets
proposed, and were in various stages of cornpletion for the remainder. Addi-
tional investments to provide for more shop-cum-godowns have also been made,
and the construction associated with these is also almost completed. Land
acquisition problems connected with four markets remain to be settled, but
these are not expected to affect the implementation or disbursement schedule.
In the Karnataka project (Credit 378), some delays in project implementation
were encountered as a result of frequent changes in management in the early
stages, and these have necessitated an extension of the closing date by 18
months to June 30, 1981, to allow for completion of works and withdrawal of
the credit. Progress is improving, however. As of May, 1979, construction
on 36 of the 39 markets envisaged under the project was underway or completed,
and trade had shifted to about half of these.  An additional five markets
rmay be included in the project at the request of the State government.
Cr. No. 312    Population Project; US$21.2 million credit of June 14, 1972;
Effective Date: May 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
This credit is designed to finance an experimental and research
oriented population project in Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh.  The project' s
infrastructure, which would provide the optimum facilities (buildings, equip-
ment, staff and transport) according to GOI standards in selected districts
in each state, is virtually complete. The two Population Centers, established
to design and monitor research aimed at improving the family planning program,
are now functioning. The Population Centers are expected to complete their



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 18
evaluation of family planning strategies and the introduction of management
information and evaluation systems by the present closing date.
Cr. No. 342    Agricultural liniversities Project; US$12.0 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
Tlne project involves the development of the agricultural univer-
sities in Assam and Bihar. The primary aim of the AUs project is to improve
the quality and practical triaining of undergraduates and so the spectrum of
their employment opportunities; and to strengthen university structure to
enable it to give an impetus to agricultural and rural development. Consider-
able progress has been made in achieving the latter objective; but achieving
educational objectives is more slowly attainable, constrained by traditional
attitudes and structures where consistent effective leadership falters.
Changes to a more functional orientation are now planned. The Project
Director and others responsible are aware of the constraints and are support-
ing efforts to remove them.
Cr. No. 390    Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date: March 13, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 842    Second Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$196.0
million credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date:
June 12, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Cr. No. 848    Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$38.0 million
credit of October 27, 1978; Effective Date: January 25, 1979,
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 899    Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$48.0 mil-
lion credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: November 9,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Having overcome earlier difficulties, including cost overruns
caused by inflation (requiring project redefinition in February 1975),
redesign of major project components and the addition of a supplementary
study on sewage disposal, Credit 390 is now progressing satisfactorily.
Completion of proposed water treatment works by the end of 1979 is realistic-
ally forecast. Completion of construction of the project sewerage works is
scheduled for mid-1980. Financial performance of the project entity is satis-
factory. Implementation of Credit 842, a second stage of the ongoing Credit
390, is proceeding to schedule. Preliminary work in connection with imple-
mentation of Credit 848 is progressing satisfactorily.



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 18
Cr. No. 585    Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0
million credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date:
February 6, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The Project has had a slow start due to delays in the preparation
of technical reports for regional and local water authorities and in the
engagement of consultants. While improvements have been made in the physical
execution, other aspects of project implementation continue to lag so that
disbursements under the Credit have fallen short of estimates at the time
of appraisal.  In order to improve the situation, arrangements have been
made to closely supervise and coordinate implementation.
Cr. No. 427    Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$35.0 million credit
of September 12, 1973; Effective Date: January 10, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Cr. No. 756    Second Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$87.0 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: April 7, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The first of these credits is expected to be fully disbursed by
December 31, 1979. By that date the project will be substantially complete,
with the exception of one water supply subproject (of a total of seven) and
the area development component, both of which will be completed with State
Government funds and supervised by IDA in conjunction with the supervision
of the Second Calcutta Urban Development Project. The second project is
proceeding quite well in most sectors, in spite of the severe floods of
September 1978 and serious Statewide electric power shortages. Procurement
is generally on schedule for equipment and consultants' services, though some-
what behind for larger civil works contracts. Staff shortages in some of the
implementing agencies continue, although more extensive use of consultants
has to a great degree alleviated this problem.
'Cr. No. 687    Madras Urban Development Project; US$24.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977; Closing
Date: September 30, 1981
Physical progress is generally satisfactory and costs are within
appraisal estimates on most components. However, land acquisition problems
and consequent delays in construction on one of the three sites and service
areas will result in about 15 months delay in the completion of the final
sections of these areas. Inadequate attention and staff has been given to
the financial analysis and marketing strategies required to ensure that anti-
cipated cost recovery in the sites and services and slum upgrading components
and thus replicability is actually achieved. However, there is still ample
time to deal effectively with these problems; technical assistance is being
sought to strengthen financial management and analysis.



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 18
Cr. No. 482    Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30.0 million credit
of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521    Rajasthan Dairy Development Project; US$27.7 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522    Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million
credit of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1982
Cr. No. 824    National Dairy Project; US$150.0 million credit of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date:  December 20, 1978;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1985
These four credits, totalling US$224.1 million, support dairy
development projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy
co-operative scheme in Gujarat State. The Karnataka Project, which got off to
a slow start:, has shown considerable improvement. Farmer response has been
good and more than 700 dairy cooperatives are functioning effectively. All
four dairy inions envisaged under the project have been established and are
functioning satisfactorily. In Madhya Pradesh, the response of small farmers
to the project has been excellent. More than 260 dairy cooperatives societies
have been formed and their financial situation remains most satisfactory,
plant construction is well underway and the Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development
Corporation is now responsibLe for the management of all dairy plants in the
project area. The Rajasthan project is also doing well. Five milk unions
have been formed and excellent progress has been made in servicing the 800
village-level dairy cooperatives.
Cr. No. 532    Godavari Barriage Project; US$45.0 million credit of
March 7, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Both the civil works and equipment tenders have been awarded after
international competitive bidding. Work is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1011   Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52.0
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 502    Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83.0
million credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date:
December 12, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 562    Chambal (Madbhya Pradesh) Command Area Development Project;
US$24.0 million credit of June 20, 1975; Effective Date:
September 18, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979



ANNEX II
Page 13 of18
Ln. No. 1251   Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)          Composite Project; US$145.0 million loan (Third Window)
of June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 720    Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23.0 million
credit of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30,
1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 736    Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$70.0 million credit of
October 11, 1977; Effective Date:  January 13, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 740    Orissa Irrigation Project; US$58.0 million of October 11,
1977; Effective Date: January 16, 1978; Closing Date:
October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 788    Karnataka Irrigation Project; US$126.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 10, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984
Cr. No. 808    Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$85.0 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 843    Haryana Irrigation Project; US$111.0 million credit of
August 16, 1978; Effective Date: December 14, 1978;
Closing Date: August 31, 1983
Cr. No. 889    Punjab Irrigation Project; US$120.0 million credit of
March 30, 1979; Effective Date: June 20, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructure, drainage, and land shaping are
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads. Progress of these projects
is generally satisfactory with the exception of the Nagarjunasagar compo-
nent of Loan 1251 where water losses have proven higher than anticipated.
Specific efforts are underway to redesign this project so that it can
achieve its original objectives.



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 18
Cr. No. 541    West Bengal Agricultural Development Project; US$34.0 million
credit of April 28, 1975; Effective Date:  August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The progress of sha'Llow tubewells is well ahead of the appraisal
schedule, but progress in all other areas is slow. The project will not
fully disburse by the closing date, and GOI's request for an extension is
expected.
Cr. No. 682    Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20.0 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 690    West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
August 30, 1977; Closing Date:  September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 712    Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 2, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 728    Assam Agricultural Development Project; US$8.0 million credit
of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 737    Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$13.0 million credit of November 14, 1977; Effective
Date:  February 6, 1978;  Closing Date:  June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 761    Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$8.0
million credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 2,
1978; Closing Date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 862    Composite Agricultural Extension Project, US$25.0 million
credit of February 16, 1979; Effective Date (expected):
December 14, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
T'hese seven credits finance the reorganization and strengthening
of agricultural extension services and the development of adaptive research
capabilities in nine States in India. In areas where the reformed extension
system is in full operation, field results have been very good, both in terms
of adoption of new agricultural techniques and of increased crop yields.  In
Rajasthan, Assam, and Orissa, in particular, significant gains have been made
under the projects. In West. Bengal, where a change in government brought a
review of the organizational. principles underlying the new extension system
and an accompanying hiatus in project implementation, a recent Cabinet deci-
sion has reaffirmed the Stat:e Government's commitment to the project and
revised implementation plans are under preparation. In Bihar and Madhya
Pradesh, staff shortages, particularly in supervisory and managerial posts,
have hampered project implementation, although progress in areas where



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 18
regular extension visits are being made attests to the efficacy of the
system itself. Finally, in Gujarat, Haryana and Karnataka, all covered
under the Composite Agricultural Extension Project (which is not yet effec-
tive), project implementation is still in the very early stages, although
important early administrative and financial steps have been taken which
should pave the way for effective operation of the reorganized extension
system.
Cr. No. 855    National Agriculture Research Project; US$27.0 million
credit of December 7, 1978; Effective Date: January 22,
1979; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
While the initial sanctioning of research subprojects under this
project was somewhat slower than expected, due to staff shortages in the
Project Unit, the pace has picked up considerably in recent months. Commit-
ment of funds to research subprojects in FY80 is expected to meet or even
exceed appraisal estimates, although corresponding disbursements may lag
somewhat behind the original estimates. Additions to the staff of the
Project Unit are being recommended to expedite further progress under the
project.
Cr. No. 526    Drought Prone Areas Project; US$35.0 million credit of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Overall progress of this project continues to be satisfactory.
Implementation of most components is proceeding well. Dairying and dryland
farming components show particular promise for the drought-prone areas.
Cr. No. 680    Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30.0 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Project implementation started slowly due to initial staffing and
funding delays. The project has now gained momentum and the planting opera-
tions, which were one season behind original schedule, have been rephased
to make up for lost time.
Cr. No. 871    National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) Project;
US$30.0 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 3, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
As of October, 1979, when the project was last reviewed, construc-
tion of godowns had begun in the three participating States of Haryana, Orissa,
and Uttar Pradesh. Consultants were being recruited to assist NCDC and State
Cooperative Banks in strengthening their institutions. Initial project
preparations have been completed on schedule; disbursements are therefore
expected to follow the appraisal targets.



ANNEX II
Page 16 of 18
Cr. No. 844    Railway Modernization and Maintenance Project; US$190.0 mil-
lion credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date:
January 10, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Credit 844 was designed to help the Indian Railways reduce manu-
facturing and maintenance costs of locomotives and rolling stock and to
improve their performance and availability.  The project is still at an
early stage of implementation but is progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 609    Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
EUS$4.0 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective
Date:  May 17, 1976; Closing Date:  December 31, 1981
A feasibility study financed under this Credit and completed in
November 1979 has recommended the establishment of two mills, one for sawn-
wood and ene for pulp, as the basis of the development of a forest-based
industry in Bastar district.
Cr. No. 925    Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry Project; US$23.0 million
credit of June 21, 1979; (expected) Effective Date:
January 20, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
This project was designed to expand the social forestry program
in Uttar E'radesh, to providle a source of energy to the villages, and supply
raw materials to cottage industries. The project provides for large-scale
tree plant:ation on 48,600 ha of public and village lands, primarily along
roads, rails and canals, and on village common lands and degraded forest
reserves.
Cr. No. 6L0    Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18.0 million
credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project's progress remained very disappointing in all areas
until the 1978 season, resulting in negligible disbursements. Due to renewed
interests from GOI and the States, the project has now started to progress
well. Short-term credits are increasing significantly, new processing units
are being established in Haryana and Maharashtra, and plant protection
activities have started progressing well.
Ln. No. 1273   National Seed Project; US$25.0 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 816    Second National Seed Project; US$16.0 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date:  December 20, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
These projects were designed to increase the availability of high
quality agricultural seed, and cover nine States (four by Ln. 1273-IN and
five by CR. 816-IN). The first project started slowly due to organizational



ANNEX II
Page 17 of 18
difficulties and is almost two years behind schedule. Progress in the second
project States is satisfactory. The role of various organizations (National
and State) in the production and processing of seed is being reviewed.
Ln. No. 1335   Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25.0 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The bus procurement program supported by the project has proceeded
on schedule, with all 700 bus chassis and bodies having been ordered and 589
already in service. Total fleet strength has increased from 1,530 buses at
the inception of the project to 1,900 buses in September 1979, in accordance
with appraisal estimates. Depot capacity expansion is lagging somewhat behind
fleet expansion, but should match fleet size by early 1980. However, delays
in construction of new workshop facilities have been more substantial and will
not be fully recoverable. Traffic management civil works are also somewhat
behind schedule, although efforts are being made to speed up the works program.
Ln. No. 1394   Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14.0 million loan and US$4.0
(TW) and        million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 695    July 19, 1977; Closing Date:  June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 815    Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Project; US$17.5 million credit
ofJune 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1984
In Gujarat, harbor construction at Mangrol and Veraval are under
way, and although some delays have been encountered, the project is progress-
ing satisfactorily and no major problems are evident. In Andhra Pradesh,
preliminary work on implementation is progressing satisfactorily, and harbor
works at Visakhapatnam and Kakinada are scheduled to commence shortly.
Cr. No. 685    Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 793    Korba Thermal Power Project; US$200.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 14, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1985
Ln. No. 1549   Third Trombay Thermal Power Project; US$105.0 million loan
of June 19, 1978; Effective Date: February 8, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
Ln. No. 1648   Ramagundam Thermal Power Project; US$50.0 million loan and
and Cr.         US$200 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
No. 874         May 22, 1979; Closing Date:  December 31, 1985



ANNEX II
Page 18 of 18
Cr. No. 604    Power Transmission IV Project; US$150 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date:  October 22, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Credit 685 assists in financing the first stage of the 2,000 MW
Singrauli development which is the first of four power stations in the
Government's program for the development of large central thermal power
stations feeding power into an interconnected grid.  The second such
station, at Korba, is being financed under Credit 793. The National Thermal
Power Corporation (NTPC) has been carrying out construction and operation
of these power stations. Organization and staffing of NTPC is proceeding
satisfactorily. Loan 1549 is supporting the construction of a 500 MW
extension of the Tata Electric Companies' station, in order to help meet
the forecast load growth in the Bombay area. Loan 1648 and Credit 874 sup-
port the construction of the first three 200 MW generating units in Andhra
Pradesh together with related facilities and associated transmission. All
these large-scale thermal power projects are progressing satisfactorily.
Under Credit 604, contracts aggregating about US$114 million have been ap-
proved to date. Although this project suffered delays in preparation of
technical specifications and evaluation of bids for highly sophisticated
equipment, the project is now progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 57'2   Rural Electrification Project; US$57.0 million credit of
July 23, 1975; Effective Date: October 23, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
Cr. No. 911    Rural Electrification Corporation II Project; US$175.0
million credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: October 17,
1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1984
Credit 572 consists of a tranche of rural electrification schemes
which would cover about 140 rural electrification schemes. There are now
thirteen State Electricity Boards (SEBs) eligible for onlending, compared
with six at the time of appraisal. The project got off to a slow start, due
principally to the need to adapt the specifications and tendering procedures
to international competitive bidding, but the position has improved and the
full amount of the Credit has been committed. Credit 911 would provide con-
tinued support to the Rural Electrification Corporation's lending program,
and help finance about 1,700 rural electrification schemes in fourteen SEBs,
including the newly participating Uttar Pradesh SEB. The project is at an
early stage of implementation, and preparation of bid specifications is
progressing satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1473   Bombay High Offshore Development Project; US$150.0 million
loan of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: October 20, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project is progressing satisfactorily. Gas and oil pipelines
from Bombay High to shore were commissioned in June 1978. Most contracts for
Phase II-[ of Bombay High dlevelopment have been laid, construction should be
completed by mid-1980 and the loan should be fully disbursed by its original
closing date.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
GUJARAT COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
10 months.
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
Government of Gujarat, with assistance from FAO/CP.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and date of
first mission to consider the project
February 1978 and May 1978.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
March 5, 1979.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
October 19, 1979.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
March 1980.
Section II:    Special IDA Implementation Action
None
Section III:   Special Conditions
(a) GOG to ensure that participating villages assume
responsibility for establishment, maintenance and
harvesting of 9,200 ha of village woodlots (para 43).
(b) GOG to prepare and furnish model contracts by
June 30, 1980 (para 44);
(c) GOG to provide adequate facilities to full-time
laborers (para 45);



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(d) GOG to take fuelwood conservation measures
(para 49);
(e) GOG to submit a research program by September 30,
1980 (para 50);
(f) GOG to make certain organizational arrangements
by specified dates (paras 52 and 54);
(g) GOG to prepare proposals for sharing forest
produce and revenue by June 30, 1980 (para 55).






IBRD 14323
7O                  l                                                                                                                            75                            JUNE 1979
25\                                                                                                                                                                                                            INDIA                                      25
4 } a  y                                           GUJARAT COMMUNITY FORESTRY
P  A  K  I  S  T  A  N                                                 ,!&A.  ~<<PROJECT
IS'\ $. .E5 _.    a                                []    PROPOSED COMMUNITY FORESTRY WORKSHOPS
*     PROPOSED FOREST RESEARCH AND SEED CENTERS
COMMUNITY FORESTRY DIVISION BOUNDARIES
.0~                        ,.A                                         E                                      - - - - --        * OFOREST CIRCLE BOUNDARIES
/ i' -v                      Th.,S".           ' LXA                               COMMUNITY FORESTRY DIVISION HEADQUARTERS
-'                                                          0    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COMMUNITY FORESTRY CIRCLE HEADOUARTERS
~'& t               /--                                         .          p  A  .   -l   0     A  N  P    -<. -U  R                                    D                                        + COMMUNITY FORESTRY STATE ISEADQUARTERS
S   U   MahesonaA         A                                                            COMMUNITY FORESTRY TRAINING CENTERS
H~~~motsago  S                              R~~~~~~~~IiVERS
Bhu                                   .'                                                 0.-                              .                                 RANN OF KUTCH
* Bb0                                                                            .              ,               _ _,  _ <, _ > k X     _ s rTATE BOUNDARIES
~~                             '$-'   A. ~~~~~~~~~~ ->                     Ls..~~~~~~~~~,7 ~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
KLI"h               A                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Godhro
;' ~ ~ ;~ ~ ~  5   Surendranagar                           A                       A
GUT      /                   SoreodEosogoF                       ~~~~~~       ~ ~~Nodiod  B
, Jamnagar   5                                                                                                                                                          I
/   Ralkot              I,                     'fVododoro
'  r                                                             K 0,:      - S U  RAT A T
R DO'A.I v 'r5                                    T                  -                                                                                                 -540R
A       )      Bhavnagor                  BhoruchA                                                                            KILOMETERS
-- ) ...... .. v--\ xrNtAmreliI     Rpil 
,;>7                                 .            Junogodh       t            0-    l                                                    -                 -'0o t =                              750
&  (                                             Kokrop5r           /                                     ,-~~,,  ~>o~         .,O,KakrO UO&S,O.
,1 tn                                               N '                                                                                         H I N A
'             t .  N  .                                                                                 PAKISTAN   ,                       HUA
D/U                  0(           0 :;;t ~~~~~~ ~~~Valscid  sl '.-       t9_ 1Glo 
; kb4*I/Z                 1                                                .         i         ;  ; )INDIA
200                                                                                                                                                                                                  20'-
Thl, m p 10 BoOn poooo,odOy 0,0 Wmfd BonEs 6- 1 S ,ffm,oo1)/ foS oo,onf)n..
d   eeJ f A ssft whAth  -ti aahed. Th d--mmamq -0 Id dSe!r                                                                                                                                                    ,\
1)oon0ouit s Eoo on o'hi, -dPf(o do loop/p yoINofp/o4plI). - R.hW     .' -od 000
.taw- -Vmdg.-,- fh. /WI ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r- a ~~~~~~~~~~y  -y -d--,~~~~~~~~SI APR



