Document of
The World Bank                                  pv
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
-lz  9l S  /  SReport No. 2601a-IN
INDIA
STAFF PROJECT REPORT
APPRAISAL OF THE
GUJARAT COMMUNITY FORESTRY PRO.
November 20, 1979
South Asia Project Department
Agriculture E Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00   =   Rupees (Rs) 8.60 1/
WEIGHTS AN0D MEASURES
Metric. System
FISCAL YEAR
GOI, GOG and Agenicies: April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
ACF            =    Assistant Conservator of Forests
Addl. CCF      =    Additional Chief Conservator of Forests
CCF            =    Chief Conservator of Forests
CF             =    Conservator of Forests
CU             =    Communications Unit(s)
CFW            -    Community Forestry Wing
DCF            =    Deputy Conservator of Forests
DDO            =    District Development Officer(s)
DFC            =    District Forest Committee
EC             =    Evaluation Cell
EF             =    Extension Forester(s)
ER             =    Extension Ranger(s)
FE             =    Fuelwood Equivalent
FLCS           =    Forest Labor Cooperative Societies
GFD            =    Gujarat Forest Department
GOG            =    Government of Gujarat
GOI            =    Government of India
GSFDC          =    Gujarat Stat:e Forest Development Corporation
ICB            =    International Competitive Bidding
KVIC           -    Khadi and Village Industries Commission
LCB            =    Local Compet:itive Bidding
MU             =    Monitoring Unit
NPV            -    Net Present Value
PA             =    Protection Assistant
PWD            =    Public Works Department
ROR            =    Rate of Return
SCF            =    Standard Conversion Factor
TDO            -    Taluka Development Officer
1/   Until September 24, 1975, the Rupee was officially valued at a fixed
Pound Sterling rate. Since then it has been fixed against a "basket"
of currencies. As these currencies are floating, the US Dollar/Rupee
e-.change rate is subject to changes  Con-viersions in this report have
been made at US$1 to Rs 8.60.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
GUJARAT COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    BACKGROUND .........................................                  1
A.    Forestry in India .............................                 1
Sectoral Context  ..... ..............                       1
Bank Group Role in the Sector ...............                1
B.    The State of Gujarat ..... .............                        2
General ......................                               2
Panchayat System ............................                3
Present Consumption of Energy ...............                3
C.    Forestry in Gujarat ...........................                 4
Environmental Conditions and Forest Types ...                4
Contribution of Forests to the Economy    ......             6
Forestry Institutions ................                       7
Forestry Programs ..... .............                        8
Community Forestry  ..... ............                       8
1II    THE PROJECT.9
1.   TEPOET........................................                         9
A.    General          ........................... .                  9
General Description .........................                9
Project Phasing .............................               10
Project Area ................................               11
B.    Detailed Features  .............................               12
Village Woodlots ............................               12
Operating Procedures ........................               13
Reforestation of Degraded Forest ....            ........    14
Afforestation of Private Agricultural Lands..    14
Strip Plantations  ...........................              15
Farm Forestry ...............................               15
Plantation Design and Establishment  .... .....    15
Nurseries  .................................              17
Plantation Maintenance  .....           ...............    17
Plantation Protection .....            ................    17
This report is based on the findings of a Bank mission which visited
India in March 1979, comprised of: Messrs. R. D. H. Rowe, P. Dax,
J. H. Lindt, Jr. and Mrs. I. Girardot-Berg (IDA); and Messrs. C.W. Holloway
and R. Noronha (Consultants). Assistance was also provided by Mr. C.P.R.
Nottidge and Ms. L. Lassen (IDA).
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Page No.
Conservation  of Fuelwood Supplies  ....               .......     18
Introduction of More Efficient Wood Burning
Stoves  ........          ..........................         18
Introduction of Improved Cremation
Facilities  .......           .......................        18
Research  ..........           ..........................          19
Project  Implementation  .....              .................      19
Hiousing and Transportation  for Staff  .... ....                  20
Expansion of Training Facilities  ....                ........     22
Fellowships  ........            .........................         22
Monitoring  and Evaluation  .....               ..............     22
III.    COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING  .......................                        23
A.    Cost Estimates  ................................                      23
B.    Proposed Financing  ............................                      24
C.    Procurement  ...................................                      24
D.    Disbursements  and Audits  ......................                     25
IV.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  ........................                        26
Community Forestry Wing  ............................                       26
Project  Coordination  ...............................                      27
Inservice Training  .................................                       28
Preserv:ice Training  ................................                      28
Assistant Conservator of Forests  (ACF)  .... ....                   29
Extension Rangers  (ER)  ........................                    29
Extension Foresters  (EF)  ......................                    29
Protection Assistants  (PA)  ....................                    29
Monitoring and Evaluation  ..........................                       29
Public  Information  .................................                      30
V.    PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND FINANCIAL RESULTS  ....                   ....     30
Yields  and Production  ..............................                      30
Sharing of Produce  between Villagers  ....                  ...........    31
Cost Recovery  ......................................                       33
VI.    BENEFITS,  JUSTIFICATION AND  RISKS  ..................                      33
Benefits  ...........................................                       33
Fuelwood, Small Timber and Other Forest Produce                      34
Conservation of Fuelwood  ......................                     34
Employment ....................................                      34
Envrironment ...................................                     34
Economic Rate  of Return  ............................                      35
Efficiency Pricing  .............................                      35
Economic Net Present Value  .....................                      37



- iii. -
Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Page No.
Economic Analysis of the Introduction of Wood
Saving Cremation Units ...........................   37
Project  Risks   ......................................   37
VII.   RECOMMENDATIONS ....................................   38
LIST OF ANNEXES
l    Project Models, Species and Yields
T-l   Comparison of Plantation Models - Designs,
Establishment and Maintenance
T-2   Plantation Planning Targets
T-3   Comparison of Plantation Models - Yields
T-4   Properties and Uses of Trees and Other Species in the Project
T-5   Plantation Model I - Roadside Saurashtra and Kutch
T-6   Plantation Model II - Roadside Mainland Gujarat
T-7   Plantation Model III - Railside Saurashtra and Kutch
T-8   Plantation Model IV - Railside Mainland Gujarat
T-9   Plantation Model V - Canalside
T-1O  Plantation Model VI - Village Woodlot (Irrigated)
Whole of Gujarat
T-ll  Plantation Model VII - Village Woodlot (Rainfed)
Saurashtra and Kutch
T-12  Plantation Model VIII - Village Woodlot (Rainfed) Mainland
Gujarat
T-13  Plantation Model IX - Reforestation of Degraded Forests
Panch Mahals, Bharuch, Vadodara, Valsad
T-14  Plantation Model X - Afforestation of Private Land
Dangs District
2    Project Approval, Procurement, Disbursement and Audit
3    Financial Analysis and Cost Recovery
T-l   Financial Costs and Returns to GOG
T-2   Cost Recovery - Model VI - Village Woodlot (Irrigated) Whole
of Gujarat
T-3   Cost Recovery - Model VII - Village Woodlot Saurashtra & Kutch
T-4   Cost Recovery - Model VIII - Village Woodlot Mainland Gujarat
4    Economic Analysis
T-l   Economic Analysis - Results
T-2   Sensitivity Analysis
T-3   Costs and Benefits Streams at Market Prices
T-4   Costs and Benefit Streams at Efficiency Prices
T-5   Project Output
T-6   Financial and Economic Prices
T-7   Estimate of Fuelwood Price
T-8   Benefits and Justification - Wood Saving Units



- i.v -
Table of Contents (Cont'd)
5    Schedule of Estimated IDA Disbursements
6    Implementation Schedule
7    Project Costs and Charts
T-l   Summary Project Costs
T-2   Project Organization - Staff and Other Operating Costs
T-3   Project Organization - Building, Housing, Vehicle and
Equipment Costs
T-4   Training and Fellowship Costs
T-5   Research and Seed Testing Costs
T-6   Planting Costs
T-7   Stoves and Crematoria Costs
T-8   Monitoring and Evaluation Costs
Chart 20400 Proposed Organization Chart
Chart 20399  Organization Chart:  Community Forestry Field Staff
Chart 20398 Funding, Planning and Implementation Linkages for
Village Woodlots
8    Reference Material Available in South Asia Regional Information
Center and in Project File
MAPS
IBRD 14322   General Map of Forest Reserves
IBRD 14323   Gujarat Forestry Service



INDIA
GUJARAT COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Forestry in India
Sectoral Context
1.01      India's forests account for 23% of the total land area and cover
some 75 M ha. Domestic roundwood requirements by the year 2000 are projected
to be nearly 290 M m3 (fuelwood 225 M m3 and industrial roundwood 65 M m3).
Continuation of existing plantation programs should ensure the supply of
industrial hardwood and about half of the coniferous roundwood demand. Re-
garding fuelwood, on the assumption that 150 M m3 continues to be supplied
from existing resources, provision will have to be made for an additional
75 M m3 by the year 2000. This would require an annual planting program of
some 450,000 ha, but in terms of availability of both land and financial
resources, this target cannot be achieved. Plantings of 225,000 ha annually
over the 1980s would be a more realistic target.
1.02      India's strategy for forestry development thus reflects two
priorities: firstly, to develop production forestry programs to supply the
growing needs of the domestic wood products industry (particularly pulp and
paper) and, secondly, through community forestry programs to supply fuelwood,
fodder, small timber and minor forest produce to the rural population. En-
compassing both objectives is recognition of the vital role forestry plays
in soil and water conservation. In order to carry out this strategy, the
National Commission on Agriculture (1976) recommended that each state reorga-
nize its Forest Department into two separate wings, one to remain in charge
of traditional production forestry and wildlife activities, while a new wing
would be created to develop community forests. The Forest Departments of
Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh states were the first to create community forestry
wings.
Bank Group Role in the Sector
1.03      The Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project (Credit
609-IN) is the initial phase of a major project aimed at the establishment
of a forest-based industry in Bastar District. The recently completed feasi-
bility study (November 1979), financed under the Credit, has recommended the
establishment of an integrated industrial complex with one mill producing
sawnwood and a pulp mill producing kraft pulp to supply a printing and writing
paper mill. The Kandi Watershed and Area Development Project (appraised in
1978) involves reforestation and pasture development over some 18,000 ha of
Punjab's Siwalik Hills. It is expected to be presented to the Board later
this fiscal year.



-2 -
1.04      In early 1978, in recognition of the need to expand community
forestry activities, Government of India (GOI) and the Bank agreed to examine
the possibilities of developing projects in Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh. The
Uttar Pradesh Project was appraised in November 1978 and a Credit for US$23 M
approved in June 1979.
B.   The State of Gujarat
General
1.05      The State of Gujarat, with an area of 19.6 M ha, has a population
of about 31.5 M (1978), increasing by about 2.6% per year, of which 72% live
in rural areas. Although relatively urbanized and, by Indian standards,
highly industrial]ized, agriculture and allied activities still contribute 36%
of the net domestic product of the state.
1.06      As a result of ecological differences and socio-cultural factors,
there are large variations in the incidence of poverty between regions and
different segments of the population. A significant percentage of the pop-
ulation belongs to traditionally disadvantaged groups:  scheduled tribes
(14%) and scheduled castes (7%). The tribal population is concentrated in
the hilly, forested eastern region of the State and scheduled castes are
dispersed throughout the State. The labor force constitutes 31% of the
total population.
1.07      Gujarat has nearly 18,300 villages of 1,050 people on average;
35% of villages, however, have populations of less than 500 persons. Tradi-
tional patron-client relationships between castes in villages are breaking
down and today many services, such as land preparation and planting, are paid
for in cash.
1.08      Livestock form an integral part of village life; a household
possesses on average either two cattle or buffalo which provide milk, draught
power, manure, and dung cake for cooking. Cattle and buffalo generally graze
village commons and neighboring waste lands of which there are an estimated
5.8 M ha throughout the state. Apart from grazing, the diets of cattle and
buffalo are supplemented by cut grass, leaves of fodder trees, and crop
stubble and residues.
1.09      Forest lands are under increasing pressure as population growth
necessitates more intensive cultivation and a search for new lands for grazing
and growing crops. The position has been exacerbated by distributing land to
the landless and granting homesteads t:o tribal people who have cleared and
cultivated forest areas. In addition,, increased cattle and buffalo popula-
tions have resulted in overgrazing of village commons and over exploitation
of fodder from forest areas.



-3-
Panchayat System
1.10      Since April 1963, Gujarat has followed a policy of gradual trans-
fer of administrative powers to panchayats (i.e. elective corporate bodies at
the village, taluka (subdistrict),.and district levels) (see Project File,
Item 3). Provision is made at all levels for representation of women, sched-
uled castes and tribes. At the taluka and district levels, members of the
legislative assembly and of parliament, and the chief revenue officer are also
represented. There are 12,000 village, 82 taluka, and 19 district panchayats
in the State.
1.11      The scope of activities that panchayats can undertake is wide and
covers almost every activity that falls within the rubric of rural development.
Panchayats, operating through existing production committees, can make provi-
sion for the development, maintenance, and regulation of grazing lands,
pastures, village woodlots, and the storage of grass. Pursuant to this, the
State has vested the control of grazing and waste lands contiguous to villages
in village panchayats. The State is also empowered, under the Indian Forest
Act, to assign reserved or protected forests to village panchayats.
1.12      The State provides administrative assistance to panchayats through
transferred officials, and officials on deputation. Village panchayat funds
are few and are obtained from cesses, tax refunds from the State, State loans
and grants, and from villagers themselves. The average total annual income
is about Rs 8,200 (approximately US$953) and an estimated 80% of village
panchayats have incomes below the average. Taluka panchayats disburse funds
to village panchayats. All accounts are audited annually by the Examiner,
Local Funds Department.
1.13      Generally, the performance of panchayats has been satisfactory ex-
cept that the audits are often delayed--the result of staff shortages in the
Local Funds Department. The major constraint under which panchayats operate
is the low level of finances, most of which are spent on administration and
priority matters for development (agriculture, water, roads).
Present Consumption of Energy
1.14      In 1972 an estimated 4.46 M m ton of fuelwood, 1.06 M m ton of dried
dung cake and 0.16 M m ton of charcoal were consumed in Gujarat (Project File,
Item 1), equivalent to 165 kg of wood, 40 kg of dung cake and 6 kg of charcoal
per head. In terms of fuelwood equivalent, this amounts to 0.26 m3/person/
year, close to the national average of 0.28 m3 and would require the annual
felling of some 110,000 ha of fuelwood plantations.
1.15      The costs of using dung cake for fuel, instead of using it as an
organic manure to increase agricultural production, are high. In 1972, on the
above figures, almost 10% of the total cow dung produced was burned. Assuming
an application of 5 m ton/ha, this dung could fertilize 0.2 M ha and increase
yields by some 3 quintals of food crops/ha. Thus, in terms of food production
foregone, the annual loss amounts to about 60,000 m tons of foodgrains.



-.4-
1.16      In 1972 fuelwood and dung cakes accounted for 84% of the energy
requirements of rural households. Kerosene, coal, charcoal, and soft coke
made up the balance.  It is rare to find, electricity or gas being used for
cooking and lighting in rural areas. Cooking is done on open fires or on
small, open stoves made of clay and sand. (chulahs) which burn at very low
thermal efficiency. Stoves are normally located at floor level and con-
structed without chimneys. Although attempts have been made in the past
by the Khadi and Village Industries Commission (KVIC), various government
departments and voluntary organizations to introduce smokeless and more
efficient stoves, success has been limited because none of the above entities
have had sufficient staff to demonstrate how they should be used or to make
locally acceptable improvements.
1.17      In rural areas, it is estimated that about 80% of domestic fuel is
collected free by women and children whc, spend up to three hours a day in
search of firewood, cattle dung and crop wastes. However, in some of the
larger, more prosperous villages small quantities of fuelwood are bought at
prices which range from Rs 250 to Rs 300C/m ton. Fuelwood prices range from
Rs 250/m ton (Palanpur) in areas close to forest reserves, to as much as
Rs 500/m ton (Rajkot) in the arid, treeless areas of Saurashtra and Kutch.
In Vadodara the 1979 price of fuelwood has more than doubled since 1965 when
it was Rs 120/m ton.  Cow dung cake prices range from Rs 110/m ton in Surat
to Rs 200/m ton in Ahmadabad.
1.18      Statewide consumption of fuelwood for cremation purposes is pres-
ently estimated at about 140,000 m ton annually, costing some Rs 35 M.
C. Forestry in Gujarat
Environmental Conditions and Forest Types
1.19      Gujarat State divides naturally into two principal regions:  main-
land Gujarat, in the east, and the Saurashtra-Kutch peninsula, in the west
(see Map IBRD 14322). Mainland Gujarat consists of alluvial plains and its
eastern border is formed by hill ranges with altitudes of 300-700 m. The
Saurashtra peninsula is an area of low hills (75-100 m altitude) that is
joined to the mainland by a neck of low-lying land. Kutch adjoins Saurashtra
to the north and is an undulating, dry rocky region with the Rann of Kutch, a
vast expanse of arid, saline mudflats, occupying most of its northern and
southeastern areas.
1.20      There are three climatic seasons:  winter (November-February),
summer (March-June) and the monsoon (July-September). Temperature changes
can be extreme, especially in the arid north and northwest, ranging from
around 10C in winter to around 450C in summer. Annual rainfall declines
quite sharply from southeast to northwest, and ranges from 1,000-2,000 mm on
the southern mainland to 200-400 mm over most of Kutch (see Map IBRD 14322).



-5-
1.21      The forests of Gujarat may be grouped into four major types:
(i) moist deciduous forests found in the southernmost dis-
tricts of the mainland (Surat, Valsad and Dangs) which
form the State's major source of commercial timber
(Tectona grandis, Adina cordifolia, Dalbergia sisooo,
Terminalia crenulata) and bamboos (Bambusa bambos and
Dendrocalamus strictus);
(ii)  dry mixed deciduous forests of the central mainland and
those parts of Saurashtra with moderate rainfall (600-
800 mm/anrum). Tree species are similar to the moist
forest type but growth and quality are poorer;
(iii) dry scrub forests located in northern and western
regions of the State and include Acacia spp.,
Anogeissus latifolia, Azadirachta indica, Erythrina
suberosa and Zizyphus spp.; thorny shrubs are frequent
and trees are used primarily for fuelwood; bamboo
(D. strictus) occurs only in hilly areas; and
(iv)  mangrove forests confined to the sea coast; the main
species is Avicennia officinalis, which is of inferior
quality and used mainly as fuel.
1.22      All inland forest types, except in the most arid areas, are charac-
terized by considerable diversity of species. This contributes markedly to
the biological efficiency and stability (against climatic fluctuations and
insect or disease outbreaks) of the forest.
1.23      Virtually all forest areas within Gujarat are owned by the State
and managed by the Forest Department (GFD) (See Map IBRD 14322). The total
area now administered by GFD covers 1.96 M ha, divided into reserved (61.7%),
protected (5.9%) and unclassed (32.4%) forest. Thus, only 10% of the State's
geographical area is forest covered. Barren, uncultivable lands and grazing
areas comprise some 5.8 M ha.
1.24      This deficiency in forest resources is more acute than comparisons
suggest. Firstly, the distribution of the resource is uneven, substantial
blocks of forest being confined to hill areas along the eastern border
of mainland Gujarat and in the southern and western areas of Saurashtra.
Secondly, productivity of more than half the forest estate is low, either
because of aridity and low soil fertility or because of past degradation
through illegal felling, overgrazing and burning. An understanding of forest
conservation is lacking in most sectors of the community as, traditionally,
the forest has been regarded as an apparently inexhaustible supply of free
produce and as a reservoir of land for alternative uses. Over the past two
decades GFD has expended considerable effort to improve productivity by forest
rehabilitation, improved management and greater control of illegal degradation.



- 6 -
Since 1969 GFD has also embarked on a program of community forestry designed
to increase local awareness of the need to replace forest resources (paras
1.37 and 1.39).
1.25      All areas under the immediate jurisdiction of GFD are managed under
the supervision of its territorial staff in accordance with forest working
plans, prepared and revised at regular intervals by GFD.  As a result of
unsatisfactory performance, exploitation by private timber contractors
was abolished and since 1972 all operations have been jointly undertaken
departmentally or by Forest Labor Cooperative Societies (FLCS) (para 1.33).
Contribution of Forests to the Economy
1.26      In 1974--77, the State forests annually produced an average of
150,000 m3 of timber, 300,000 m ton of fuelwood (which includes fuelwood
taken, without charge, by right holders), 73,000 m ton of bamboo (a third of
which was trade quality) and 22,000 m ton of fodder grass. In addition, a
wide variety of other minor forest products were extracted, including gums,
dried leaves, edible flowers and fruits, and oilseeds.
1.27      State forests support a number of industries:  some 620 sawmills;
a pulp and paper mill; factories at Derol, Rajpipla, Vyara and Valsad, which
produce betel nut, dyes and tannin fron Acacia catechu logs; activated carbon
factories at Rajpipla, and a series of private pharmaceutical works at
Junagadh, Ranitalao, Surat and Udha, manufacturing medicinal products from
herbs, roots, bark and fruits.  In addition, there are a great number of
cottage industries making furniture, doors, window frames and shutters,
matches, toys, pencils, bamboo baskets and mats from forest products. The
forests' contribution to State revenue is about Rs 100 M per year (2.2% of
the State's total revenue).
1.28      The forests provide considerable benefits to members of scheduled
castes, marginal iarmers and landless laborers (who form the bulk of the
population in and around the forests) in the form of free fuelwood, fruit,
flowers, grazing, honey, poles for hut construction, and bamboo (either free
or at subsidized rates) for cottage industries.  Work in forest areas also
provides the main source of paid employment for these people. In 1976/77,
primary forest production generated 7 ]N man days of employment.
1.29      Nevertheless, shortages of primary forest products, especially fuel-
wood, building poles and fodder are becoming increasingly severe and are
likely to become worse in the future.  Although rehabilitation and improved
management of the existing forest estate would help alleviate the situation,
the magnitude of the problem and the inequitable geographic distribution of
existing forest resources are such that the long-term solution lies in the
afforestation of rLew areas. Presently, many areas such as road, rail and
canal reserves and, especially, village common lands and other wastelands
that could grow trees, are unproductive. Thus, afforestation of new areas,
combined with rehabilitation of existing degraded forest, would provide a
reasonably well distributed forest resource, with environmental benefits as
well as increased forest products.



-7-
Forestry Institutions
1.30      The head of the State Forest Department is the Chief Conservator of
Forests (CCF), supported by two Additional Chief Conservators (Addl. CCF),
responsible for forestry operations and for wildlife management. Also
directly responsible to the CCF are two Conservators of Forests (CF), one
for project planning, monitoring and evaluation and one concerned with the
control of illegal activity in the forest (See Chart 20400).
1.31      At field level, there are presently nine operational circles, each
under the direction of a CF. Four circles (each with 4-7 divisions) are
responsible for production forestry and three circles (each with 5 divisions)
for community forestry. The remaining two circles are responsible for wild-
life management, research and working plans. In total, the Department's
forestry staff is composed of 91 professionals, 1,740 technical staff, and
3,215 vocational staff.
1.32      There are four levels of formal forest institutional training.
Assistant Conservators of Forests (ACF) are recruited from science graduates
and undertake a one year course at the Indian Forest Colleges. Rangers are
recruited from science graduates and are given a one year course at the Ranger
College at Rajpipla or training centers in other states. Foresters are
recruited from those having a secondary school certificate and are trained
for eight months within the State at the Foresters and Forest Guard Training
School at Kakrapur. Forest Guards (Protection Assistants) are recruited from
high school level candidates and taken directly into service. After a period
of inservice training, they are given a six month course at Kakrapur. Forestry
research is presently performed under the supervision of the silviculturist
in GFD.
1.33      In 1949, schemes were initiated to establish FLCS in Gujarat, with
the aim of increasing financial returns to forest laborers, and encouraging
responsibility among tribal people for the management and conservation of the
forest. All exploitation is now done either by FLCS or GFD. There are
presently 147 FLCS with a total membership of approximately 68,000 (94% of
whom are tribal people), supervised by the Cooperatives Department and GFD.
In mid-1977, FLCS had working capital of Rs 156.3 M, share capital of Rs 11.1
M and reserves of Rs 11.7 M. GFD determines the number of forest coupes each
year and allocates them to FLCS, which then fell, extract and market the
timber. Profits (from which all harvesting and marketing expenses, including
interest on loans, are deducted) are shared between GFD and FLCS in the ratio
80:20. In 1977, income from sales amounted to Rs 27.8 M.
1.34      In 1976, the State established a Gujarat State Forest Development
Corporation (GSFDC) to improve the efficiency of forest exploitation, to
develop forest industries and to initiate grading and processing of forest
products by tribal people. Unlike many other corporations of this type, GSFDC
has concentrated on the production of minor forest products of high potential.
Its efforts have met with considerable success. In 1978, it organized the
collection, grading and marketing of 132,000 bags of bidi leaves (used for
manufacture of local cigarettes), 5,039 m ton of mahuda flowers (an edible



- 8; -
flower, which can be used in the production of alcohol) and 1,155 m ton of
mahuda seeds (which are crushed for oil).
Forestry Programs
1.35      Since 1951, State programs have included reforestation of degraded
forest areas, afforestation of eroded land and desert and coastal fringes, and
establishment of fast growing tree plantations. Since 1970, 132,873 ha have
been planted. Total expenditures unde!r the Fifth Plan amount to Rs 215 M, of
which the allocation for 1978/79 is Rs 73 M.
Community Forestry
1.36      In 1969, Gujarat launched a community forestry program and embarked
on establishment of fuelwood plantations along roadsides and canal banks. As
this early program was a success, GFD decided to expand its community forestry
activities, resulting in 1974, in the creation of a separate administrative
wing to deal with the establishment of plantations outside forest reserves
on public and private lands in rural areas. In the same year, the first
plantations on village common lands were established following an intensive
publicity campaign extolling the benefits of village woodlots.  Next, in 1976,
a start was made on rehabilitating the! State's degraded forests with fuelwood
and pole plantations. By 1978, the Ccmmunity Forestry Wing (CFW) of GFD had
successfully established some 35,000 ha of plantations (Project File, Item 2,
T-1), including over 12,000 ha of village woodlots, 10,000 ha of plantations
on degraded areas and 10,000 ha of plantations alongside roads and canals.
GFD has now established an average of 8 ha of trees in over 1,500 villages.
About 20 villages have already established and now manage woodlots of their
own.
1.37      The main objective of the present community forestry program is to
provide fuelwood in rural areas where it is needed most. However, it has been
possible to design plantations so that they also provide poles, bamboo, fodder,
grass, fruits, oilseed and gum without: seriously affecting fuelwood yields.
Moreover, these additional products, particularly grass and fruit, bring early
returns in the rotation and are therefore much appreciated by villagers.
1.38      The early plantations alongside roads and canals involved little
public participation, but nevertheless created a marked awareness among
villagers. Seeing stands of trees growing on what had previously been
desolate ground, people realized that tree growing was possible within their
communities, and that the benefits were considerable.  These new plantations
also gave many people their first favorable impression of GFD.
1.39      Another important objective of the community forestry program was
to encourage farmers in the countryside, and private individuals and groups
within the cities, to plant trees on their own lands. To do this, GFD pro-
vides free seedlings and advice to those who will plant trees. The "farm
forestry" scheme started in 1970 with the distribution of some 2.2 M seedlings
and by 1979 just under 86 M had been collected by growers. Little is known
about the number of trees that have survived, but GFD is convinced the scheme
is helping to generate the self-help attitude so necessary to the long term



-9-
success of community forestry.  An innovative component of the "farm forestry"
program is the involvement of children in tree planting. GFD supplies seed
and technical assistance to schools that are prepared to set up small nur-
series on their compounds. The children grow and tend the seedlings and are
paid Rs 0.15 per seedling by GFD who collect and distribute the plants. In
1977, half a million seedlings were raised in this way by 5' schools.
II. THE PROJECT
A. General
2.01      In the past it was sound policy for GFD to assume full responsibil-
ity for implementing community forestry programs, but through experience,
Government of Gujarat (GOG) now recognizes that more responsibility for future
tree planting and subsequent management must be passed to the beneficiaries
themselves. Therefore, one of the project's aims is to gradually shift
responsibility for establishment, maintenance, protection and harvesting of
village woodlots from GFD to village panchayats. Although this shift cannot
be entirely accomplished within the five-year project implementation period,
provision would be made for about 2,300 of the 9,350 villages participating in
the project to take on responsibility for tree establishment and maintenance.
2.02      The project's primary objective would be to increase supplies of
fuelwood in rural areas. Secondary objectives would be to provide poles,
bamboo, small timber (used, among other things, for agricultural implements),
fodder, grass, fruits, oilseeds and other minor products from the same plant-
ations. In addition, the project would introduce improved crematoria, develop
and introduce improved stoves as fuelwood conservation measures and would
provide considerable paid employment to the poorest section of the population
(tribal people, scheduled castes and the landless) in tree planting and
maintenance. The project, principally through soil conservation, would also
help stabilize the environment.
General Description
2.03      During the five year project period the project would:
(a) establish 37,440 ha of village woodlots;
(b) reforest 30,000 ha of degraded forests;
(c) afforest 1,000 ha of privately owned eroded agricultural lands;
(d) establish 37,000 ha of strip plantings along roads, canals
and railroads;
(e) develop nurseries to provide planting stock for project
and farm forestry;



- 1 -
(f) maintain and protect about 25,000 ha of past plantings;
(g)  provide community forestry staff, particularly at the
operational and extension levels, including staff required
to establish one new commun:ity forestry circle and two new
divisions, and also to support publicity, research, training,
planning and monitoring actfivities;
(h) construct staff houses, a project headquarters and
two vehicle workshops;
(i) provide vehicles to improve management, supervision and
forestry extension services;,
(j)  strengthen research activities, and construct four research
and seed testing/storage centers;
(k)  develop the training of project staff, including provision of
fellowships and special trai.ning in community development
skills; and
(1) construct about 10,000 smokeless stoves and 1,000 cremation
facilities.
Prime responsibility for implementation would be with CFW.
Project Phasing
2.04      Given below is the proposed planting program.  In addition, about
30 M tree seedlings would be distribut:ed annually to farmers for planting
around fields and homesteads.



Project Planting Program (hectares)
Project Year
1      2       3      4       5      Total   %
Category
Village Woodlots       4,560  6,000  7,680  8,880 10,320   37,440   36
Degraded Forests       6,000  6,000  6,000  6,000  6,000   30,000   28
Private Forests           200    200    200    200    200    1,000    1
Strip Plantations
Roadside            3,800  5,700  7,600  6,900  7,600   31,600   30
Railside                                   1,600  1,800    3,400    3
Canalside             200    300    400    500    600    2,000    2
Total                 14,760 18,200 21,880 24,080 26,520  105,440
%                          14     17      21     23      25       100  100
Target number of
Self-help villages             300    400    500    500    600    2,300 /a
/a   Equivalent to the establishment of some 9,200 ha of village woodlots.
Because this is an innovative project, and it is impossible to predict with
certainty villagers' and farmers' response to the alternative approaches to
community forestry, flexibility would be maintained during project imple-
mentation to shift the proportion of planting from one category to another
according to results. Provision is also made in the project (para 4.15) for
monitoring the results and for an interim joint GOG/IDA review at the end
of project year 3.
Project Area
2.05      The project would be implemented in all of the State's nineteen
districts located throughout mainland Gujarat and in the Saurashtra/Kutch
regions (Map IBRD 14323). It has been estimated that some 6 M ha of land
are suitable for community forestry plantations. Ultimately, some 10%
of village common and other waste lands (580,000 ha), 1/ and 200,000 ha of
degraded forest, 60,000 ha of private agricultural lands and 60,000 ha along-
side roads, railways and canal banks would be improved.
1/   Includes:  barren and uncultivable land (2.7 M ha); permanent pasture
and other grazing land (0.8 M ha); and cultivable waste land (2.3 M ha).



- 1,' -
B. Detailed Features
2.06      All four categories of plantations (village woodlots, reforestation
of degraded forest, afforestation of private agricultural lands and strip
plantations) have differing conceptual., establishment, management, harvesting,
marketing, legal and funding features which distinguish them from one another
(see Annex 1, T-1 and T-5 to T-14). I)etails of each category are summarized
in the following paragraphs.
Village Woodlots (37,440 ha)
2.07      Two schemes involving different levels of community participation
would be introduced: one (Village Self-help Scheme), where the panchayat
would assume full responsibility for the village woodlot; and the other
(Supervised Village Scheme), where parLchayats are as yet unwilling to assume
this responsibility. In both cases, woodlots would be established on land
either belonging to panchayats or on government land vested in panchayats.
The principles involved in the Village Self-help Scheme have already been
tested and accepted by some 20 villages located in areas where community
forestry programs were first instigated.
(a) Village Self-help Scheme - (about 2,300 villages representing
25% or more of woodlot area or about 9,200 ha): would include
those villages prepared to accept full responsibility for estab-
lishment, management and harvesting of woodlots. These villages
would be expected to pay from their own resources at least the
labor costs of land preparation, planting, maintaining, protecting
and harvesting their own wocidlots. Part of the labor costs could
be provided through governme!nt sources (para 1.12). Technical
assistance, seedlings and other inputs required would be
provided by CFW through Extension Rangers (ER) and Extension
Foresters (EF). A written a[greement, defining the obligations
of both parties, would be concluded between GFD and the village
panchayat. Special care would be taken to provide incentives
for villagers to participate in such schemes (para 5.06). In
addition, villages in this scheme would be given priority for
the introduction of smokeless stoves and cremation facilities.
(b) Supervised Village Scheme - (involving about 7,050 villages
or no more than 75% of woodlot area): would involve those
villages without existing woodlots and unwilling at this stage
to accept full responsibility for woodlot establishment and
subsequent management and harrvesting. An agreement between CFW
and the panchayats would be entered into whereby CFW would
advance funds for all activities from establishment to harvest-
ing and would recover direct. costs (excluding the cost of
seedlings) and charge a manaLgement fee. The area developed
would be limited to 4 ha per village.



- 13 -
Chart 20398 indicates linkages involved in planning, funding and implementing
village woodlots. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that about
9,200 ha of village woodlots would be established under the Self-help Scheme.
Operating Procedures
2.08      CFW, acting through ER and EF, would encourage villages to join
either scheme by explaining the benefits to be obtained from the creation
of village woodlots, by assisting the panchayat in demarcating areas of
grazing or waste lands which can be planted to trees, and by explaining the
nature and provisions of agreements to be entered into between the panchayat
and CFW. Where a village panchayat wishing to create woodlots has insuffi-
cient land suitable for afforestation, EF and ER would assist the panchayat
in obtaining the Collector's sanction to vest government lands for the purpose
of forest development. The scheme application (Project File, Items 4 and 5)
would be finalized at a meeting of the village assembly. The Taluka Develop-
ment Officer (TDO) or his representative, ER and EF would attend the meeting
and explain to the assembly the main features of the application. The assembly
would also determine the extent of resources (both labor and financial) which
would be contributed by the panchayat and work out the types and number of
species to be planted in the demarcated area with the assistance of EF and ER.
In cases where villages panchayats lack funds to pay for labor, credit would
be made available under existing arrangements (para 1.12). These funds,
carrying an annual interest rate of 10%, would be recovered at time of felling.
Project implementation does not depend on free village labor; such an approach
would not be workable in Gujarat.
2.09      Scheme applications from village panchayats 1/ would first be for-
warded to the taluka panchayat and then to the district panchayat for endorse-
ment. TDO and District Development Officer (DDO) would assist taluka panchayats
in making recommendations and advise on the priorities to be recommended to the
District Forest Committee (DFC). District panchayats would be assisted by
Deputy Conservator of Forests (DCF) in arriving at recommendations. Community
participation in decision-making and planning would be furthered through
panchayat representation on the DFC where the annual district forest develop-
ment plan would be prepared and priorities finalized (See Chart 20398).
2.10      Once proposals have been agreed, village panchayats would be assisted
with implementation through regular extension visits by EF and through training.
Training would first be given to members of the production committee, a
statutory committee of the village panchayat responsible for implementation of
agricultural and forestry programs. Thereafter, training would be given to
persons nominated by the panchayat. EF would develop the villagers' skills
and understanding of forestry through regular visits, increased publicity
(films, talks, posters) and by organizing one-day visits of groups of villagers
to demonstration areas where panchayats or farmers have developed their own
plantations.
1/   Alternatively, the scheme applications can be forwarded through EF/ER
to DFO to District Forest Committee.



- 12+ -
2.11      During plantation establishment, ER would assist the village pan-
chayat in determining arrangements for future land use in the plantation arec
These would include decisions such as whether grass should be allowed to be
cut and carried or grazed, and what tree limbs could be lopped or fodder
leaves collected.
2.12      In the case of the Supervised Village Scheme, at the end of three
years from the date of commencement oi works, TDO or his representative and ER
would assist the village assembly in determining whether and when the village
panchayat should assume management of the village woodlot.
2.13      TDO and ER would also assist the village panchayat in preparing
a scheme for the distribution of timber and poles at every thinning, felling
and coppicing. In particular, TD0 or his representative and ER would advise
on the percentage of timber and poles which should be distributed to the
poorer sections of the village and the terms on which such distribution should
take place.
Reforestation of Degraded Forest (30,000 ha)
2.14      Thirty thousand ha of degraded State-owned forest reserves would
be rehabilitated through replanting with fuelwood and other species. Two
approaches, dependent upon prevailing labor conditions in the area and each
requiring different amounts of CFW supervision, would be used. The first
approach would involve the use of casual laborers employed by CFW to establish
and maintain plantations. Harvesting and marketing would be done by FLCS
(para 1.33), with net profits being split 80:20 between CFW and FLCS. The
second approach would encourage full time employment of tribal people and
other socially disadvantaged groups. Groups of 9-15 families would be housed
in or near areas to be reforested. They would be assured a water supply,
given materials for home construction, permitted to establish kitchen gardens
and keep a limited number of cattle (no goats). Such families would not be
given title to lands as it is government policy not to encourage settlement
in forest lands. Harvesting would be done by this permanent labor force and
net profits shared 80:20 between CFW and the laborers l/ (para 5.02 (c)).
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that adequate facilities would be
provided to full time laborers required to live and work in degraded forest
areas.
Afforestation of Private Agricultural Lands (1,000 ha)
2.15      As a pi:Lot effort, CFW would encourage tribal families to return
marginal agricultural land in forest areas to trees. A variety of contract
arrangements would be tested, among which would be the following plan.
1/   If the head of a family dies before final felling or coppicing, CFW
would, whenever possible, continue to employ members of the family on
the same terms. If, however, such employment is not possible, CFW would
pay the surviving family members a proportion of expected net profits and
the family would leave the community.



- 15 -
First, an area of at least 2 ha for each family would be selected and an
estimate made of the present annual cash returns from growing food crops
(usually about Rs 250/ha). Following agreement with the family as to the
obligations of both parties, CFW would annually advance to the family, to be
deducted from future forest product sales, an amount equivalent to present
cash returns from agriculture and payable in two installments (April and
August) (see Project File, Item 6). These interest-free payments would coin-
cide with the times when cash is most required by farmers. CFW would then
establish teak and bamboo and maintain the plantation for three years; there-
after, maintenance would become the farmer's responsibility but CFW would
retain full responsibility for decisions related to silvicultural matters.
Harvest and sales would be supervised by CFW, at which time CFW would recover
any direct costs incurred, including cash advances made, and return 100% of
net profits remaining to the owner.
Strip Plantations (37,000 ha)
2.16      Full responsibility for all plantations alongside roads and canals
has been delegated by State authorities to CFW. Negotiations are in progress
at the national level to determine how planting along railways would be
handled.
2.17      Villages that have strip plantations adjacent to their lands would
be allowed to collect grass, fodder, fallen wood and other minor produce from
these areas but not cut trees, poles, bamboo or small timber. The latter
would generally be destined for urban areas and would be sold by CFW. Net
profits from plantations would be split on a 50:50 basis between CFW and the
taluka concerned. The taluka panchayat would then distribute profits equit-
ably among village panchayats, thus enabling villages not adjacent to strip
plantations to also benefit from the scheme. Priority would be given for
the use of these funds for further village woodlot development.
Farm Forestry
2.18      Under the project, CFW would continue to make about 30 M seedlings
available annually to farmers, private individuals and groups within cities
to plant on their land; these would be provided free of charge. Both naked
root and polypot seedlings would be raised in State nurseries and farmers
would obtain these upon request at the nursery site or at temporary distribu-
tion centers (such as taluka headquarters, selected villages and schools).
Farmers receiving seedlings would be given instructions on planting, care and
utilization of the plants. A roster would be maintained of the recipient's
name, address, and number of seedlings obtained to allow spot monitoring of
seedlings distributed and their survival rate (para 2.30).
Plantation Design and Establishment
2.19      Overall, approximately 90% of trees planted would produce fuelwood
or poles; the balance would be mainly fruit trees. Thirty percent of trees
planted for fuelwood and poles would also produce good leaf fodder. Fodder



- 16 -
would be supplemented by grass that would be cut within plantations, either
from natural grasses whose production would be increased by protection from
uncontrolled grazing or, in village areas, from high-yielding grasses and
legumes sown or planted between rows of trees. Every tree species grown would
be multipurpose in that it would produce two or more products. Plantation
species have been selected primarily for their adaptability to the proposed
sites and their ability to meet the project's production requirements.
Gujarat has a wide range of environmental conditions and the list of recom-
mended species is correspondingly diverse. A list of the principal and
subsidiary tree species and selected grasses and legumes and their uses is
given in Annex 1, T-4.
2.20      A number of plantation modeLs have been developed to meet the vary-
ing ecological conditions found throughout the State and to satisfy various
cultural conditions (irrigated or rainfed) and social needs. Details are
given in Annex 1, T-1 and T-3. In vil.lage woodlots, fruit trees would occupy
18-20% of plantation areas and village models would have 50% or more of the
ground surface area sown to improved grasses or legumes. Bamboos would be
restricted to mainland and irrigated sites. Degraded forests would be refor-
ested with miscellaneous pole and fuelwood species (84% of the plantation
areas) and some bamboo. In degraded i-orests, there would be no provision for
fruit trees. In the case of private forest plantations, teak would occupy 90%
of the area and would be thinned at 11 years, coppiced at 15 years and again
at 30 years after planting. Bamboos would provide the balance of stock to
be planted. Fuelwood and pole species would occupy the bulk of strip planta-
tions (57 to 100%--the latter in Saurashtra-Kutch railsides) with higher
proportions of Leucaena (44%) and EucaLlyptus (50%) in irrigated canal areas.
Planting costs are shown below:
Range of
Category of Plantings                         Planting Costs /a
(Rs/ha)
Village Woodlots
Self-help                                900 - 1,000 /b
Supervised                             2,600 - 4,500
Reforesitation of Degraded Forests           1,800
Afforestation of Private Lands               2,000
Strip P:Lantations                           2,700 - 8,400
/a Expenditures incurred during first three years, including nursery,
planting, protection and maintenance costs. On average, labor costs
represent 72% of total planting expenditures.
/b   Excludes labor costs paid by the villages.



- 17 -
2.21      Annual planting programs would be agreed at meetings involving
state, circle and divisional officers. Firstly, planting sites would be
selected and surveyed in November-April, some 14-20 months before planting.
Soils would be examined and, if existing vegetation suggests high alkalinity
or nutrient deficiencies, remedial treatment undertaken. In November-April
of the following year (2-8 months before planting), land pr-paration would be
undertaken. Planting pits would be aligned and dug in all areas except in
private agricultural lands which would be staked in preparation for planting
with teak stumps. Protection barriers would also be constructed during this
period. Seedlings for the current year's planting would be transported to
planting sites in mid June in preparation for planting with the onset of the
rains in late June or early July.
2.22      Nurseries.  At present there are some 210 forest nurseries (40
permanent and 170 temporary) for raising nursery stock under the community
forestry program in Gujarat. It is proposed to increase this number to 440
nurseries and to enlarge some existing sites to meet the increased planting
requirements of the project. It is estimated that 15% of new nurseries would
be permanent and the rest temporary. Where required, each nursery would
be equipped with a water pump. Each nursery would be in the charge of an EF.
Casual labor, frequently women, would prepare nursery beds, fill polypots with
soil, sow seed, and weed and water plants.
2.23      All tree seed, except improved strains of Leucaena leucocephala
(koo-baval) would be obtained from within the State. All seed would be tested
and stored at four regional testing and storage units (para 2.29). There
would be no direct sowing of tree seed at planting sites. All planting stock
would be six months to a year old seedlings, except for trees used for replace-
ment in the second year which would be two years old at planting.
2.24      Plantation Maintenance.  Tending operations would consist primarily
of replacement, weeding and hoeing around trees, and irrigation or watering
in certain areas. For costs, see Annex 1, T-5 to T-14. Funds are also in-
cluded for the maintenance of about 25,000 ha of existing plantations.
2.25      Weeding and soil working around the base of each tree would be
undertaken six times in all plantations: three times in the first year,
twice in the second year and once in the third year. Thereafter, no further
labor would be required as shade would be sufficient to suppress weed growth.
Grass cutting would normally eliminate the need for weeding in spaces between
trees. A nitrogenous fertilizer would be applied to trees during the first
weedings in the first and second years. Plantations on canalsides and on
irrigated village land would be irrigated as necessary. A high proportion of
drought-resistant tree species would be grown in rainfed plantations.
2.26      Plantation Protection.  All plantations would require protection
against livestock and occasional attack by insects; certain areas would require
special protection against fire. Extensive strip planting in Gujarat began
seven years ago and local people have become familiar with these areas and
appear to have accepted communal responsibility for excluding livestock from



- is -
plantations. This situation has enabled GFD to use cheap, light weight fence-
which are more of a psychological deterrent to entry than a physical one.
Five types of perimeter barrier would be used; the choice dependent on inten-
sity of stock pressure, availability of materials and the type of area Lo uc
protected. They are, in ascending order of linear cost: (i) piled brushwood
and thorn fence (Rs 335/km); (ii) live hedge (using the fast-growing cact-i_
Euphorbia royaliana) (Rs 600/km); (iii) bamboo and wire fence (four-strand,
plain galvanized wire stretched through drilled bamboo poles) (Rs 970/km);
(iv) trench and live hedge (Rs 2,500-:3,000/km); and (v) rubble walls (dry
stone or rubble) (Rs 5,000/km). Further details are provided in Project File,
Item 8. Watchmen would be employed to patrol all strip plantation fencing for
the first three years and each would be responsible for 10 ha of plantations
in the first year after establishment and 20 ha thereafter.
Conservation of Fuelwood Supplies
2.27      Introduction of More Efficient Wood Burning Stoves.  By making
simple adjustments to the fire box and by addition of a smokestack, a more
fuel efficient stove can be manufactured from local clay and sand at small
cost (approximately Rs 50 per stove). In cooperation with the KVIC, Depart-
ment of Health and other private organizations concerned with the design and
promotion of such improved stoves in Gujarat, the Training, Research and
Communications Unit would launch a program to popularize the use of these
improved stoves. Within each of the four Communications Units (CU), there
would be a group, headed by a female social worker, whose task would be to
determine and encourage the use of the most appropriate stove for the locality
concerned. Three or four demonstration stoves would be constructed in each
village establishing Self-help Woodlots (including one to be built in the
local EF's home). The social worker would be assisted by five artisans who
would construct 100 stoves each per year. The Monitoring Unit (MU) would play
an important role in determining receptivity, utility and fuelwood savings.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that 10,000 improved stoves
would be built and demonstrated in at least 2,300 villages over the five-year
project implementation period.
2.28      Introduction of Improved Cre!mation Facilities.  Improved, socially
acceptable cremation facilities which reduce the amount of fuelwood needed
from 400 to 240 kg per cremation would' be provided 1/ to those villages
establishing Self-help Woodlots and in the State's main urban centers where
the need is greatest. The units would. cost about Rs 4,000 each. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that, at project completion, some 800 units in
rural areas and 200 units in cities would be installed by artisans employed
by CFW or by local manufacturers. The! CF (Training, Research and Communi-
cations) would be responsible for overall implementation of this component,
including the selection of sites and liaison with other organizations such
as the Sadvichar Parivar (a private ch,aritable organization) who have already
been involved in promoting these units.
1/   On the basis of one unit per 3 to 4 villages.



- 19 -
Research
2.29      The project would provide for increased research, seed testing
and storage. The research program would be under the direction of the
Deputy Conservator of Forests (DCF) (Research) who in turn is responsible to
CF (Training, Research and Communications) (See Chart 20400). Close liaison
would be maintained with GFD's silviculturalist and the territorial forest
research organization, The project would develop four field stations and
a small research institute, staffed by five professionals and supporting
laboratory personnel, which would be located in the Forest Ranger College
complex at Rajpipla. The institute's professional staff would compose an
agrostologist, a horticulturist, an ecologist, a soil scientist and an ACF
in charge of seed testing. Together, this staff would provide the main
scientific support to field units of CFW. The four field research stations
would be located at: Bhuj (Kutch), Rajkot (Saurashtra), Mahesana (north
mainland Gujarat), and Rajpipla (central and south mainland Gujarat). Staff
would be involved in the establishment, demarcation, management and measure-
ment of field trials and be responsible for routine seed testing and seed
storage within their region.
2.30      The principal objectives of the research program would be to
increase tree productivity and decrease establishment and maintenance costs.
Research would involve collaboration with other government departments,
research institutes and universities, experienced in these fields. A tech-
nical committee to review the progress of the research projects has been
constituted. The research organization would also be involved in'the mon-
itoring of farm forestry activities (para 2.18) by devising sampling tech-
niques, collecting data, and selecting tree species and management techniques
of special relevance.
2.31      A tentative research program for the project has been prepared by
GFD but its scope is too broad and requires more limited and specific
objectives that can be achieved within the project period. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that a research program, acceptable to the
Association, would be prepared by September 30, 1980.
Project Implementation
2.32      The success of the proposed community forestry program would depend
largely upon an efficient organization with suitably trained and equipped staff
acting in full cooperation with rural people. To achieve these objectives,
the project would expand and strengthen CFW through transfer from production
forestry to CFW of two rehabilitation divisions (responsible for degraded
forest areas); establishment of one new community forestry circle and two new
community forestry divisions (para 4.01 and Charts 20399, 20400); and creation
of special support units, including establishment of four units responsible
for publicity at the village level, a monitoring unit, an evaluation cell and
a planning, information and reporting unit. It is anticipated that no foreign
consultants would be employed under the project.



- 29 -
2.33      Annual planting targets (para 2.04) have been geared to the rate at
which CFW can recruit and train staff. With nearly 35% of all operational
staff already in position, 17 of 19 divisions operational and three of four
circles established, the build up of field staff required to implement the
planting program does not pose difficulties except for ACF, some of which
would be provided by emergency appoinl:ment (see para 4.11). Staff require-
ments are detailed in Annex 7, T-2, T-5 and T-7 and shown below:
Project StaEf Requirements
Additional   Total at Full
Existing        Required      Development
Addl CCF            -                1                1
CF                  4               3                 7
DCF                18               7                25
ACF                 3              69                72
ER                134             295              429
EF                464             980             1,444
PA                343             438               781
Housing and Transportation for Staff
2.34      Much of the success of CFW's activities would depend on regular and
frequent visits by EF and ER to village panchayats, individual farmers, and
supervision of other plantations scatt:ered over wide areas. It is, therefore,
vital that field level staff and their supervisors live near their work and
that they are sufficiently mobile to enable them to function effectively. At
present, housing for rent in rural areas is limited and staff often live far
from their work and rely on public transport. GOG housing policy would con-
tinue to encourage the use of rented accommodation wherever possible. Since
rental property is not available in all areas, the project would provide
housing for about 50% of project staff. Assurances were obtained at negotia-
tions that GOG would ensure that field staff would live in the area assigned
for their operations and for this purpose would provide housing or rent
allowance as necessary. Design standards and cost estimates were reviewed
during project appraisal and the mean cost of housing for field level staff
would be about Rs 14,300 (US$1,663). Designs would be in accordance with
existing government standards which apply to all government departments.
Apart from a new CFW headquarters building, all other office buildings would
be rented. For this purpose, and for office furniture and equipment, funds
would be provided under the project. Housing requirements are given below and
detailed in Annex 7, T-3.



- 21 
Housing Requirement-. (numbers)
Unit Cost                   Project Year
Cate, .                  (Rs '000)       1       2      3       4      Total
Senior FieLd Staff                70.0         6      4       2       1      13
Senior Field Staff               60.0         12     12      12       1      37
Senior Administrative Staff    50.0            1                              1
Field Staff (Junior Grade)        17.2        76     76      76       5     233
Field Staff (Junior Grade)        16.2       306    304    304       67     981
Field Staff (Assistants)           8.6      264    264    263        22     813
2.35      The project would also provide for additional equipment and
vehicles at headquarters, divisional and circle levels, motorcycles for ER
and bicycles for EF and Protection Assistants (PA). Motorcycles and bicycles
would be sold on credit to staff who wish to purchase them. The table below
summarizes vehicle requirements, further details of which are given in
Annex 7, T-3.
Incremental Requirements of Vehicles (numbers)
Project Year
Category                         1      2      3     4      5     Total
Cars                             4      1                           5
4-wheel drive                    17     5            1             23
Trailers                         6      2                           8
Vans                            11      3                          14
Buses                            6                                  6
Tractors & Trailers             27    20    21    11    11         90
Water Tankers                   27    21    21    11    11         91
Trucks                          27    21    21    10    11         90
Motorcycles                    180    93    91    59    69        492
Bicycles                       612   203   229   238   386   1,668
2.36      Project support would be provided by the four communications units,
a monitoring unit, an evaluation cell, and a planning, information and report-
ing unit. Under the project, funds would be provided for staff, operating
costs of the units and a limited amount of equipment and instructional aids,
including the making of films required for staff training and public informa-
tion. A bus would be provided for each communications unit which would also
be used for staff training trips. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that two Communications Units would be established, no later than September 30,
1980 and two additional units by September 30, 1981.
2.37      The Public Relations Unit, located at Ahmadabad, would be headed
by DCF, under the CF Planning, Information and Reporting. The Unit would be
responsible for receiving visitors and providing information to the public.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that this unit would be formed by
September 30, 1980.



-    2
2.38      The project would support a planned program of increased staff
training which woluld include regularly scheduled inservice training (para
4.07) and preservice training (para 4.10), expansion of training facilities
and provision of fellowships. In order to carry out the training activities,
the project would provide additional staff, buildings, vehicles, equipment
and course support (see Annex 7, T-4 for cost details).
Expansion of Training Facilities
2.39      Existing hostel and classroom facilities would be expanded at
Rajpipla to accomraodate 40 additional trainees. Two additional instructors
would also be provided, including one in extension/communications. Facilities
at Kakrapur would also be expanded to accommodate an additional 60 trainees.
This would increase total capacity to 360 trainees annually. An instructor
in extension commtnications would be added to existing staff.  A DCF would
be provided at State headquarters to coordinate staff training activities.
Fellowships
2.40      Since Gujarat would profit by the exchange of information with other
states and countries, short duration fellowships for domestic (12 man months)
and foreign (8 man months) study would be provided under the project. In
addition, selected staff would attend short courses and training workshops
sponsored by GOI Directorate of Agricul]tural Extension, Extension Education
Institute (Anand) and various other organizations and universities to develop
extension techniques in community forestry. Under the project, a total of 40
man months of fellowships would be funcded for attendance at these courses and
workshops; they would be attended primarily by ACF, DCF and members of the
communications and research units. Twc, one-year domestic fellowships in ex-
tension techniques would be provided to selected staff members who would then
be assigned to the forest training schools at Rajpipla and Kakrapur as instruc-
tors. Two, two-year overseas fellowships for project economists would also
be provided. CFW staff sent overseas for study tours would remain within CFW
for at least three years, and those ser.t for two-year overseas training would
remain within CFW for at least five years after their return.
Monitoring and Evaluation
2.41      A Monitoring Unit would be established.  It would test experimental
designs for project implementation, assess villager acceptance of community
forestry activities, determine survival percent of the farm forestry compo-
nent, and carry out a mid-term evaluation of the project (para 4.15).  An
Evaluation Cell would be set up under the Director of Evaluation, General
Administration Department, GOG (para 4.16).



- 23 -
III. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
3.01      Project costs are estimated at USS76.0 M, of which US$3.6 M would
involve foreign exchange expenditures. Duties and taxes included in total
costs are estimated at US$2.3 M. Details of costs, summarized below, are in
Annex 7.
Summary Cost Estimate
Foreign
% of      Exchange /b
Component                        Rs M   US$ M /a   Base Cost   US$ M
Project Organization
Staff                           112.70    13.10        20.6
Operating Costs                  21.54      2.50        3.9        1.0
Vehicles and Equipment           30.00      3.49        5.5        0.9
Buildings and Housing            30.76      3.58        5.6
Subtotal                   195.00    22.67       35.6
Training and Fellowships                8.21     0.96        1.5        0.1
Research and Seed Testing               3.67     0.43        0.7        0.1
Plantings
Village Woodlots /c              97.42    11.33        17.8
Reforestation of Degraded
Forests                        52.54      6.11        9.6
Afforestation of Private
Forest Lands                    1.90      0.22        0.3
Strip Plantings                 146.64    17.05        26.8
Maintenance of Past Plantings   4.74        0.55        0.9
Subtotal                   303.24    35.26       55.4        1.0
Farm Forestry                          29.70     3.45        5.4
Stoves and Cremation Facilities        4.50      0.52        0.8
Monitoring and Evaluation               3.30     0.38        0.6        0.1
Total Base Costs                     547.62    63.67       100.0        3.2
Physical Contingencies                 22.50     2.62        4.1
Price Contingencies                   83.47      9.71       15.3        0.4
TOTAL                        653.59    76.00       119.4       3.6
/a   US$1 = Rs 8.6
/b   Foreign exchange cost = operating costs 40%, vehicles 25%, equipment 30%,
plantings 3%.
/c   Including costs of labor.



- 24 -
3.02      Cost estimates are based on actual costs for similar nursery, plant-
ing, and protection techniques and on findings of the mission during appraisal.
Physical contingencies have been added at rates of 10% for housing, research
and seed testing, and of 5% for nurseries and plantings to meet unforeseen
expenditures. Price contingencies totalling 15% of base costs, calculated in
accordance with Bank estimates of future price movements in India, 1/ are also
included.
B. Proposed Financing
3.03      An IDA Credit of US$37.0 M, representing 50% of total project costs
net of duties and taxes, is proposed:
Project Financing
Local Support
Panchayats    GOG/GOI         IDA        Total
US$ M               3.5           35.5         37.0        76.0
%                   5.0           47.0         48.0       100.0
The Credit would be made to GOI on standard terms and would be channelled to
GOG on GOI's terms and arrangements for development assistance to the States.
Written confirmation of GOG financial arrangements for the project has been
received by the Association.
3.04      In order to ensure an early start to the project, and speedy and
effective implementation thereafter, retroactive financing, not exceeding
US$0_5 M, would be provided from June 1, 1979 to date of credit signing for
nursery expenditures incurred to provide planting stock and advance work on
land preparation and plantation protecIion necessary for the 1980 planting
season, which starts in July. Retroactive financing would also cover addi-
tional staff who need to be in place by the start of the planting season and
purchase of equipment and vehicles required for staff involved in tree planting.
C. Procurement
3.05      Direct plantation works (US$38.7 M), including nursery expenditures,
planting, protection works, and farm forestry would be scattered over a wide
area and would be carried out over different periods of time. Therefore, con-
tracts following competitive bidding would not be practical. Nursery works,
including the production of seedlings, would be carried out under force account
by CFW. Land preparation, planting and maintenance for village plantations
would also be carried out by CFW with varying degrees of participation from
village panchayats (para 2.07).  However, some materials such as fencing wire,
tools, and fertilizers would be procured under local competitive bidding (LCB)
1/   Currenitly estimated at an annual rate of 5% p.a.



- 25 -
procedures which are satisfactory. Contracts for civil works (costing
US$3.7 M) would be small and widely dispersed in time and place and, therefore,
would not be suitable for international competitive bidding (ICB) and would be
let following LCB, advertised locally, or by force account and in accordance
with established GOG procedures that are satisfactory to IDA. Design and
supervision of housing and building construction would be carried out by GFD
or Public Works Department (PWD). Vehicles (US$2.7 M) would be purchased over
three years and, as adequate maintenance and availability of spare parts would
be of paramount importance, this would necessitate purchase of locally made
vehicles of types already used by Government departments. Thus, procurement
would be by LCB under existing government procedures which are acceptable to
IDA. Imported research equipment would be required in small lots and would
not, therefore, be suitable for procurement under ICB procedures. These items
and other miscellaneous equipment (US$1.0 M) would be bulked whenever possible
and procured through LCB except where valued at less than US$20,000 when they
would be purchased by prudent shopping through usual trade channels. Stoves
and crematoria (US$0.5 M) would be built under force account. The balance of
project costs (US$29.4 M) would be staff salaries and related expenditures
(US$16.3 M), training (US$0.7 M), and contingencies (US$12.4 M).
D. Disbursements and Audits
3.06      Disbursements under the Credit would cover:
(a) 55% of expenditures for civil works (US$2.30 M);
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures for imported equipment,
or 70% of locally procured vehicles and equipment
(US$2.9 M);
(c) 55% of direct planting expenditures (US$21.4 M).
(d) 55% of total staff salaries of CFW (US$7.90 M);
(e) 100% of the cost of training (US$0.70 M);
(f) 55% of costs of stoves and crematoria (US$0.3 M); and
(g) unallocated (US$1.5 M).
Direct planting expenditures include: nursery costs (including farm forestry);
land preparation; planting; protection and maintenance of plantings.
3.07      Disbursements for all force account work, salaries, local training,
civil works contracts costing less than Rs 100,000, and other procurement
involving expenditures of less than Rs 50,000 for vehicles and equipment for
which it would not be practical to submit documents, would be against state-
ments of expenditures certified by the Addl. CCF of CFW. Full documentation
would be required for all other disbursements. For the purpose of disburse-
ments against statements of expenditure, GFD's institutional and staffing



capabilities, as well as budgeting, accounting, internal control and auditing,
are adequate and satisfactory.
3.08      Assurances were obtained at negotiations that GFD would keep separate
accounts of expenditures made under the project. These would be audited
annually for each fiscal year in accordance with sound auditing principles
consistently applied. GFD accounts would be audited not later than nine
months after the end of the financial year, and the audited reports submitted
promptly to IDA. Certificates of expenditures would be audited at least once
every year and the reports furnished to IDA. Such reports would show, inter
alia, that the funds withdrawn were used for the purpose intended, that goods
have been received or work performed, and that payments have been made.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Community Forestry Wing
4.01      The project would strengthen the existing Community Forestry Wing
(CFW) of Gujarat Siate's Forest Department (GFD).  To handle increased adminis-
trative responsibility, an Addl. CCF, would be appointed who would be directly
responsible to CCF for all community forestry affairs. To cope with increased
planting and maintenance programs, one new community forestry circle (making
4 altogether) and two new community forestry divisions (making 17 altogether)
would be created. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Addl.
CCF and supporting staff would be appointed and the new circle and two new
divisions created by June 30, 1980. In addition, two territorial divisions
(Dohad and Himatnagar) presently concerned with reforestation of degraded
forests would be transferred to CFW.  Thus, there would be 19 community
forestry divisions covering the whole Si'ate (Chart 20400 and Map IBRD 14323)
In addition, three new support units would be created within CFW, each headed
by a CF: one responsible for planning, information, reporting, public rela-
tions and preparation of a follow-up project; one for training, research and
communications; and one for operations. A separate evaluation cell would be
set up in project year 3 under the Director of Evaluation, General Administra-
tion Department, GOG.
4.02      At full development, organizat:ion at the divisional level would
depend on whether the division is responsible for reforestation of degraded
forests as well as the the establishment: of village woodlots and strip plant-
ations. Each DCF would be assisted by t:wo or more ACF: one responsible for
village woodlots, the second for strip plantations and, where required,
additional ACF responsible for reforestation dependent upon the acreage
to be planted and maintained (Chart 20399).
4.03      At the lowest level of administration, PA would be used for super-
vision of planting and forest protection in reforestation of degraded forests



- 27 -
where casual labor is employed.  Where permanent l1ubor is employed, this labor
would be responsible for forest protection. For the first three years after
planting, the EF would supervise the protection of village woodlots, there-
Pftp" one PA per 120 ha would be employed for protPcticn purpCses.  In strip
plantations, EF would supervise protection for the first four years; there-
after one PA per 50 ha would be employed for protection purposes.
4.04      ER and EF would be responsible for maintaining liaison with the
taluka and village panchayats and for implementing the planting program. ER
and EF, who would thus be the main forestry extension agents, would receive
special training in extension techniques and community relations.
Project Coordination
4.05      Coordination of community forestry activities with programs of
other government agencies at state and district levels would be achieved
through committees described below. In addition, CFW field staff would be
instructed to work closely with officers of other government departments
in day-to-day activities.
(a)  The State Policy Review Committee would be established
to ensure coordination between the various departments
involved and to determine overall policy. It would be
expected to meet once every year and would be chaired
by the Minister for Forests. Members would include:
Secretaries for Home Affairs and Finance; Secretary for
Agriculture, Forests and Cooperation Department; Secre-
tary for Labor, Social Welfare and Tribal Development;
Secretary for Public Works; Secretary for Panchayat,
Housing and Urban Development; Inspector General of
Forests; Chief Conservator of Forests and representative
from Western Railway Authority. Addl CCF (CFW) would
act as convener and secretary of the committee.
(b)  District Forest Committees would be established under the
project, comprising the Collector, who would be chairman;
President of the District Panchayat, DDO, and representa-
tives from government departments covering public works,
irrigation, railways, agriculture and animal husbandry and,
when appropriate, the Tribal Area Administrator. The DCF
(also referred to as the Divisional Forest Officer) would
act as convener and secretary. The committee's main task
would be to prepare annual district plans for the establish-
ment of village woodlots. It would also coordinate the
activities of the various departments concerned, review pro-
gress, identify constraints to project implementation and
suggest remedies, advise on how to improve village and pan-
chayat participation, particularly in expanding the community
self-help concept, and advise on the stove and cremation
facilities components. The committee would meet at least
once every four months.



- 28 -
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the above committees would
be established by June 30, 1980.
4.06       Village level committees would not be set up as village panchayats
already 'nave agricultural production committees which, with the assistance
of ER and EF, would also be able to deal satisfactorily with community
forestry affairs.
Inservice Training;
4.07       Regular staff training is central to maintaining skills in forestry,
forage, soil and moisture management. To this end, each DCF would, in con-
sultation with his staff, identify for each four-month period the most
important knowledge and skills to be communicated to villagers by ER and EF.
These "impact points" would be the sub ject of subdivisional inservice train-
ing sessions, run under the guidance oi DCF, assisted by circle and other
support staff, the forest research unit:, and State forestry schools. To
assist the DCF, one officer would be assigned to coordinate training activ-
ities. This practically-oriented training would emphasize the knowledge
necessary to carry out program objectives and demonstrate extension method-
ology and techniques.
4.08       Full day training sessions, held every four months, would be sched-
uled for groups of 30 to 40 EF and ER. These sessions would concentrate
on not more than five "impact points". 1/ Not more than one-third of each
session would be devoted to lectures as emphasis would be placed on the
practical application of knowledge gained and group discussion.
4.09       Since the knowledge required by community foresters would include
methods of communicating with villagers, existing ER and some EF would receive
training at the Extension Education Institute (Anand) in extension methods.
For newly recruited staff, extension and communication methods would be added
to the curriculum at the Forest Ranger Training School in Rajpipla (para 4.12)
and the Foresters and Forest Guard School at Kakrapur (para 4.13) and two
instructors in extension methods would be provided under the project for this
purpose.
Preservice Training
4.10       The project would require the following new staff to be recruited 2/
and trained: 3/
1/   If more than five "impact points" need to be covered, it is suggested
that the interval between training sessions be reduced.
2/   Senior staff positions (DCF and above) would be filled by transfer and
promotion. Allowance for replacement of those promoted to higher ranks
is provided.
3/   In addition to training for new staff, a backlog exists of staff pre-
sently in position who have not yet: received training. Training for
330 PA would be delayed until project years 4 and 5. A continuous
training program would be required throughout the project period.



- 29 -
Posts to be Filled By
Direct          Promotion from
Staff Level       Recruitment         Lower Rank
ACF               51                 25
ER               215                105
EF               727                358
PA               796                 -
Curriculum for each level of staff trained at the Ranger and Foresters schools
at Rajpipla and Kakrapur would be adapted to the needs of community forestry.
4.11      Assistant Conservator of Forests.  Candidates for these posts would
be trained at the Indian Forest Colleges operated by the central government.
As these institutes provide training on an all-India basis, it is anticipated
that only 30 positions would be allotted to Gujarat. However, 51 graduates
are needed in order to meet project needs. To meet the shortfall, emergency
appointment of agricultural and science college graduates would be authorized.
They would then undergo six months of practical training in forestry at the
State Forest Ranger School (Rajpipla) and, subject to passing an examination,
be appointed as ACF. Persons appointed as ACF under this procedure would not
be eligible for promotion until they had completed the regular ACF training
course at the college located in either Dehra Dun or Byrnihat.
4.12      Extension Rangers would be trained at Rajpipla and out-of-state
at institutes located at Chandrapuri (Maharashtra), Coimbatore (Tamil Nadu),
Korseong (Assam).  Recruits would receive one year of training (two years at
Korseong). Newly recruited agricultural and science college graduates would
complete the one year ER course. Beginning in 1980, approximately 240 train-
ing positions would be available annually. No training at these institutes
would be given to Foresters who are promoted to ER (approximately 33% of
incremental positions).
4.13      Extension Foresters would be trained at the Foresters and Forest
Guard School located in Kakrapur. Recruits would receive eight months of
training. Guards promoted to EF would be given a six month course at the
same institution. Approximately 240 EF can be trained each year.
4.14      Protection Assistants would also be trained at the Foresters and
Forest Guard School in Kakrapur. This training would be started in the fourth
year of the project following expansion of facilities. Training for this
staff category is of less priority than that of those discussed above as
most positions would be filled by direct appointment followed by on the job
instruction.
Monitoring and Evaluation
4.15      Because project concepts are somewhat innovative in nature and
would require adjustment in the course of project execution, a strong Monitor-
ing Unit (MU) is essential. MU would be under the direct control of Addl. CCF



- 30 -
(CFW) and would he headed by a CF who would be assisted by an experienced
sociologist, an economist, and the head of the field survey team, and backed
by a data processing unit headed by a statistician. Field subunits would be
located at each of four circles and be comprised of one survey supervisor and
five survey assistants. MU staff would carry out spot checks in the field to
verify the accuracy of data and quali:y of work.  MU, by visits to sample
villages, ad hoc studies, surveys or village case studies, would assess the
receptivity of villagers to the project, and progress made in fostering local
initiative. In particular, MU would follow up closely on implementation of
village schemes, assess their effectiveness and promptly inform management
about findings and suggest improvement:s for further replication. Continuation
of the farm forestry scheme would be decided following an interim project
evaluation to be carried out jointly by GOG and IDA at the end of project year
3. Finally, using data made available by the accounting unit, the economist
would monitor planting and protection costs. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that MU would be established by June 30, 1981, that an officer
of CF level would be appointed to heac. MU, and that a work program would be
submitted to IDA for review no later than December 31, 1981.
4.16       At the end of project year three, an Evaluation Cell (EC) would be
established to carry out an interim evaluation of the project. EC would be
administered by Director of Evaluation, General Administration Department,
GOG. MU and GFD would be obligated to provide the records and data requested
by the EC for independent evaluation and the formulation of recommendations
which would be passed to the Addl. CCF for discussion and implementation.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that EC would be established no
later than December 31, 1982 and that GOG would submit a work program to IDA
for review no later than June 30, 1983.
Public Information-
4.17       Since the support and participation of the rural population are
primary requisites for project success, a DCF (Communications) would coordi-
nate four Communications Units (para 2.36) set up to encourage participation.
One unit would be established in each of the four circles, each headed by an
ACF, and would complement a small existing unit based at Vadodara which would
serve as headquarters. Each unit would be responsible for publicity, organiz-
ing orientation tours, preparation of instructional material and training aids
and introduction of more efficient wood burning stoves and cremation facilities.
V. PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND FINANCIAL RESULTS
Yields and Production
5.01       The main products of project forest plantations would be:  fuel-
wood, building poles, leaves and pods, animal feed, and edible fruits.
Subsidiary products would include timber, from the felling of avenue shade
trees, edible mahuda flowers, oilseeds, tree gum and bidi leaves. Summaries
of yields and production are provided below and detailed in Annex 1, T-3 and
Annex 4, T-5.



- 31 -
Estimated YieldsL  and Production
Yields /b               Total
at full development       Production
Product            m ton/ha/year            '000 m ton
Fuelwood           3.40   14.40                   9,900
Poles (timber)    0.66    5.44                     1,370 =  86,200 poles
Bamboo             0.48    3.62                      870 = 192,200 poles
Timber                  0.75                         350 =      500 m3
Leaf fodder        1.72    9.00                    2,200
Fruits                                             1,810
Oilseed                  0.80                        180
/a   Data provide the range of estimated yields from a fully planted ha
of pure plantation.
/b   Range of estimated theoretical yields from a pure plantation of these
species at the densities and cutting cycles adopted in the project;
data provided for purposes of comparison.
Sharing of Produce between Villagers
5.02      The sharing of produce between villagers would vary according to
the type of plantation and method of establishment.
(a) Village Woodlots: Under both schemes harvesting of fuelwood,
poles, bamboo, and timber would be undertaken by villagers for
wages and organized by the village panchayat, under the super-
vision of CFW staff. Sufficient major forest produce would be
sold to meet outstanding debts. Whether the balance of the
panchayat's share of fuelwood, poles, bamboo, and timber is
distributed free or sold would be up to each panchayat to decide.
However, under both schemes TDO would assist panchayats in
arriving at an equitable scheme, taking into consideration the
needs of the landless and poorer sections of the community.
The CFW would provide statements of accounts to the panchayat
at the end of the third year following woodlot establishment
and thereafter within 30 days on request of the panchayat. Under
the Self-help Scheme, the village panchayat would retain all
profits. Under the Supervised Village Scheme, gross value
of major forest produce would be split 50:50 between CFW and
the village panchayats (para 5.06).
(b)  Strip Plantations:  Villages with strip plantations passing
through their lands would be allowed minor products free of
charge. Leaf fodder and fruit collection would be organized
and supervised by the village panchayat under the guidance



- 2,2 -
of CFW staff. All other produce from strip plantations
would be the property of CFW and harvested and marketed
by them. However, net profits from the sale of fuelwood,
poles, bamboo, timber, etc. would be split on a 50:50 basis
between CFW and the taluka concerned in the case of planta-
tions alongside roads and canals and on a basis still to be
determined for railside plantations. TDO would distribute
net profits equitably between the panchayats in his taluka
and the profits would be credited to the panchayat.
(c)  Reforestation of Degraded Forests:  Where reforestation is
done by casual labor under CFW supervision (para 2.14),
tribal people and villagers traditionally have rights to
free collection of minor products from forest reserves and
these rights would continue under the project. Harvesting
would be done by FLCS and net profits split 80:20 between
CFW and FLCS. Where reforestation is done by a stabilized
labor force, the labor would be given first preference to
forest produce traditionally collected free of charge. Net
profits would be shared 80:20 between CFW and permanent
laborers.
(d)  Afforestation of Private Agricultural Lands:  Grass and minor
forest produce would all beLong to the owner. Poles, bamboo
and small timber, not required by the owner for his own use,
would be harvested and sold by CFW on the owner's behalf.
After deducting direct costs and advanced payments (para
2.15), 100% of net profits would be retained by the owner.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that GOG would, by June 30, 1980,
agree with the Association on the format and content of model contracts for
the establishment of village woodlots and afforestation of private lands (see
Project File, Items 4, 5 and 6).
5.03      Fuelwood, poles, bamboo, and timber from all areas but village
woodlots and degraded forest reforested by casual laborers would be marketed
by GFD either from roadsides (in the case of roadside plantations) or from
sale depots through the current practice of auctions. FLCS/GFD would be
responsible for marketing products from degraded forest areas reforested with
casual labor.
5.04      Both GSFDC and KVIC would continue to handle the marketing of non-
edible oilseed (para 1.34).  GSFDC/KVIC representatives located in strategic
villages collect and pay for the seed brought in by villagers, which is then
transported for storage and processing; into soap, etc. by small locally-owned
enterprises that obtain credit for equipment and working capital from KVIC.
5.05      Minor forest produce such as gum, bidi leaves, doli and mahuda
flowers are purchased from villagers and tribal people by the GSFDC which also
helps tribal people set up cooperatives to process these products further.
In view of the acute shortage of forest products, no marketing difficulty is
foreseen for any of the products generated by the project.



- 33 -
Cost Recovery
5.06      The benefits expected from the project are considerable and, there-
fore, it would be in the interest of GOG to recover as much of its investment
as possible. Under the Self-help Village Scheme, the direct costs of planting
(excluding seedlings) incurred by CFW are minimal (Annex 3, Tables 2 to 4)
and amount to between 1% and 8% of the expected value of major forest produce.
Therefore, for administrative convenience and to provide added incentive to
village panchayats to participate in the scheme, no cost recovery would be made
and the village community would thus benefit from 100% of the produce of the
woodlot. The situation is different, however, under the Supervised Village
Scheme where all direct costs incurred by CFW would be recovered from village
panchayats, except for seedlings (which are fully subsidized by Government for
all community forestry activities). In addition, a management fee of 25% of
direct costs would be charged and cost recovery phased over the life of the
plantation (30 years) and bear a 10% interest rate. To ensure such cost
recovery, CFW share of major produce would be approximately 50% of the harvest
at each cut (Annex 3, Tables 2, 3 and 4). Since, however, villagers under
this scheme can collect minor forest produce at all times, the proposed sharing
arrangement would leave the village community with between 60 and 68% of total
benefits. It was agreed at negotiations, that not later than September 30,
1980, GOG would prepare and furnish to IDA for its comments, proposals for
sharing major forest produce or revenue derived from its sale. Thereafter,
GOG would implement these proposals with such modifications or additions as
agreed with IDA.
5.07      On the basis of the sharing arrangements described above and in para
5.02, the project's financial rate of return to Government would be 5%; i.e.,
the return would pay off Government investments in the project (including
staff and officer recruitment) in 34 years and yield a 5% interest rate on
such investment. The corresponding cost recovery index 1/ for the project
over the entire period (34 years) would be 51%, if recovered at 10% interest
rate (Annex 3, Table 1). This index is considered satisfactory, given that
the project would provide employment to a disadvantaged section of the popu-
lation, meet some of the basic needs of rural communities, and yield substan-
tial indirect benefits by improving the environment since the costs of advi-
sory services (e.g., agricultural extension) are generally not recovered from
beneficiaries.
VI. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
Benefits
6.01      The increase in forest produce expected under the project would
benefit all of the State's population, but enhanced employment opportunities
and the right to gather free fodder, fruit and other minor produce would
favor the rural poor.
1/   Ratio of NPV of financial return to Government to the NPV of financial
costs of Government.



-- 34 -
6.02       Fuelwood, Small Timber and Ocher Forest Produce.  From project
year 10, the average annual production of fuelwood from project village
woodlots would be 386,000 m tons of which 45% would be utilized by rural
people. Annual project output of fuelwood would be sufficient to satisfy the
need of about 2.5 M people at the current annual consumption level of 165 kg
per capita. In addition, an average of 4.8 M poles and large bamboos would
be produced annually. Fruit production would be sufficient to provide 10 kg
annually for 6 M people. The greater abundance of fodder would also result
in additional milk production of about 2 M liters annually at no significant
additional cost.
6.03       Conservation of Fuelwood.  The introduction of some 10,000 improved
stoves and 1,000 crematoria would result in savings of at least 15,800 m tons
of fuelwood annually. (Annex 4, T-8).
6.04      Employment.  Over the five year project implementation period,
105,440 ha of idle or underutilized land would be brought into productive use,
largely through use of labor 1/. In total, 38.4 M man days would be required
for project activities, equivalent to 2.5,600 people fully employed for five
years.  In practice, most forestry operations would be concentrated over a two
to three month period each year, and thus, from the first year, would actually
employ at least 100,000 temporary laborers annually. This would mainly
benefit the disadvantaged sections of the population since most manual jobs
such as digging pits and trenches are normally done by them.
6.05      Environment.  The major environmental impact of project plantations
is expected to be on soil conservation and, in some cases, restoration of
soils. Nearly all of the tree species to be planted are indigenous and 20%
of those to be planted in arid areas have the ability to fix atmospheric
nitrogen. In arid areas of western and northern Gujarat, plantations would
assist in arresting wind erosion. In alkaline areas in the east of the State
and wetter areas of the south and east, soil stabilization by tree roots,
accumulation of leaf litter and reductiDn of the impact of rain on the soil
would restrict run--off and, in hill areas, reduce siltation of rivers. On
village common lands, the protection of soil within plantations from over-
grazing and trampling would improve water percolation of the soil, restore
ground vegetation and increase the percentage of perennial grasses. Strip
plantations along roadsides, which have frequently suffered locally severe
sheet and gulley erosion arising from run-off from the road surface, would
help prevent further damage.
6.06       Project production of more than 10 M m ton of fuelwood over the
next 30 years would result in the diversion to agricultural land of consider-
able quantities of cow dung and vegetable waste, which would otherwise have
been used for cooking. Other beneficial effects of the project plantations,
especially strip planting, are shade for road users and nesting, feeding and
roosting sites for birds.
1/   Labor represents 72% of direct planting expenditures.



- 35 -
6.07      Negative effects of project plantations are expected to be few.
Recent research in India, under the direction of the Forest Research
Institute (Dehra Dun), has confirmed that Eucalyptus hybrid plantations grown
on short rotations can cause depletion of certain soil nutrients. Provision
has been made for project plantations of this species to be evaluated under
the research program (para 2.30) and for remedial measures to be taken, if
required.
Economic Rate of Return
6.08      The return of the project to the economy has been calculated for
each planting component, excluding farm forestry (the costs of which comprise
3% of total project costs), and for the project as a whole, including the cost
of technical support, but excluding research. The farm forestry component has
been excluded from the analysis because of lack of data (para 6.13). Only
direct benefits have been quantified. To obtain the incremental benefit
stream, foregone benefits from existing fodder or fuelwood production have
been deducted in all planted areas from the forecast project output.
(i) in all rainfed areas, foregone benefits would be meager
grass production resulting from continued overgrazing.
It has been estimated that "with project" grass produc-
tion would be at least equal current grass yields because
cutting would replace grazing and net incremental grass
production would therefore be nil.
(ii) in irrigated areas, "without project" grass output could be
substantial. The project would therefore lead to a loss of
actual or potential grass production which has been quanti-
fied to 10 m ton per ha (canalsides) and 25 m ton per ha
(irrigated village lands).
(iii) in degraded forest lands, "without project" production has
been taken as existing fuelwood production (0.2 m ton/ha/
year). Grass growth with and without project would be the
same.
(iv) in private agricultural lands, the opportunity cost of using
the land under the project has been equated to the economic
value of the cereal harvest (estimated at Rs 250/ha/year).
6.09      Efficiency Pricing.  Key assumptions and adjustments made in the
economic analysis of the project in efficiency prices are as follows:
(a) Economic Cost of Unskilled Labor. The shadow wage rate for
labor in domestic prices is best reflected in the free
market wages, which vary during the year. During the
planting and harvesting seasons (June, July and October,
November), there is virtually full employment. At this
time, the observed wage rate equals the minimum wage
of Rs 5.5/man day; this rate has been applied to project
labor employed in those months (30% of total project



- 36 -
labor). In the period of November to April, when the
bulk of project activities would take place (70% of required
labor), the observed wage rate is about Rs 3/man day. The
economic cost of project labor, estimated as a weighted
average of prevailing rates during peak and low labor
demand, is Rs 3.75/man day or 68% of the financial cost.
No shadow wage rate has been applied to skilled labor.
(b)  Border Price Ratios.  Different conversion factors have
been used for the major categories of project expendi-
tures to reflect the different degrees of distortion
they are subject to in the Indian economy in relation
to international (border) prices:
Category             % of Project Cost    Conversion Factor
Unskilled labor                   43                 0.84  /a
Staff Salaries                    23                0.82  /b
Materials                         15                 0.70  /c
Vehicles and Equipment             6                 0.70  /c
Buildings                          7                 0.75  /d
Others                             6                 0.80  /e
/a   Consumption Conversion Factor at the critical consumption
level.
/b   Consumption Conversion Factor at the average consumption
level.
/c   After exclusion of local taxes (12% on average) and
multiplication by the Standard Conversion Factor (0.80).
/d   Construction Conversion Factor as calculated for Gujarat
Report No. 1943a-IN.
/e   Standard Conversion Factor (SCF).
(c)  Output Prices.  Fuelwood, poles and minor forest produce have
been considered as non-traded goods. Their financial prices,
multiplied by the Standard Conversion Factor (SCF) 0.80, have
been estimated to represent t:heir economic value. Milk has been
considered as a traded commodity because two internationally
traded commodities, skim milk and butter oil, are used to re-
constitute a milk substitute. The economic price of milk
(Rs 1.21/1) 1/ used in the analysis was derived from the
projected CIF price of this substitute adjusted for handling,
transportation, and reconstitution charges and production
costs (in turn adjusted by the SCF). Prices of all above-
1/   As calculated in National Dairy Project Report No. 1964-IN.



- 37 -
mentioned commodities except milk have been assumed to remain
constant in real terms at their 1978 level (Annex 3, T-10).
6.10      Economic Net Present Value.  Since the project components are not
independent, a separate economic rate of return (ROR) for each component can-
not be calculated. The overhead costs do not vary with the size of any par-
ticular component. However, as indicated in Annex 4, T-1 by the net present
value (NPV), each component would make a positive contribution. The farm
forestry component was not included in this analysis, but it is reasonable
to assume that NPV for this component would be positive. Over 34 years, at
efficiency prices, the overall ROR would be 17.0%. The economic NPV, dis-
counted at 10%, would be Rs 297.8 M (US$34.6 M), or 99% of costs in present
values. Net present values and sensitivity analysis for each component are
presented in Annex 4, T-1.
6.11      Economic Analysis of the Introduction of Wood Saving Cremation
Units. The analysis presented in Annex 4, Table 8 indicates an overall ROR
of at least 15% for this component. It also indicates that the introduction
of such units in one village or in groups of villages would be economically
viable for a population of 1,500 or more.
Project Risks
6.12      The project faces no major risk in terms of an unsatisfactory rate
of return since the ROR could withstand huge cost increases (up to 100%),
substantial price drops (up to 50%), or large losses, such as destruction by
livestock (up to 50%), each of which is improbable. Cost estimates are based
on actual costs of past plantings. Forest products are becoming increasingly
expensive as a result of the ever growing shortage. Protection of project
plantings would be no more risky than the methods previously used with a large
degree of success on similar plantings.
6.13      There is a risk that the free distribution of seedlings might lead
to excessive waste. Statistics regarding the survival rate of trees distri-
buted to the public are not reliable. For this reason, the project monitoring
unit would continuously monitor the actual survival rate through spot checks
(para 2.18), and would study the overall impact of the free distribution.
Based on these factors, GOG and IDA would jointly review the merits of free
distribution of seedlings in project year 4.
6.14      Another risk might be that the proposed target of 2,300 villages
willing to participate in the Self-help Scheme might not be met. Therefore,
special care has been taken to provide adequate incentive. Under the Self-
help Scheme, village panchayats would receive 100% of all woodlots benefits,
and would also retain control of the use of such benefits. Furthermore, CFW
would give priority to those villages which are willing to participate under
the scheme.
6.15      There is also the risk that better-off people in the village, being
the more powerful, would be the major beneficiaries of woodlot produce. This
risk has been recognized and, therefore, steps would be taken to minimize such
risks. CFW staff and project CU would inform villagers of their rights. The



- 38 -
TDO would assist the panchayats in arriving at equitable distribution of forest
produce among villagers. In particular, he would recommend that a fixed per-
centage of poles and small timber be distributed at concessional rates to the
weaker sections of the village who need these for house improvement. Finally,
MU and EC would carry out spot checks and would evaluate the social impact of
the village woodlot schemes.
6.16      Overall risks are low.  Nevertheless to optimize the objectives of
the project, particularly with regard to community activities and the impact
of the free distribution of seedlings, an interim evaluation of the project
would be carried out in year 4 to draw lessons for future activities of the
program.
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a) about 9,200 ha of village woodlots would operate under
the cormmunity Self-help Scheme so that villages involved
would accept full responsibility for establishment manage-
ment and harvesting of said woodlots (para 2.07);
(b) full time laborers required to live in degraded forest
areas would be ensured adequate facilities, i.e., water
supply and be given materials for home construction
(para 2.14);
(c) improved stoves (10,000) woulld be built and demonstrated
in at least 2,300 villages lhat select to establish wood-
lots under the community SeLf-help Scheme (para 2.27);
(d) cremation facilities would be provided both in urban areas
(200) and in villages (800) that establish village woodlots
under the community Self-he:Lp Scheme (para 2.28);
(e) a research program judged satisfactory by IDA would be
prepared by September 30, 1980 (para 2.31);
(f) field staff, including PA, EF and ER would live in or
near areas assigned for theiLr operations and for this
purpose would be provided housing or rent allowances
as necessary (para 2.34);
(g)  two Communications Units would be established not later
than September 30, 1980 and two additional units by
September 30, 1981 (para 2.36);
(h)  the Public Relations Unit would be established not later
than September 30, 1980 (para 2.37);



- 39 -
(i) GFD would keep separate accounts of expenditures made under
the project to be audited annually for each fiscal year, in
accordance with auditing principles consistently applied.
GFD accounts would be audited not later than nine months
after the end of the financial year, and the audited re-
ports submitted promptly to IDA (para 3.08);
(j) the Additional CCF in charge of CFW, and supporting staff,
would be appointed and the new circle and two new divisions
would be created by June 30, 1980 (para 4.01);
(k) the State Policy Review Committee and District Forest
Committees, would be established by June 30, 1980
(para 4.05);
(1) a Monitoring Unit would be established no later than
June 30, 1981 and would be headed by an officer of
CF level and would submit a work program to IDA for
review no later than December 31, 1981 (para 4.15);
(m)  an Evaluation Cell would be established not later than
December 31, 1982 and, submit a work program to IDA for
review no later than June 30, 1983 (para 4.16);
(n) GOG would agree with the Association by June 30, 1980
on the format and content of contracts for the estab-
lishment of village woodlots and afforestation of
private lands (para 5.02); and
(o) Not later than September 30, 1980, GOG would prepare and
furnish to IDA for its comments, proposals for sharing major
forest produce or revenue derived from its sale. Thereafter,
GOG would implement these proposals with such modifications
or additions as agreed with IDA (para 5.06).
7.02      In order to prepare for the 1980 planting season, it is recommended
that there be retroactive financing of up to US$0.5 M to cover nursery, staff,
equipment and vehicles expenditures from June 1, 1979 until the signing of the
proposed project (para 3.04).
7.03      With the above assurances and conditions, the project would be
suitable for an IDA Credit of US$37.0 M on standard IDA terms. The Borrower
would be the Government of India.
November 20, 1979






GOUJARAT CO04MMUITY FORESTRY PROJECT
Cp.neaiao  of Plantation Models - Design,s. Etobith-at sod Maincensc
Plantation Models
C              SI~~~~~~~~1                    SEC                           IV                    V                     VI                         VII                    Vill                        IS                          0
Category of Plantation                     ROADISDE              ROADSIDE                      RAILSIDE                      RA ILS IDIE          CAN1ALSIDE           VILLAGE LANDS               VlIAGE 1ANI5           VILIAGE lAND           DEGRADED FORESTPIAELR
(MalkE)
L-satlon                              aS-anhnrs/Ktoth    Malolod GaJeret                   Sao-aehtra/Kitnh             Mainland GoJarat            stenewide             statewide            S-nrahtrs/Kstnh          Mainland GJerat           Mainland Gojarl-anetlato
(ErrEgatad)           (Irrigated)
J-ni.diction                                 G5G                    0O                   Railways gB-d, GOD           Rol-oys Boad, MI5                 GOG           Village Panhay-t          Villoge Poonhayt   Village Pancheyst                Foret Dept. 00                   rvt
Area cc In planted (1 y-.r)                 13,000 ha.          18,600 he.                     1,400 he.                     2,000 ha.                2,000 h..             2,080 he.                168050 ha.           17,760 ha.                   30,000  a                      ,0   e
PLA ITATION DESIGN                   fo        atn-/ha                                        fotTo                    fo                        %o                     ToO                       %of                   Tot                        Y.o                          bE
are       steno/ha       nra      stes/ha            a a tac/e                    aces/h.t.ho                ra      see/a          a        steno/he        area    stne/ha       area   at-aha              area    stel/hean                     aenh
Rain P-edoct
Shade
A. Iodine                          267.         82            97.        27
oth-n  heds app.  l1 7%.                        VS           34%        112
1. 497 0c  hale                   17.         91            3%.        45               Sly.        83               57.         R3         447.       1,112         157,        333          20%         333       10%4      167
nie.pos io    pp. 1           43%         276          30%.        107              90%        999               hOC.       666                                                            457.       500        217.     278
E-noyptos hyb.                      90%        137          L147.       226               2%.         83              15%         230         50%1      1,250         60%.       1,333          10%         167       40%.     666
T. grandie
cis. pole/ foal app. a./                                                                                                                                                                                                                       04.        ho                   E         ,5
b.habos                                                     27.        13                                            5%.         55           3%          69          37.          20                                 2%/      Ii            'VA          30                013
D.ttlioa.                                                   87/.       51                                           157.        167           37.          69         37.          20                                 2%        30            12%4        90                 2%4
niec. f-oit  pp.~'                                                                                                                                                    197.         116          257.        156       50%       116
Ziaph-e app. -(22                                                       120)                          /2)                         (20)'                                             (20)                                        (30)
rain   pp. L/                                                                                                                                                   /50%.)                    (50%)                 10(%)
ToteD aton/ha (averag)                           641                      661                        1,165                        1,221                    2,500                   1,822                    1,156               1,267                        MO                            ,2
PIANTATIOM ESTABLISHMMNT
4 MAINJTENANC0E
Principal pronentine               Banhe  & wire-  non    2071 B-eto   nine              Bnbno I      e  se f         20% lnbon 6 cite          7C% Machon    wits    Trench& lien hedge   Trenh & Ien                 Tran..  6A  Ies         Robbie call                    Re eo ec
l.tetseoa                fenc  301% lie  hedge        dtcho-                       teen  30% lien hedge  Deane30%7 lIve hedge Watchmen                        hedge Wenatne-        hedge Wtne-
Land prepartion     pleating    907. pits Ch5co2)           90%. pEns (45.2n2            90pnChc2 90%. pita (45c-2)                90% pust (45_2)79000%ppus (45cc 2                100%. pita (45c-  2    100% ppin.(l45e22 1007% pIts (30cc 1 10% pEtsit                (3Scn2                I
10% nande                10%  -oodo                   10%, -oods                   10%. c-nd                10%. cods                                                                                      600 r.n. gradonis/hs            90. stakes
large polypota           large polypote              large polypota               large polypots            large polypois          asial pelypois'           noa   pelypota        snai  polypets         snal polypots                   10% polypots
aat-ricg/ Irigation                partIal irlggaton          aPpprt wateing             partial irrigatioo           ePppt wa.teing            irrigated               irrigatd                 non                    nos                    noenn
Fire traiag                        Yes                      Yns                          Ys                           yes                       nnoasooye
W-seing/bsating-op                 W5o6  / B-p.ap2          W al  / B-opn                SslW.   / n-ope .              aWl  / B-sps.2          Wfs6 / B-opn  2         asIC6  B-ope2            WSni  / 0-opo)   Wel  /0B-spa?                Wsh  / O-ops.2                 ao        -p
/ ether sheds specIes Models 0 & II):  oninly Alhienia 1eIbsk; C..dia dichotoon; M.Aigf-r  iodics; Peltonho-o  p   a.ce Ia; Tacaildos indico
1/ nisceilannoos foelood specIe,:   (Models    6 lEO):  esfnlyAoaciatortilla; Albiezia Salebbc; t~ron..ni.a~ l    Modls II, IV06 VIlI):  eninly Acscia nilotici; Anodea tortilla; Ahibizzi  Iled..; DDglIbb-ia  aino.
11-.e...nos  pole/foeloo.d species (Models IX ):  Anec.iL  cateo.ho;   . Aeia totillia; Albiesa  lebbeck; Da1bernia siseoc; visce,  rnnl-lo  Coron  pnlents; Gcelina arborna; tLeescoroendnlica; Madhoca indice; Tectona ara-dia.
d/caolnosfrot species (Models VI, VII & OuST   -ilyO lCordia dichotoe; Madhoas iedica; Moriaaa oelifero; Plthscolbuiiindulce; ISyion cunie.                                                                                                              ___
4gross and i.Sge species (Madels VI, Vi0 & VlIl):  caiely Cenc.hroncilianio; Dicha-thion annolat; Madinas settee; PennnE2tonjp-poreo; Snhiee serene; Trifolion  i-eadelias.



INDIA
GUJARAT COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT
Plantation Planning Targets
Plantation                   Plantation Targets
Category                                   Model         Yea.r      Year       Year      Year       Year        Total         %
1          2          3        4           5
-----------hectares-------------------
Strip Plantations                                                                                                           35
Roadside
Saurashtra & Kutch                       1           1,400      2,400      3,000    2,900       3,300      13,000
Mainland Gujarat                         II          2,400      3,300      4,600    4,000       4,300      18,600
Subtotal                         3,800      5,700      7,600    6,900       7,600      31,600
Railside
Saurashtra & Kutch                     III             -          -          -         600        800       1,400
Mainland Gujarat                        IV             -          -          -       1,000      1,000       2,000
Subtotal                           -          -          -       1,600      1,800       3,400
Canalside  (Statewide)                     V             200        300        400       500        600       2,000
Village Woodlots                                                                                                            36
Irrigated                                 VI             240        480        720       720        720       2,880
Rainfed (Saurashtra & Kutch)             VII           1,920      2,640      3,360    4,080       4,800      16,800
Rainfed (Mainland Gujarat)              VIII           2,400      2,880      3,600    4,080       4,800      17,760
Subtotal                        4,560       6,000      7,680    8,880    10,320        37,440
Reforestation of Degraded
Reserve Forest                                                                                                            28
Full-time Labor Scheme                    IX             500        750      1,000    1,250       1,500       5,000
Casual Labor Scheme                       IX          5,500       5,250      5,000    4,750      4,500       25,000
Subtotal                         6,000      6,000      6,000    6,000       6,000      30,000
Afforestation of Private
Forest Lands                               X             200        200        200       200        200       1,000        1         ,
TOTAL                          14,760    18,200    21,880   24,080    26,520    105,440
14         17         21       23          25                    100
Farm Forestry Seedlings                  Millions         25        26.3       29.6      32.9        36.,2      150



UJU'RAT COTMME ITY FORESTRY PROJECT
Cmparison of Pla-satio- Models - Yteldr
(N.B. For the purpose of comparisom, a11 yields pot hectare refer to the barvyst fron pure plantation. of trees at the denitties isdicated)
Prodoct         Species -                Modelr -          Stems/ho    St.s/ho            Year of R.rv-st                   Yieldu/tree-                         m                        of Poles d/ YieIe/ha
________                                                ci~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e   cY2   s3-                    MAIa
1. Cross Fodder      satoral grass        1, II, III, IV                                      I         every year                                    0.2
Ox                                                  I         every year                                   0.4
V                                                   I         every year                                   0.6
so,,n grass         VIE                                                  I        every year                                    1.0
VIII                                                I         every year                                    1.5
sown *egumes        VI                                                  I         every year                                    5.0
2. Icaf Fodder       koo-b-vol            I, III, VII           1667           1333           4         5-14, 17-20, 23-26    4.0                     5.3
4 pods                                 II, IV, VIll         1667            1333           4         5-14, 17-20, 23-26    5.0                     6.6
V                    2500            2000           3         4-5, 8-10, 13-15
18-20, 23-25           5.5                  11.0
VI                   2222            1777           3         4-5, 8-10, 13-15,       6.2                  11.0
18-20, 23-25
misc. fNel          I, II                  667            533            4        5-10, 13-20, 23-30    4.0                     2.1
spp.                III, IV, VIES         1111            888           4         5-10, 13-20, 23-30    2.5                     2.2
VII                   1111            888           4         5-14, 17-20, 23-26    2.5                     2.2
3. Fuel..od          eucalypto            1, III, Vil           1667           1333           8         14, 20, 26             14.0                  18.7     22.0                                                                      6.3
II, IV, VIII         1667            1333           8         14, 20, 26             16.0                 21.3      25.1                                                                      7.1
V                    2500            2000           5         10, 15, 20, 25         16.0                  32.0     37.6                                                                    13.9
VI                   2222            1777           5         10, 15, 20, 25         20.0                  35.5     41.8                                                                    14.0
koo-baval           I, III, VII           1667           1333            8         14, 20, 26            30.0                  40.0      58.6                                                                     9,0               (.
II, IV, VIII         1667            1333           8         14, 20, 26             40.0                  53.3      78.4                                                                   12.1
V                    2500            2000           5         10, 15, 20, 25         36.0                  72.0    105.9                                                                    21,2
VI                   2222            1777           5         10, 15, 20, 25         40.0                  71.1    106.5                                                                    20.9
misc. fuel          1                      667            533           10        20, 30                 65.0                  34.6      45.5                                                                     4.6
app.                11                     667            533          10         20, 30                 70.0                  37.3      49.1                                                                     4.9
I1I                  1111            .888          10         20, 30                45.0                  40.0      52.6                                                                     5.2
IV, VIII             1111            888           10         20, 30                55.0                  48.8      64.3                                                                     6.4
VI1                   EEEE            888           8         14, 20, 26             40.0                  35.5      45.5                                                                    7.0
seen                I, 11                  100             80          30         replant                60.0                   4.8       6.8                                                                     1.3
other shade .pp.   1, II                   100             80          30         replant               330.0                  26.4      39.8                                                                    1.3
!-1 tr-np           VIl, Vill              625            500          30         replant               150,0                  75,0    104.2                                                                     3.e
VI                    625             500          30         replant               200.00                100.0    13h.9                                                                    46(,
pA4r/f-l Opp.    I                        68(            544          1S         30                    1f0.0                  38.1      54.3                                                                     3.8
4. Tliber            ane                  1, 11                  10;1            80          30         replant                          0.4                   32.0                                                                    1.3
y -



Yields/ha
Prod.et                   Spectei -  Memdla -                              Ste.. /h.      stens/ha          Y-r of 11orve.t                     Yteld,/tree                                                  No. of Poles
pl-ated        ..r-ivirg      fIrst       th-chfte-                   kg.      o3|               m.t.        m 3/           ct      c2       c3       c4         sc               Al
5. Poles                 eooolyptas                 I, III, VII               1667          1333          8         14, 20, 26                                                         19.2           106   1066       i066    1066                         6.3
II, IV, VIII              1667           1333 -        8         14, 20, 26                                                         21.3           1066   1066      1066     1066                        7.1
v                        2J00           2000         5          10, 15, 20, 25                                                    32.0            1600   1 6C0    1600      1600       ,               1A l   33.1
VI                        2222           1777          5         10, 15, 20, 25                                                     28.4           1422   1422      1422      1422      1422            1' C
bOb.oos                   11                         167            133         10         20, 39                                               1.90 to          K:            78     156       234
5.08             M:           420     720      960
IV                         278            222       1i           20, 30                                               6.19 to          K:          135      270      405
14.16             Ms           690    1197    1596
V                         278            222          6         9. 12, 15. 18, 21                                    3.1%5 1          M.           200    401.      601      860        80V
24, 27, 30                                         1O.a6              M:          401    601        801     1001       1001
VI                         156            124          6         9, 12, 15, 18, 21                                    1.77 to          K:           113     225      338       450       450
24, 27, 30                                          6.11              M:          225      338      450      563        563
VIII                       156            124         10         20, 30                                               1.86 to          K:            75     150      225
4.79             M4:          389     666      888
IX                         120             96         8          12, 16, 20, 24, 28                                   1.44 70          K-            57     1145     171       171       171
3.70             M4:          305     522      696      696        696
x                          178            142          8         12, 16, 20, 24, 28                                   3.00 t0          K:           258    516        774      774       774
8.70             M:           147     252      336       336       336
teok                      X                         1600           1280         11         15, 30                                                                             600     680       680                                 1.0
polslfael npp.           IX                          680            544         15         30                                                                                 163     103                                           3.5
6. Edible Fruits         greftea hor               1, I1I                        2              2         3         every ye.r to 15            12                      0.024
II, IV                       20             20          3         every year tv 15           15                      0.300
VIII                         3n             in          I         every  -eer tso             so                      0. n 
VI                           20             20          3         evejy yea-  to 15           20                      0.400
sO-SgO-                  VII, VIII                   625            50C          3         4-8 years                   10                      5.0
9.20 years                 IS                      7.5
21-30 yeses                30                     15.0
VI                          625            500          3         4-8 yenrs                   15                      7.5
9-20 years                 20                     10.0
21-30 yearn                35                     17.5
other fruits             VII, VIII                   625            500          8         9-20 yesre                  10                      5.0
21-30 yeore                20                     10.0
VI                          625            500          8         9-20 yesee                   5                      7.5
T1-30 yeers                25                      12.5
.hade tree-              1, 11                       100             80          8         9-20 ye..r                  10                     0.8
21-30 yeor.                20                      1.6
7. Edible Flo,re       mehudd                    VIII                        625            500          8         every year                  20                     10.0
IX                          680            544         8          9-15, 22-30 yeore          20                     10.8
VI                          625            500          8         -vcry yoor                  25                     12.5
8. Oil Seeds             neem                     1, II                       100             80          8         9-20 yo.rs                   3                      0.24
21-30 yeor.                10                      0.80
9. C..                  b..vol                   ,1 11                        667            533          6         7-13, 16-20, 26-30         0.2                      0.107
T--oril bhval            III, IV, Vil              1111            888          6         7-10, 16-20, 26-30         0.2                     0.178
10. Bidi Loso-t           tirru                    IX                         r-no            100          1         every yeor                  2.5                     0.250
(r.tur.lly
occurriog)
ai Species: See An-ec 1, T-2 for scIentifIc 0405s.
b/ Modelr:  1:  Roadoide, S-oraohtra/Kucth; 11:  Roadaidc,  Gai jlrd Iojsrot; III:  Ra.iiode, Saraehtr./Kutch; IV:  Reillidc, vi.nl..d Gujarnt; V:  C.nalslde, i-rlsated;
VI:  viligoe land, Irrigated; VII:  Vill0g1   Isnd,  a4.r-vhtr./KVt,hi  VIII?  Village Iavd, vlinl.nd CGJorat; IXI;  Der-ded foren-, m lniond  aji.r.t; XI  Privat. for-et Dlrge listrio
c/ YVvldo/troo; Viyldo/tree in Veo are ve-ighr, air dry.
d/ Yleldt of Poles:  (I) KM:  M-l b-oboh  Illol- s:o
M~ ioooovl booboo '.lob: ccaloocs o:ri<coo)
(2) cl to o4:  n-mbers of  .olen pr-d-cad at first, 0e-ond, third Sod fourth cuts.
tc:         number of polo. produced at -obsoquo-  cots.*
"'5Al:  -vo      - 3annUl t1-r-trit cover  -col  --boclIon of wood (fucl.o-d, *Imber .ad polos) *o opproprlte.v



,Ai.NrX 1*
j                                            z v . ~~~~~~~~~~aL e 4
45
INDLA
GUJURJAT COG{MNITY FORESTRY PFxOJECT
Properties and Useu of Tree and Other fpecies in tbe Project
c                   -     .*                   v ct
t 9 ~~~~ t ~~               C                  '           r'               r            5             
4,  C   4   4,  0    4     44 .,5                                     4 
Sciz,tifin Name                Cozzn Na..e         r      t        4           -'                                    a  t6  a  t-  4,    C4    .  -  e o 4-   *t
4cav5a c-S-chu          ~k'h4ir                    X             X         X           X         X                                   X
Acscia zLlotics                   bPv.l                     X            X          X           X         X    X       X                     X
Acsza  tf    cilfsi             lsreeli bev-l               X            X    X   X                                    X                     X
AIbi-z,* .bbe4',                  sir.s                     X            X                            . X  X                                           X    X
Az,ditzzcht ndt0 -a ne..                                                   .' X45 X  X                                                             -  X     X
A-rb-s_                                                                         _ .                  - . Katas (baboo)  X    X  X
C-rdia dtchocora                  gund                      X                  X                                 '           X                        X
2A-Ibae-                          "Laoosisso                X      X           X   X    X       X                                                      X
D-:d,-jtLf  seA    s           Gene,Nmeu vel (b- boo)                                           X    X          X
.tos   c-,tmelh noh rIot       tiru                      X                  X   x            x                             X
FAeCe1VDt-i hybrid              by.ote hybrid               x                  X      x         x       x
Acacin  ot-riii                Israeli baval                xxd                x   x    X            X
AYbiezts te,bec'c  ~       irs                     x             x    x   x            x                                                      x 
A"eslfct. n-    dira              neven                                        X   X X          X                                                     X    
.L.- w2nd IH: acr->ha t           t k bav b)                             X                           x         X
Cpc-dadih!     r.              k"-b,vd1                     x                  x   x                                         x                        xx 
R.dh.,.  i,,di-                  rthd                                              X          XX                                        X
t4 lbe*tssi -o               Issor  yg                                    x   K    X       K                                                     K
Ptth--o.ob-ut  le1e               g.r.a ..1si               X                  X   X                           X             X
ioserots       n          t-lifi-1  g.ndo b.V1I            X             X                                                                   X
Sv tum    u-~ii                   jetimn                                           X    X       X         X                  X
Tecvtona      hybrdi.             tere                                         X   X    X       X
2i7VDh,Qs  sao.                   bor                       X                  X   X                           X             X                                      _yr#fts
(b)  SUBSIDIARY AND FAM9 FORESTRY SPECIES
Ailanthus pia,.3                 krdu,o                     X                  X
Co~ ...54,                        .r Cr  so  e,,fl                                  K      
io,.mLc, L  e ight e                 * gugal                X                       X           Klt-b
r    pgl  irnsts          MOani pad.r                 X                       X                                                                  X    X
Lad,ro.roei         p-d Viflor.   bond.ra                                          X            X                                                     X
-tgifer.   iedita                mag                                               X    X               X                    -X                       X
JN-tl'kar.  hex-adra              rayan                     X                      X            X                            X                        X
ithous 2bei    dhetur; -lberry                              X a                  X K X                                       X
paltorherur  Ct3rocarpur          peltophorun                                  X   X                                                                  X    X
Pr .o.os   eLctflro               khijdo                    X            X    X   X                            X         X
SP.tt.Roa  emoe,                 teNrPltree                                    X   X                                   X                                    X
T-,t2d-s  indic.              tmli; t-drind                X                  X   X            X              XXX
(c)  GRASSES AND LFARME  RS
Adr-ogtusn  spp                                                                                                 X
Css-h- a  aie'slol-               dhrKm-n                                                                      X
C-Sehru.  -stte i i              sr,X
Dich-aithtum 'eiuhst              zuizvo                    X                                                   X
1--eiLo   finnat                uaai  adar                                         K                                                                    
I5ciL-    laxXlm                                                                                               X
lsai-urs  sildL-s                                                                                               X
lfedic.gr   indi-                maego               - l                                                                                                            T-ig.ted KrK 
N,ni-kona ,tid.rdle                                                                                            X
Pel hetoo ,cere.one- -         Nepier gra.o   (hybrr d)                                                         X                                                   IrrKgKtKd  r-
Scoi , nervosun                   sanyr                              X             KX
7--d.nt  .-thecto                lxid                                                                            
Tsreif e- al-nrt                      Xee                                      X KlKiKtK
Terifoltu in Lxldrinu             besei;tmrnd                            X                                      X            Iriae Kra



INDIA
GUJARAT COMffINITY FORESTRY PROJECT
Plantation Model I - Roadside - Saurashtra and Kutch  (1 ha)
Years     0         1     2        3        4-7        8         9        10       11-13        14       15        16-19        20      21-25        26      27-29        30
Unit
Unit            Price
Costs                     Rs
Nurserv                                                      312    62
Lind Preparation                                             308      -       -         _          _        _         _           _          _         _          _         _          _         _          _         _
Protection                                                 1548      99     149         -          -        -         -           -         _          _          -         -          _         _          _          _
Planting                                                    520   304        71
Othe Is                                                      887   283      125       125       125       125       125         125       125        125       125        125       125        125       125        125
Sub-Total                                                3575  748    345           125       125      125        125        125        125       125        125       125        125        125       125        125
Cress Product
Puc I wood             mt                           -       -       -         -                    3.7      -        14.4         -         3.7        -         -         18.1        -         3.7        -        32.8
Pole                    No                           -       -       -        -         -         88        -         -           -        88          -          -        88          -        88          -         -          P
Timber                 m3                           -        -       -        -         -          -        -         -           -          _         _         _          -          _         _          -        26.4       OC
Grass                  mt                         0.3       (0.3)  (0.3)  (0.3)   (0.3)           (0.3)   (0.3)      (0.3)      (0.3)       (0.3)    (0.3)     (0.3)       (0.3)    (0.3)       (0.3)    (0.3)       (0.3)
Leaf Fodder             nit                          -       -       -        -       1.2          1.2     0.9        0.9        0.2         1.2      0.9      1O          1.2       0.5        1.2       0.9         0.9
Bor                    mt                           -       0.024  0.024  0-02t6   0.024            .024  0.024         .U024               0.024 0.024 -.024   0.024
Othcr Frvits           Mr.                          -        -       -                             0.4    0.4         0.4        0.4        0.4       0.4       0.4         0.4      0.9         0.9       0.9        0.9
Neem Secds              jut                         _        _       _        _         _          0.2     0.2        0.2        0.2        0.2       0.2       0.2         0.2       0.66       0.66      0.66       0.66
Cross Taconi
(1) Produce for Sale
Yuelxood           Rs/mt          135           -       -       -        -          -       499        -      1944           -       499          -          -      2433          -       499         _       4428
P'ole               Rs/iI4           9                                               -       792        -          -           -       792          _         _       792          -       792                   792
Tinber              Rs/m           250           -                              -        -                -         -         -         -           -         -                    -                   -       6600
Sub-Total                                                                                 1291               1944                  1291                            3225                 1291                11820
(2) Produce for Villa ers
Grass               KS st           10         3                                                                               -         -                                         -          -         -          -
Leaf Fodder         Rs/mt           10         -         -       _         *      12          12        9          9           2        12         9         10        12          5         12         9          9
Poer                Rs/mt          750         -        18      18       18       18          18       18         18         18         18        18
Other Fruits        Rs/mt          500         -         _       _        _         _        200      200        200        200        200       200        200       200        450       450        450       450  v. 
Noee. Seeds         Rs/rt          500         -                 -         -        -        100      100        100        100        100       100        100       100        330       330        330        330
Sub-Total                                   3         18      18       18       30        340       327       327         320       340        327       310        312        785       792        789       789   > -
Sub-Total excluding Cress                   -         18      18       18       30        340       327       327         320       340        327       310        312       785        792        789       789



*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
INDIA
GUJANAT C0O1'NITY FORESTRY PROJECT
Plantationi Model II - Roadside Mainland  QOjarat (I ha)
Years   0        1         2         3         4-7             8            9          10         11-13           14          15           16-19          20      21-25        26          27-29          30
Unit      Price
Costs                     Rs
Ntesery                                                 322        48       -           -                           -           -                                                     -            -                    -              -
La-d Penparation                                        318         -       -           -             -             -                         -
Protection                                             1389       101       134         -              -            -           -             -            -            -             -            -          -         -
Pl.nting                                                536       325        73         -             -             -           -                                                     - _                     - _  _ _
Others                                                  129        35                  -             -             -       _                                           -
Sub-Total                                           2694       509       207         -              -            -            -                          -           -              -           -          -         -              -            -
4-
Gr-ss Product
F:cluoqd                mt                                -         -         -        -              4.34          -          10.5                        4.34        -                         14.4                   4.34                      41.
Poles                   No.                                                   -         -           145             -           -                        14-                                    145           -      145                     - _
Loo',ooo - yS tan       No,-                                                                          -             -          24 N-                                                             4            -         -                         72
iazboos - Manvel    NO.                                                         -                -                            173             -            -           _              -         297           -         -                        396
Other Fruits            mt                                -                             -             0.9           0 9         0.9           0.9          0.9          0.9           0.9          0.9        1.8       1.             1.8         1.B
nor                     Mnt                               -                    .3       0.3           0.3           0.3         0.3          0.3           0.            .3---                                                           
Neem Suds               Mte                                                   -         -               .066         .066         .066         .066          .066         066           .066         220        220      .220                         220
Lear Fodder             Mtt                                         -         -         0.8           0.8            .6           .6           .1            .9.6                       .7          .9         .32       .6             .6           .6
Gtrotss T lcooc
()ilrodoce for Sale
Fuelwood fr          RslMt  135                                                               586             _       1418                        506                                    20030                 586               _       5603
Poles                Rs/No.   9                                                              1305                                                  305                                   1305                 1305                     - 
Baroboos - KataB   Rs/No.   9                       -              -         -                  -             -        216             -             -           -              -         432           *-                                 648
Banboos - MancVOl  Rs/NQ.    1,25                   -                   - _         _        1                         216             -           _                            -         371                     -              -         1,95
Sub-Total                                                                                 2891                      1850                       1690                                   4111                  1691                       0.4o
(2) Prodbuce for Villagers        18178
I.,af Foddcr         Io /MtO                       -                            8              8            6            6            1             8           6              7            8          30 
(Lot                 Ri/tt 750                                      225      225           225           225         225           225          225          225                           -                    -              -           -
Other Fruits           s /Mt 500                                                           1450           450         450           450          450          430           450          450        900       900            907          q(9'
Seeds          Na/nt 500                                                              330          3130         330           330          330          330            33 0        110 2      9101      110o          _117         I I!
sub-Totul                                                        225       23'3          1013         1011         1011         2006          1013        1061            287          5('8      11)13     1016           IWO         lot) 



INDIA
GUJARAT COP2I17YTY PORESTRY PROJECT
Flantation Model II   - Railside - Seurashtra and Kutch (1 ha)
Years 0       1        2         3        4_7         8           9          10           11-13        14       15         16-19       20        21-25       2G        27-29        39
Unit         Price
Costs                           Rs
Nureery                                                         567      113       -                                -            -              -         -                                -           -        -            -
Land Preparation                                                560        -       -         -           -           -                               -                - _        _
Protection                                                     1546       99    149           -
Planting                                                        945      552     128
Others                                                          887      283     125       125          125       125          125            125       125      125          125        125        125       125         175        125
Sub-Total                                                   4507     1047    402         125          125       125          125           125        125      125          125       125         125      125          125        IZ5
Crouq Product
Fuelwood                     mt                                 -          -       -         -            2.9       -           35.95           -         2.9       .            -        38.85        -        2.9          -        35.95
Poles                        No                                 _          _       -         -           53         -            -              .        53         -           -         53          -        53
Bar                          mt                                                     .024       .024        .024       .024        .02024 24                .024      .024       _          ,          -         _            _         _
Teaf Fodder                  mt                                 -          -       -         2.0          2.0        2.0         2.0            -         2.0       2.0         2.0        2.0          .8      2.0          2.0       2.0
Cro6s Incomne
(1)  Produce for Sale
Fuelwood                           Rs/nt 135                                                      392                   4  3                      392         -            -      5245           _      392            -      4853
Poles                              Rs/No   9                                                      477          -           -              -       477         -            -       477           -     477             -
Sub-Total                                                                                       869                  4853                       869                            5722                  869                   4853
(2) Producee for Villaters
2   Lep   lu ddor                      Rs/mt  10                                   -        20          20         20          20                        20       20           20        20           B       20           20         20
Bor                               Rsn/mt 750                                18        18           18        18           18             18       I1         18           _-                             -            _          -_
Sub-Total                                                                 38 38                  38        38           38             18        38       38           20        20           8       20           20         20
,4>
t' I 



I
INDILA
GUJMUT CIO(UTY FORESTRY PERJECT
Plantation )odel IV - Railside - Mainland CuJarat ( 1 he)
Unit    Price Years 0        1       2       3       4-7      8        9        10          11-13       14      15        16-19      20    21-25         26      27-29      30
Cos ts                   Rs
Nursery                                               595    119       -            -        -        -           -           -            -           -        -         -         -         -        -
Laud Preparation                                      587       -      -                            -         -       -          -          -                    -             -         -             -
Protection                                           1389      99    134            -        -        -           -                                    -        -          -
Planting                                              990    579    134                                      -         -          -              -          -        -         -              -        -
Others                                                129      33               -
Sub-Total                                         3690    Ti3    268
Gross Product
Fuelwood               mt                              -       -       -        -       5.84    -         29.31          -         5.84   -            -       35.15       -        5.84      -         29.31
Poles   -              No                              _       _       _              160        _         _             _       160       -           -      160          -     160          -         -
Bamboo - Katas         No                              -       -       -        -       -        -       105                       -       -           -      210         -         -         -       315
Bamboo - Manvel        No                              -       -       _        _       -        _       512             -         -        -          -      963          -        _         _      12S4       '
Bor                    mt                              -       -         ,3    .3        .3       .3        .3            .3        .3       .3
Leaf Fodder            Mat                             _       _       _       2.2      2.2      2.2       2.2           _         2.2     2.2        2.2       2.2       .88       2.2       2.2        2.2
Gross Income
(1) Produce for Sale
Fuelwood          Rs/mt      135                 -       -       -        -    788          -     3957             -       788                   -    4745           -      788          -      3957
Poles             Rs/No        9                  -      -       -        -   1440          -         -            -      1440        -          -    1440           -    1440           -        -
Bamboo - Katas  Rs/No          9                 -               -        -       -         -      945             -          -       -          -    1890           -        -          -      2835
Bamboo -  2nvVel1Rs/No         1.25              _                                                 640             -          -       -          -    1204           -                   -      150 0
Sub-TOtal                                                                    2228               5542                    22                           9279                2228                8352
(2)  Produce for Villtero2
E:it o6dTder V Rs/mt          10                     -       -          22       22       22         22                      22      22                   22        8.8      22        22         22
Bor               Rs/Mt      750                                         225       22       5 225  225  22       22                2
Sub-Total                                                     hi -       247      247 YU         W7                      247 F5                        22        -8.       TY        22         22



INDIA
GUJARAT COM.IIINIY FORESITRY PROJECT
Years   0       1      2      3      4       5      6      7-8     9      10       11      12      13-14      15      16-17       18       19     20     21     22-23      24       25      26       27      28-29       30
U -t         Price
Costs                                R.
Nursery                                                           1218   243       -      -      -      -                                        -        -         -                                                                             -       -         -      
Land Preparation                                                  1203       -      --                                 -       -       -        -        -          -       -            - _  _  _  _
Protection                                                        1389      99   134          -      -                  -        -       -             -        -        - _  . _  _    _        _              _        _                                _
Planting                                                          2028  1185    275                      -       -      -        -       -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -           - _         _                          _          _
Others                                                             250   250    125    125    125   125         125   125      125     125      125      125       125      125        125     5 1      125    5 1      125     125     125      125     125       125        125
Sub-Total                                                    6088  1777    534   125   125   125           125   125      125    125       125      125       125      125        125      125     125   125       125     125      125     125     125       125        125
Gross Products
r--G- -d                                                           -        -      -      -      48 0            -      -       48       -       -        -         48       -          -        -       48       -      -       -        48      -       -         -          -
Peles                             mt-                        --                             ---       -       -       -        -       -        -        -      -        -      - _     _                _       _       _       _-  
Bmboos- Katas                     No.                       -                                       89 9          198       _       _      297        -       396        _         396      _        _      396      _      396      _        _      396        -         396
Bsmb- s _.-Inl                    No.                     _                          198                     -    297       _       _        936      -        495       -         495       -       -      495      -      495       -       -      495        -          -
Le of Fodder                      mt                                                5      5      5    -          5      5       5      -        -          5        5       -           5        5       5       -       5        5       5      -       -          5          5
Crass                             mt                       18         8      8      8      8      8      8        8      8       8        8       8        8         8        8          8        8      -8        8      8       8        8       8        8
Gross Incomc
Produce for Sale
FPuluoud                          Rn/nt       135           _      _       _       _      -   6480      _640                                                     0480                                  6480  -  -  -                   6480 -  -  -     -
P,les                             RstNo         9               -      -       -          -   7200               -      -    7200       _        _               7200        -          -        -     7200      -       -       -    7200        -       -         -          -
bomboos - Katas                   R./Ne         9                                             -    891       -   1782        -       -    2673         -      3564        _       3564       _        -    3564       _     3564      -        _    3564         _       3564
Bamboos - Manvel                  Rs/No         1.25 3             _                    247                    -    371    _          -       495      _        619        -         619                      6 _  619    _   619       -       -19 9             -         619
Sub-Ttotl                                             -                             -  13680  1138         -   2153  136800              3168       -         17863             4183       -       13680   4183    -    4183  13680         -    4183         -        4183
Prod.ce for Cel1eution
LPuef FddEr                       Rs/nt       10            -      -        -      50     50     50     -        s0     50      50       -       -        50        5'       -          50       50      50       -      50      s5       50      -        -        so         so
Grass  (Sncrec,ental)             Rn/mt       10         _        (100) (100) (100) (100) (100) (100)  (100) (100)  (100)   (10    (100)    (100)    (100)    (100)                   (105   (1005   (100)   (100) (100)   (100)   (100)   (100         (100)    (100)       (100)
Sub-Total                                             -    (100) (105)   (55)  (50)   (30) (100)    (50)  (50)    (50)   (100)  (100)              (50)      (50)    (100)       (50)    (50)    (50)   (100)   (50)    (50)    (50)  (100)   (100)          (50)       (50)
S~~~~~~~b-T.tal'                                                                                                                                                        'Wo                          WE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1



INDIA
R                                     L GUJARATCOMMUNITY  FORESTRY PR0J8CT
Plantation Model Vl -  Village Woodlot (Irted)t= Whope of    G
Years 0           1         2          3         4         5          6         7-S          9          10          11         12
Unit             Price
Costs                                       R.
Nursery                                                                             641       128         -
Land Preparation                                                                    659
Protection                                                                          374        50       50
Planting                                                                          1069        577      201
Others                                                                              367       250      125         125       125        125         125        125        125         125        125
Sob-Total                                                                    3110      1005       376        125        125       125         125         125       125         125         125
Gross Product
Foeluoud                                 mt                                -        -         -        -           -           32        -           -         -           32          -          -
Poles                                    No                               _         _         _           _        _           _         _           _         _
Bamboos (Katas)                          No .                                       _                  - _         _                     29                      59        -           -          88
Banboos (Manvel)                         No                               -         -         -        -           -           -         59          -           88        -           _         117
Bor                                      mt
lot           01                                         -          -         ~~~~        ~~~~      ~~~~       ~~~~       ~~~~ ~~~0.4  0.4  0.4  0.4  0.4  0.4  0.4  0.4  0.4
Other Fruits                             mt                                                                          0.18       0.18       0.18       0.18        0.92      0.92        0.92        0.92
Leaf Fodder                              mt                                                                           1.7       1.7      -           -            1.7       1.7        -           -
Grass                                                                    35          10        10        10         10         10        10          10          10        10          10          10
Gross Income
(1) Produce for Sale
Fuelwood                            Rs/mt              135            -        -          -        -          -         4320         -           -          -       4320          -           -
Poles                               Rs/No                9                                -                               -
Bomboos (Katas)                     Rs/No                9            -        -                                                   261          -          531         _          _          792
Booboos (Manvel)                    Rs/No                1.25        _          _        _         _          _           _          74                    I 1                    _          146
Sub-Total                                                                                                  , -       4320        335          -          641      4320          _38
(2) Prodoce for Collection
S.c                                 Rs/mt              710                                         3    00     300       300        300        300         300        300         300        300
Other Fruits                        Rs/mt              100            -        -                                90        90         90          90        460        460        460         460
Leaf Fodder                         Rs/mt               10            -        _          _        -            17        17         -           -           17        17          -          -
Grass                               Rs/mt               10        ,350         100        105      10          100       100        100         100        100        100         100        100
Sob-Total                                                       350         100        100      400        507        507       490         490         877       077         860          6
Sub-Total Incremental                                                      (250)    (250)       (50)        157       157        140        140         527        S27        510         510
Years 13-14       15         16-17      18        19        20         21        22-23        24        25        26        27      28-29       30
Unit                  Price
Costs                                      Rs
Nursery
Land Preparation
Protection
Planting
Others                                                                     125       125         125       125       125       125       125        125          125       125       125    1_225       125        125
Sob-Total                                                                125       125         125       125       125       125       1.25       125          125       125       125       125      125        125
Gross Product                                                                                                                      32                                         32                                       18.6
FUelwood                                Mt                                  -         32          -                              -          -32 --                           2        -         -        -          1.
Poles                                   NO                                                                                          -  -  -                                  -        -              -              -
Booboos (Kata)                          No                                  -        117          -        117                           117          -           117                          117                 117
Baoboos (Man-el)                        No                                  -        146          -        148        _          -       146          -           146       -         -        146       -         146
Bot                                     Mt:                                  0.4       0.4        -         -                   -                -                   -               ----       -        --
Other Fruits                            mt                                   0.92       0.92      0.92        0.92     0.92       0.92     1.84        1.84         1.84     1.84       1.84     1.84      1.84      1.84
Leaf Fodder                             mt                                   0.8        1.7       -          -         0.7        1.7     -           -             1.7      1.7       -        -         -         -
Grass                                                                       10         10        10          10       10        10        10          10           10       10         10       10        10        10
Gross Income
(1)  Produce for Sale
Fuelwood                          Rs/nt              135              -        4320        -           -        -       4320        -           -            -      4320         -        -         -       2511
Poles                             Rs/No                9               -         -         -           -        -          -        -           -            -        -          -        -         -          -
Bamboos (Xatas)                   Rs/No                9                       1053        -         1053       -          -      1053          -          1053       _          -      1053        -       1053
Baoboos (Manvel)                  Rs/No                1.25            -        182        -          192                          182          -           182      -           -       182        -        182
Rub-Total                                                           -       5555         -        1235        -       4320      1.235                   1235    4320                  1235        -        74
(2)  Produce for Collection
But                               Rs/mt              750            300         300        -                    -          -        ---                               --                  -         --
Other Fruits                      Rs/mt              501            460         460       460         460    460          460      920        920           920      920        920      920       920        920
Leaf Fodder                       Rs/mt               10              8          17         -          -       17          17       -           -            17        17        -         -        -          -
Grass                             Rs/Mt               10            100         100       100         100     100         100      100        100           100      100        100      100       100        100
Sub-Total                                                         868        877        560        560      577        577      1020      1020          1037    137         1020    1020       1020       1020
Sub-Total Incremental                                             518        527        210        210      227        227       670       670            670      670        670      670      670        670



INDIA
GWARAT cOI4 TY FORESTRY PROJECT
Plantatton tiodel VIT - Village Wovdlot ( Rainfed)
Saurashtra and Kutch (1 ha)
Years 0        1        2        3         4-7           8         9           10        11-13           14         15       16-19        20    21-25        26         27-29         30
Unit      Price
Costs                         Rs
Nursery                                                 405       81        -          -            -                      -           -              -         -          -          -        -          -           -           -
Land Preparation                                        416       -         -          -            -         -
Protection                                              374       50       50          -            -         -
Planting                                                675    364        127          -            -         -
Others                                                    63      -         -          -            -         -            _           _             _          _          _          _        _         _            _           _
Sub-Total                                            1933    495       177
Gross Product
Fuelsood                    Mt                          -         -         -          -           25.8       -                                     25.8        -          -         25.8      -        25.8          -          18.75
Poles                       No                           -        -         -          -          107         -            -          -            107          -                   107        -       107                        -
Fruits                      mt                          -         -         -            .125        .125      .750        .750         .750           .750     .750         .750      .750   1.375       1.375     1.375         1.375    tn
Leaf oadder MAt                                         -         -         -          2.06         2.06      -            -           *.3,          Z.U6       -          1.03       2.06      .82      2.06         -           -
Grass                       m5                    3.0   3.0       3.0      3.0         3.0          3.0      3.0          3.0          3.0            3.0      3.0          3.0       3.0      3.0        3.0       3.0          3.0
Gross Income
(I) Produce for Sale
Fuel.ood               Rs/mt    135                 -        -         -           -        3483          -           -           -          3483          -           -      3483        _      3483             -       2531
Poles                  Rs/No        9               -        -         -           -         963          -           -           -           963          -           -       963        -        963            -          -
Sub-Total                                                                                 4446                                       4446 4446                                                                          2531
(2) Produce for Villagers
Other Fruits           Rs/mt    500                 -        -         -          62          62         375         375        375            375       375         375       375      687        687          687       687
Leaf Fodder            R.s/mt      10               -        _         _          21          21          -           -          14             21         -          10        21        8         21            -        -
Sub-Total                                                                                  -U3        1                                                           387753_9 6 ;Z         56887 687
_x



INDIA
GUJARAT COHUIIIY FORESTRY PROJECT
Plantation Model VIII - Village Woodlot (Ralnfed)
mainland Cularat (1 ha)
Years 0        1       2        3       4-7          8       9        10         11-13        14        15        16-19    20         21-25       26       27-29         30
unit      Price
Costs                         Rs
Nursery                                                -     447      92        -         -          -        -         -           -          -         -           -       -          _          -           _          _
Land Preparation                                       -     460       -        -         -          -        -         -           -          -         -           -       -          -          -           -          _
Protection                                            -      374      50       50         -
Planting                                               -     746    402       140         -
Otber.                                                 -      63       -        -         -          -        -         -                      -         --                  -----
Sub-Total                                                 2090    544      190
Gross Product
Fuelwood                  Mt                          -        -       -        -         -         13.9      -       12.21         -         13.9       -           -      26.1        -         13.9         -         26.2
Poles                     No                          -        -       -        -         -       426         -         -           _       426          -           -    426           -        426           -          -
Bameboos - Katas          No                           -       _       _        _         _          _        -       18                       -         -           -      36          -          -           -         54               U
B=amboos - Mnanvel        No                           -       -       -        -         -          -        -      100            -          -         -           -    171           -          -           -        228
Bor                       mt                          -        -       -         .45       .45        .45      .45       .45         .45        .45       .45                  -        -                -          -
Other Fruits              at                           _       _       _        0.11      0.11       0.11    0.60       0.60        0.60       0.60      0.60      0.60      0.60       1.14        1.14       1.14       -
Leaf Fodder               mt                          -        -       -        -         1.22       1.22      .55       .55         .45       1.22       .55       .89      1.22        .49       1.22         .55        .55
Grass                     at                         5.0      5.0    5.0        5.0       5.0        5.0      5.0       5.0         5.0        5.0       5.0       5.0       5.0        5.0         5.0        5.0        5.0
Gross Income
(I) Produce for Sale
Fucelood            RN/at           135                    -       -       -         -       1877        -      1648           -       1877         -            -   3523           -       1877          -       3537
Poles                Rs/No            9                    -      -        -         -       3854        -         -           -       3834         -            -   3834           -       3834                      -
Bamboos - Katas      Rs/No            9                    -      -        -         -          -        -       162           -          -         -            -    324           -          -          -        486
Ba.boos - Manvel    Rs/No             1.25                 -      -        -         -          -        -       125           -          -         -            -    214           -          -          -        285
Sub-Total                                                                                  5711               1935                   5711                          7895                   5711                  4308
(2) Produce for Villagera
bor                  Rs/mt          750                    -       -     338       338        338      338       338         338        338       338                -        -          -           -                -
Other Fruits         Rs/at          500                    -       -      55        55         55      300       300         300        300       300          300    300         570        570        570
Leaf Fodder          Rs/at           10                    _-              -        12         12        6         6          50         12         6            9     12           5         12          6           6
Sub-Total                                                              393       EF 9                644       644         688        650       644          309    312         575        582        576           6
S.b-Total                70-5  '40-5  -C"-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



INDIA
GUJARAT COMttUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT
Plantation Model IX - Reforestation of Degraded Forests
ranch Mahals, Bh*ruch, Vadodara, Valsad
Years 0            1      2       3    4-7        8      9-11      12    13-14       15     16      17-19    20       21423      24      25-27       28       29      30
Unit            Price
Costs                        Rs
Nursery                                                          280       56     -       -        -      -           -         -       -        -                  -         -        -         -         -            -
Land Preparation                                                  84       -      -       -        -      -
Protection                                                       275       -          -       -       ---                   -         -       -       -        -                   -       ---
Planting                                                         356      175    104
Others                                                           472       -      -                -      --                 -        -       -       -        ---                         --                  -
Sub-Total                                                     1467     231    104
Gross Product
I-cra .. t.1  ueh,-4      at                         0.2          -        -      -       -        -      --                -         38      ---                                  -       --                  -38
Poles                     No                                      -        -      -       -        -      --                -        163      -       -        -                   -       --                          163    .
camboo-Katas              No                                                                       57 - _   _   57   114    -         -      171      -       171                 171                171       -        -
Bamboo -Manvel            No                                                                     305      -         522               -      696      -       696        -       696       _         696       -        -
Gross Income
(1) Produce for Sale
Fuelwood              Rs/mt           135                                                         -        -        -           5144     -        -        -         -        -        -          -        -     5144
Poles                 Rs/No             9-                             -      -       -       -  -         -        -           1467      -       - -      -         -             -              -        -      1467
Bamboo   Katas        Rs/No             9                    -         -      -              513               1026               -    1539       -      1539        _      1539       -        1539       -        -
Bamboo   Manvel       Rs/No             1.25                                                 381      -        652      -           4 870         -       670        -       870         _       8706
Sub-Total                                                                                   894              1678              6611   2409             2409                2409                2409             6611



INDIA
GUJARAT COMHUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT
PlantatioU Model X   6f(Otrestation of Private Land - Pangs Diatrict (1 ba)
Years
Unit      Price       0      1     2     3      4-7      8     9      10     11      12     14      15     16      17-19      20     21-23      24      25-27      28      29     30
Costs                        Rs
Nursery                                            147    29      -      -       -      -     -       -      -       -      -       -       -         -       -          -       -         _       _       -
Protection                                         100      -     -      -       -      -                                                                                                  -
Land Preparation                                    71      -     -      -       -      -     -
Planting                                           469   236   137       -       -      -     -
Others                                             326   250   250       250   250   250   250    250       250    250    250    250        250      250      250       250      250      250    250    250
1113   515   387      250   250   250   250    250        250    250    250    250       2250        250     50      250      250       5       250    250
Gross Product
Poles                    mt                          -      -     -      -       -      -     -    600       -       -     680      -       -         -       -          -       -          -      -      680
Bamboos - Katas          No                          -      -     -     -      255      -     -       -     510      -      -      765     -         765      -         765     -         765      -       -
Bamboos - Manvel         No                          -      -     -      -     147      -     -       -     252      -      -      336      -        336      -         336      -        336      -       -
Gross Income
(1) Produce for Sale
Poles              Rs/at        9                -     -      -     -        -     -      -   5400       -      -    6120       -      -          -       -          -      -          -       -    6120
Bamboos - Katas   Rs/No         9                -     -      -     -    2295      -      -      -    4590      -       -    6885      -        6885      -       6885      -        6885      -       -    @
Bamboos - Nanvel  Re/No         1.25             -     -            -    -184      -      -      -      315     -    ___      420      -         420      -        420      -         420      -
Sub-Total                    1.25              -     -905                                                           6120   7305               7305              7305               7305           6120
11!



- 56 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDIA
GUJARAT COMMUNIT'Y FORESTRY PROJECT
Project Approval, Procurement, Disbursements and Audit
Project Approval
1.        Before an expenditure is sarnctioned and the necessary funds appro-
priated, a Project Report, based on the Staff Appraisal Report, would be pre-
pared by GFD and submitted for approval by the Planning Ministry, through the
Secretary, Agriculture, Forests and Ccoperation Department. Commitment is
then made by the State by agreeing to allocate funds for each of the fiscal
years of the project period.
GOG Annual Budget
2.        The cyc:Le of events covering the preparation and approval of the
annual budget is:
(a)  preparation of Proposed Estimate for a fiscal year in July
of the preceding year;
(b)  approval. of the Proposed Estimate by the Ministry of Finance
in April. of the fiscal year; when approved, the budget is
called the Sanctioned Estimate and it forms the authority
for release of funds;
(c)  revision. of the Sanctioned Estimate in July of the fiscal
year based on performance during the first quarter of the
fiscal year; the document is then approved in January of
the fiscal year and becomes t:he Revised Estimate; and
(d)  submission and approval of the Final Statement of Excess
and Savings on the budget in February of the fiscal year;
when approved, this statement. becomes the Latest Estimate.
3.        The Proposed Estimate is prepared for each division by the Divi-
sional Forest Officer from targets agreed with each range under a division.
Divisional estimates are consolidated at the office of the circle and sub-
mitted to the Addl. CCF for consolidation of all CF estimates. At Addl. CCF
level, there is an Accounts and Disbursements Cell with an Accounts Officer
responsible for finialization of CFW estimates and allocation of funds to
the lower levels.



- 57 -
ANNEX 2
Page  2
4.        Budgetary allocation is made under two heads:  Plan (dealing with
development expenditures) and Non-Plan (dealing with maintenance expenditures.
Plan funds are allocated for each project, with detailed allocation against
items of expenditure.
Procurement and Disbursements
5.        Procurement and disbursements would be as follows:
(i) Plantation Works, including nursery, land preparation,
planting, protection and maintenance, would be carried
out by force account and disbursements would be made
against statements of expenditures;
(ii) Vehicles, Equipment and Material. Contracts would be
let following local competitive bidding, advertised
locally and in accordance with local procedures that
are satisfacatory to IDA. Since individual contracts
would not be available for "rate contracts", 1/ a
certified list of suppliers, description of item and
price would be sufficient for disbursement. Further,
disbursement against procurement involving expenditure
of less than Rs 100,000 for vehicles, equipment and
material for which it would not be practical to submit
documents may be permitted against statements of
expenditures.
(iii) Civil Works. Contracts are awarded to contractors by
local competitive bidding or undertaken under force
account by GFD whenever no contractor has been forth-
coming or whenever bid prices are unreasonable. It is
suggested that civil works not in excess of 30% of the
total of civil works financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit may be carried out by force account; contracts for
the remainder of the civil works should be let on the
basis of local competitive bidding. In addition, dis-
bursements for petty contracts costing less than Rs
100,000 for which it would not be practical to submit
documents may be against statements of expenditures.
(iv) Staff Salaries and Training. Disbursement would be against
statements of expenditures.
1/   Rate Contracts.  For most standard items used by several government
departments, the government, through its agencies, enters into "rate
contracts" which specify the prices and suppliers of equipment and
materials. Rate contracts are awarded after competitive bidding and
are usually valid for a specified time period. (Bids are submitted in
sealed envelopes, opened simultaneously, and evaluated by a government
committee).



- 58 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3
Project Accounts
6.         The basis of accounting (standard objects of expenditure referred
to in GOG circular of July 29, 1978) by GOG will have to be revised in con-
formity with the Bank's requirements so that expenditure heads are in con-
formity with the chosen disbursement categories.  In addition, progress
reports on physical implementation, which will be important documents for
monitoring project progress and for verifying disbursement applications
against statements of expenditure in respect of planting cost, should be
so framed as to be. comparable with the statements of expenditures prepared
from the financial records.



59 -                             ANNEX 3
Table 1
INDIA
GUJARAT COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT
Financial Costs and Returns to GOG
(Rs M)
YEAR            COSTS             RETURNS            NET RETURNS
1              80.3               -0.1               - 80.5
2              93.3               -0.3               - 93.6
3             110.9               -0.4               -111.3
4             115.9               -0.5               -116.4
5             128.8                1.9               -126.9
6              25.3                3.8               - 21.6
7              13.9                5.6               -  8.3
8               9.0               22.3                 13.3
9               8.0               27.4                 19.4
10               8.0               32.7                 24.8
11               8.0               40.1                 32.1
12               8.0               56.3                 48.4
13               8.0               31.6                 23.7
14               8.0               45.1                 37.2
15               8.0               59.1                 51.1
16               8.0               77.5                 69.5
17               8.0               73.1                 65.1
18               8.0               77.8                 69.8
19               8.0               53.0                 45.0
20               8.0               44.7                 36.7
21               8.0               42.2                 34.3
22               8.0               52.2                 44.2
23               8.0               59.8                 51.9
24               8.0               78.3                 70.3
25               8.0               16.2                  8.2
26               8.0               28.1                 20.1
27               8.0               34.6                 26.6
28               8.0               52.3                 44.3
29               8.0              42.8                  34.8
30               8.0               98.7                 90.8
31               8.0               86.2                 78.2
32               8.0               97.9                 89.9
33               8.0               89.6                 81.6
34               8.0               94.8                 86.9
Financial ROR                         4.7%
Present Value of Costs at 10%       452.3
Present Value of Returns at 10%    229.6
Cost Recovery Index at 10%          229.6  , 50.7%
452.3
The net returns to Government were calculated on the following basis.
Produce                                 GOG Share
Fodder, Fruit, Bor, Seed                        0%
Fuelwood? Poles, Bamboes, Timber
Strip Plantations (Models I-V)              40% (equivalent to 50% of net profit)
Village Woodlots (Models VI-VIII)           35%
Degraded Forests (Model IX)                 80%
Private Forests (Model X)                   lOX (equivalent to lOOX of net profit)



60-                            ANNEX 3
Table 2
INDIA
GUJARAT COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT
Cost Recovery - Model VI - Village Woodlot (Irrigated)
Whole of CSujarat (1 ha)
(Rs)
Self-Help      Supervised
Scheme          Scheme
()      a!                            b/
(1)  PV-  of Gross Revenue (Incremental- )
Fuelwood/Poles                                 8,295            8,295
Collect:ed Produce                             1,927            1,927
Subtotal                                 10,222           10,222
(2)  Imputed Value of Panchayat Contribution              3,065               -
a!
(3)  PV-/ of Government Outlay
Direct Costs                                     881            3,946
Technical Assistance                           2,075            2,075
Subtotal                                  2.5              6,021
a!
(4)  PV-/ of Government Outlay on Direct
Costs, Excluding Seedlings                           122            3,187
(5)  Cost Recovery Objective:  (6):(4) =                    100%             125%
(6)  PV of Returns to CFW                                   122            3,983
(7)  CFW Share of Fuelwood/Poles                              1%              48%
(8)  Recommended CFW Share  (for convenience)                 0%              50%
(9)  Value of Produce Recovered by CFW in PV
(from (1))                                            0            4,147
(10) Cost Recovery Index:  (9):(3) =                          0%              69%
(11) Rent Recovery Index:  (9):(1) =                          0%              49%
(12) Return to Village Panchayat
Main Forest Product                            8,295 (100%)    4,148 (50%)
Imputed Value of Panchayat Contribution        3,065              -0-
Net Return to Village Panchayat                5,230 (+26%)    4,148
a/   PV - Present Value at 10% interest.
b/   The revenue appears small in relation to non-irrigated models because
the "without project" production iwhich was taken at 35 m ton of grass/ha
has been excluded.



-61 -                           ANNEX 3
Table 3
INDIA
GUJARAT COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT
Cost Recovery - Model VII - Village Woodlot
Saurashtra and Kutch (1 ha)
(Rs)
Self-Help      Supervised
Scheme          Scheme
(1) PV-2 of Gross Revenue
Fuelwood/Poles                                 4,420            4,420
Collected Produce                              2,090            2,090
Subtotal                                  6,510            6,510
(2)  Imputed Value of Panchayat Contribution              1,495
(3)  PV-  of Government Outlay
Direct Costs                                     805            2,300
Technical Assistance                           2,075            2,075
Subtotal                                  2,880            4,375
(4)  PV-/ of Government Outlay on Direct
Costs, Excluding Seedlings                          368             1,863
(5)  Cost Recovery Objective:  (6):(4) =                    100%             125%
a!
(6)  PV-  of Returns to CFW                                 368            2,329
(7)  CFW Share of Fuelwood/Poles to ensure (6)                8%              53%
(8)  Recommended CFW Share
(for convenience and incentive)                       0%               50%
(9)  Value of Produce Recovered by CFW in PV
(from (1))                                            0            2,210
(10) Cost Recovery Index:  (9):(3) =                          0%              50.5%
(11) Rent Recovery Index:  (9):(1) =                          0%              34%
(12) Return to Village Panc-hnaat-b
Main Forest Product (1)                         4,420 (100%)    2,210 (50%)
Imputed Value of Panchayat Contribution (2)  1,495                   0
Net Return to Village Panchayat                 2,925 (+32%)    2,210
a/   PV - Present Value at 10% interest.
b/   Plus the value of collected produce.



- 62 -                          ANNEX 3
Table 4
INDIA
GUJARAT COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT
Cost Recovery - Model VIII - Village Woodlot
Mainland Gujarat (1 ha)
(Ms)
Self-Help      Supervised
Scheme          Scheme
(1)  PV-/ of Gross Revenue
Fuelwood/Poles                                 6,810            6,810
Collected Produce                              3,761            3,761
Subtotal                                 10,571           10,571
(2)  Imputed Value of Panchayat Contribution              1,672               -
a!
(3)  PV-/ of Government Outlay
Direct Costs                                     823            2,495
Technical Assistance                           2,075            2,075
Subtotal                                  2,898            4,570
a!
(4)  PV-/ of Government Outlay on Direct
Costs, Excluding Seedlings                           349            2,021
(5)  Cost Recovery Objective:  (6):(4) =                    100%             125%
a!
(6)  PV-/ of Returns to CFW                                 349            2,526
(7)  CFW Share of Fuelwood/Poles to ensure (6)                5%              37%
(8)  Recommended CFW Share (for convenience)                  0%              50%
(9)  Value of Produce Recovered by CFW in PV
(from (1))                                            0            3,405
(10) Cost Recovery Index:  (9):(3) =                          0%              75%
(11) Rent Recover. Index:  (9):(1) =                          0%              32%
(12) Return to Village Panchayat b/
Main Forest Product (1)                         6,810 (100%)    3,405 (50%)
Imputed Value of Panchayat Contribution (2)  1,672                   0
Net Return to Village Panchayat                 5,138 (+50%)    3,405
a/   PV - Present Value at 10% interest:.
b!   Plus the value of collected produc.e.



INDIA
GUJARAT COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT
Economic Analysis - Results
(Rs M)
NPV as % of               Switching Values a/
PV Costs         PV Ben.        NPV      Present Costs               Costs       Benefts
Roadside Planting in
Saurashtra & Kutch                       49.1            52.6          3.5            7.1                   + 7.2        - 6.7
Roadside Planting in
Mainland Gujarat                         52.8           112.7         59.9          113.4                 + 113,4       - 53.1
Railside Planting                            10.6            13.1          2.5           23.6                 + 23.6       - 19.1
Canalside Planting                           10.6            34.2        23.6           222.6                + 221.4       - 68.9
Village Woodlot
- Irrigated                                  8.6            34.4        25.8           300.0                + 298.5       - 74.9
Village Woodlot in
Saurashtra & Kutch                       30.9            92.1         61.2          198.0                 + 197.6       - 66.4
Village Woodlot in
Mainland Gujarat                         34.5           156.9        122.4           354.8                + 355.2       - 78.0
Forest Rehabilitation                        27.5            93.8         66.3          241.1                + 240.8       - 70.7
Afforestation of
Private Land                               2.2             7.6          5.4          245.4                + 255.4       - 71.9
Subtotal                            226.8           597.4        370.6          163.0                    -             -
Overhead Costs                               72.8             -            -
Total Plantings -
including Overheads                     299.6           597.4        297.8           99.4                  + 99.4       - 49.8
vfS
a/  The switching value is the value of the variable tested for which the NPV discounted at 10% is zero.  It may be                     p 
interpreted as the value of the variable tested for which the project would be uneconomic.



-64 -                          ANNEX 4
Table 2
INDIA
GUJARAT COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT
Sensitivity Analysis
I. Sensitivity Analysis on Present Value
Appraisal           Switching          %
Variable                          Value                Value         Change
Benefits from
Fuelwood                        218.3                -79.5          -136
Poles                           134.8               -163.0          -221
Bamboo - Katas                   50.9               -246.9          -585
- Manvels                 24.8              -273.0        -1,201
Timber                             5.4              -292.4        -5,551
F-odder                         -11.3               -309.1        +2,633
Fruit                            107.6              -190.3          -276
Bor Fruit                        5,.1               -240.7          -521
Seed                               9.9              -287.9        -2,995
Total Benefits               597.5                299.6           -50
Costs
Material                         40.3                338.1          -739
La6or                           103.9                401.7          +287
Other                              2.1               299.9       +14,527
Staff                            80.7                378.5          +369
Overheads                         72.7               370.5          +409
Tota' Costs                        299.7               597.4          +100
II. Sensitivity Analysis on ROR
Benefits  Down 20%  Down 50%  Lag 1 year  Lag 2 years
Costs              17.0       14.5       10.0        15.3         14.0
Up '!0%            15.0       12.7        8.4        13.6         12.4
Up 50               12.7      10.6        6.5        11.5         10.6
Up 1005            10.0         -          -           -            -



INDIA
GUJARAT CoHMWflTY FOREsTRY PROJECT
Copts mod Denefits Stream at Market Prices
(ReM
Years   ----------------------- C O S T S ---------------------         ------ --------------------------------- B E N e F I T S ----------- ---------_------------_---_________---_______
Material    Labor   Other    Staff   Overhead    Total           Fuel     Poles    Bamboo.   Bambooa      Timber    Fodder    Fruit      Bor     Seed-     Total     Increment-l
(Bat..)   (MAnvela)                                 Fruit
1           8.6       22.9     0.1      8.7       32.7        73.0        u0.2       0.0      0.0        0.0         0.0        -0.3      0.0     0.0      0.0       -0.4          -73.4
2          12.9       34.6     0.2    12.9        27.1        87.8        -0.3       0.0      0.0        0.0         0.0        -0.4      0.0     0.0      0.0       -0.7          -88.5
3          16.6       45.7     0.3    17.7        26.0       106.3        -0.5       0.0      0.0        0.0         0.0        -0.6      0.2     1.4      0.0        0.5         -105.8
4          19.2       53.9    0.4    22.2         15.8       111.5        -0,6       0.0      0.0        0.0         0.0        -0.6      0.4     3.4      0.0        2.6         -108.9
5          21.6       61.3     0.4    26.4        14.5       124.2         1.5       3.3      0.0        0.0         0.0        -0.6      0.9     5.9      0.0       11.0         -113.2
6           0.0       20.7    0.3       8.3        0.0        29.2         3.2       5.8      0.2        0.0         0.0        -0.4      1.3    .8.4      0.0        18.6         -10.6
7           0.0        7.4     0.3      7.4        0.0        15.1         4.9       8.4      0.4        0.1         0.0        -0.2      1.9    11.3      0.0       26.8           11.7
8           0.0        2.4     0.3      6.5        0.0         9.2        18.8      24.2      4.1        2.5         0.0        -0.1      3.7    11.3      0.3       64.9           55.7
9           0.0        2.4     0.3      5.5        0.0         8.2        23.9      29.6      4.7        2.6         0.0        -0.1      6.8    41.3      0.6       79.5           71.3
10          0.0        2.4     0.3      5.5        0.0         8.2        34.3      28.7      6.0        3.0         0.0       -0.1      11.2    11.3      1.1       95.4           87.2
11          0.0        2.4     0.3      5.5        0.0         8.2        44.0      35.7      5.8        3.6         0.0        -0.2     15.9    11.3      1.4      117.4          109.3
12          0.0        2.4     0.3      5.5        0.0         8.2        54.2      42.2    14.2         8.1         0.0        -0.3     23.6    11.3      1.9      155.1          147.0
13          0.0        2.4     0.3      5.5        0.0         8.1        30.4      10.2     12.2        6.5         0.0        -0.5     26.6    11.3      1.9       98.6           90.5
14          0.0        2.4    0.3       5.5        0.0         8.1        47.7      26.0     11.4        6.5         0.0       -0.4      26.6    11.3      1.9      130.9          122.7
15          0.0        2.4     0.3      5.5        0.0         8.2        50.1      34.2      9.9        4.5         0.0        -0.4     26.6   11.3       1.9      138.0          129.8
16          0.1        2.4    0.3       5.5        0.0         8.2        56.7      41.3     21.4       10.0         0.0        -0.3    26.6      9.8      1.9      167.4          159.2      a%
17          0.1        2.4    0.3       5.5        0.0         8.2        62.4      47.2     12.8        5.7         0.0       -0.3      26.6     8.0      1.9      164.3          156.1
18          0.1        2.4    0.3       5.5        0.0         8.2        67.4      51.9    14.1         5.9         0.0        -0.2     26.6     5.4      1.9      172.9          164.7      1
19          0.0        2.4    0.3       5.5        0.0         8.2        37.0      19.9     15.1        6.1         0.0        -0.3     26.6     2.9      1.9      109.2          100.9
20          0.0        2.4    0.3       5.5        0.0         8.1        24.9      18.4    25.2        12.4         0.0        -0.2     26.6     0.0      1.9      109.1          101.0
21          0.0        2.4     0.3      5.5        0.0         8.1        35.0      25.6     16.5        7.8         0.0        -0.2     29.4     9.0      2.4      116.5          108.3
22          0.0        2.4     0.3      5.5        0.0         8.1        46.2      33.8     18.2        8.6         0.0        -0.2     33.3     0.0      3.2      143.1          135.0
23          o.0:       2.4     0.3      5.5        0.0         8.1        57.1      37.9     17.7        9.2         0.0        -0.3     38.4     0.0      4.3      164.3          156.2
24          0.0        2.4     0.3      5.5        0.0         8.1        65.4      42.6     30.0       15.0         0.0        -0.5     40.9     0.0      5.2      198.7          190.5
25          0.0        2.4    0.3       5.5        0.0         8.1         1.5       3.3     15.1        6.1         0.0        -0.6     46.9     0.0      6.3       78.6           70.4
26          0.0        2.4    0.3       5.5        0.0         8.1        16.5      21.0     12.8        5.7         0.0        -0.4     46.9     0.0      6.3      108.7          100.6
27          0.0        2.4    0.3       5.5        0.0         8.1        22.6      28.2     14.1        5.9         0.0        -0.2     46.9    0.0       6.3      123.8          115.7
28          0.0        2.4    0.3       5.5        0.0         8.1        28.6      34.5     25.7       11.4         0.0       -0.1      46.9     0.0      6.3      153.4          145.2
29          0.0        2.4    0.3       5.5        0.0         8.1        32.9      38.7     12.8        5.7         0.0        -0.2     46.9     0.0      6.3      143.0          134.9
30          0.0        2.4     0.3      5.5        0.0         8.1        94.6      42.7     16.8        7.8        14.5        -0.3     46.9     0.0      6.3      229.4          221.3
31          0.0        2.4    0.3       5.5        0.0         8.1        77.2      10.0     18.6        8.5        23.1        -0.5     40.8     0.0      5.7      183.5          175.3
32          0.0        2.4    0.3       5.5        0.0         8.1        '2.2      10.0     18.9        9.0        29.9        -0.5     32.6     0.0      5.2      197.2          189.1
33          0.0        2.4     0.3      5.5        0.0         8.1        98.7      10.0      9.9        3.6        28.0        -0.6     22.1     0.0      3.0      174.6          166.5
34          0.0        2.4     0.3      5.5        0.0         8.1         7.s5     10.0     10.9        4.0        28.7        -0.7     11.5     0.0      1.6      173.5          165.4   ' 
ROR at Market Prices - 13.37
NOTE: Totals may not add due to rounding,



INDIA
GUJARAT COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT
Costs and Benefit Streams at Efficiency Prices
(Re M)
Years -                       Ec onomic Costs ---------------------       ---------------------------------------------   Eco nom ic Benefits -----------------------------------------
Material    Labor    Other    Staff    Overhead    Total          Fuelwood    Poles    Bamboos    Bamboos        Timber    Fodder    Fruit       Bor      Seed      Total      Net
(Katas)   (Manvels)                                   Fruit
1        6.0        12.8      0.1      7.2       25.8        51.9          -0.2         0.0       0.0         0.0        0.0       -0.9        0.0      0.0        0.0     -1.1      -53.0
2        9.1        19.4      0.2     10.6       21.6        60.9          -0.4         0.0       0.0         0.0        0.0       -1.3       0.0       0.0        0.0     -1.7      -62.5
3       11.6        25.6      0.2     14.5       20.7        72.6          -0.5         0.0       0.0         0.0        0.0       -1.9       0.1       1.5        0.0     -0.8      -73.5
4       13.4        30.2      0.3     18.2       12.7        74.8          -0.7         0.0       0.0         0.0        0.0       -2.0        0.4      3.6        0.0       1.3     -73.5
5       15.1        34.3      0.3     21.6       11.6        82.9           1.6         2.9       0.0         0.0        0.0       -2.2       0.9       6.3        0.0      9.5      -73.4
6        0.0        11.6      0.2      6.8        0.0        18.6           3.5         5.2       0.2         0.1        0.0       -1.5        1.2      9.0        0.0     17.7       -0.9
7        0.0         4.1      0.2      6.1        0.0        10.4           5.3         7.5       0.3         0.1        0.0       -0.7        1.8     12.0        0.0     26.4       15.9
8        0.0         1.3      0.2      5.3        0.0         6.8          20.4       21.5        3.6         2.2        0.0        0.3        3.5     12.0        0.2     63.8       56.9
9        0.0         1.3      0.2      4.5        0.0         6.0          25.9       26.3        4.1         2.3        0.0        0.1       6.5      12.0        0.6     77.8       71.7
10       0.0         1.3      0.2      4.5        0.0         6.0          37.1       25.5        5.3         2.7        0.0       -0.3      10.8      12.0        1.0     94.0       87.9
11       0.0         1.3      0.2      4.5        0.0         6.0          47.6       31.8        5.2         3.2        0.0       -0.8      15.2      12.0        1.3    115.5      109.4
12       0.0         1.3      0.2      4.5        0.0         6.0          58.6       37.5       12.6         7.2        0.0       -1.2      22.7      12.0        1.8    151.2      145.1
13       0.0         1.3      0.2      4.5        0.0         6.0          32.9         9.1      10.8         5.7        0.0       -1.6      25.5      12.0        1.8     96.2       90.2
14       0.0         1.3      0.2      4.5        0.0         6.0          51.6       23.1       10.1         5.7        0.0       -1.6      25.5      12.0        1.8    128.3      122.3    a'
15       0.0         1.3      0.2      4.5        0.0         6.0          54.2       30.4        8.8         4.0        0.0       -1.5      25.5      12.0        1.8    135.2      129.1 i    '
16       0.0         1.3      0.2      4.5        .0         6.0          61.3       36.7       19.1         S.8        0.0       -i.0      25.5      10.5        i.6    i62.6      156.6
17       0.0         1.3      0.2      4.5        0.0         6.0          67.5       42.0       11.4         5.0        0.0       -1.0      25.5       8.5        1.8    160.6      154.6
18       0.0         1.3      0.2      4.5        0.0         6.0          72.9       46.1       12.5         5.2        0.0       -0.8      25.5       5.8        1.8    169.0      162.9
19       0.0         1.3      0.2      4.5        0.0         6.1          40.1       17.7       13.4         5.4        0.0       -1.1      25.5       3.1        1.8    105.9       99.8
20       0.0         1.3      0.2      4.5        0.0         6.0          26.9       16.3       22.4        10.9        0.0       -0.7      25.5       0.0        1.8    103.2       97.2
21       0.0         1.3      0.2      4.5        0.0         6.0          37.9       22.8       14.6         6.8        0.0       -0.6      28.2       0.0        2.3    112.0      106.0
22       0.0         1.3      0.2      4.5        0.0         6.0          50.0       30.1       16.2         7.5        0.0       -0.6      31.9       0.0        3.1    138.2      132.2
23       0.0         1.3      0.2      4.5        0.0         6.0          61.8       33.7       15.8         8.1        0.0       -1.2      36.9       0.0        4.1    159.1      153.1
24       0.0         1.3      0.2      4.5        0.0         6.0          70.8       37.8       26.7        13.2        0.0       -1.7      39.3       0.0        5.0    191.1      185.1
25       0.0         1.3      0.2      4.5        0.0         6.0           1.6        2.9       13.4         5.4        0.0       -2.1      45.0       0.0        6.1     72.3       66.2
26       0.0         1.3      0.2      4.5        0.0         6.0          17.9       18.6       11.4         5.0        0.0       -1.5      45.0       0.0        6.1    102.5       96.4
27       0.0         1.3      0.2      4.5        0.0         6.0          24.5       25.1       12.5         5.2        0.0       -0.9      45.0       0.0        6.1    117.5      111.4
28       0.0         1.3      0.2      4.5        0.0         6.0          30.9       30.7       22.8        10.0        0.0       -0.2      45.0       0.0        6.1    145.4      139.3
29       0.0         1.3      0.2      4.5        0.0         6.0          35.5       34.4       11.4         5.0        0.0       -0.6      45.0       0.0        6.1    136.7      130.7
30       0.0         1.3      0.2      4.5        0.0         6.0         102.3       38.0       15.0         6.9       13.5       -1.1      45.0       0.0        6.1    225.7      219.6
31       0.0         1.3      0.2      4.5        0.0         6.0          83.5        8.9       16.6         7.5       21.4       -1.7      39.2       0.0        5.4    180.8      174.8
32       0.0         1.3      0.2      4.5        0.0         6.0          99.7        8.9       16.8         7.9       27.8       -1.9      31.2       0.0        5.0    195.4      189.3
33       0.0         1.3      0.2      4.5        0.0         6.0         106.8        8.9        8.8         3.2       25.9       -2.2      21.2       0.0        2.8    175.5      169.4
34       0.0         1.3      0.2      4.5        0.0         6.0         116.3        8.9        9.6         3.5       26.7       -2.6      11.1       0.0        1.5    175.1      169.0
ROR at efficiency prices = 17.0% O
NOTE: Totals may not add due to rounding



INDIA
OUJARAT CONHUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT
Proiect Output
('000)
Bamboos
Years          Fuelwood        Polas        Ratas      Hanvels       Timber        Leaf       Fruit       Bor Fruit       Seed
(m ton)         (No)        (No)         (No)         (W3)        Fodder      (m ton)      ( ton)       (M ton)
1                -1.2           0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0         -           0.0           0.0          0.0
2                -2.4           0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0         1.2          0.0          0.0          0.0
3                -3.6           0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0         3.6         0.3           1.9          0.0
4                -4.8           0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0        19.0         0.8           4.5          0.0
5                X1- 3         64. 7         0.0          0.0          0.0        43.4         1.8           7.9          0.0
6                .3.8         649.4         26.8         53.8          0.0        63.3          2.6         11.2          0.0
7                3.2          934.2         43.6         87.7          0.0        88.2          3.8         15.0          0.0
8               139.5        2693.2        453.5        1981.1         0.0       116.2          7.3         15.0          0.5
9               177.1        3293.3        517.1       2081.4          0.0       107.4         13.6         15.0          1.2
10              253.8        3188.7        661.8        2433.3         0.0        96.9         22.4         15.0          2.1
11              325.8        3971.1        645.7        2900.5         0.0        83.5         31.7         15.0          2.8
12              401.2        4688.9       1576.2        6516.7         0.0        72.7         47.2         15.0          3.8
13              225.5        1134.2       1353.0        5210.9         0.0        60.1         53.1         15.0          3.8
14              353.7        2893.2       1262.8        5160.9         0.0        61.7         53.1         15.0          3.8
15              371.2        3797.8       1105.1        3598.7         0.0        60.6         53.1         15.0          3.8
16              420.2        4587.4       2381.5        7966.0         0.0        76.0         53.1         13.1          3.8
17              462.4        5249.9       1421.6       4546.3          0.0        76.9         53.1         10.6          3.8     -4
18              499.1        5762.9       1568.5        4729.9         0.0        83.5         53.1          7.2          3.8
19              274.4        2208.2       1675.8        4863.9         0.0        74.8         53.1          3.9          3.8
20             .184.3        2043.7       2802.2        9912.7         0.0        84.3         53.1          0.0          3.8
21              259.5        2848.5       1830.6        6202.5         0.0        88.4         58.7          0.0          4.8
22              342.5        3758.2       2026.2        6845.7         0.0        90.2         66.5          0.0          6.4
23              423.1        4215.9       1970.5        7395.0         0.0        72.6         76.8          0.0          8.5
24              484.6        4728.9       3336.7       12034.0         0.0        57.3         81.8          0.0         10.4
25               11.3         364.7       1675.8        4863.9         0.0        43.0         93.7          0.0         12.7
26              122.3        2328.4       1421.6        4546.3         0.0        63.4         93.7          0.0         12.7
27              167.5        3133.3       1568.5        4729.9         0.0        81.6         93.7          0.0         12.7
28              211.8        3838.2       2854.8        9107.1         0.0       101.7         93.7          0.0         12.7
29              243.4        4295.9       1421.6        4546.8         0.0        87.2         93.7          0.0         12.7
30              701.0        4748.7       1870.9        6227.5        58.1        71.8         93.7          0.0         12.7
31              572.1        1114.0       2068.9        6827.1        92.4        53.7         81.6           0.0        11.3
32              682.7        1114.0       2100.2        7188.7       119.7        48.9         65.1           0.0        10.4
33              731.4        1114.0       1105.5        2868.2       111.8        42.5         44.1           0.0         5.9
34              796.6        1114.0       1205.6        3200.7       114.9        29.3         23.1          0.0          3.1
Total     9897.3        86177.5     43952.6      148627.2        496.9     2204.9       1616.2         195.3        177.8



- 68 -
ANNEX 4
Table 6
INDIA
GUJARAT COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT
Financial and Economic Prices
Financial        Economic       Conversion
Unit           Price            Price          Factor
Fuelwood a/         Rs/m ton       135.00            182.00            0.8
Poles               Rs/piece         9.00             10.00            0.8
Bamboo Katas        Rs/piece         9.00             10.00            0.8
Manvels     Rs/piece          1.25             1.40            0.8
Small Timber        Rs/m           250.00           290.00             0.8
Bor Fruit           Rs/m ton       750.00         1,000.00             0.8
Other Fruit         Rs/m ton       .500.00           600.00            0.8
Neem Seeds          Rs/m ton       500.00            600.00            0.8
Fodder and Grass   Rs/m ton         10.00             35.00            1.0
a!   Detailed estimate of fuelwood price is in Annex 4, Table 7.



_ 69 -
ANNEX 4
Table 7
INDIA
GUJARAT COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT
ROR Calculations
Estimate of Fuelwood Price
Rs/mt
(1)  Fuelwood retail price                                            325.0 a/
in main marketplace (Ahmadabad)
less overheads and transport (average 100 km,                   80.0
by 5-ton truck including loading and
unloading Rs 5.5)
less Profits                                                    20.0
(2)  Price at depot                                                    225.0 b/
less transport (average 20 km, by bullock cart                    37.0
including loading and unloading Rs 5.5)
less overheads                                                   10.0
less weight reduction due to drying                              15.0
less harvesting costs (felling & billetting)                     13.0
(3)  Stumpage price                                                    150.0
Economic stumpage price, i.e.,
including profits                                              20.0
adjusting labor by its economic price                          12.0
(4)  Economic Stumpage price                                           182.0
(5)  Financial Stumpage price                                          135.0
used in project calculations was obtained by
reducing (3) by 10% on the assumption that
Ahmadabad market enjoys a 10% price premium
on average.
a/   Actual February 1979 price.
b/   Actual auction prices (February 1979) in Forest Department Depot between
Rs 205 and Rs 246 for Eucalyptus.



ANNEX 4
70 -                                   Table 8
INDIA
GUJARAT COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT
Benefits and Justification - Wood Saving Units
Assumptions
- mortality rate 15 per thousand
- proportion of Hindu population: 80%
- average size of village, where unit would be intalled:
2,000 people
- amount of wood saved per cremation: 160 kg.
- economic price of fuelwood: Rs 180/m ton
- economic cost of cremation unit:  Rs 4,000
- life of cremation unit: 15 vears
Economic Streams
Years           Costs               Benefits          Net Benefits
Rs
1                4,000                 349               (3,651)
2-15               -                   699                   699
N.P.V.  -   4,973
R.O.R.        15%
Crossover Value
The crossover value of benefits, i.e., the value which makes
NPV equal 0, is 27%. One can therefore conclude that the installa-
tion of cremation facilities would be a viable proposition in
villages or groups of villages with a population of 1,460
(73% of 2,000) or more, say 1,500.
The ROR  on similar inve-tment in urban areas where greater use
would re made of the unit would clearly be higher than 15%; the larger
the P 2uli' on of the town the higher the ROR.
Estimates of fuelwood saved as a result of efficient wood burning stoves
and redesigned cremation units are:
Annual,Amount of       Proportion of        Total        Total
Wood -'consumed in    Wood Expected       Number of      Wood
Traditional Units      to be Saved in    Improved        Saved
Item                       (kg)               Improved Units     Units        (m ton)
Stoves  b/                   1,000                 50%            10,000       5,000
Cremation Unit
- rural areas  c/            9,600                 40%               800        3,072
- urban areas  d,           96,000                 40%               200        7,680
15,752
a/ Fuelwood or fuelwood equivalent.
b/ 0.26 m3/person per year; average household 5.5 persons; 1 m3 = 0.7 m ton.
c/ used on average 24 times a year (village of 2,000 people).
d/ used on average 240 times a year (townL of 20,000 people).



71 -                        ANNEX 5
Table 1
INDIA
GUJARAT COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT
Schedule of Estimated IDA Disbursements
(US$ M)
IDA Fiscal Year                                     Disbursement -------
and Semester                              Semester           Cumulative
FY80
1st
2nd                                     0.2                   0.2
FY81
1st                                     0.8                   1.0
2nd                                     1.0                    2.0
FY82
1st                                     2.0                   4.0
2nd                                     3.0                   7.0
FY83
1st                                     3.5                  10.5
2nd                                     4.0                  14.5
FY84
Ist                                     4.5                  19.0
2nd                                     5.0                  24.0
FY85
1st                                     5.0                  29.0
2nd                                     5.0                  34.0
FY86
1st                                     3.0                  37.0
Estimated Effective Date April 1, 1980.
Estimated Closing Date December 31, 1985.



ANNEX 6
--72 -
INDIA
GUJARAT COMMWNIIY FORESTRY PROJECT
Implementa.tion Schedule
Pre      Proiect'Project Project Project.Project
Pre-Bloard   Effective- Year 1 Year 2 Year 3  Year 4  Year 5
|Preser,tatiorl  ness    I  2 3_41  2 3 41 1 2 3 411 2 3 41  2 3 4
ORGANIZATIONAL UNITS
New Circle and 2 Divisions
Communications
Public Relations
Monitoring Unit and Programu
Evaluation Cell                                                                                              ______
Research Unit and Program
Planning, Information and Rteporting
STAFF APPOINTMENT
Additional CCF 
CF                                                ________
Other Staff
CIVIL WORKS
Offices and Workshop                             i
Houses
VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT
Cars, Jeeps, Vans
Motorcycles, Bicycles
Tractors, Trucks                                         __
Office Equipment
Other Equipment
Uniforms                                          ______
TRAINING AND FELLOWSHIPS
Preservice                                        _
Inservice
Study Tours
International
Training Curricula                                              ____________ _____.
Training for Panchayats                              _______
RESEARCH AND SEED
Civil Works
Staff Operating Expendituree;
MONITORING AND EVALUATION
Monitoring International Staff
Evaluation Cell
Vehicles and Equipment                                      _            l
Operating Expenses                                 ._|__
PLANTING
Models I-II
Models III-IV
Models V-X                                         _
Farm Forestry                                     1_1__



-73-                                                   ANNEX 7
Table 1
INDIA
GUJARAT COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT
Summary Prolect Costs
(Rs M)
*                                   _             _                          _________ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1/
Component*           Years         1            2             3             4             5               Total     F.E. Costs
Proiect Organization
Staff Costs (T-2)               13.99        18.35        23.04         26.81         30.51             112.70           -
Operating Costs (T-2)            3.41         3.98          4.42         4.72           5.01             21.54          8.62
Vehicles & Equipment (T.3)      11.20         5.86          5.80          3.45          3.69             30.00          7.89
-  Buildings & Housing (T-3)       10.29         9.56          9.41          1.50           -               30.76           -
Sub-total                 38.89        37.75         42.67         36.48         39.21            195.00         16.51
Training and Fellowships (T.4)   2.54           1.45          1.23          1.50          1.49              8.21          0.90
Research and Seed Testing(T.5)   0.39           1.38          0.74          0.58          0.58              3.67          0.68
Plantings (T.6)
Village Woodlots                 9.47       15.10         20.49         24.22         28.14              97.42          2.92
Reforestation of                 9.17       10.37         11.00         11.00         11.00              52.54          1.58
Degraded Forests
Afforestation of private         0.22        0.33          0.40          0.45          0.50              1.90          0.06
agricultural lands
Strip Plantings                 12.69       21.92         30.65         37.75         43.63            146.64           4.40
Maintenance of                   3.65         1.09                        _                               4.74           .14
Past Plantings
Farm Forestry                    4.96         5.21          5.86         6.51          7.16              29.70           .89
Sub-total                 40.16        54.02         68.40         79.93         90.43            332.94          9.99
Stoves and Cremation (T.7)         0.03         0.67          1.13          1.32          1.35              4.50          -
Facilities
Monitoring and Evaluation (T.8)                 0.92          0.70          0.79         0.89               3.30         0.51
Total Base Cost                 82.01        96.19       114.87        120.60        133.95             547.62         28,59
Physical Contingencies           3.54         4.17          4.94          4.74          5,11             22,50          -
and Rounding
Price Contingencies              2.12         7.57        15.49         23.69         34.60              83.47         2.84
GRAND TOTAL                     87.67      107.93        135.30        149.03        173.66             653.59        31.43
I/  Foreign Exchange =  Operating Costs (40%), Vehicles (25%), Equipment (30%), Plantings (3%).
* Reference is given to detailed cost tables for each component.



- 74 -
ANNEX 7
INDIA                                                         Table 2
Page 1
GUJAEAT  TOITY FORESTRY PROJECT
Pro1ect Organization Staff and Other OPerating Costs
Unit Cost           *E.U I         YEAt 2          YEU  3           YEA  4          YEAR 5
A  STAFF  COSTS                           R  low0          No    Cost      No    Cost      No    Cost      No     Cost      No    Cost       Total Cost
(1) State R Q
(a) Head Office
Addl CCF                        29.0           1     0.029    1      0.029     1     0.029    1       0.029      1    0 029     (  0.145
DCP                             25.0           1    0.025    1       0.025     1     0.025    1       0.025      1    0.025         0 125
Personnel Officer              18.0            1     0.018    1     0.018      1     0.018    1      0.018       1    0.018        0.090
Office Superintendent           14.0           1    0.014    1      0.014      1     0.014    1       0.014      1    0.014        0.070
Office Superintendent(Accounts)14.0            1     0.014    1     0.014      1     0.014    1      0.014       1    0.014        0.070
Read Clerk                      11.0           1     0.011    I     0.011      1     0.011    1      0.011       1    0.011        0.055
Accountant                       7.0           4     0.028    4     0.028      4     0.028    4      0.028       4    0.028        0.140
Clerk                           6.0            2     0.012    2     0.012      2     0.012    2      0.012       2    0.012        0.060
Stenographer Grade 1            12.0           1     0.012    1     0.012      1     0.012    1      0.012       1   0.012         0.060
Stenographer Grade II           11.0           1     0.011    1     0.011      1     0.011    1      0.011       1    0.011        0.055
Stenographer Grade 111           7.0           2     0.014    2     0.014      2     0.014    2      0.014       2    0.014        0.070
Typist                          6.0            2     0.012    2     0.012      2     0.012    2      0.012       2    0.012        0.060
Messenger                        4.0           4     0.016    4      0.016     4     0.016    4       0.016      4    0.016        0.080
Driver                          6.0            2     0.012    2      0.012     2     0.012    2      0.012       2   0.012         0.060
Watchman                         4.0           1     0.004    1      0.004     1     0.004    1       0.004      1   0.004         0.020
Junior Engineer                 12.0           1     0.012    1      0.012     1     0.012    1       0.012      1    0.012        0.060
Sub-total (1) (a)                               0.244          0.244            0.244           0.244            0.244        1.220
(b)  Planning. Inforation & Raportint
b.1 Planningt & lRaortiji
CF  Planning                 27.0            1     0.027    1     0.027      1     0.027    1      0.027       1    0.027        0.135
DCF Plarning                  25.0           1    0.025    1    0.025        1     0.025    1       0.025      1    0.025         0.125
ACF Reporting                 19.0           1     0.019    1      0.019     1    0.019    1        0.019      1    0.019        0.095
Dist. Inspector of Land
Records                14.0            1     0.014    1     0.014      1     0.014    1      0.014       1   0.014         0.070
Statistical Officer          15.0            1     0.015    1     0.015      1     0.015    1      0.015       1   0.015         0.075
Statistical Assistant        11.0            2     0.022    2     0.022      2     0.022    2      0.022       2    0.022        0.110
Draftsman                    13.0            1     0.013    1     0.013      1     0.013    1      0.013       1   0.013         0.065
Surveyors                     8.0            6    0.048    6      0.048      6     0.048    6      0.048       6    0.048        0.240
Stenographer Grade 1I        11.0            1     0.011    1     0.011      1     0.011    1      0.011       1    0.011        0.055
Stenographer Grade III        7.0            1     0.007    1     0.007      1     0.007    1      0.007       1    0.007        0.035
Typist                        6.0            2     0.012    2     0.012      2     0.012    2      0.012       2    0.012        0.060
Accountanc                     7.0           1     0.007    1     0.007      1     0.007    1      0.007       1    0.007        0.035
Drivers                       6.0            3     0.018    3     0.018      3     0.01B    3      0.018       3    0.018        0.090
Messenger                     4.0            1     0.004    1     0.004      1     0.004    1      0.004       1   0.004         0.020
PA  (Orderly)                  4.0           3     0.012    3      0.012     3     0.012    3       0.012      3    0.012        0.060
Sub-total b.1                                   0.254           0.254           0.254           0.254            0,254       1;270
b.2 Public Relation Unit
DCF Public Relations          25.0           1     0.025    1      0.025     1     0.025    1       0.025      1    0.025        0.125
Stenographer Grade III        7.0            1     0.007    1     0.007      1     0.007    1      0.007       1    0.007        0.035
Driver                        6.0            1     0.006    1     0.006      1     0.006    1-     0.006       1    0.006        0.030
PA  (Orderly)                  4.0           1     0.004    1      0.004     1     0.004    1       0.004      1    0.004         0.020
Sub-total b.2                                   0.042          0.042            0.042           0.042            0.042        0.210
b.3 Phase 1I Proiect Preparation
Forest Economist             25.0                    -              -               -       1      0.025       1    0.025        0.050
ACP                           19.0                   -             -                -       1      0.019       1    0.019        0.038
Ranger (Survey)               13.0                   _              -               -       1      0.013       1    0.013        0.02b
PA  (Orderly)                 4.0                    -              -               -       2      0.008       2    0.008        0.016
Surveyor                      8.0                    -              -               -       4      0.032       4    0.032        0.064
Draftsman                     13.0                   -              -               -       1      0.013       1    0.013        0.026
Stenographer Grade III        7.0                    -              -               -       1      0.007       1    0.007        0.014
Accountant                     7.0                   -              -               -       1       0.007      1    0.007        0.014
Driver                         6.0                   -              -               -       1      0.006       1    0.006        0.012
Messenger                      4.0                   -              -               -       2       0.008      2    0.008        0.016
Sub-total b.3                                                                                   0.138            0.138        0.276
Sub-total (1) (b)                               0 296           0.296           0.296            0.434           0 434        1,756



-  75  -                                                             ANNEX 7
Tabl1e 2
Page 2
Unit Cost         YEAR 1          YEAR 2          YEAR 3        YEAR 4            YEAR 5
Rs '000        No      Cost     No    Cost    Ho    Cost      No      Cost     No    Cost       Total Cost
(c) Training, Research and Comunication Unit
c.l   H Q Staff (RMqPPola)
CF                               27.0          1     0.027      1    0.027    1    0.027      1     0.027      1    0.027       0.135
ACF                              19.0          1     0.019      1    0.019    1    0.019      1     0.019      1    0.019       0.095
DCF Training                     25.0          1     0.025      1    0.025    1    0.025      1     0.025      1    0.025        0.125
DCF Research                     25.0          1     0.025      1    0.025    1    0.025      1     0.025      1    0.025        0.125
DCF Communication                25.0          1     0.025      1    0.025    1    0.025      1     0.025      1    0.025        0.125
Office Superintendent            14.0          1     0.014     1    0.014    1    0.014       1     0.014      1    0.014       0.070
Head Clerk                       11.0          1     0.011     1    0.011    1    0.011       1     0.011      1    0.011       0.055
Accountant                        7.0          1     0.007     1    0.007    1    0.007       1     0.007      1    0.007       0.035
Stenographer Grade II            11.0          1     0.011      1   0.011    1    0.011       1     0.011      1    0.011       0.055
Stenographer Grade III            7.0          3     0.021     3    0.021    3    0.021       3     0.021     3    0.021        0.105
PA  (Orderly)                     4.0          4     0.016     4    0.016    4    0.016       4     0.016     4    0.016        0.080
Driver                            6.0         4      0.024     4    0.024    4    0.024       4     0.024     4    0.024        0.120
Messenger                         4.0          1     0.004      1    0.004    1    0.004      1     0.004      1    0.004       0.020
Sub-total  c.1                                  0.229          0.229          0.229            0.229          0.229        1.145
c.2 Comnunication Units (Circle a Q)
ACF (Sociologist)                19.0          2     0.038      4    0.076    4    0.076      4     0.076      4    0.076        0.342
Ranger (Audiovisual)             13.0          2     0.026     4    0.052    4    0.052       4     0.052     4    0.052        0.234
Ranger (Villagers' training)    13.0           2     0.026     4    0.052    4    0.052       4     0.052     4    0.052        0.234
Lady Social Worker (Stoves)       8.0          2     0.016     4    0.032    4    0.032       4     0.032     4    0.032        0.144
Artisans                          4.0          10    0.040     20   0.080    20   0.080       20    0.080      20   0.080       0.360
Typist                            6.0          2     0.012     4    0.024    4    0.024       4     0.024     4    0.024        0.108
Drivers                           6.0          8     0.048    16    0.096   16    0.096    16       0.096    16    0.096        0.432
Cleaner                           5.0          2     0.010     4    0.020    4    0.020       4     0.020     4    0.020        0.090
PA  (Orderly)                     4.0         2      0.008     4    0.016    4    0.016      4      0.016     4    0.016        0.072
Messenger                         4.0          2     0.008     4    0.016    4    0.016       4     0.016     4    0.016        0.072
Sub-total  c.2                                  0.232          0.464          0,464              464          0.464        2.088
Sub-total (1) (c)                               0.461          0.693          0.693            0.693          0.693        3.233
Sub-total (1)                                   1.001          1.233          1.233           L.57           1,371        6.209
(2)  CIRCLE H 0
CF (Operation)                   27.0         4     0.108      4    0.108    4    0.108      4      0.108     4    0.108        0.540
ACF     (Planting)               19.0         4     0.076      4    0.076    4    0.076      4      0.076     4    0.076        0.380
PA (orderly)                      4.0         4     0.016      4    0.016    4    0.016      4      0.016     4    0.016        0.060
Deputy Engineer                   18.0          4     0.072     4    0.072    4    0.072       4     0.072     4    0.072        0.360
Junior Engineer                   12.0          4     0.048     4    0.048    4    0.048       4     0.048     4    0.048        0.240
Asat Draftsman                     6.0          4     0.024     4    0.024    4    0.024       4     0.024     4    0.024        0.120
Statistical Officer               15.0          4     0.060     4    0.060    4    0.060       4     0.060     4    0,060        0.300
Statistical Assistant             11.0          4     0.044     4    0.044    4    0.044       4     0.044     4    0.044        0.220
Office Superintendent             14.0          4     0.056     4    0.056    4    0.056       4     0.056     4    0.056        0.280
Accountant                         7.0          8     0.056     8    0.056    8    0.056       8     0.056     8    0.056        0.280
Clerk                              6.0          4     0.024     4    0.024    4    0.024       4     0.024     4    0.024        0.120
Stenographer Grade II             12.0          4     0.048     4    0.048    4    0.048       4     0.048     4    0.048        0.240
Stenographer Grade III            11.0          4     0.044     4    0.044    4    0.044       4     0.044     4    0.044        0.220
Typist                             7.0          4     0.028     4    0.028    4    0.028       4     0.028     4    0.028        0.140
Driver                             6.0          8     0.048     8    0.048    8    0.048       8     0.048     8    0.048        0.240
Messenger                          4.0          12    0.048      12   0.048    12   0.048      12    0.048      12   0.048       0.240
Watchman                           4.0          4     0.016     4    0.016    4    0.016       4     0.016     4    0.016        0.080
Sub-total (2)                                   0.816          0.816          0.816            0.816          0.816        4.080
(3) WORKSHOP
Foreman                            7.0          2     0.014     2    0.014    2    0.014       2     0.014     2    0.014        0.070
Lathe Operator                     7.0          2     0.014     2    0.014    2    0.014       2     0.014     2    0.014        0.070
Mechanic                           7.0          2     0.014     2    0.014    2    0.014       2     0.014     2    0.014        0.070
Welder                             7.0          2     0.014      2    0.014    2    0.014      2     0.014     2    0.014        0.070
Helper                             4.0          2     0.008     2    0.008    2    0.008       2     0.008     2    0.008        0.040
Driver                             6.0          2     0.012     2    0.012    2    0.012       2     0.012     2    0.012        0.060
Sub-total (3)                                   0.076          0.076          0.076            0.076          0.076        0.380



- 76 -
ANNEX 7
Table 2
Page 3
Unit Cost        YEAR I         YEAR 2             YEAR 3         YEAR 4              YEAR 5
Rs '000        No     Cost   No       Cost       No     Cost    No       Cost      No      Cost       Total Cost
(4) DIVISIONAL HO
(a) Field Staff
DCY                                      25.0         19    0.475   19    0.475         19    0.475    19    0.475         19    0.475          2.375
ACF                                      19.0         10    0.190   26    0.494         43    0.817    53    1.007         64    1.216          3.724
Ext. Ranger                              13.0        183    2.379  247    3.211        316    4.108   357    4.641       401    5.213          19.552
Ext. Forester                             8.0        452    3.616  685    5.480        969    7.752  1232    9.856    1444   11.552            38.256
Protection Assistant                      4.0        330    1.320  403    1.612        483    1.932   567    2.268        744    2.976         10.108
Sub-total 4(a)                                         7.980         11.272             15.084          18.247             21.432         74.015
(b) Planning Staff
Ranger                                   13.0         19    0.247   19    0.247         19    0.247    19    0.247        19    0.247           1.235
Typist                                    6.0         19    0.114   19    0.114         19    0.114    19    0.114         19    0.114          0.570
Stat. Assistant                          11.0         19    0.209   19    0.209         19    0.209    19    0.209        19    0.209           1.045
Surveyor                                  8.0         19    0.152   19    0.152         19    0.152    19    0.152        19    0.152           0.760
Sub-total 4(b)                                         0.722          0.722              0.722           0.722             0.722           3.610
(c) Office Staff
Head Clerk                               11.0         19    0.209   19    0.209         19    0.209    19    0.209        19    0.209           1.045
Stat. Assistant                          11.0         19    0.209   19    0.209        19    0.209    19    0.209         19    0.209           1.045
Accountant                                7.0         38    0.266   38    0.266         38    0.266    38    0.266        38    0.266           1.330
Stenographer Grade III                    7.0         19    0.133   19    0.133         19    0.133    19    0.133        19    0.133           0,665
Office Clerk                              6.0         21    0.126   21    0.126         21    0.126    21    0.126        21    0.126           0.630
Clerk for Field Ranger                    6.0        183    1.098  247    1.482        316    1.896   357    2.142       401    2.406           9.024
Driver (Car)                              6.0         19    0.114   19    0.114         19    0.114    19    0.114        19    0.114           0.570
Driver (Truck Tractor)                    6.0         92    0.552  133    0.798        175    1.050   196    1.176       218    1.308           4.884
Cleaner (Truck Tractor)                   5.0         92    0.460  133    0.665        175    0.875   196    0.980       218    1.090           4.070
PA (Orderly)                              4.0         19    0.076   19    0.076         19    0.076    19    0.076        19    0.076           0.380
Messenger                                 4.0         19    0.076   19    0.076   .  19    0.076    19    0.076            19    0.076          0.380
Watchman                                  4.0         19    0.076   19    0.076         19    0.076    19    0.076        19    0.076           0.380
Sub-total 4(c)                                         3.395          4.230              5.106           5.583             6.089          24.403
Sub-total (4)                                         12.097         16.224             20.912          24.552            28.243         102.028
Total (1) + (2) + (3) + (4)                           13.990         18.349             23.037          26.815            30.506         112.697
(B)  OTHER OPERATING COSTS:
(i) Vehicle Running Expenses
Cars                                     0.020        8    0.160    8    0.160          8    0.160      8     0.160       8    0.160           0.800
4 91D Vehicles                           0.012       33    0.396   33    0.396        33    0.396    34       0.408      34    0.408           2.004
Publicity Vans                           0.030        2    0.060    4    0.120         4    0.120       4     0.120       4    0.120           0.540
Staff Vans                               0.020        9    0.180   12    0.240        12    0.240    12       0.240      12    0.240           1.140
Motorcycles                              0.004      198    0.792  278    1.112       365    1.460   416       1.664    473    1.892            6.920
Break down Van                           0.010        2    0.020    2    0.020          2    0.020      2     0.020       2    0.020           0.100
Bus                                      0.040        2    0.080    4    0.160         4    0.160       4     0.160       4    0.160           0.720
Sub-total (i)                                         1.688          2.208             2.556             2.772            3.000         12.224
(ii) Office Expenses                                               1.100          1.125             1.150             1.175            1.200          5.750
(iii) Travellins Expenses                                           0.400          0.450             0.500             0.550            0.600          2.500
(iv) Maintenance of Buildings                                      0.120          0.100             0.110             0.120            0.110          0.560
(v) Meals for Villagers under Training                            0.100          0.100             0.100            0.100             0.100          03500
TOTAL (B)                                             3.408          3.983              4.416            4.717             5.010        21.534



- 77 -
AoN EX 7
Tabl.e 3
INDIA                                                                      Page  I
GUJARAT C0O4DJNITY FORESTRY PROJECT
Project Organization - Buildings & Housin_
- Vehicles & Equitoent
(R 1M)
kzisting so   Unit Cost          HARI Y141 2                    TM  3           YEAR 4           YEAR 5             TOTAL
R_ _000       No   00st    No    Cost        No    Cos t      No    Coat      No      Cost      it-      Cost
(1) Building 6 Housint
(a)  Addl CCF Office                                       300.0         1    0.300  (-)       -       C-)     _       (_)      _       C-)       _         1      0.300
(b)  Housing (excluding Iajpiple) s/
DCZ                                                 70.0       (3)   0.210  (2)   0.140    (2)   0.140    (1)   0.070    (-)             -        (B)      0.560
ACF                                                 60.0       (8)   0.480  (8)   0.480    (8)   0.480    (-)          -       (-)               (24)      1.440
ER                                    ~~~~~~~~~17.2  (70)   1.204 (70)   1.204   (70)   1.204    (5)   0.086      ()        -      (213)      3,698
EF                                                  16.2    (300)   4.860 (300)  4.860  (300)   4.860   (67)   1.085    ()                      (967)    15.665
PA                                                   8.6    (250)   2.150 (250)  2.150  (250)   2.150   (18)   0.155    (.3              -      (768)      6.605
(e) Mousing (Rajpipl Conservancy)
DCF                                                 70.0       (3)   0.210  (2)   0.140    ()          -       (.)     .       (-)       -        (5)      0.350
ACP & equivalent                                    60.0       (4)   0.240  (4)   0.240       (4)   0.240    (1)   0.060    (-)          -       (13)      0.780
ER                                                  17.2       (4)   0.069  (4)   0.069       (4)   0.069      ()      -       (-)       .       (12)      0.207
EF                                                  16.2       (6)   0.097  (4)   0.065    (4)   0.065    (-)          -       (-)       -       (14)      0.227
PA  6 equivalent                                     8.6      (10)   0.086 (10)   0.086   (10)   0.086    (4)   0.034          (-)       -       (34)      0.292
Office Staff Category III                           50.0       (1)   0.050  (-)       -       (-)      -       (-)     -        -)       -        (1)      0.050
Category II                          17.2       (2)   0.034  (2)   0.034       (2)   0.034    (_)        _       (-)      -        (6)      0.102
Category 1                            8.6       (4)   0.034  (4)   0.034    (3)   0.026    (-)           .       (-)       -      (11)      0.094
(d)  Garage                                                 17.2       (5)   0.066  (-)        -       (-)     -       (-)      -       (-)       -                0.086
(a)  Workshop Shad                                          60.0       (2)   0.120  (-)        -        -)             ()       -       ()        -                0,120
Sub-total Civil Works                                         Ig,230          9.3.354                           1.490              -                30,576
Lend Cost                                                                0.060         0.055            0.055           0.010               -                 0.180
Total 8uildiu4     and Housine                                          10.290                          9-402            1.500              _                30.756
(2) Vehicles
(a) General
Cars (Addl Cl h Cr)                   4              32.5       (4)   0.130  (-)       -       (-)      -      (-)              (-)       -        (4)     0.130
4 WD (PieldDC? & ACF)                16              48.1       (9)   0.433  (-)       -       ()       -       (1)   0.048    (-)        -       (10)      0.481
Trailor for 4 WD                      1               3.1       (2)   0.068  ()        -       (-)      -      (-)      -       (-)       -        (2)     0.068
Vans (Addl Cl & CP Office)            -              40.0       (4)   0.160  (3)   0.120    (-)         -       (-)     -       (-)       --       (7)     0.280
Breakdown Van (Worksho)               -             100.0       (2)   0.200  (-)       -       (-)             (.)      _       (-)       -        (2)     0.200
Tractor with Voter Pump (Rng"e)  38                  50.0      (27)   1.350 (20)   1.000   (21)   1.050   (11)   0.550   (11)   0.550             (90)      4.500
Trailor for tractor                  38              10.0      (27)   0.270 (20)   0.200   (21)   0.210   (11)   0.110   (11)   0.110             (90)      0.900
Tanker                               37               9.0      (27)   0.243 (21)   0.189   (21)   0.189   (11)   0.099   (11)   0.099             (91)      0.819
Truck                                 -             110.0      (27)   2.970 (21)   2.310   (21)   2.310   (10)   1.100   (11)   1.210             (90)     9.900
Motorcycle (Ranger or equivalezt) 18                  7.2    (180)   1.296 (80)   0.576   (87)   0.626   (51)   0.367   (57)   0.411    (455)               3.276
Bicycle (Forester & PA)               -               0.4    (612)   0.245 (203)  0.081  (229)   0.092  (238)   0.095  (386)   0.154   (1668)              0.667
Sub-total                                                       7.365         4.476            4.477           2.369            2.3                 21,221
A/-New houaing is provided for
1/3 of OCF
1/2 of ER
2/3 of EF
All PA



A,;EX  7
Table 3
- 78                                                                           ?age  2
Buildings & equipment                      Exisiting No   Unit Cost           YEAR 1 _       YEAR 2          YEAR 3           YEAR 4          YEAR 5              TOTAL
(2) Vehicles  (continued)                                  Rs '000         No    Cost    No    Coat    No     Cost    No    Cost             No    Cost       No      Coast
(b) Field Co sunication Units
4 WD (for Sociologist)            -             48.1         (4)   0.192    (-)       -      (-)       -    (-)       -       (-)        -      (4)       0.192
4 WD with trailor
(for lady Social Worker)    -                51.2         (4)   0.205    (-)       -       ()              ()               ()        -      (4)       0.205
Van (for Audiovisual Ranger)  -                 40.0         (4)   0.160    (-)       -      (-)       -     (-)      -       (-)        -      (4)       0.i60
Bus (for Villager training)   -                100.0        (4)   0.400    (-)               (-)       -     (-)      -       (-)       -      (4)       0.400
Sub-total                                                      0     9 7                                         -                  -                0.957
(c)  Public Relation Unit
Van                                              40.0        (1)   0.040   ()         -      (-)       _     ()       _       C-)       _      (1)        0.040
Sub-total Vehicles                                             8.36;           4.476            4 477          2.369             2.534              22.218
(3)  Equipment
(a) Office Eguioment
Typewriter                           19             2.5        (32)   0.08(t   (-)       .      (_)       _    (1)   0.003        (-)       -    (33)        0.03
Electronic Typevriter                -             10.0         (1)   0.01  (-)          -      C-)       _    (-)                 -)              (1)       0.010
Eleccronic Stencil Machine           -             30.0         (1)   0.03(0    -)       *      (-)       _     (-3              ()                (1)       0.030
Duplicating Nachine                  -              5.0        (23)   0.115    C-)       _      (-)       _    (-)       -        (-)       _    (23)        0.115
Calculators                          -              0.5        (15)   0.075    (-)       _      (_)       _    (-)       *        (.)       _    (15)        0.075
Office Purniture                                                       0.S0I4            -                -            0.020                -                0.520
Sub-total                                                     0.81C!             -                -            0.023                -                0 33
(b) Other euipment
Water pump (for nurseries)            36            8.0       (139)   1.112   (94)   0.752  (87)    0.696 (54)   0.432    (64)    0.512    (438)    3.504
fortable Water pump(for
canal plantings)                 -              2.0       (20)   0.04C   (30)   0.060  (30)    0.060  (35)  0.070    (45)    0.090   (160)    0.320
Sprayer                               -             0.5       (175)   0.08E   (94)   0.047  (87)    0.043  (54)  0.027    (64)    0.032   (474)    0.237
Workshop Equipment                   -                                 0.075           0.020            0.020          0.025             0.020               0.160
Cartographic Equipment               -                                 0.010           0.005                -            -                  -                0.015
Set Audiovisual Equipment            -             50.0         (4)   0.20C    (-)       -      (-)         -   (-)      -        (-)       -      (4)       0.200
Uniforms                                                               0.500           0.500            0.500          0.500             0.500               2.500
Sub-total                                                      2.025           1.384            1.319          1.054              1.154              6.936
Sub-total Eouioment                                                    2.135           1.384            1.319          1.7                1.154              7.769
TOTAL (1) + (2) + (3)                                                      21.438           15.417           15.205          4.946             3.688             60.743
Physical Contingencies
(10% on  (1)                                                        1.029           0.956             0.941         0.150                -                3,076
22.516          16-373           16.146          5.096             3.688              63.819
June 1979



- 79 -
ANNEX 7
Table 4
INDIA
GUJARAT COM NITY FORESTRY PROJECT
Training and Fellowship Costs
(Rs M)
Unit Cost         YEAR I           YEAR 2          YEAR 3            YEAR 4           YEAR 5                TOTAL
Rs '000        No    Cost       No    Cost       No    Cost      No      Cost       No      Cost        No       Cost
(1) CAPITAL COSTS
(a) Buildings
Forest Guard School, Kakrapur
Hostel  (60 trainees)               300.0         1      0.300      -      -        -      -         -      -          -       -          1        0.300
Classroom                            40.0         1     0.040      -       -        -      -        -       -          -       -          1       0.040
Range Forester College, Rajpipla
Hostel  (40 trainees)               300.0         1      0.300      -      -        -      -         -      -          -       -          1        0.300
Classroom and laboratory            100.0         1     0.100      -       -        -      -         -      -          -       -          1       0.100
Sub-total (1) (a)                                  0.740      -       -        -     -         -       -          -      -          -        0,740
(b) Vehicles Equipment & Furniture
Bus  a/                               100.0         2      0.200      -      -        -      -         -      -          -       -          2        0.200
Audiovisual Equipment  b/              20.0         2      0.040      -      -        -      -         _      -          _                  2        0.040
Duplicating Machine                     5.0         2      0.010      -      -        -      -         -      -          -       -          2       0.010
Furniture  c/                          70.0         1      0.070      -      -        -      _                -          -       -          1       0.070
Typewriter -/                           3.0         2      0.006      -      -        -      -         -      -          -       -          2       0.006
Uniforms                                0.3       199      0.060    198    0.060   198   0.060    359    0.108          359    0.108                 0.396
Sub-total (1) (b)                                  0.386            0.060           0.060            0.108              0.108                0.722
(c) Operatine Costs
Bus  e/                                30.0         2      0.060      2    0.060      2   0.060        2    0.060        2    0.060         10      0.300
Sub-total (1) (c)                                  0.060      -    0,060      -   0.060        -    0.060         -    0.060        -        0.300
(d) Incremental Staff
Rajpipla Instructors
D C F                                25.0         1     0.025      1    0.025       1   0.025        1    0.025        1    0.025                 0.125
A C F (Ext Communication)            19.0         -       -         1    0.019      1   0.019        1    0.019        1    0.019                 0.076
Typist                                6.0         1     0.006      1    0.006       1   0.006        1    0.006        1    0.006                 0.030
Driver Bus                            6.0         1     0.006       1    0.006      1   0.006        1    0.006        1    0.006                 0.030
A A                                   4.0         2      0.008     2    0.008       2   0.008       2    0.008         2    0.008                 0.040
Cleaner                               5.0         1     0.005      1    0.005       1   0.005       1    0.005         1    0.005                 0.025
Kakrapur Instructors
A C F (Ext Communication)            19.0         -       -         1    0.019      1   0.019        1    0.019        1    0.019                 0.076
Sub-total (1) (d)                                  0,050      -    0,088      -   0.088        -    0.088         -    0.088                 0.402
Total (1) (a to d)                                         1,236      -    0.208      -   0.208        -    0 2116       -    0,256                  2.164
(2) TRAINING COURSES
(a) Courses
ACF                                    21.0        11      0.231   10    0.210    10    0.210         10    0.210       10   0.210          51      1.071
Ext. Ranger                            11.0        43      0.473   43    0.473    43    0.473         43    0.473       43   0.473         215      2.365
Ext. Forester                           1.8       145      0.261  145    0.261   145    0.261    145    0.263          146   0.263         727      1.309
PA                                      1.8         -        -       -      -        -      -        160    0.288      160   0.288         330      0.576
Sub-total (2) (a)                                   0.965          0.944            0.944            1.234             1.234                 5.321
(b) Individual Study Tours
Social Forestry   man month             2.6         3      0.008      3    0.008      3   0.008        3    0.008        -      -           12       0.032
Extension Communications  mau month  2.5            10    0.025       20   0.050      10  0.025        -     -                              40      0.100
Instructors in Extension
Communications  f/    year        40.0          2     0.080      -      -         -    -                                               2        0.080
Sub-total (2) (b)                                  0.113           0.058           0.033            0.008        -                           0212
(c) International Training
Project Economist   year              100.0         2      0.200      2    0.200                        -    -                              4        0.400
Social Forestry      man month         15.0         2      0.030      3    0.045      3   0.045                                             a _  _  _  8  0.120
Sub-total (2) (c)                                  0.230           0.245           0.045       -     -           -      -           -        0.520
Total (2) (a to c)                                         L308      -      1.247     -   1.022       -      1.242       -     1.234        -        6.053
GRAND TOTAL I + 2                                                 2.544     -    1.455       -   1.230       -     1.498        -    -l.-90       -         8.217
./  One each for Rajpipla and Kakrapur.
.b/ Audiovisual kit consisting of overhead projector,slide projector, 8 mm movie projector, screen,
casette recorder, megaphone, blackboard, flannel board and chart board. Stencil duplicator.
cl Furniture Kakrapur Rs 40,000; Rajpipla Re 30,000.
d/  Typewriter
e/  Buses for Rakrapur and Rajpipla.
f/ Instructors in Extension Communications at Kakrapur and Rajpipla will be trained EEI Anand for a
period not to exceed 1 year. Includes special travel allowance to visit other Indian Training Institutions.



- 80 -
INDIA                                                                ANlNEX 7
GIJAPAT COOIII   F0REST lROJECTTable 5
Reech and Sed Tei           Costs
Unit Cost         YEAR  1            YEAR 2             YEAR 3           YEAR 4             YEAR  5             TOTAL
Rs            No     Cost       No    Cost        No      Cost       No     Cost       No      Cost       No      Cost
(1) CAPITAL COST
(a)  Buildinus & Housing
Buildints
Institute                       500,000           -        -         1    0.500       -        -         -        -         -      -          1      0.500
Field Stations                    33,300          2      0.067       1    0.033       -        -         -        -         -      -          3      0.100
Seed Stores                       22,900          2      0.046       2    0.046       -        -         -        -         -      -          4      0.092
Sub-total  (a)                                       0.113             0.579       -           -        -                       -                 0.692
(b) Equipment
Institute                           _-                               -    0.080       -      0.160       -        -        -       -          -      0.240
Field Station                       -             -      0.060       -    0.060       -        -         -        -         -      -          -      0.120
Seed testing                                             0.030       -    0.030       .        -         -                                           0.060
Jeep                              48,200          -       -          2    0.096       -        -         -        -         -      -          2      0.096
Trailer                            3,100          -       -          2    0.006        -        -        -        -         -       _          2     0.006
Motor Cycles                       7,200          -       -          1    0.007       -        -         -        -         -      -           1     0.007
Sub-total (b)                   -              -     0.090       -    0.279        -     0.160       -        -         -       -          -     0.529
Total CaPital Cost                  -             _      0.203       -    0.858       -      0.160       -        -         -      -          -      1.221
(2)  OPERATIXG COSTS
(a) Staff Cost
Institute
Scientific Staff            16,000-19,000        -       -         4    0.068        4      0.068       4     0.068       4    0.068         4      0.272
ACF Seed testing                    19,000       -       -          1    0.019       1      0.019       1     0.019        1    0.019        1      0.076
Research Assistant                  12,000       -       -          1    0.012       1      0.012       1     0.012        1    0.012        1      0.048
Laboratory Staff             6,000- 8,000        -       -         2    0.014        2      0.014       2     0.014       2    0.014         2      0.056
Field Station
Ranger                          13,000           2     0.026       4    0.052        4     0.052       4      0.052       4    0.052         4      0.234
Forester                         8,000           5     0.040       10   0.080        10    0.080        10    0.080       10   0.080         10    0.360
Res. P.A                          5,000          2     0.010       4    0.020        4      0.020       4     0.020       4    0.020         4      0.090
Sub-total                      -              -     0.076       -    0.265        -     0.265        -     0.265       -    0.265         -      1.136
(b)  Other operating Costs
Institute
Office                            -             -       -          -    0.036       -      0.036       -     0.036        -    0.036        -      0.144
Laboratory                        -             -      -          -    0.010        -     0.010        -     0.010       -    0.010         -      0.040
Travel Allowances                 -             -       -          -    0.030       -      0.030       -     0.030        -    0.030        -      0.120
Vehicles                                                                0.028       -     0.028        -     0.028       -    0.028         -      0.112
Field Station
Adm. & Res. Plot                  -             -     0.090        -    0.120       -      0.180       -     0.180       -    0.180         -      0.750
Travel Allowances                 -             -     0.008        -    0.016       -      0.016       -     0.016        -    0.016        -      0.072
Vehicles                          -             -     0.008        -    0.016       -      0.016       -     0.016        -    0.016        -      0.072
Sub-total                     -              -     0.106       -    0.256        -     0.316       -      0.316       -    0.316         -     1.310
Total Operating Costs               -             -      0.182       -    0.521       -      0.581       -      0.581       -    0.581        -      2.446
Total (1) + (2)                     -             -      0.385       -    1.379              0.741             0.581             0.581               3.667
Physical Contingencies              -             -      0.011       -    0.058       -       -                  -          -     -           -      0.069
GRAND TOTAL                         -             -      0.396       -    1.437       -      0.741       _      0.581       -    0.581        -      3.736



- 81 -
ANNEX 7
Table 6
INDIA                                                   Page  I
GUJARAT COMKUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT
Planting Costs
FRs TM)-
Ha No           YrAR  1        YEAR  2       YEAR 3        YEAR 4          YEAR 5            TOTAL
(a)  Roadside (Saurashtra and KutEb)        13,000
Model I
Materials                                           2.765          4.864          6.164         6.062          6.892            26.747
Labour                                              2.234          4.754         6.825          7.541          8.572            29.926
Others                                              0.006          0.010         0.014         0.013           0.014             0.057
Sub-total                                        5.005          9.628        13.003        13.616         15.478             56.730
(b)  Roadside OMain Land Guiarat)           18,600
Model II
Materials                                           2.670          3.815         5.326         4.739           5.045            21.595
LAbour                                              3.785          6.282         9.223         9.043           9.510            37.843
Others                                              0.010          0.015         0.022         0.020          0.020              0.087
Sub-total                                        6.465         10.112        14.571        13.802         14.575             59.525
(c)  Railside      (Saurashtra and Kutch)  1,400
Model III
Materials                                             --                            -          1.306           1.822             3.128
Labour                                                              -                          1.393          2.406              3.799
Others                                                -             -               -          0.005           0.006             0.011
Sub-total                                           -             -                          2.704          4.234              6.938
(d)  Railside       (Main Land Gularat)      2,000
Model IV
Materials                                             -             -               -          1.330           1.441             2.771
Labour                                                -             -              -           2.353          3.070              5.423
Others                                                -             -              -           0.007          0.009              0.016
Sub-total                                          -             -              -           3.690          4.520              8.210
(e)  Canal Banks    Model  V                 2,000
Materials                                           0.366          o.602         0.815         1.029           1.247             4.059
Labour                                              0.848          1.574         2.255         2.904           3.562            11.143
Others                                              0.003          0.006         0.007         0.008          0.010              0.034
Sub-total                                        1.217          2.182         3.077         3.941          4.819             15.236
(f)  Village (Irritation)  Model VI          2,880
Materials                                           0.103          0.236         0.376         0.413          0.424              1.552
Labour                                              0.643          1.493         2.427         2.750          2.889             10.202
Others                                              0.002          0.006         0.009         0.010          0.010              0.037
Sub-total                                       0.748           1.735         2.812         3.173          3.323            11.791
(g)  Rainfed village (Saurashtra and Kutch)
Model VII                              16,800
Materials                                           0.481          0.782         1.007         1.233          1.456              4.959
Labour                                              3.216          5.248         7.107         8.752         10.398             34.721
Others                                              0.014          0.021         0.028         0.033          0.039              0.135
Sub-total                                        3.711          6.051         8.142        10.018         11.893             39.815
(h)  Rainfed village (Mainland Gularat)
Model VIII                             17,760
Materials                                           0.656          0.951         1.182         1.362           1.591             5.742
Labour                                              4.341          6.340         8.325         9.625         11.291             39.922
Others                                              0.018          0.025         0.033         0.037          0.043              0.156
Sub-total                                        5.015          7.316         9.540        11.024         12.925             45.820



82 -                                                A7NEFX 7
Table 6
Page  2
Ha 14o        YEAR  1      YEAR  2     YEAR  3       YEAR 4        YEAR  5         TOTAL
(i)  Reforestation of Degraded Forert.
30, 000
Model IX
materials                                             1.254        1.494       1.494         1.494         1.494          7.230
Labour                                                7.518        8.658       9.282         9.282         9.282         44.022
Others                                                0.030        0.036       0.036         0.036         0.036          0.174
Sub-total                                          8.802       10.188       10.812       10.812        10.812         51.426
Additional Invstenet                  Butt 600
Materials                                             0.250        0.125       0.125         0.125         0.125          0,750
Labour                                                0.050        0.025       0.025         0.025         0.025          0.150
Sub-total                                          0.300        0.150       0.150         0.150         0.150          0.900
Wells 60
materials                                             0.006        0.003       0.003         0.003         0.003          0.018
Labour                                                0.064        0.032       0.032         0.032        0.032           0.192
Sub-total                                          0-070        0.035       0.035         0.035         0.035          0.210
Total - Reforestation                                        9.172      10.373       10.997        10.997       10.997          52,536
(j) Afforestation of Private Land              1,000
Model I
Materials                                             0.006        0.009       0.009         0.009         0.009          0.044
Labour                                                0.164        0.216       0.243         0.243         0.243          1.109
Others                                                0.050        0.100       0.150         0.200         0.250          0.750
Sub-total                                         0.222        0.325        0.402        0.452         0.502          1.903
(k) farm Forestzy                        Plants 150 M
materials                                             2.056        2.153       2.422         2.690         2.960         12.281
Labour                                                2.80B        2.952       3.322         3.691        4.060          16.833
Others                                                0.100        0.105       0.118         0.132         0.145          0.600
Sub-total                                         4J64         5.210       5.862         6.513         7.165         29.714
(1) Maintenance of Past Plantings
Materials                                             0.248          -           -             -             -            0.248
Labor                                                 3.402        1.085         -             -             -            4.487
Others
Sub-total                                         3.650        1.085         -             -             -            4.735
Total Materials                                      10.863       15.034      18.923        21.795       24.509          91.124
Total Labor                                          29.073       38.659      49.066        57.634        65.340        239.772
Total Others                                          0.233        0.324       0.417         0.501        0.582           2.057
Total (a) to (1)                                     40.169       54.017      68.406        79.930       90.431         332.953
Physical Contingeciees (57)                           2.008        2.701       3.420         3.996        4.522          16.647
Grand Total                                          42.177       56.718      71.826        83.926        94.953        349.600



INDIA
GUJARAT COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT
Stoves and Crematoria Costs
Unit     ________________________________Y E A R S
Cost           1                2                3                4                 5           Total
(Rs)     Unit   Cost      Unit   Cost      Unit   Cost       Unit   Cost      Unit   Cost
Stoves                    50       500  0.025    1,500  0.075    2,500  0.125    2,500  0.125    3,000  0.150            0.500
Cremation Facilities  4,000         -     -         150  0.600        250  1.000       300  1.200       300  1.200       4.000
Subtotal                           0.025            0.675             1.125            1.325            1.350      4.500    1
Physical
contingencies (5%)                    0.001            0.034             0.056            0.066             0.068      0.225
Total                              0.026            0.709             1.181            1,391             1.418     4.725
H 1 



INDIA
GUJARAT CORMNITY FORESTRY PROJECT
MonitorinR and Evaluation Costs
Unit Cost         YEAR 1         YEAR 2           YEAR 3           YEAR 4             YEAR 5
R  '000         No    Cost     No      Cost     No      Cost     No      Cost      No      Cost        Total Cost
(1) Capital Costs
(a) Vehicle
Car                               32.5           -     -       1     0.033      -                        -                            1    0.033
4 W D Vehicle                    48.1           -      -       3     0.144      -       -        _       _         _       _          3    0.144
Motorcycles                        7.2           -     -       12    0.086      4    0.029       8    0.058       12    0.086         36   0.259
(b) Equipment
Typewriter                         2.5           -     -       7      0.018     -       -        -       -          -      -          7    0.018
Calculators                        0.5           -     -       7      0.035     -       -        _       _          _                 7    0.035
Miscellaneous                                                         0.002          0.001               -                 -               0.003
Total Capital Costs                                                          0,318           0.030            0.058             0.086             0.492
(2) Operating Costa
(a) Staff Costs
C F Monitoring                      27.0           -     -       1      0.027     1    0.027       1    0.027       1      0.027             0.108
Forest Economist                    25.0           -     -       1      0.025     1    0.025       1    0.025       1      0.025             0.100
Read Survey Teas                    25.0           -     -       1      0.025     1    0.025       1    0.025       1      0.025             0.100
Sociologist                         19.0           -     -       L      0.019     1    0.019       1    0.019       1      0.019             0.076
Survey Supervisor                   12.0           -     -       4      0.048     4    0.048       4    0.048       4      0.048             0.192
Survey Assistant                    11-0           -          D        0.0ue       i   0.132       16   0.176       20    0.220              0.616            1
Stenographer Grade II               11.0           -     -       I     0.011      1    0.011       1    0.011       I      0.011             0.044           CO
Stenographer Grade III               7.0           -     -       1      0.007     1    0.007       1    0.007       1      0.007             0.028
Accountant                           7.0           -     -       1      0.007     1    0.007       1    0.007        1     0.007             0.028
Typist                               6.0           -     -       5      0.030     5    0.030       5    0.030       5      0.030             0.120
Driver                               6.0           -     -       4      0.024     4    0.024       4    0.024       4      0.024             0.096
P.A/Mesaenger                        4.0           -     -       4      0.016     4    0.016       4    0.016       4      0.016             0.064
Statistical Officer                 15.0           -     -       1      0.015     1    0.015       1    0.015       1      0.015             0.060
Statistical Assistant               11.0           -     -       5      0.055     5    0.055       5    0.055       5      0.055             0.220
Sub-total                                                         0.397           0.441            0.485             0.529              1.852
(b) Other Operating Costs
Vehicle running expenses
Car                              20.0           -      -       1     0.020      1    0.020       1    0.020       1     0.020              0.080
Jeep                             12.0           -      -       3     0.036      3    0.036       3    0.036       3      0.036             0.144
Motor Cycle                       4.0           -      -       12    0.048      16   0.064       20   0.080       24    0.096              0.288
Travelling Allowances
Professionals                  4.0           -      -       4     0.016      4    0.016       4    0.016       4     0.016              0.064
Others                            2.0           -      -       12    0.024      16   0.032       20   0.040       24    0.048              0.144
Office running expenses                         -      -             0.060           0.060            0.060              0.060             0.240
Sub-total                                    -      -             0.204           0.228            0.252             0.276              0.960    6|
Total Operating Costs                           -      -             0.601           0.669            0.737              0.805             2.812    C _
GRAkD TOTAL                                     -      -             0.919           0.699            0.795              0.b91             3.304



- 85 -
INDIA
GUJARAT COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT
Proposed Organization Chart
EVALUATION CELL                          SECRETARY,
(UNDER DIR. OF EVALUATION,            AGRICULTURE, FORESTSAND                                 STATE POLICY
G ENERAL ADMINISTRATION DEPT.) _1        COOPERATION DEPARTMENT                               REVIEW COMMITTEE
CHIEF CONSERVATOR OF                               PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
. _   FORESTS          - - - - - - - _            COMMITTEE
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
CONSERVATOR, RESEARCH
AND
WORKING PLANS                               
.ASILVICULTURIST              DDITIONAL CHIEF CONSERVATOR
_ _                     Z r ~~~~~~OF FORESTS, COMMUNITY FORESTR _
CONSERVATOR OF FOESS   l                                                                 OSRATOR OF FORE'STS
TRAINING, RESEARCH &   <      ~        _PLANNING, INFORMATIO0N
COMMUNICATIONS         L     MONITORING        ACCOUNTS &                                & REPORTING
_  UNIT        .DISBURSEMENTS
| RELATIONS | |  PROJECT PREPARATION
|  DCF   l  l      DCF       l l        DCF
| RESEARCH   ||COMMUNICATIONS || TRAININGi
r4 DIVISIONAL  |r5 DIVISIONAL  ||5 DIVISIONAL                   )   IIINAL
| FOREST        1    FOREST              FOREST            FOREST
I OFFICERS              OFFICERS          OFFICERS           OFFICERS
Bhuj         ~~~~Ahmadabad      Amreli             Bharuch
Palanpur           & Gandhinagar     Bhavnagar          Valsad
Mahesana          Godhra             Jamnagar           Vadodara
Surendranagar      Nadiad            Junagadh           Surat & Dangs
IRi  Reforestation of Degraded                                               Himatnagar        Rajkot             Dohad (R)
Forest Divisions                                                        Himatnagar (R)
World Bank - 20400



INDIA
GUJARAT COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT
Organization Chart: Community Forestry Field Staff
Divisional Forest Officer
(Deputy Conservator of Forests)
Asistant Conservator of Forests                                                           Assistant Conservator of Forests
Strip Plantations           19 Districts                                                  Village Woodlots            19 Districts
200 ha                                                                                    240 ha
Extension                                                                                xtensn
Dri ver &       Forester
Cleaner           25 ha            25 ha                                                                  2h                   Oa2h
Using Permanent Labor                                 ~~~~~~~~using Casual Labor     1 District
Extension Ranger                       Exten in                       I                       Exteso
RR                                                                        RanerLater
Farm Forestry    19 Districts                                        I  20  haeagr40h
50      _ 3 ha   50 ha           50ha20 ha200 ha                                       2                                                     4 0 60 ha40
L-__ - - -
Similar to (c)                                       Similar to (dS                     Similar to (dl
Tractor      .EEtesinnsionSon| 
Driver &         Forester         1 Million                           Forester              
Cleaner          1 Ml              Pa    Plants                        100 Ha
Similar to It)
Protection
|           |   Assitant CoservatD of Forets   |                                    |    ssistan Conservtor ofsorestst
40ha        L    Oh. 40-0  ha  48-     0
Wold Bank    20399



- 87 -
INDIA
,,                                                   GUJARAT COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT
Funding, Planning and Implementation Linkages
For Village Woodlots
r  secrtaryfoi  Funds  r  Government  |      Funds
Secretary for             Fud                  GoenetSecretary for
General Administration                                  of                                         Agriculture
Gujarat                                     Agiutr
I       District                                                                                     Additional 
Collector                                                                                       CCF
Planning,
Information
I'                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~and Reports
Consolidated              District              Annual                          Conservancy
District List             Forest               Capacity sgggsgug          |     n
(a) Coordinates                                                   aet
(b) Determines Priorities                                         argets
(c) Selects Village Panchayats
District Panchayat 
Divisional Forest Officer
*~ Consolidated                                                                          -
Taluka List
_    _     Liaison
Taluka Panchayat   f         -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -                    xtension  anger
-                                ~~~~~~~~~~Annual 
*                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~District.
j jj f  Applications                            Plan                                    E
Liaison              ,
Village PanchaYat      -  -  -  -  -  -  --   -   -   -  -  -  -  -  -                       Extension Forester
Self                                                                                       Supervised
Help ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SVillage
Scheme                                                                                       Scheme
Funds
lItttUllhhlt  Planning
www"X wrA  Implementation
Partial Implementation                                                            World Bank-20398



-88 -                        ANNEX 8
Page 1
INDI:A
GUJARAT COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT
A. Reference Material Available in
South Asia Regional Information Center
Forest Department, Gujarat State. State Forestry Project for World
Bank Assistance, Annexes and Supplement (August 14, 1978)
Gujarat, India.
Forest Department, Government of Gujarat. Draft Rolling Plan, 1978-79
to 1982-83. (undated) Gujarat, India.
Department of Information, Government of Gujarat. Years of Achievement -
Forests, pp. 20. Gandhinagar, Gujarat, India.
Ford Foundation Research Study. Gujarat Economy 2001 AD, A Study in
Perspective (1977). Sandar Patel Institute of Economic and
Social Research, Ahmedabad, India.
B. Material Available in Project File
Item 1    Planting Program Required to Meet Gujarat's Fuelwood Needs by
Year 2000.
Item 2    Development of Community Forestry in Gujarat.
Item 3    Panchayat Organization.
Item 4    Proforma Agreement for Village Woodlots:  Self-help Villages.
Item 5    Proforma Agreement for Village Woodlots:  Supervised Villages
Item 6    Proforma Agreement for Afforestation of Private (Malki)
Agricultural Lands.
Item 7    Calculation of Cremation Facility Requirements.
Item 8    Plantation Protection.



IBRD 14322
75                           JUNE  1979
IN  D IA                                                  25-
' 14                            GUJARAT COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT
P  A  K  I S    T  A  N                                                                                                                                             STATE FORESTS
I*5                        t '~ E<:: tf    T   t->   t 1  g   e :'@ltr4,5   -   G2tDHIN             .,             -'  -       FOREST REGIONAL BOUNDARIES
IANA SKAN HA
-' /                   t.O                                       '                                                     STATE FORESTS
(500         150OHYETS OF MEAN ANNUAL RAINFALL lu-en
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ KANN OF KUTCH
7   I.                   r ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~RIVERiS
JAMNAGAR,4Y t                ; -   4  tSvD                        ( ljMAHESAkA (..eeo
T  C  H    I                                                                      e~~~~MAHSANDISTRICT BOUNDARIES
/      [      = (   -   R A J K O T    _    y            'if- 'g11-   iX: 9 \ST      S      A    N O                                            BOUNDARIES
,   :    ,     ,      Itr     /        e              ,,                -G   OHIN                                                 -, -:        ITSAN  BOUNDARIES
'h                    '- -= r'b? ,                       L    MEI            iB      A R 0 2           1         -                            ,' ''pKLMTR 
AMleLI~ ~~ D/    :0   \; \(X                                                     sA    ttNDIA
;~ >\  \' i--R   '"?if -; '                                                                      'RS'RS' il-N'ANCH   MAHAA
~A MA DA,D
ofIe edSttfz trptft wz t s ethdrt eomi tSue n ~ the            ?1                                                                                                                                     :; 0-  Ml u
(/01' 0 shtSURENDRANAGAR ym pH Et DA do h                                                                                             1 o
70 ~        ~       2      LA               9<                                                                                   00\,  :; :V                        iLNA
u~~~                                            A                             R,d~~~~~~F-' 0v D 
RAJKOT                                 )VDOA,0
B H        C                                                           KLMTR
~, ~IU-R ~      AMRELI              HA                                                                                                              t OETR
jOU~~~~~~~~~~~  1,  BHA   NAG   R  02) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~75'
JUN AGADH    U. n.Sf     f.Spun,ee  ,a~tCne
V  A  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~                                                          ( ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~ BFUTAN
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h                    I                               '     AKISTAN            ~      $'~-ju"
AMREEI D                   001
DAMSAIVO,A                                                                                    IND I A 
20'     DaaeRaRet teadSyteWrdeastffeuu,et ath e.a,tn                                                                                               020'                                                        Aatst  Sa
h,daesret. -t On tp de n- -tply, -,the pat of he Wud1 Bank end to 
SI LANKA



IBRD 14323
I                     ~~~~~~~JUNE 1979
2,5                                                                                                                                                                                                               INDIA25
4                                                   GUJARAT COMMUNITY FORESTRY
P  A   K   I  S   T  A  N                                                                                                4                                                              PROJECT
y....<.? ~~~~~~~~~~T  ...~~~~~~)                                                0FO    PROPOSED COMMUNITY FORESTRY WORKSHOPS
J'-1                                              5~~~~~~~~~~~~~fli   PROPOSED FOREST RESEARCH ANDI SEED CElNLUR
~~~  'N                      Palonpur.                  /            .$ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COMMUNITY FORESTRY DIVISION BOUNDARIES
*  1                                                                            60                         'NO                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FOREST CIRCLE BOUNDARIES
.,y  *.                          A      ~~~~~~~~COMPMUNITY FORESTRY DIVISION HEADQUARTERS
COMMUNITY FORESTRY CIRCLE HEADQUARTERS
5g  -~~~~~~~~7'~~~~~                     -~~~~~     ~        ~       ~       ~          ~ COMMUNITY FORESTRY STATE HEADOUARlERS
MchesancA                  A                                                      U     COMMUINITY FORESTRY TRAINING CERTERR
~~    H~~~~motnogor ~~~~~~RIVERS
BK                                                ,-~~~~~~~~~~~~~..  ~~~~~~~~~                              *.' ~~~~~~~~~ RANN OF KUITCH
7                           S            *~~~~~~~~~  f/   Y                              -.--  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~STATE ROUNDARIES
S.- V'N                                            S,        -   -ITERNATIORAL BOUNDARIES
AhA
Jf                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~Surendranogar                         k       D                 
I' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I ~~~~~~Nadiod
r? Roikot             T,Vadodorc                                                                       N    '0 
BN havnagar/ BaBB 9                                                                                                         5         B
0\    Amreli.9Rpio75
Q           PAKISTAN               I           RH~~~~~~~I TN A ..
P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
N D IA     AnIROR
200                                                                                       '5 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' ~~~~~~~~20'                           .I



