                    PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                             APPRAISAL STAGE
                                                     March 7, 2013
                                                Report No.: AB7224

 Operation Name                    Second Education Development Policy Loan
 Region                            Middle East and North Africa
 Country                           Morocco
 Sector                            Primary education (75%); Secondary education (25%)
 Operation ID                      P120541
 Lending Instrument                Development Policy Lending
 Borrower(s)                       Morocco
 Implementing Agency               Ministry of National Education
                                   Bab Rouah
                                   Rabat
                                   Morocco
                                   Tel: (212-537) 771-822       Fax: (212-537) 771-874
                                   Secretariat.General@men.gov.ma
 Date PID Prepared                 February 12, 2013
 Estimated Date of Appraisal       March 23, 2013
 Estimated Date of Board           May 28, 2013
 Approval
 Corporate Review Decision         Following the corporate review, the decision was taken to
                                   proceed with the appraisal of the operation.

       Country and Sector Background

The wave of democratization that has swept the Middle East and North Africa region since the
start of the Arab Spring has also enveloped Morocco, although its experience has been a
reasonably peaceful one with social demonstrations taking place regularly across the country
during 2011 and only sporadic outbursts of violence noted. Morocco’s experience of the Arab
Spring underlines its political distinctiveness in the region even though many of the same
grievances among the population exist (lack of economic opportunities, endemic corruption,
widespread poverty, social inequality, unemployment). This experience has shown that
Moroccans seem more inclined to seek evolution within the system – gradual change continuous
with the country’s history and religious values. Morocco’s management of its own protest
movement seemed well managed and the external world highlighted Morocco’s particular
situation.

Successive national governments have overseen an impressive political, economic and social
transformation, with a marked acceleration of structural reforms in recent years. Sound
macroeconomic management has produced solid foundations, and the country is on a recovery
path from the stagnation of the 1990s due to sustained growth of nonagricultural output.
However, as shown, none of these factors provided total immunity to the rising tide of
dissatisfaction and to the pressure from the outstanding development issues and challenges. The
political transition has shown the powerful consequences of exclusion and high levels of youth
unemployment in the MENA region and in Morocco. Jobs are at the forefront of attention and
unemployment is the main political and economic issue facing the Government. Despite a
relatively favorable socio-political situation compared to some other MENA countries, Morocco
still has a lot to do to address inequality and poverty, and its social indicators remain relatively
low in comparison with other countries in the region.

Investing in human capital through quality education is a priority in Morocco’s current
development process. Successive governments have overseen an impressive political, economic
and social transformation, with a marked acceleration of structural reforms in recent years.
While economic indicators have improved, inequality and poverty persist. Social indicators
remain relatively low in comparison with other countries in the region.

The low level of education and skills of the workforce is among the main factors which constrain
the country’s economic growth and long-term prosperity. The labor market is imbalanced, with
notable mismatches between job demands and graduation qualifications and skills. Improving
the quality of outcomes in the education and training sector has become a key focus of
governmental actions. To overcome the challenges faced by the education sector, previous
governments embarked on a comprehensive reform of the education and training system, with
the promulgation of the 1999 National Education and Training Charter. The Charter, which
enjoyed strong national consensus, declared 2000-2009 the “education and training decade,?
thereby establishing education and training as a national priority. At the request of the King, an
ambitious Education Emergency Program 2009-2012 was drawn up to build on this decade-long
reform process. The Government is now preparing its Education Development Plan 2013-2016,
drawing lessons from the implementation of the previous action plans.

       Operation Objectives

The proposed operation would be the second and last single-tranche development policy loan in
what was originally designed as a programmatic series for the schools sector. The first
operation, which was approved by the Executive Board on June 8, 2010, became effective on
August 9, 2010 and closed on March 31, 2011, supported key initial institutional and regulatory
measures as well as the introduction of new approaches to improve service delivery effectiveness
and efficiency. The proposed operation was designed to support deepening institutional reforms
and scaling up the program to tackle core cross-cutting issues. The Education Ministry’s slow
implementation of its Education Emergency Program resulted in considerable delays in
completing most of the proposed operation’s prior actions (to the extent that some actions have
been replaced by alternative measures); this in turn meant that the Bank team was not able to
present the proposed operation for Board approval within the prescribed period of 24 months
since Board approval of the first operation. Although the two operations no longer form a
programmatic series for administrative purposes, the Government and the Bank teams wish to
maintain the spirit of the series and the proposed operation’s prior actions are in large part those
that were agreed at the time the first operation was approved.

The World Bank support program was designed to provide budget and technical support for the
refinement and implementation of the national education sector reform program, and was
developed in close coordination with the Government to ensure full ownership of the processes,
actions and outcomes. The Government and the Bank recognize that under Government
leadership, the Bank can play a critical role in bringing sector knowledge and experience,
strengthening cross-sectoral policy dialogue between various government entities (especially
linking sector development outcomes to the country’s overall economic framework), and
ensuring sustained commitment toward effective reform of the sector.

The development objective of the World Bank program is to strengthen the schools sector’s
institutional arrangements in ways that, in the mid-term, will: (i) increase access to school
education, especially for rural girls and boys at the lower secondary level; (ii) improve the
quality of teaching and learning in primary and lower secondary education; and (iii) enhance
efficiency in decentralized governance of the schools sector. More specifically, the EDPP
supports the Government in its efforts to improve the accumulation of human capital through the
implementation of policies and measures designed to: (i) achieve universal basic education; (ii)
improve system performance (teaching, management and stewardship); and (iii) improve
mobilization and utilization of resources.

       Rationale for Bank Involvement

The Country Partnership Strategy comprises three pillars. These pillars are: (i) encouraging
growth, competitiveness and employment; (ii) improving quality service delivery to citizens; and
(iii) promoting sustainable development within the context of climate change. Other cross
cutting themes, such as regional development, governance, public private partnerships, and
regional integration, are also covered. The World Bank support program is part of the Bank’s
support to Pillar (ii) and, as such, will address the issue of quality education service delivery
through: (a) improved management of the sector by way of increased decentralization to, and
accountability of, the Regional Education Offices that are responsible for local service delivery;
(b) increased targeting as a means to reach the most vulnerable and improve retention and reduce
drop-out rates; and (c) enhanced accountability of education personnel by means of performance-
based measures.

The World Bank and the International Monetary Fund maintain close collaboration in Morocco.
Regular contacts between the Fund and the Bank country teams are customary, with discussions
focused on the respective work programs, country priorities, recent developments and prospects.
Collaboration between the Fund and the Bank in Morocco has been positive, with a common
understanding on the division of labor and a shared assessment of the critical macroeconomic
challenges facing the country. The Fund continues to focus on critical macroeconomic areas,
and in particular exchange rate, monetary, and overall fiscal policy. The Bank continues to focus
on strengthening economic management, improving the business environment, and sectoral
reforms. The Fund participates in Bank project review meetings where relevant; Bank staff
members contribute to the Fund’s Article IV consultation missions to Morocco. The ongoing
analytical work being carried out by the Fund team, which was welcomed by Bank counterparts,
focuses on (i) the medium-term outlook for public finances in Morocco; (ii) an analysis of the
real exchange rate; and (iii) the macroeconomic implementation of the global financial crisis and
economic downturn.

The World Bank works closely with other donors. In line with the main principles put forward
by the partnership framework, the World Bank joined with six major sector donors to form the
Technical and Financial Partners Group, offering technical and financial support to the
Government as it implements its Education Emergency Program. This level of harmonization
among major donors marks an important advance in donor relations with the Government. The
Group worked together with Government to establish a common results framework and common
monitoring and reporting arrangements.

       Tentative financing

Source:                                                                             ($m.)
Borrower
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development                                100
Borrower/Recipient
IBRD
Others (specifiy)
                                                                      Total          100

       Institutional and Implementation Arrangements

Under Government leadership, the Education Ministry is assigned overall responsibility for
Program implementation. Implementation is carried out under a matrix organizational structure
with a “thematic? dimension and a “regional? dimension, ensuring coherence in the execution of
the reforms. Central and regional steering committees were established, and these committees
are mirrored by similar structures also at the provincial and school levels. The Central Steering
Committee, which is chaired by the Minister, sets overall objectives and priorities, reconciles
decisions, finds solutions to issues and provides a report-back system for decision-making. The
Regional Steering Committees guide the strategic direction of the Emergency Plan at the
regional levels.

The World Bank support program supports the results-based management put forward by the
Government’s Education Emergency Program. The implementation progress will be monitored
based on a results framework which comprises the results/outcomes indicators highlighted in the
policy matrix to measure progress regarding the three policy areas, as well as a set of sectoral
performance indicators that are shared by all Technical and Financial Partners and incorporated
into their respective loan/grant operations. These indicators – net enrollment rates, completion
rates, and learning assessment results – will be disaggregated for gender and urban/rural areas.
These indicators will continue to be closely monitored during supervision and review missions.

       Risks and Risk Mitigation

Macroeconomic stability may deteriorate. The worsening of Morocco's macroeconomic situation
in 2012 had been more pronounced than expected. The economic and fiscal challenges faced by
Morocco require a redoubling of efforts to deepen and expand the reform program so as to create
the conditions for a sustainable recovery of investment, growth, and employment. In particular, it
is of utmost urgency that the government starts implementing the reform of the subsidy system to
ensure the sustainability and efficiency of public finance while strengthening its safety nets for
the poor and vulnerable.
Implementation of key and sensitive reforms may slow down with the change of government. The
new government priorities are clearly aligned with the project’s development objective (in
particular in the area of economic governance), so it is expected that the reforms it supports will
be implemented as planned. That said, the transition has already resulted in a slowing down in
key areas such as pre-school education, in-service teacher training and national student
achievement assessment. The Bank team will continue to engage the Government in a close
dialogue on these reforms, and to support decision making through technical assistance when
important technical issues need to be solved and arbitrated (e.g., balance between sectoral
authorities and the competition authority).

The reform program faces resistance from unions, including teacher resistance to the efficiency
measures and the move toward greater accountability. The Government will continue to engage
in a broad dialogue with teacher unions and teachers, with a view to creating a buy-in to the
reform program through participation and decision-making.

Attainment of the Government’s program objectives could be constrained by financing
mobilization. The Bank and other donors will pursue the discussions with the Education
Ministry to further prioritize their expenditure programs so as to better align them both with the
country’s financial capacity and existing absorptive capacity.

Ensuring adequate institutional capacity to support reform implementation remains a key
challenge. A wide range of measures and actions have been identified, including the
implementation of alternative approaches such as outsourcing and partnerships with qualified
non-governmental organizations and associations in service delivery. In addition, coordinated
efforts have been deployed by the main donors to mobilize sizeable resources to support capacity
building and technical assistance needs.

Fiduciary risks: unreliable financial statements, as well as deficiencies in internal controls in the
education sector. As mentioned above, the Education Ministry continues to take actions to
mitigate those risks, including the implementation of an adequate financial management system
in each AREF.

       Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects

The prior actions supported by the proposed operation are largely pro-poor and promote equity
and inclusion. New criteria for locating schools and the adoption of a social support action plan
are specifically designed to increase participation and improve the school experience of children
living in rural and semi-rural areas, who are disproportionately likely to be poor and currently
out-of-school. The establishment of Regional Teacher Training Centers, Regional Assessment
and Testing Centers and Regional Internal Audit Units, along the evaluation of school charters
and funding, is designed to improve the quality and efficiency of the teaching and learning
process for all students, but could in fact disproportionately benefit poorer and poorer-
performing students simply because of the emphasis on introducing nationwide standards in
quality and efficiency.
While negative impacts are likely to be low, the adoption of a mechanism for rationalizing
human resource allocation and the transfer of human resource management decisions to Regional
Education Offices may generate some adverse social impact, inasmuch it will likely impact
lifestyles of teachers and their families and perhaps generate resentment. Aware of the
resistance, the MEN is approaching human resource management reform on an incremental
basis, consulting and discussing with the teachers’ unions to arrive at a solid consensus over
time.

While the gap between urban boys and rural girls at the primary education level narrowed to just
3.5 percentage points by 2012/13, the gap at higher levels of the education system remains large,
with 53 percentage points still separating urban boys and rural girls at the lower secondary
education level in 2012/13. At both primary and lower secondary levels, girls’ and boys’
completion rates are now almost identical. The first National Learning Assessment Program
results show to small gender gaps in mathematics and science, but large gender gaps in favor of
girls in Arabic and French. Given then that the main gender gap concerns access to secondary
schooling for rural girls, the pro-poor measures mentioned above – Prior Actions 2.1 and 2.2 –
include features, such as expanded school transport options and improved school canteen and
hostel facilities, that are designed to provide safe facilities that encourage rural households to
send their daughters to school. The Ministry of Education systematically collects and publishes
school statistics broken down by gender and by urban/rural settings.

VI.C. Environmental aspects

The proposed operation’s prior actions are not likely to have significant negative effects on the
environment, forestry and other natural resources. It is noted in particular that the MEN’s school
construction program lies outside the proposed operation.

       Contact point

World Bank
Contact: Jeffrey Waite
Title: Lead Education Specialist
Tel: 5360+227 / 212-537-636-050
Fax:
Email: Jwaite@worldbank.org
Location: Rabat, Morocco (IBRD)

Borrower
Contact: Abdelhaq El Hayani
Title: Director of Strategy, Statistics and Planning, Ministry of Education
Email: abdelhaq.elhayani@men.gov.ma
      For more information contact:

The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-4500
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
