 IEG
                                                                                             Report Number: ICRR14694

                    ICR Review
                    Independent Evaluation Group


1. Project Data:                                               Date Posted: 03/23/2015

                 Country: Morocco
                          Is this Review for a Programmatic Series ?                                   Yes     No
              Series ID:
        First Project ID : P120541                                                 Appraisal             Actual
         Project Name: Second Education               Project Costs (US$M):                100.00             101.73
                           Development Policy
                           Loan
  L/C Number:                                          Loan/Credit (US$M):                    100                   100
       Sector Board:       Education                   Cofinancing (US$M):

             Cofinanciers:                               Board Approval Date :                              05/28/2013
                                                                 Closing Date:            04/30/2014        04/30/2014
          Sector(s):         General education sector (26%); Sub-national government administration (22%); Secondary
                             education (19%); Primary education (19%); Tertiary education (14%)
         Theme(s):           Education for all (72%); Public expenditure; financial management and procurement (14%);
                             Decentralization (14%)
Evaluator:                   Panel Reviewer:          ICR Review                  Group:
                                                      Coordinator:
Erik A. Bloom                Judyth L. Twigg          Lourdes N. Pagaran         IEGPS2

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    The Program Document for this Development Policy Loan (DPL, p. 25) identifies the program’s objectives as:

    To strengthen the school sector’s institutional arrangements in the short term, in ways that in the medium term
    will: (i) increase access to school education, especially for girls and boys at the lower secondary level; (ii)
    improve the quality of teaching and learning in primary and lower secondary education; and (iii) enhance
    efficiency in decentralized governance of the schools sector.
    As is common with DPLs, the legal agreement does not present the program's objective and only presents the
    prior actions. The government's Development Policy Letter (Annex 1 of the Program Document) identifies the
    government’s priorities, including the DPL’s policy areas. The Letter does not explicitly include the above
    objective.

 b. If this is a single DPL operation (not part of a series), were the project objectives/ key
associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Policy Areas:

    The DPL had three policy areas: (i) achieve universal basic education; (ii) improve system performance
    (teaching, management and stewardship); and (iii) mobilize and utilize resources with eight prior actions. This
    summary is taken from the Program Document (pp. 27-32):

    Policy Area 1: Achieve universal basic education . The Government aimed to achieve compulsory basic
    education by rationalizing the use of physical capacities and enhancing measures for greater equity in school
   access and retention.
   Policy Area 2: Improve system performance (teaching, management and stewardship ). The Government aimed
   to strengthen MEN staff competencies, especially those of teachers, with a view to improving the delivery of
   classroom-based education services.
   Policy Area 3: Mobilize and utilize resources . The Government aimed to mobilize and better use resources
   through a strategy that involved working both with central government partners as well as with school
   communities and private sector partners.


d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

   The loan was fully disbursed as planned. Due to exchange rate gains, the actual disbursed amount was US$
   101.73 million.

   The program was approved on May 28, 2013. It became effective on July 3, 2013, which was about two months
   before the expected date. The program closed on April 30, 2014 as expected.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:


   The relevance of objectives is rated high.
   At the time of approval, the program was designed to build on a previous Bank policy loan (the First Education
   Development Policy Loan, approved in April 2010). For internal administrative reasons, the first and second
   policy loans were delinked and prepared as stand-alone operations. The first operation was to build on the
   government's Emergency Education Program (2009-2012), carried out in coordination with budget support
   provided by other development partners. The government has extended the Emergency Education Program as
   the center of its reform agenda.
   The Bank's Country Partnership Strategy (CPS), 2014-17, supports the DPL and its objectives. The operation
   supports the CPS’s Result Area 3, Strengthening Governance and Institutions for Improved Services, which
   indicates that the Bank will continue to support the Emergency Education Program, The CPS includes education
   in two sub-results areas: improving service delivery, especially at the local level, and expanding access to basic
   services (3.4). The program is well aligned to both of these results areas (pp. 28-29 of the CPS). Annex 1 of the
   CPS includes the program’s education results and confirms further engagement through knowledge work.
   Pillar IV of the government’s program, 2012-2016, supports the “promotion of social programs guaranteeing
   equitable access to services” (CPS, p. 13). The program is also well aligned with the government’s National
   Emergency Education Plan (PUEN), which is in its mid-term. This operation is the second that supports PUEN
   (Program Document, p. 53). In addition, the operation supports all five of the pillars of the Ministry’s Education
   Action Plan, 2013-2016 (Program Document, p. 54). A 2012 evaluation of the PUEN showed that, while progress
   had been made on access and gender equity in recent years, there were still challenges related to retention and
   dropout issues, improvements in learning processes and staff skills, continuing education for teachers, furthering
   the process of regionalization, and other areas (Program Document, p. 1), making the operation's objectives also
   highly relevant to country conditions.


b. Relevance of Design:


   The relevance of design is rated modest.
   The program’s objective was to promote short-term reforms aimed at improving: (i) access to education; (ii)
   quality of education; and (iii) governance in the education sector.
   The program provides clear support for improving access to education, through Policy Area 1. This included
   policies to increase the placement of schools in underserved areas as well as expanding the coverage of social
   programs (school feeding, boarding facilities, etc.).
   The program also supported governance in the education sector through Policy Areas 2 and 3. This included
   policies to improve the allocation of human resources, evaluation of school charters, and internal audit units for
   local education units.
   The program’s support for quality was less clear. Policy Area 1 included the establishment of Regional
   Assessment and Testing Centers (EDPL 2.3) to implement assessment at the local level. The Program also
   included new guidelines for pre-service training (EDPL 2.4). However, these actions are not likely to have had
   much impact on improving education quality in the medium term.


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

   This review considers the DPL’s achievement against the three medium-term objectives, based on the likelihood
   of achieving these objectives.

   1.   Increase access to school education , especially for girls and boys at the lower secondary level
   The achievement of this objective is rated substantial.
   There is strong international evidence on the effectiveness of conditional cash transfers (CCTs) to support school
   enrollment. CCTs have had a similarly positive impact in Morocco (ICR, p. 12). Providing school meals can also
   have a positive impact on enrollment. Support for both of these programs is likely to lead to an increase in
   enrollment.
   Contribution. Morocco is a middle-income country with a relatively high enrollment rate in primary education, and
   thus increases in access are likely to be marginal.
   In 2010, only 2.5 percent of 80 new primary schools and none of 23 new lower secondary schools were rural. By
   2014, based on programmed schools, 78 percent of 41 new primary schools and 61 percent of the 62 new lower
   secondary schools were located in rural areas. This essentially meets the numeric targets of 25 primary schools
   and 40 lower secondary schools constructed in rural areas; the actual achievement was 32 and 38 respectively
   (ICR, p. iv). The project team also confirmed that many of the urban schools were actually in semi-urban areas,
   as indicated in the ICR. The ratio of rural to urban schools has progressively increased over time (ICR, p. 10).
   The ICR provides evidence that there has been a general increase in the coverage of school-based social
   programs. From 2010/11 to 2013/14, the number of beneficiaries of the cash transfer program increased by 35
   percent, the number of beneficiaries of distribution of school supplies increased by 22 percent, and the number
   of boarding scholarships increased by 34 percent. In addition, there has been an increase in the coverage of
   school meals and school transportation, although the unit of observation is not clear (ICR, pp. 11-12).
   Overall, there appears to have been an increase in enrollment rates at the primary and lower secondary levels in
   rural areas. From 2011/12 to 2013/14, the net enrollment rate in primary education in rural areas increased from
   95 percent to 100 percent, and the net enrollment rate in lower secondary education in rural areas from 28
   percent to 34 percent. The increases in the lower secondary net enrollment rate in rural areas seem to match the
   increases seen in urban areas at that level (where the increase in net enrollment was from 77 percent to 83
   percent). This is probably a positive development, since it is always more challenging to increase enrollment in
   urban areas.
   2.   Improve the quality of teaching and learning in primary and lower secondary education
   The achievement of this objective is rated modest.
   Contributions. There appears to be little evidence that the quality of basic education has improved. The national
   assessment is still in the process of being implemented, so there is no direct evidence of changes in student
   achievement. The indirect evidence on the achievement rates in primary and lower secondary education shows
   very little progress, remaining essentially stagnant from 87 percent to 88 percent in primary education and 65
   percent to 66 percent in lower secondary education from the 2010-11 school year to 2013-14 school year. These
   indicators seem to measure school grades (the ICR does not provide a precise definition of this indicator).
   3.   Enhance efficiency in decentralized governance of the schools sector
   The achievement of this objective is rated substantial.
   Transferring some of HR authority from the central level to the regional level is a major reform, since HR (in
   particular, teachers) is by far the largest expense in the education sector. While this does not include decisions
   about hiring and firing students, it does include important functions such as promotion, training, and some
   disciplinary activities. Current plans are to expand the role of regional authorities and give them more
   responsibilities for HR.
   Another major HR reform was the rationalization of teachers to ensure better allocation. While the mechanism
   was developed and adopted, the impact appears to be limited. There was an increase in the proportion of female
   teachers in both rural primary and lower secondary schools, from 34 percent to 38 percent in rural primary
   schools and 31 percent to 34 percent in lower secondary schools in the period between the 2010-11 and the
   2013-14 school years (ICR, pp. 14-15). While these gains are small, it is difficult to achieve large gains in a short
   period of time. At the same time, the urban and rural pupil-teacher ratio was largely unchanged during the reform
   period (ICR, p. 15).
   While there were important gains associated with the decentralization of HR, the sector’s experience with the
   school charters (a form of school autonomy) was less successful. While an evaluation of the school charter
   program was carried out, it appeared to have little impact. To date, the government has not created a new
   generation of school charters. According to the ICR (p. 16), the charters are primarily used to generate resources
   for schools rather than as a tool for school management.
   To strengthen financial management at the regional level, the Ministry established internal audit units in each
   AREF. In addition to establishing the units on paper (the prior action), these were staffed and produced annual
   reports. While there is room to strengthen the units, this represents an important step in establishing
   decentralized governance (ICR, pp. 16-17).
   While it is difficult to quantify the impact of these reforms on decentralized governance, the ICR argues that “the
   decentralization process to the AREFs is certainly…irreversible.” However, there is definitely room for further
   reform, including further expanding local control of HR, increased school autonomy (school charters), and a
   greater role for regional planning (ICR, p. 18).


5. Efficiency (not applicable to DPLs):


6. Outcome:

   The program’s outcome is rated moderately satisfactory .

   The program's objectives remain highly relevant, although the program’s design was modest and had
   shortcomings in the results chain related to the quality objective. The program made a substantial contribution to
   increasing access to primary and lower secondary school education and enhancing efficiency in decentralized
   governance. The program made less of an impact in improving the quality of teaching and learning.
a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

   The risk to development outcome is rated as moderate.

   Both this program and the previous program supported by the Bank are central to the government’s strategy for
   education (the Emergency Education Program) and the government’s overall development strategy (ICR, p. 19;
   Program Document, pp. 51-57). The Emergency Education Program (PUEN) was introduced in 2009 and
   continued after the introduction of a new constitution in 2011 (Program Document, pp. 1-2). However, there
   appears to be a slowdown in the pace of the reform, leading to a delay in the next phase of the reform process
   (ICR, pp. 6, 21).
   According to the ICR, most of the outcomes achieved by the program will likely be maintained. The ICR makes
   particular mention of the likely permanence of the decentralization. However, the ICR also questions the
   likelihood of further reform, indicating that deepening the reform may face both technical and political difficulties.
   This observation does not appear to be relevant to the reforms directly supported by the Bank’s program, and the
   implementation of the institutional arrangements supported by the program will likely continue to have the desired
   impact.


  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

    The preparation of this program was delayed from its original schedule due to government decisions (ICR, p.
    1). This gave the Bank additional time to prepare the operation. The ICR (p. 19) argues that preparation of the
    program was rushed and that this contributed to shortcomings in design. As a result, this program was based
    on the First Education Development Policy Loan, despite the fact that the programs were delinked and had
    different objectives. The Program Document indicates that there was little additional technical work
   (“analytical underpinnings”) carried out between the this and the preceding program (pp. 24-25).
   The operation included financial management safeguards that met or exceeded minimum standards for a
   DPO and Morocco was working with the Bank at the time on improving the government’s public finance
   management (Program Document, pp. 35-37).

  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                        Moderately Unsatisfactory


b. Quality of supervision:


   The Bank had two task team leaders (TTLs) for the operation, and the ICR (p. 20) reports that there was no
   disruption during the transition in July 2013. This happened after the project was approved but before
   effectiveness, giving the new TTL time to participate in the ongoing country dialogue. Both TTLs were based
   in Morocco. According to the ICR, the Bank team included a variety of both technical and fiduciary experts to
   support the program (p. 20), however, this does not appear to be reflected in Annex 1 of the ICR (p. 24).
   Due to a change in Ministers, the Bank and other donors were not able to carry out a joint supervision
   mission.

  Quality of Supervision Rating :                 Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :               Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:


   The government gave education high priority, through continued support of the sector in its development
   strategies and despite political changes (ICR, pp. 1-2). Likewise, the government continued to provide
   significant financial support to the sector: 25 percent of the national budget in 2013 and 2014, around 6
   percent of GDP (ICR, p. 20).
   At the same time, political changes in the government led to a number of issues in the program’s
   implementation (ICR, pp. 5, 20). These changes may have led to a slowdown in the pace of the reform as well
   as delays in approving the next phase of the education reform (ICR, pp. 6, 21). While these changes are a
   normal part of government processes, it is not clear from the ICR that there was an attempt to reschedule
   activities with the new Minister.



  Government Performance Rating :                              Moderately Satisfactory


b. Implementing Agency Performance:

   Various agencies within the Ministry contributed to carrying out the program largely as expected (ICR, pp.
   20-21), preparing expected reports and coordinating effectively. While the program worked across different
   areas of the Ministry, it was supported specifically at the central level by the Directorate of Strategy, Statistics,
   and Planning and at the regional level by the AREFs (ICR, p. 20). Likewise, the government and the Ministry
   were quite supportive of efforts to create human resource management and internal audit units at the local
   level (ICR, p. 20).

  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                      Satisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                         Moderately Satisfactory
10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

   The program relied on information that was readily available from administrative data sources, such as the
   proportion of regions producing annual reports (indicator 4). These indicators were grouped according to policy
   areas (Program Document, pp. 58-63). Likewise, the program also followed government indicators to measure
   higher-level changes in the education sector (Program Document, pp. 64-66, and ICR, p. 10).

   The indicators only partially captured the objectives, as indicated in the Program Document. For example, the
   matrix does not capture the program’s impact on teaching and learning, focusing instead on enrollment and
   graduation from teaching colleges (ICR, p. v). In general, the ICR points out that the results matrix does not
   match the PDOs; it largely reflected the previous operation, which had a somewhat different objective and design
   (ICR, p. 7). However, given that this was formally a single operation, intermediate outcomes are sufficient for
   M&E purposes.
   One issue that the program faced was the misclassification of semi-urban schools as urban schools. Semi-urban
   areas tend to be poor and have more in common with rural areas in terms of poverty (ICR, p. 7). The ICR also
   notes several other minor shortcomings with the design of the indicators, such as the exclusion of students in
   university-level teacher training/education programs or indicators focusing on the utilization of school charters
   (ICR, pp. 7-8).


b. M&E Implementation:

   The program was able to collect most data in a timely fashion, as it depended on administrative data and
   indicators that are followed in the government’s program. The ICR (p. 8) also reports that the Ministry carried out
   a number of relevant evaluations, including an evaluation of the cash transfer program and a review of
   community schools.

c. M&E Utilization:

   The ICR (p. 8) reports that indicators were used at the national level, but there was room to improve utilization at
   the local level and to inform implementation of specific elements of the reform, such as the deployment of
   teaching staff.

 M&E Quality Rating: Modest


11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

   No safeguard policies were triggered (Program Document, p. 33).

b. Fiduciary Compliance:


   The Program Document (pp. 35-37) indicates that the program's design went beyond the fiduciary standards
   required for development policy operations. The ICR does not mention any fiduciary issues.


c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


   None reported.

d. Other:
12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                 Reason for
                                                                                     Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                    Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Significant                   Moderate           While there is evidence that the reform
                     Outcome:                                                  is slowing, it appears that the elements
                                                                               that the reform has introduced and were
                                                                               supported by the program are well
                                                                               established.
           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                              Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

    The ICR (pp. 21-22) presents several well-founded lessons that can be derived from the experience of the
    operation. In particular, it notes:

         Policy operations are less effective when done as a one-year program as compared to a multi-year series
          of operations. This reflects the need to implement a long-term reform process that incorporates
          complicated changes and the participation of stakeholders.
         A bottom-up (or organic) process of decentralization may be more effective in introducing reforms at the
          local level. The ICR reports that, in this case, decentralization was developed at the center and not always
          understood at the local level.
         Having a strong student assessment system is important in any program that aims to introduce reform at
          the local level. Improving education quality is one of the two central goals of the government program
          (along with increasing enrollment). Without a system to measure changes in learning, it is not possible to
          measure the program's impact. Likewise, having an assessment system would have helped to improve
          the Bank's program's contribution to quality.


14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


    Overall, the ICR provides a candid assessment of the operation’s design and implementation. It highlights both
    the program’s strengths (such as the ownership behind the reform process) as well as weaknesses in design and
    program monitoring and evaluation. The ICR has a good set of lessons that are drawn from the program’s
    experience. It provides data that go beyond the results framework, exploring longer-term indicators.
    While the ICR does include Borrower comments, these are not translated into English, which limits their
    contribution at the international level.
a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
