popy                ~     ~~~~~Document of
R      E                              The World B3ank
F0)1 O(DCIIAL USZ ON)LY
CIRCULATtNG COPY
TO BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK                    ReportNo. P-1748-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A
SECONDARY AND FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
January 21, 1976
This doermet has a restriced distrlbhaloz and n2ay be used by reciplenis only In the performace of
Self ofcIoia1 duties. gIb contents may nmt cthberwse be disclosed witbouit World Bank cathorlsation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of December 16, 1975)
Currency Unit               =              Cruzeiro (Cr$)
US$1                                       Cr$9007
Cr$1                                       US$0.11
Cr$1,000                                   US$110.25
Cr$1,000,000                =              US$110,254



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF? THE
PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON
A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE FEDERATIVE REPIBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A SECONDARY AND FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
1.        I submit the foLLowing report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Federative Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$55
million to hblp finance a secondary and feeder roads project. The loan
would have a term of 16 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest
at 8i per annum. The proceeds of the loan would be made available by
the Government to the National Bank for Economic Development (BNDE) on
the same financial terms and conditions as the proposed Bank loan. BNDE,
in turn, would onlend the proceeds of the loan, in cruzeiros, to state
highway departments and municipal consortia charged with the responsibil-
ity of secondary and feeder roads construction. Interest rates to ulti-
mate beneficiaries would vary by region, ranging from 4% to 7% plus
monetary correction.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       A report, entitled "Economic Memoranduw on Brazil" (812-BR),
dated July 7, 1975, was distributed to the Executive Directors on
July 21, 1975. Country data sheets are attachecd as Annex I.
3.       Brazil's average annual rate of growth of about 10% over the
period 1967-74t has resulted in a 60% increase in per capita income, a
130% increase in manufacturing output and a 350% increase in the value
of exports. During much of this period, with carefully designed fiscal
and monetary policies, the Government was successful in gradually re-
ducing the rate of inflation. The reform of the fiscal system, described
in the report, "Fiscal Policy Issues and Options in Brazil" (884-BR,
dated October 3, 1975), recently distributed to the Executive Directors,
played a crucial role in the stabilization of the economy, assuring
balanced budgets while channelling substantial budgetary savings into
public investment and mobilizing a rising stream of private savings to
finance economic and social development. Some overheating of the economy
developed in 1973, and, as a result of the relaxation of controls and
higher import prices, inflation in 197h was about 29%, compared to an
annual average of 18% in 1970-73. However, there has been some slowdown
in inflation during 1975.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



4.        International economic developments in 1974 and 1975 have
caused a sharp deterioration of Brazil's balance of payments. The
fourfold increase in the price of crude o4l (adding some US$2 billion
to the import bill), the steep rise in the price of most imported raw
materials, as we-Ll as the hardeting of ter-ms of external financial
credits, have made management of the external sector difficult in
1974-75. Further, these external factors caught Brazil at the time
when its economy was overheated and growth of import demand was very
high because of limitations on domestic capacity in key sectors
coupled with inventory accumulation. The current account deficit,
which averaged US$1 billion in 1969-73 or 2% of GDP, widened to
about US$7 billion or 7% of GDP in 1974, reflecting the sizeable
differential between import growth (about 100%) and export growth
(roughly 30%) and the increasing level of interest payments on debt.
The bulk of the deficit was financed by a large increase in the in-
flow of external financial credits.
5.        The Government acted to nrarrow the balance-of-payments
current account deficit in 1975. It continued monetary restraint,
a balanced budget and a realistic exchange rate policy, and it
attempted to reduce imports by causing public enterprises to use
stockpiles of imported intermediate goods accumulated during 1974.
However, the Government's plan to reduce the trade deficit to about
US$2.5 billion in 1975, compared to US$4.6 billion in 1974, was
partly frustrated by the sharp slowdown in manufactured export growth
as a consequence of the recession in the consuming countries, as
well as by the frost in southern Brazil in July 1975, which adversely
affected production of some key crops, including coffee and sugar.
The Government has been monitoring the balance-of-payments situation
very closely and in the second half of 1975 adopted several new
measures which helped stabilize the reserve level which had declined
moderately during the first half of the year. The new measures
establish advance import deposit requirements on approximately 40%
of merchandise imports, further increases in import duties, a 25%
increase in gasoline prices and continued restriction of public
sector imports. In addition, the Government has given the state
petroleum monopoly, PETROBRAS, permission to undertake service con-
tracts with foreign oil companies.
6.        In recent years, Brazil has become more closely integrated
into the world economy and its growth has become more dependent upon
and vulnerable to changes in the world economic situation. The slow-
down in the rate of growth of the world economy could have an adverse
impact on prices of Brazilian primary exports and on the rate of
growth of its exports of manufactures. World economic conditions
will probably not permit Brazil to grow during 1975-80 at the 10%
pace attained in the preceding years. In fact, in 1975 it slowed
considerably, paralleling the very steep decline in OECD economic



-3-
activity. However, a growth path averaging 6% per annum still seems
feasible over the 1975-80 period. It is estimated that to finance
the projected growth path, the average annual net inflow of medium-
and long-tern capital (that is, capital other than direct investments
and financial credits) required for the 1975-80 period will be sub-
stantial, about US$1.7 billion, or three tines the average for the
1970-74 period. On the other hand, the direct import needs of most
public investment projects are relatively low, reflecting the ability
of the domestic capital goods industry to compete successfully under
international competitive bidding and the low direct foreign exchange
component of many projects with strong social impact. Hence, an
appreciable part of official external financing would have to be
mhde available to cover domestic expenditures if Brazil is to achieve
its growth targets.
7.        At the end of 1975, Brazil's public external debt reached
about US$f1 billion. The public debt service ratio for 1975 is
estimated at around 17%, which is in line with that of other coun-
tries at a similar stage of development. Brazil's total (public
and private) external debt reached about US$21.0 billion at the end
of 1975, of which about two-thirds, or US$14 billion, was in the form
of financial credits. The debt aervfice ratio during 1975 On this
total axternal debt was about 34%. However, it should be noted that
net foreign exchange reserves as of the end of October 1975 were
still large, about US$4.1 billion, equivalent to some four months
of the 1975 imports of goods and non-factor services. If an export
growth rate of around 17% per year in dollar terms (compared to 30%
in 1970-74) can be maintained over the 1975-80 period and if average
maturities on new financial credits gradually improve from six to
eight years, the public debt service ratio in 1980 can be exptected
to remain at the level prevailing in the 1969-73 period (about 17%).
The ratio for total public and private debt service would improve
somewhat. The large foreign exchange reserves accumulated over the
past several years ensure that Brazil will have the liquidity to
meet its debt service obligations in the short term, while the coun-
try's record of high caliber financial management provides grounds
for confidence in the maintenance of creditworthinesis over the longer
run.
8.        There has been a remarkable broadening andt deepening of the
country's productive base and of its infrastructure in recent years,
as well as a considerable strengthening of its exteinal sector. How-
ever, despite its recent growth and vast potential, Brazil is still a



country with a very unequal distribution of income and extensive
absolute poverty. The present Government acknowledges the gravity
of the country's income distribution problem and accepts the respon-
sibility for its alleviation. While like the previous Government it
believes that a high rate of growth is necessary to increase the in-
comes of the poor, it does not believe that the "trickle down" effects
of rapid growth are enough and is shaping a new positive policy which
could be labeled as "redistribution along with growth". To this end,
in addition to pursuing some of the social programs initiated by its
predecessor, the Government is also worling on new measures for im-
proving income distribution.  These can be classified into three
broad areas: (a) regional development; (b) provision of social ser-
vices; and (c) wage policy. In addition, recent tax changes have
tended to have a favorable, although marginal, impact on income dis-
tribution.
9.       To promote regional development, the Government has formulated
a program known as POLONORDESTE for rural development in the Northeast
which envisages investment expenditures of about US$2.5 billion during
1975-79. This program is designed to raise the productivity and in-
comes of small farmers through, inter alia, formulation and execution
of integrated rural development projects, which are likely in some
cases to include changes in land tenure. The recently approved Rio
Grande do Norte project is one of the first under POLONORDESTE, and
the Government intends to present additional similar projects for Bank
consideration in the future. Active consideration is being given to a
major modification in the state value added tax system to redistribute
fiscal resources from the richer to the poorer states, in order to give
the latter the fiscal resources which they badly need to accelerate
social programs, particularly in education. In the area of social ser-
vices, the Government has created a new Ministry of Social Security in
order to consolidate its social benefit programs and to extend these
programs to a larger share of the population. It recently introduced
a change in the Social Integration Program (PIS, a social security
fund) amounting to the introduction of a negative income tax for the
lowest paid workers covered by PTS by entitling these workers, with
incomes presently between about US$60 and US$300 monthly, to withdraw
once a year up to one month's minimum wage (about US$60) from their
PIS accounts. The Government is also planning to strengthen the nu-
trition program which, under the previous Government, got off to a
poor start.  Greater emphasis is being given by BNH (the National
Housing Bank) to low-income housing, whose beneficiaries will enjoy
better financial terms than in tho past. BNH is also developing a
site and services program to reach parts of the population even lower
down the income scale. In agriculture, the recently reorganized rural
extension agency (EMBRATER) will expand and strengthen its activities
directed specifically toward the small-scale farmer; and the newly
established federal agriculture researchi institution (EMBRAPA) is re-
defining its program to include a selection of crops and farm systems
which will ensure that small-scale farms benefit from research efforts.



- 5 -
Overall, the Government's recently approved public investment program
for 1975-77 gives high priority to education, health, agriculture and
regional development, which account for about 30% of total public in-
vestment. Finally, the Government intends to use wage policy to improve
income distribution. It has already revised the formula governing the
adjustment of the union wage scale and has introduced an 8-10% increase
in the real minimum wage.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
Bank Operations
10.      By November 30, 1975, the Bank had approved 57 loans for Brazil
amounting to US$2,4ll.2 million, of which 34 had not been fully disbursed.
During FY65-69, disbursements averaged only US$10 million per year, in-
creasing to an average of US$136 million per year during FY70-74, reaching
US$225 million in FY7M, and US$248 million in FY75.   Disbursements will
continue to increase during the next few years. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans as of November 30, 1975 and notes on
the execution of ongoing projects.
11.       Bank lending to Brazil was very active in FY72, when seven
loans were approved totalling US$437 million, incLuding three loans
totalling US$192 million for the Stage II expansion of the steel in-
dustry. In FY73, six loans amounting to US$187.7 million; in FY74,
three loans totalling US$242 million; and in FY75, five loans totalling
US$426.5 million were approved.   So far in FY76, Loans of US$60 million
for the COSIPA Stage III steel expansion program, of US$75 million for
the FEPASA railway rehabilitation and expansion program and of US$12.0
million for the Rio Grande do Norte rural developmnent project have been
approved. A loan of US$85.0 million for a development banking project
for small and medium industries will also be presented to the Executive
Directors shortly. We are working actively with the Brazilians on
the preparation of an agricultural research program, a nutrition project, a
second agro-industries project, an ammonia/urea fertilizer project, a proj-
ect in support of the establishment of a non-flat steel enterprise, elec-
tric power transmission and distribution projects in the Northeast and in
the State of Parana, and a rural development project in the State of
Minas Gerais.
12.     Brazil's external public debt outstanding and disbursed at the end
of 1974 totalled US$9.1 billion, and of this amount the Bank held 9.6%.   The
Bank's share of the service on this debt was about 4.3%. If present trends
continue as expected, the Bank's share in total external public debt out-
standing would increase to 12% by 1980. The Bank's share of public debt
service would rise to about 6% while its share of Brazil's total (public
and private) external debt service would remain at the present level of
2.7%.



13.     LC has committed mnore financial. resources to Brazil than to
any other country. Since 1957, IFC has made 27 commitments to Brazil,
totalling US$262.9 million, of which US$32.5 million has been cancelled,
US$19.4 million repaid and US$126.9 million sold. Of the balance of
US$84.1 million, US$61.7 million represents loans and US$22.4 million
equity. A summary of IFC's investments up to November 30, 1975 is
given in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
lb.      In its lending to Brazil, the Bank has sought to help the
Government achieve a number of important development objectives, which
are interdependent and complementary. One of these objectives is to
support the growing effort of the Government to identify and develop
projects designed to increase productivity and incomes of the lowest
income segments of the popul&tion, to broaden the economic opportunities
open to those groups and to alleviate poverty. The proposed secondary
and feeder roads project would improve the access of rural communities
to services provided by government agencies and private entities, in-
cluding education, health, veterinary services, agricultural extension,
marketing cooperatives, credit and agricultural inputs. The project is
also expected to have a positive impact on increasing agricultural pro-
duction and productivity. A development banking project, which will
be presented shortly, will, by focusing on small and medium industries,
give special support to a segment of the industrial sector that has sig-
nificant labor absorption prospects and should result in the creation
of a sizeable number of new jobs in many urban areas in the country.
The recently approved Lower Sao Francisco and Rio Grande do Norte rural
development projects were also designed to assist low-income groups.
Bank staff are making a partictlar effort to help Brazil develop addi-
tional integrated rural development projects to increase the producti-
vity of the small farmer in the Northeast, the poorest section of the
country, and we expect to present in the future an increasing number of
projects of this type. A project is in preparation to support agricul-
tural research in the Northeast (with emphasis on improving the tech-
nology available to small farmers) and to strengthen the federal mecha-
nism for coordinating and supervising agricultural research. We are
also actively associated with the preparation of new projects in the
fields of water supply and sewerage, site and services, nutrition and
rural education.
1.      A seconnd Bank lending ob.ljectdive in Brazil is to support insti-
tutional development and policy reforrm, designed inter alia to help
maximize public savings and ensure that they are used economicall.y.
This is an i.mportant objective of the proposed secondary and feeder
roads project whi.ch would improve the plenning, appraisal and selection
of rural roads both at the state and national level, thus helping secure
a rational allocation of scarce i.nvestment resources. This objective is
also a central part of the proposed development banking project which
will assist in improving the project appraisal and selection ability of



- 7 -
22 state and regional development banks, and provide assistance to
small and medium industries which have been hindered by difficult
access to term financing. The institution-building objective has
also been important in our assistance to the transportation sector,
where emphasis has been given to the rational selection of invest-
ments, the strengthening of railway operations and the improvement
of financial performance.
16.      Another important lending objective for the Bank has been to
help Brazil ease the foreign exchange constraint on1 its development,
a constraint that has become more critical since thle increase in pe-
troleum prices, by supporting projects designed to increase Brazil's
exoort capacity and, where economical, to substitute domestic produc-
tion for imports. Much of the investment in the transport sector --
railways, ports and highways, including the proposed secondary and
feeder roads project -- is designed to facilitate the smooth and eco-
nomical flow of exports. The balance of payments would also be aided
by an urea/ammonia fertilizer project and an agro-industries program
both now under preparation. The former would have a direct import
substitution effect and the latter is oriented toward exports to sup-
ply major quantities of foodstuffs to the rest of the world. Also,
support of the steel expansion program is helping Brazil develop output
of a commodity which can be produced efficiently in Brazil owing to the
country's bountiful supply of high grade iron ore and the scale of its
internal markets.
17.      A final objective which applies to all Bank lending to Brazil
is to provide part of the very large volume of medium- and long-term
capital inflows that Brazil has needed, and will continue to need for
some years, in order to sustain rapid growth and achieve its employment
creation and regional development objectives. In sectors such as elec-
tric power and steel, the Bank's participation has helped Brazil obtain
additional bilateral resources in greater amounts and on more favorable
terms.
PART III - TRANSPORT AND AGRICULTURE IN BRAZIL
Bank Participation in the Transport Sector
18.      Excluding a small maintenance project in 1953, the proposed
secondary and feeder roads project would be the sixth Bank-financed
project in the highway subsector of Brazil. The first four, which
were mainly for highway construction, were based on a National Trans-
port Survey carried out during 1965-70 with partial Bank financing.
The fifth highway project contained both highway construction and
substantial maintenance elements. The first two projects are now
complete, and the other three, although slightly delayed, are pro-
gressing satisfactorily. Bank-financed highway projects in Brazil
have been, overall, highly successful, and have contributed substan-
tially toward improving both the highway network and the highway



- 8 -
organizations of the country.   The proposed loan would differ from
previous Bank lending for highways in that it would be a line of
credit to a national financial institution (BNDE) to assist it to
finance a program of subloans for rural roads to be selected accord-
ing to agreed criteria. During the past decade, the Bank has also
made one port loan and three railway loans.
Transport Traffic and Investments
19.      The large area and difficult natural terrain of Brazil, to-
gether with an abundance of agricultural land and mineral resources,
nave made transportation a particularly crucial element in the develoo-
ment of the economy. At present, the main transport flows in the
country are the very large movements of agricultural and industrial
products and iron ore within the triangle formed by the cities of Sao
Paualo, Rio de Janeiro and Belo horizonte.  Inter-city freight movement
grew at an average annual rate of 10% between 1960 and 1972, when it
reached an estimated total of 208 billion ton-km. Of this, 73% was by
road, 16% by rail, 11% by coastal shipping and a negligible amount by
air. Inter-city passenger transport grew at an average annual rate of
12% over the same period, and in 1972 totalled roughly 150 billion
passenger-km, of which 95% was by road, 3% by rail and 2% by air.
20.      In recent years, federal investments in the transport sector
of the country increased rapidly, reaching about US$2 billion in 1974,
or over 20% of total public gross fixed investment.   About 50% of these
transport investments were for federal highways, with railways account-
ing for only about 20%. Since the increase in petrcleum prices that
took place in 1973, the composition of the investment program has been
modified, with relatively more emphasis being placed on railways.
Tne Highway Subsector
21.      Tn 1972, the total highway system of Brazil comprised 1,26o0,oo
km of roads, of which 60,000 km were federal roads, 1h5,000 km were state
roads and the remaining 1,055,0G() km were municipal (county).   Almost 50%
of the federal roads and 20% of the state roads are paved.    The municipal
road system, of which 99.8% is unpaved, consists mostly of rural earth
roads and tracks, which are frequently passable only by four-wheel drive
vehicles and at times become impassable, particularly in the rainy sea-
son. Less than 10% of this rural road network is in relatively good
condition.
22.      The Federal Government has been investing heavily to improve
and expand the primary highway network, which connects the country's
major urban centers. This system is now fairly well developed, espe-
cially in the southern and center-east regions. On the other hand,
much more needs to be done to develop an adequate rural road network
to extend the benefits of the primary system to important, or poten-
tially important, agricultural areas.   The proposed project would support



the Government's effort to redress this imbalance, and would enhance
the benefits of the substantial investments alreadly made in main high-
ways in Brazil.
Agricultural Development
23.      After a period of Brazil's development during which the primary
emphasis was on industrialization, the Government is now giving consider-
able attention to the modernization of agriculturEal production and mar-
keting, and the expansion of the frontier of cultivation. With almost
50% of the population engaged in activities related to agriculture, a
balanced and equitable development process requires steady increases in
agricultural production and productivity. The present Government, which
assumed office in March 1974, has reformulated agricultural policy. On
the one hand, it has established a goal of a 4O% real increase in agri-
cultural output for the 1975-79 period, with the aim of making Brazil
one of the foremost producers and exporters of foodstuffs. On the other
hand, it has initiated programs to improve small farmers' productivity
to help ensure a more balanced and equitable development process. Brazil
has the potential for sustaining relatively high long-term growth in
agriculture. It is one of the few countries in the world that still
have available abundant virgin lands as well as large areas under cul-
tivation with the potential to achieve large increases in productivity
with the wider use of modern techniques and improved inputs.
2L.      In order to reach the goal of increased agricultural production,
Brazil needs new and improved rural roads, both for new areas being
brought into cultivation and for increasing the productivity of already
cultivated land. In both categories, much of this land already lies
within the zone of influence of existing primary highways. To be sure,
in many cases the absence of secondary and feeder roads is by no means
the only bottleneck limiting the expansion of prodiction. In many
instances other complementary services or investments -- such as agri-
cultural credit, extension services, storage facili.ties, distribution
centers, etc. -- will also have to be provided if agricultural develop-
ment, is to take place. The Government is therefore pursuing an inte-
grated approach to agricultural development, principally in those areas
where economic activity is now relatively less developed, and is making
a particular effort to prepare integrated rural development programs.
One such program for the Northeast, POLONORDESTE, envisages investment
expenditures of about US$2.5 billi.on duri.ng the next five years (para-
graph 9), including substantial sums for rural roads. To the extent
that investments under ENDE's feeder roads program are located in the
Northeast, they would be coordinated with the POLOI4ORDESTE program.
More recently, the POLOCENTRO and POLAMAZONIA programs have been created
for the Center-West and Northwest and are expected to result in a signi-
ficant increase in the area under cultivation.
2'.      In recent years, the Government has been gradually strengthening
other agricultural services.  Since 1.965, with the creation of the National
System of Rural Credit -- which incluzdes the Central Bank, Banco do Brasil
and the regional development banks -- agricultural credit has increased
from about 26% of net agricultural domestic product in 1966 to over 50%



- 10 -
in 1972. There does not appear to be a shortage of credit for agricul-
ture in any geographical region of the courtry, except for small farmers
unable to meet minimum credit standards under existing programs. The
Government is now trying to overcome this problem through special pro-
grams such as POLONORDESTE.  Agricultural extension services are also
being provided more adequately than in the past. The recently reorga-
nized rural extension agency (EMBRATER) is planning to develop a new
program, allocating additional resources and staff, to help the state
affiliates create or strengthen their technical programs. EMBRATER's
activities will be supported by the newly established federal agricul-
ture research institution (EMBRAPA), which is preparing a series of
crop-oriented research programs. EMBRAPA has requested Bank financing
for its programs in the Northeast, Amazonia and the Center-West. The
Federal Government is also taking steps to improve the food marketing
infrastructure of the country, and the expansion of the national net-
work of wholesale and mixed wholesale/retail markets in the urban cen-
ters and assembly markets in the major interior collection points is
one of the spheres for government action identified in the present
National Development Plan. Under that plan, the capacity of food
warehousing facilities would expand by 22% between 1975 and 1979.
Planning and Coordination for Rural Roads
26.      Despite thc fact that rural roads account for by far the
largest proportion of the ecisting road network, they received little
national attention until recently, since the Federal Government had
concentrated its attention on the primary networks. A national policy
toward rural roads started only in 1967 when BNDE, in agreement with
the National Highways Department, (DNER), established the "Programa
Nacional de Estradas Vicinais" (National Program of Rural Roads).
RNDE and DNER are well staffed and have extended their expertise to
state and local agencies to aid in the preparation and execution of
rural road projects. This program received financial assistance from
USAID. Also in recent years, the creation of municipal consortia for
the construction of rural roads has helped improve the rural transport
system, and has provided the basis for technical assistance to munici-
palities from government agencies. These schemes are designed to re-
solve some crucial problems which have hand:icapped rural road construc-
tion in the past. One is the lack of agencies at the municipal level
which are competent in the technical and financial planning and in the
supervision of construction of rural road projects.   Another problem
has been the severe inadequacy of funds available for road construction
and maintenance at the municipal level. Locally generated funds have
been scarce, and transfers from the National Road Fund (Fundo Rodoviario)
have been insufficient.  Still another problem has been the distribution
of road funds in accordance with non-economic considerations.   The pro-
posed project is expected to reinforce the Government's efforts to re-
solve these problems.



- 11 -
PART IV - TIE PROJECT
27.      A report, entitled t"Appraisal of a SecondEary and Feeder Roads
Projectll (993-BR, dated January 21, 1976), is being circulated separately
to the Executive Directors. The main features of the project are sunma-
rized in Annex III hereto. The =roject was apprai:;ed by a Bank mission
that visited Brazil in July 1575. Negotiations took place in Wdashington
in December 1975, with a Brazilian delegation led by h4r. Agilberto Pires,
General Counsel of BNDE.
Project Description
28.      The proposed project would consist of (a) a program of construc-
tion, rehabilitation or improvement of secondary and feeder roads linking
existing agricultural areas to federal and state primary highway networks,
and the construction, under certain conditions, of penetration roads into
new areas with good economic and agricultural prospects; and (b) consulting
services for engineering studies and subproject supervision. The project
would be financed by a line of credit extended through the Government to
BTIE for onlending to state highway departments and municipal consortia
for subprojects to be selected according to agreed criteria. The National
Hi oI-way Department (DNE.R) would provide assistance in the technical evalu-
ation of proposals. The proposed project would encompass BNDE's total
prcgram of lending for feeder roads for the. 1976-79 period.
29.       In connection with the proposed project, the Federal Government
would undertake a stucty, under terms of reference Eatisfactory to the
Bank, of the contribution of rural roads to economic and social develop-
ment in their areas of influence. The study would involve the monitoring
and evaluation through surveys carried out periodically over a period of
not less than five years of economic and social activity on a sample of
roads. The results would help to improve the selection, planning and
appraisal of rural roads by identifying the most relevant factors that
should be considered in the analysis (see Section 4.02 of the draft Loan
Agreement). The study would be financed entirely by the Government.
Panco Nacional do Desenvolvimento Economico
30.      History and Objectives.  BNDE was created in 1952 as a federal
agency to support the Government's efforts to develop key sectors
of the economy. In 1971, it was transformed into a Government-owned
public enterprise, being granted greater financial and administrative
autonony, under the Secretariat of Planning of the Presidency of the
Republic.  BNDE has become the Government's most imoortant financial
instrument for assisting economic development. In 1974, its operations



- 12 -
accounted for about 7.5% of Brazil's total gross capital formation com-
pared to 3.h% in 1970; about 68% of BNDE's lending was directed to man-
ufacturing industries (of which about two-thirds to basic industries),
24% to transport and public utilities and 5% to agriculture and agro-
industries. BNDE's plan of operations is closely identified with the
priorities and objectives outlined in the Federal Government's own
development plan.
31.      Management and. Staff.  BNDE's higher management consists of an
Administrative Council and a Board of Managing Directors, headed by the
President. The Administrative Council is composed of representatives
of the Ministries of Finance, Industry and Mines, the Secretariat of
Planning and representatives of industry. Ordinarily, the Council
meets four times a year to discuss and approve the Bank's overall
policies and programs, including its investment budget and financial
statements. Directors are appointed for a four-year term by the
President of the Republic. All are competent and experienced profes-
sionals. The President of BNDE is currently in his second term and
has proven to be a particularly able and competent administrator.
32.      BNDE's Operations.  BNDE's resources, as of December 31, 1974,
amounted to about U   l.] billion equivalent and consisted of its equity,
US$2.1 billion equivalent; domestic borrowings, 1lS$1.5 billion equiva-
lent; some foreign borrowings, IJS$0.4 billion equivalent; and a small
amount of short-term deposits belonging to clients. Funds from the
Government's retirement programs for private and public employees (PIS
and PASEP) are, and will continue to be, the mainstay of the bank's
resources; BNDE forecasts receiving about US$1.3 bi.llion during 1975
from these programs, increasing to around US$2.0 bi.llion by 1978.
Other sources of fumds include yearly government budgetary grants,
which eventually are incorporated into capital, a share in the national
tax on financial transactions and special borrowing agreements with the
Central Bank and other official financial institutions. Practically all
of BNDE's domestic borrowings carry monetary correction (i.e., their
principal amount is ad,justed in proportion to general price movements
in the economv).  13NDE's loans also carry monetary correction, with
interest rates differentiated according to the needs and priorities
assigned by BNDF to merticular regions, sectors or activities.
33.      In recent yearo there has been a dramatic increase in BNDE's
overall operations, reflecting both the increase in its resource base
and substantial demand for financing. BNDE's total commitments i.n
reaL terms increased threefold between 1972 and 197)i, reaching US$2.5
billion in 174. BNDE's total commitments are projected to increase
about 15% annually in real terms between 197)4-78, to US$5.9 billion
in 1978. Basic industries (steel, fertilizer, etc.) would absorb about
one-third of the projected lendinlg, capital goods one-fourth, infra-
structure (including transport) one-twelfth and onlending through in-
t.ermediaries, primarily for small and medium industries, one-fourth.



- 13 -
3L.       BNDE's Portfolio and Financial Performance. As of December 31,
1974, BNDE's loan portfolio amounted to US$3.1 billion equivalent. BNDE's
arrears over three months amounted to 2.6% of the total loan and guarantee
portfolio, an improvement over previous years. Provisions fDr doubtful
debts are satisfactory. BNDE's capital structure is also sound with very
low financial leverage. Its total debt/equity ratio at year-end 1974
amounted to 1.16:1.  This should allow the institution considerable room
to undertake its ambitious operational expansion. ENDE has a competent
internal auditing department which, apart from verifying financial state-
ments, prepares management reports on the operations and financial condi-
tion of the institution. In addition, BNDE is audited annually by govern-
ment auditors and by Arthur Young, Clarkson and Gorcdon, a qualified firm
of public accountants.
35.      BNDE's Lending to the Transport Sector. BE'DE's involvement in
transport financing has been important. In 197L, MEDE and its subsidiary,
FINAME, invested Cr$3.9 billion (US$500 million) in the sector, nearly
20% of their total lending that year, and nearly a f'ivefold increase over
the previouis year. A major part of this increase iE in railway investment,
which is in line with the priorities of the current national transportation
policy. BMDE's support to RFFSA (Federal Railways) and FEPASA (Sao Paulo
State Railways) has helped finance the construction and remodeling of vital
lines and ther rehabilitation and modernization of rolling stock and has
complemented loans made by the Bank (BR-1074 and BR-1171). BNDE's involve-
ment in the highway subsector has mainly been with states and municipalities,
on the financing of rural roads. The total cost of rural road works financed
by BNDE since 1970 amounted to about US$220 million, of which BNDE's partici-
pation was cdose to US$130 million. Nearly 15,000 km of roads have been con-
structed by states and municipal consortia, with BNDE and, in part, USAID
financing.
The National Highjays Department (DNER)
36.       DNER, an autonomous agency under the Ministry of Transport,
administers the federal highway network and has been the Government's
executing agency for five highway loans made by the Bank since 1968.
DNER is well managed and operates efficiently.   Its executive head is the
Director-General, appointed by the President of Brazil. He is assisted
by the Deputy Director-General and several staff officers for such
matters as financial audit, security and informatiorn, systems control
and bidding procedures. DNER's operations are carried out by nine
deFartments, eight headed by a Director and one by an Attorney-General,
all nine appointed by the Director-General. DNER conducts its activities
through 20 district offices (one in each state except Acre); roads in the
four federal territories are administered by DNER offices in neighboring
states.  DNER derives its funds mainly from road-user taxes, and admin-
isters a National Highway Fund, part of the resources of which are used
by DNER itself and part passed on to states and municipalities.
The Sub-Borrowers
37.       The State Highway Departments.   Each of Brazil's 21 states has
a state highway department (DER) responsible for the construction and
maintenance of the state highway network and for all technical services



- IL -
connected therewith.  In addition, the DER's cooperate with state planning
agencies to prepare state highway plans, to regulate public transportation
services. to nolice the use of state highways and. at times, to assume
responsibility for the construction, maintenance and policing of municipal
roads.  In the last few years, DNEF. has also delegated the maintenance of
some federal roads to the DER's in nine states, and programs for delegation
o^ maintenance of all federal roads are under way, with Bank financing
(1075-BR) in two states (Rio Grande do SUl and Minas Gerais).
38.      The DER's are responsible to the state secretariats of transpor-
tation, with the exception of a few autonomous DER's which report directly
to the state governor.  Financially, the DER's are dependent upon annual
allotments from the state budgets and the National Highway Fund. The pro-
ceeds from the National Hlighway Fund are apportioned to the states on the
basis of their fuel consumption, population and area.
39.      Municipal Consortia.  Because of the limited technical and fi-
nancial resources of individual municipalities, several states have en-
couraged the formation of municipal consortia or other special agencies
to plan, construct and maintain local municipal roads.  These consortia
and special agencies are incorporated as companies by state law. Their
primary purpose is the construction of an integrated municipal road
system and proper maintenance of completed roads. In most cases, the
state and the participating municipalities hold 51% or more of the
shares, and the rest is held by private or other public investors.
Typically, a consortium is administered by a Board of Directors, elected
by representatives of the shareholders. Normally, the consortia work
with their mumicipalities on planning and engineering a project, and
setting maintenance standards. They also award and manage the construc-
tion contracts. In most cases, the consortia work very closely with the
state DER's. Since the organization and strength of individual consortia
vary, BNDE would carry out an in-depth analysis of each consortium to be
assisted under the project, at the time of subloan appraisal.
The Subprojects
ilO.     Siubpro;ect Eligibilitv.  A typical subproject would consist of
a package of about 350 km of rural roads, costing about TJS$7,000,000.
The works proposed on these roads would be required to be part of a
state highway plan, or of a state, regional or sectoral development
program. If the work were not part of any of these plans or programs,
an opinion of the state planninv department regarding the compatibility
of the road with state development programs would be required. These
measures would help ensure that any other complementary factors neces-
sary to bring development in the areas to be served by the roads would
be present, planned for execution or induced by the program. To be
eligible, subproject.s would consist of roads having a maximum average
traffic of 200 vehicles per day (to distinguish them from major traffic
arteries) and would have to attain a minimum economic rate of return of
10% (see Section 2.06 of the draft Project Agreement).



- 15 -
141.     Suibproject Preparation.  Sub-borrowers would be responsible for
the preparation of subprojects. ADplications for financing would be sup-
ported by technical and economic studies of the proposed road works as
well as detailed information on the financial position of the sub-borrowers
and their capacity to plan, supervise construction and maintain the roads.
The preparation of this informatior. would be facilitated by the guidelines
contained in a "Manual for Applicarts", which has already been agreed upon
by Bank, BNDE and DNER staff, and which would be provided to all prospec-
tive sub-borrowers (see Section 2.02 of the draft Project Agreement).
42.      Subproject Evaluation.  In conjunction with this project, a
special effort was made to improve the methodology for economic analysis
of rural roads, both at the state level and by BNDE and DNER. The pro-
posed methodology is outlined in the Manual for Applicants. At the same
time the staffs of BNDE and DNER would be strengthened to enable them to
carry out this economic analysis effectively. Economic justification
would be determined on the basis of vehicle operatizg cost savings and/or
net value added of new agricultural production, depending on the character-
istics of the area in which the subproject would be located. To obtain an
estimate of the expected net value added of production, the analysis would
include a thorough examination of the agricultural prospects of the area
of influence of the roads, estimates of acreage that. would be put into
production, yields, farm-gate prices, production costs, transportation
costs, etc. It would be the sub-borrowers' responsibility to develop
the necessary information and analysis. It is expected that many of them
would engage consultants to help in the analysis. The methodology for
economic evaluation of rural roads is expected to be improved even further
over time, as BNDE and DNER gain experience with the project. Any sub-
stantial change, however, would have to be agreed upon by the Bank, BNDE and
DNER (see Section 2.02 of the draft Project Agreement).
43.       Subproject Review and Approval.   The Bank would delegate to
BNDE extensive subproject approval authority, but would retain the right
to review and approve a representative sample of subprojects, namely,
(i) the first subproject to be submitted by each sub-borrower except for
six of the most experienced DER's (Minas Gerais, Parana, Rio de Janeiro,
Rio Grande do Sul, Santa Catarina and Sao Paulo); (ii) the first subproject
to be submitted by each sub-borrower under any new method of subproject
evaluation that may be agreed by the Bank, BNDE and DNER; and (iii) all
subprojects with Bank participation of US$2.5 million or more. On this
basis, it is expected that the Bank would review for approval some 12-1h
of the 3040 expected subprojects. BNDE would be responsible for the over-
all review of subprojects, and would be assisted by DNER in the technical
analysis. 3NDE's working group for secondary and feeder roads would be at
least doubled, to consist of two economists, five eng-ineers, one lawyer
and one financial analyst or accountant. 21ER would create two working
groups for the program, one within its Directorate of Planning to analyze
applications, the other within its Directorate of Construction to super-
vise the execution of the civil works (see Sections :1.02 and 6.01(c) of
the draft Loan Agreement and Section 2.03 of the draft Project Agreement).



- 16 -
44.       Subproject Execution.   Once an application has been approved,
the sub-borrower would proceed to have final engineering carried out.
If the estimated subproject cost based on final engineering were to
exceed the estimated cost (based on pre-engineering studies) used in the
application by more than 20%, a revised subproject evaluation based on the
updated cost would be required. Otherwise, the sub-borrower would pro-
ceed with execution of the subproject.
45.       Subproject Supervision. Responsibility for the supervision of
civil works would rest with sub-borrowers. Their capacity to carry out
this task would be assessed at an early stage in the process of reviewing
applications. If in the opinion of BNDE (upon DNER's advise), the sub-
borrower has the capacity to supervise the contractors' work using their
own staff, this would be permitted but not financed under the project.
Many sub-borrowers, however, may need to hire consultants for this task.
If so, the cost of this service would be eligible for financing under the
project. BNDE and DNER would also follow the progress of subprojects to
ensure that all aspects, particularly the technical standards of construc-
tion, are carried out in a satisfactory manner. BNDE would send quarterly
progress reports to the Bank (see Section 2.o5 of the draft Project Agree-
ment).
46.       Costs and Financing. The cost of the project is expected to
amount to US$237million equivalent and would be jointly financed by the
Bank, BNDE, DNER and the sub-borrowers as follows: the Bank, US$55 million
(23.2%); BNDE, US$55 million (23.2%); DNER, US$32 million (13.5%); the
sub-borrowers, US$95 million (40.1%). DNER's contribution would be in the
form of a grant. The foreign exchange content of the proposed feeder roads
investment is estimated to be 24% of its total cost. The Bank's loan would
be slightly less than this proportion.
Terms of the Proposed Loan and Subloans
47.       The proposed Bank loan would be made to the Government of Brazil
which would make available the proceeds of the loan to BNDE on the same
financial terms and conditions as the proposed Bank loan (see Section 3.01(b)
of the draft Loan Agreement), and BNDE would assume the foreign exchange
risks. BNDE would relend the proceeds of the loan to state highway
departments and municipal consortia. Subloans would be denominated
in cruzeiros with the principal subject to full monetary correction,
under the system prevailing in Brazil by which outstanding principal is
adjusted periodically in accordance with monetary correction coefficients
established by the Ministry of Planning on the basis of past rates of domes-
tic inflation. Interest rates to the beneficiaries would vary by region:
North and Northeast, 4% per annum; Center-South, 5% per annum; and the
State of Sao Paulo, 7% per annum. BNDE's spread on its relending opera-
tions under the project would be satisfactory, since the rate of monetary
correction on sums due to BNDE on cruzeiro subloans is expected to be higher
than the rate of depreciation of the cruzeiro, which would determine the
amount of local currency needed to purchase foreign currencies to service



- 17 -
the Bank's loan. Subloans would be made available for a period of 10 to
12 years, including 2 to 2! years of grace (depending on the expected
construction period for a particular subproject). (See Schedule 1 to the
draft Project Agreement.)  Since the funds under the project are expected
to be committed over three years, and given the maturity of subloans, it
is proposed that the Bank loan have a 16-year maturity including 5 years
of grace.
48.       Disbursements. The Bank would make reimbursements to BNDE
against applications supported by certificates and relevant documentation
presented periodically by BNDE showing the amounts it had disbursed to
sub-borrowers. The Bank would reimburse BNDE 50% of such amounts repre-
senting the Bank's share of the total financing (see paragraph 28).
49,       Procurement. Procurement of civil works would follow the Govern-
ment's competitive bidding procedures, with local advertising. Although
these procedures would allow foreign contractors to bid, it is expected
that most, if not all, of the civil works would be contracted to local
firms. The roads under the project would be of relatively low cost and
would be scattered over several areas and states so that foreign firms
are not likely to be interested. The construction industry in Brazil is
well developed and competitive and reasonable prices can be expected.
Furthermore, DNER would carry out a preliminary assessment of the technical
and financial capacity of the road construction industry serving the state
of an applicant in order to ensure that the size and scope of subprojects
are compatible with such capacity (see Section 3.03 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
Benefits and Justification
50.       As indicated in paragraphs 23-25, the proposed project would
have a positive impact on agricultural production. Improved access from
rural areas and commnunities to the rest of the country would contribute
to agricultural development by (i) reducing operating costs and achieving
economies of scale resulting from the use of heavier vehicles, with the
cost savings being transmitted principally to produzers and consumers;
(ii) reducing risk and uncertainty to famners by providing more reliable
all-weather access to markets, storage and processing facilities, and by
allowing farmers to shift production to some perishable products when
demand and supply conditions are appropriate; and (iii) facilitating
access to essential farm inputs such as fertilizers, seeds, insecticides
and to Government credit and extension programs for the agricultural
sectcr. The proposed roads would also produce significant benefits from
road user savings accruing to existing traffic.
51-       Another major benefit from the project would be better access
of isolated communities to social, health and education programs. In
addition, the project would have significant institution-building aspects
arising from improvements in the planning, appraisal and selection of
rural roads both at the state level and by BNDE and DNER. Furthermore,
the project would encourage the formation of municipal consortia, which
prcvide the institutional framework for individual communities to pool
their financial and managerial resources to make investments with impor-
tant local economic benefits.



- 18 -
52.       Since the subprojects have not yet been selected, the economic
rate of return for the project cannot be calculated. As previously noted
(paragraph 40), an economic rate of return of at least 10% would be
required for all subprojects. Under the previous BNDE-USAID program for
rural roads, which was the forerunner of the proposed project (see para-
graphs 26 and 35), subprojects yielded economic rates of return between
10% and 40%, while the weighted average economic rate of return was about
25%.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
53.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Federative Republic of
Brazil and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and
BNDE, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement and the text of a draft resolution
approving the proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. The major features of the draft Loan and Project
Agreements are described in paragraphs 29, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44 and 45 of
this report. Special conditions of effectiveness are that (i) the
Government has made arrangements to make the proceeds of the loan avail-
able to BNDE; (ii) BNDE has entered into an agreement with DNER for the
provision by DNER of technical assistance and the equivalent of US$32,000,000
to be passed on by BNDE to the beneficiaries; and (iii) the working groups
at BNDE and DNER have been adequately staffed.
54.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
55.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
January 21, 1976



6 F                                 8 9,2
M11 g,lt
ml
U1
14 'A 14 14
-tkl -z"Izl     I
I-] A
'A 2 2             IR  9:3    P'2                                                        Is
rq"' S     8dt                   2f z
'Sm
pj          0
13z                                                              .9
9       .1    J,
.91         -*-4
Is
-5s.
OEE
iil HI          -P"         .5 4 N .9
A. A
PI all
in n
M 2
;I
F   S         H   5       2  1 i         1   .1               . i   t
44 It It        a     I                                      2
it                           P - - a  ml -
A            4                                        A    ;'N



E081091C DEVEL00P09T DATA                                                            Page 2 of 3
(In milion    of U.S. dollars)
At1      Est mated     Trolsond           A-nosa   dAn-a  Costh Kate.            As   -otet of 0G
---   fWr--1-77     -0-74       i       1980     1970-74     1974-76     17-0         17          94        18
84TI892.400810S ft                           OA-ots to 1973 poice. and sobsno       rates
Crone dainnstto prodoot      ~~~62,710  69,600   77,891    85,369    00,357    121.700       11.0        4.2          7.        106 100.6      100      .
atafro    tstottd(+                    609     -5998       -       - 469     -965       - 8190       .                                 06        -.        -0.7;
Cross. d-    ietl  ioom                 60,101   69,010    77,891    84,900   105,278    120,881       11.0         3.7         7.1       100.0      100.0     100.0
Impors(oo.NS                             5,19     6,357      7,5977  10,073     0,183     10,164      24.0        -5.6          5.67        7.6       11.9       9.3
loporta (t,sportoapootty)     ~4,098    5,219     6,596     5,987     6,705     10,784      00.2        10.2        10.6          7.2        71       8.9
R0005ga                                  1,101     1,139       981    4,086     2,478        4800                                           0.4       4.8        0.4
Coosopolo                               50,4357  54,547    61,5129   6657      6900        1,6         07           3.0         6.5        82.22      79.4      75.8
Ionsso,seot                  ~~~~~~~~12.765  15,602 1,3    22,408   '20.'910    29,775      2.0          0.5          7.1        18.2       2.4       24.6
0onseo1o~~~~~ooIoea ~~11,664            14,463   16,362    18,322    16,4302    20,295      16.4          6.7         9.9        17.8       21.6      04.7
Natloosl teologa             ~~~~~11,078  03,784  13,655   17,722    07,402     27.933      17.0          5.8         9.0        16.9       20.9      23.1
ME0CHANDISE TRADE                                   mA-n    darn no -oro     .r.n                                                           As oost of-tota
C,sptfsl goodo                         1,241    1,734     2,1431    3.108     3,509      7,522      31.71       14.3        16.7       42.0        24.0      36.1
Iotoedi-t     goods (no.fos)           1210     1,451     2,23      5,09      4,636      7,43       57.0        -5.4        12.6       35.2        40 .6     35.3
Poole and relnood nancrlals   316       449       727     2,812     3,072     4,344      63.0          5.6         9.3        9.4        22.0      30.9
of oblolr  Petoolsan       ~   ~~~251  344       605    2,495     2,6050     3,11       71.0         4.3          8.1        4.9        19.9      17.0
oosomp/lon goods                         478       598    1,089     151       1221       1,10       42.        -1_I1.0        6.7      15.          12.1       7.7
Tota   soooole       oors(fb           3,245    4,230     4,192    12,530    12,448     20,819      50.0         1.9        12.5      100.0       1o00.0    10.0
PrImary prodooto (cool, fols           ,315     3,0631    4,718    5,6056    0,967     13,1,42     255.0       17.0        14.4       04.0         70.4     41.2
Pools sod rolst     motorits              19        36        2        65        70        001      55.0         7.4         7.7                     0.0      0.5
of ohio4;   Poorol-o                             16        16        30        30         40        .            .           .        0.4         0.4       0.2
So-foo-o-d 0oodo                         570      892     1,429     2,297     2,793      8,231      35.0        22.5        24.0        14.8        28.0      30.
To-a   ,s-h-adisoropo-o      (fob)     2,904    3,991     4,199     7,909     9,950     21,474      31.0        18.6         17.7     100.0       100.0     100.0
M-roheodip -c rdo iodioc                                       1973-100
opor   proo     ot67                               7       10d3                10          0       10.4         4.6         9.2
Isot     otsldot                          77       02       100       145       130        216      14.:3        0.9         4.4
Tono rd,dro                      97        89       100        93        00         93        .           .            .
topor   noosoldno                         71        80       100       96       113        172      10.0        13.7          0.6
0VA1U0 ADD02 BY StCTOR ftAos                         aaa      93oroe2doooo               c0                                                As parrt ofGDP
Agritaltoon                    8,850~~~~~~::I  9,205  9,535  10,346  10,790     03,9951      6.0         4.25         5.5       24.0        15.1      14.3
lodoetry sod oltiog          05,8~~~~~~75  19066  20,1776  22,400   23,222     32,805       12.0        4.2          7.7       32.7        320        3.
Sornio                                  25,0354   29,532   32,40     35,020    36,960     50,777      11.1          4.3         7.0       52.7        52.1      52.0
Tota~l                                  50,279    30,8 10   62,450   68,446     70,042    97,077       11.0         4.2         7.0      100.0       100 .0    100.0
PUBLIC F06000                               Atotl data no1973 optoe-      cod  -oha...  00-0-
CorrcIor-oept                          0,5169    7,346    0,629     9,707    tO,399     15,040      14.9          0.2         9.0        9.4        tt1.5     1,2.0
Corrooooopoodlloooo        3,053    ~~3,55    4,27      4,377     5,032      7:,107      0.0          9.1         6.         5.9         0.4       0.9
Oodgotoryasniog             2~~~~~3,615'  3,7501  4,402    5,9        ,367     0,433       29.0         3.5        11.0        3.5         0.        70
Other p..  i    ano                    3,393     3,66     4,32      5,25      6,34      0 0,510     155           9.         10.7        5.0         09        0.
ol it antto   flood lo-t-eno         4,40      0,31,0               ,67    t,4         5,19i       1'5.9        0.5         9..    0     0~8      11/4      12.4
SF1A01 0N PUBLIC 50EC00                 atM190   aoloo   and ER
INVESTMENT PROGRAM0                            1971-74  7. of Total
SootaI S-otoo                                 4,500         11.3
AtricoLtoon                                      190         0.5
fodo-ty aod Miloiog                           6,060         15.3
Pot-c                                          5,499        13.0
T...p...     dCosoooolo                        7,304        19.4
Sogiota   donolop=otc                          1,441         3.4
Color /3                                     i4!IN          30.0
To-o   nopo-di Ito                             9.797       20.0
FINANCING4
Poblite  -otoosano.go                      33,674         04.0
Po.olgo bo .r..Inoo(toO                    5,762         10.5
Do_ stir borrootog                             351         0.9
Total fO.... iog                           39,97P        100.
4830R F0RCE AND 003741 PEt 000000                      T-1nI.lbor too-                      Volao   addod p00 -or bo   1970 pobi-    4       -0-rso)
It  11ll.oo     %,o    oa           1960-/0        It 9.0, dollero         of --...O           1960-70
1960     1970     1960    1970     Gcoth   rote       1960       1970      1960     1970     Cotho oto
Agrion,J 10r12.2                                  03.      54.0    0~4.4          0.7           ..         402        .        3
Intty                                 30       53       3..0  5   0            .0I                   2,2 2 2               0
.-rnlt                                    7.4     11.1    52,0     3.            4.1                     1.70614
Total                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~22.6  29.5  100.0  100.0     3.1            -       1,220        .       100           -
not. ..oloblo
ftIThentoa          ro    odtar d        oniod    tSpte-ber 1974 to cooler      dot   obt-i-d it the 1970      -  -ool  GDP in 1970 has boo   -on-d op-oed
by olno-  207,, cooyIn t ho i nd_tola      setr       onl Ions o- f th  dtt  for years prior to 1970 otill boo      oat boot -opletod.
L3   In-1ld-t finn-   olonooot1
Mon 14. 1970



LALANCE OF PAIIEHB, E7TUlL ASSISTANCE AbD DEBT                                                 Page 3 of 3
(In millilos of U.S. dollar. t current prices)
Actual              9.tlnated                                     P"oleotd
1971      19t2       1973       I74        1975      1976       1977       1978        1979       1990        1985
5a3tY     1ANCet   OF PAYHEIFS            1,175     4,272      6,596      1,56s     11,614    12,116    14,001      16,422      19,507     23,274      52,488
- IMUDIt.liDol2                         4_0 02!   5. 205r      1.111  .14,51    14 5365&                         18.683     20,965      Z4 33      5D,24
R..aerre balance (0-54)  -853  -'151  -  989  -6,017   -3,912     -3,112    -2,855      -7,261     -1,050-1    -1,010034   2 2,224
Interest (net)                         -  302       3 259, -   516     -  650     -1,273    -1,469    -1,747      -2,009      -2,272     -2,533     -3,053
Dlr.otlinvesteenInee raee              _ --166      202     -  220     -  240    -   270    -  304    -   342     -  384      - 432      - 486       -  877
Workara' reaalttaooe                       -          -         -          -          -         -          -          -                       -          - 
CurrenTt Traeefera (nec)                   14         5         27         23         40        50         50         50          50         50          50
Sakanaen tn rarreot aoccont            -2.30?    -1.489                -&fil_6    -5.411    -=4          -, 4.6               -4,113     -3.974      -1,656
Pri-ers direct 1-eteer   t                168       318        940        845        940     1,035      1,135      1,275       1,435      1.6L5       2,908
Medium- ond bog2-teron loana
Dlaur e,= -tg                          835     1,099      1,376      1,800      2,025     2,226      2,443      2,654       3,004      3,397       6,218
-8.navmeete                           - 441     - 525     -  670      -  720    -   779    -  745    -   793     - 868      -1,062      -1.282     -2,867
Set dlalanreeeet,                         394       574        706      1,1'8o     1,245     1,481      1,650      1,786       1,942      2,115       3,351
Plnaucie 1 credite
Diebureeneot!                         1,442     3,396      3,151      3,017      3,819     4,509     5,054       5,258       5,386      5,567       1,524
-RenovmenSe                           -  641    -  860     -1.058     -1.300    -_1579     -2.190    -29,46      -3.715     -4.130      -4 500     -4,404
Set diebue -enot                          001       15361    2.,93      3,717     2,240      2,319      2,107      1,543       1,255      1,080      -2,880
CapItal trateuct n-    o   1,l            504       626        377        194                              -                      -          -           -
Change Srnoreruos (--Iucreate)         - 560     -2,065     -2,428      1,049      1,000        -                     _       -  519     - 836      -1,723
0RANT AN1D LOAN rOHITT7}Eb3TS                                                                                                   Abtt-i 1stleatnd
1971        1972       1973        1974
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE
MSedon_- nd   u-odte     loaus                                                      Fublic d.bl ut.t,aadil:
IBMD                                    256       455        699                    aud dIobore_d                4,122      5,509       6,496       9,096
IDB                                     133       190        230                 It-reet on publio debl           211         296        440         619
Covecoetnu_                             199       209        270                  R.poyTent on pblilc debt         608         750        953       1,01
SDpplirer                               324       350        775                  Tuotl public drht etrolcnj(roee)819        1,054      1,393       1,700
leds                                                         BO- 90              Otber debt onruico (gro1eq)       607        820       1,175      1,578
Loans n-t.                              121        1o        110                  Total drbt    cri-  lur I- 1,364           1,740      2,242       2,670
local -dle- aud long-tree loan          1,53)     1,334      1,634         __         Burden on eupurt ea.-uluga (Z)
E0TER169L PUBLIC DEBT                    Aotual debt utettNditna un    a-ch 31, 1974  Pbli. dbt                         25.8        24.7        20.6       *7.4
Diabar-ed only              Percn      otal1 dabt cece                  43,6        40.8       34.0        31.2
IBRD                                                700                    10,0     TDS + Io   ta. I.ut               48.9        45.6       37.3        34.0
C eee-   - 1a22                                                            253      A-vrege Tme-s on
5uppller-                                          1,308                    14,2
Buode                                               149                     2.1     lot, -e % prior yeac DO b D        6,0         7,2        8.0         9.5
Fltanctol credIt,                                 2,875                    40,5     A   -or, at Z prlor peer DO & 0   17.4        18.4       17 .3       1646
Publ,c debt ce, i                                   273                     3.0
Total poblir debt                                  7,065                   100.0    IBRD debt utt, bdinborned        347         484         647        872
10R1 Nt 7 public debt 0 4 I         8.4        4.9        10.0        9.0
IBRD an 7. coral doeb 0 0 D         5.2       53.          5.1       5LA
TBBD3 cc 7. o.blb  dobtoPervice    42 4.2      03          5.0        4.3
BRD an 7. btoB dobterulco         2.5        2.9         2.9        2,7
/LIrC.-   dcbt --iu-or In.s letn-r-taoro-d on ruaarecu.                                                                             InMY 14, 1975



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 10
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IfN BRAZIL
A. SUMKARY STATEMENT OF LOANS
(As of November 30, 1975)
Loan                                                          Amount Less
No.      Year               Borrower              Purpose    Cancellations   Undisbursed
(USs Millii on) ~
Twenty-Two        Loans fully disbursed                          612.2
403      1965     Centrais Eletricas de Furnas
Estreito I                    Power           57.0            0.1
404      1965     Centrais Eletricas de Sao
Paulo - Xavantes              Power           19.8            -2
47'1/    1966     Centrais Eletricas de Furnas
Estreito II                   Power           39.0            1.0
565      1968     Centrais Eletricas de Furnas
Porto Colombia                Power           22.3            1.4
566      1968     Centrais Eletricas de Minas
Gerais - Volta Grande         Power           26.6            1.1
656      1970     Banco do Nordeste do Brasil     Industry        25.0            0.5
677      1970     Centrais Eletricas de Furnas
Marimbondo                    Power           80.0            8.7
728      1971     Centrais Eletricas do Sul do
Brasil - Salto Osorio         Power           70.0           18.0
755      1971     Brazil                          Education        8.4            5.3
756      1971     Brazil                          Ports           45.0           36.2
757      1971     Superintendencia de Agua e      Water
Esgotos da Capital            Supply          22.0           12.8
758      1971     Companhia Metropolitana de      Pollution
Saneamento de Sao Paulo       Control         12.0            7.0
786      1971     Rede Ferroviaria Federal        Railways        46.0            5.3
797      1972     Companhia Siderurgica Nacional  Industry        64.5           10.7
812      1972     Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas
Gerais                        Industry        63.0           15.6
813      1972     Brazil                          Roads           89.0            9.1
I/ In two tranches.
2/ Undisbursed balance $19,624.60.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 10
Loan                                                        Amount Less
No.      Year              Borrower              Purpose   Cancellations   Undisbursed
(us$  ilion7)
828      1972     Companhia Siderurgica Paulista  Industry      64.5           13.7
829      1972    Centrais Eletricas de Minas
Gerais - Sao Simao           Power           60.0          24.4
853      1972     Brazil                         Land Settl.     6.7            6.3
854      1972    Brazil                          Roads          51.0            6.1
857      1972    Banco do Brasil                 Grain Storage  23.7            6.4
868      1972     Brazil                         Livestock      26.0            6.6
887      1973     Light-Servicos de Eletricidade  Power         20.0           19.4
923      1973    Centrais Eletricas de Furnas -
Itumbiara                    Power          125.0         114.9
924      1973     Brazil                         Agro-Ind.      54.0           42.5
1008     1974     Cia. Hidro Eletrica do Sao
Francisco - Paulo Afonso IV  Power           81.0          81.0
1009     1974    Banco Nacional de Habitacao     Water Supply   36.0           35.1
1067     1974     Brazil                         Education      23.5           23.5
1071     1975    Rede Ferroviaria Federal     . Railways       175.0          175.0
1075     1975     Brazil                         Roads         110.0          110.0
1151-"   1975     Companhia Siderurgica Nacional Industry       95.0           95.o
1152-/   1975     Companhia Siderurgica Paulista  Industry      60.0           60.0
1153     1975     Brazil                         Agriculture     23.0          23.0
11712/   1975     FEPASA-Ferrovia Paulista       Railways        75.0          75.0
Total                                       2,411.22/      1,050.7
of which has been repaid to the Bank
and others                                  280.4
Total now outstanding                       2,130.8
Amount sold                   36.8
of which has been repaid   10.3              26.5
Total now held by Bank                      2,104.3
Total undisbursed                                          1,050.7
17 Not yet effective.
/ No IDA credits have been made to Brazil. A loan of US$12.0 million for the
Rio Grande do Norte rural development was approved on December 11, 1975.



ANNEX ii
P.g. 3 of 10
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (AS OF NOVEMM     30, 1975)
Year                                Obligor                                           Type of Bui.eau.                      A.ount ie US3 eillioc
__   Loaus  Equi ty  Totel
1957                  Siet-es do Brauil Cia. do Elotricidade                          Electrical Equip-ent                  2.00         -     2.00
1958                  Olinkrati, S.A. Ceulo-e e Papel                                 Pulp sod Paper                        1.20         -     1.20
1958                  D.L.R. Plasticas do Brtil, S.A.                                 Autoet. i-e Ports                     0.45         -    0.45
1958                  Willye-Overloud do Brosil, S.A.
Iodautriae Couercia                                           Motor Vahiules                        2.45         -     2.45
1959                  Corpunhia Mineira de Ci=ntoo Portlond, S.A.                     Ce=ent                                1.20         -     1.20
1959                  Cha=pian Celala1e, S.A.                                         Pulp                                  4.00         -    4.00
1966/1968/
1972                  Aon Villares, S.A.                                              Steel                                 8.00      1.93     9.93
1966/1969             Papel e Celuloac Catarinense, S.A.                              Pulp aud Paper                        4.06      3.13     7.19
1967/1972             Ulltrafertil, S.A. - Industria e Co-oortia de
Pertili-antes                                                 Fertilioera                           8.22      3.03    11.25
1969                  Petroqairi-a UniSo, S.A.                                        Petrtetbhicals                        5.50      2.88     8.38
1970                  Poliolefi-as, S.A. Ied-etrla e Co=erclo                         Petr-obomicole                        5.50      2.88     8.38
1971                  Oit-oo, S.A. Indstrris e Ceo=ertio                              Petreckeslaculu                       4.60      1.44     6.04
1971                  Indautria do Ceiulose Borreosard, S.A.                          Pulp                                  4.90         -     4.90
1972/1975             Corpanhia do Citeeto Nacional de Mi.aB                           ceuret                              29.14      3.20    32.34
1973/1974             Coupshita Siderurgioa do CGanabara - COS1CUA                    Steel                                67.00      6.50    73.50
1973                  Capital Market DIoalopseot Food - FUMCAP                        Capital Market Develop-ent            5.00         -     5.00
1973                  Etprosa do Doesenolvi=etro de Recru.os                          Niekel Mieing aed
Ili-erui. - CODE0 N, S.A.                                       Refioiog                           26.00      4.40    30.40
1974                  Ind-utria- Villares, S.A.                                       Elevators sod Id-striul
Eqaipsent                           6.00         -     6.00
1974                  Fabrics de T-cidos Tt,ape., S.A.                                Teetiles                             31.00              31.00
1975                  Capuara Carkobas IBdautrisia Ltd.                               Carbon Black                          6.18      1.08     7.26
1975                  Oxiten  Nordesto, S.A.                                          Petro-ketit-le                       10.00     _        10.00
Total Gross Coaitel  teru                                                                           232.40     30.47   262.87
Lout lancel11arons, Ter-iaatites, REpapmeyte sed Islee                                              170.66      8.09   178.77
Total Cauitoeats Now Bold by IFC                                                                     61.72     22.78    8b.10
Total Uodiab-rsed                                                                                    31.43      l.1     32.86



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 10
C. PiLOJCTS IN EXECUTION 1/
(As of November 30, 1975)
There are now 31 effective Bank loans under disbursement:
Loan No.
403/474   Estreito _droelectric ProJect_  US$57 and ET   9 million loans
of February 26, 1965 and December 19 19    Effective Dates:
July b, 1965 and June 1, 1967; Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
The project is completed and the loan is almiost fully disbursed.
Equipment costs were substantially below estimates. The original
Closing Date was April 1, 1971.
404       Xavantes Hydroelectric Project: US$22.5 million loan of
February 27, 1965; Effective Date: June 1, 1967; Closing Date:
June 30, 1975. The original project was completed in early 1971
(after a delay of about 18 months). The project had been amended
to include the installation of equipment for an associated trans-
mission line. In March 1972, US$2.7 million was cancelled from
the remainder of the loan. The remaining US$18,000 undisbursed
is expected to be disbursed shortly against retention payments.
565       Porto Colombia Hydroelectric Project: US$22.3 million loan of
October 23, 1968; Effective Date: February 1B, 1969; Closing
Date: December 31, 1975. Changes in the project layout and
design have increased substantially the local cost, which will
be covered by ELETROBRAS, without, however, significantly affect-
ing the economic justification for the project. Construction
work is completed. The Closing Date of the project was postponed
from March 31, 1975, the original date, to December 31, 1975 to
allow for disbursement of retention payments.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in part:icular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present aL balanced evalua-
tion of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 10
Loan No.
566       Volta Grande Hydroelectric Project:  US$26.6 million loan of
October 23, 1968: Effective Date: February 27, 1969; Closing
Date: June 30, 1976. The project was delayed six months by
spillway foundation difficulties. This problem and price
escalation greater than estimated increased powerhouse construc-
tion cost by 72%, but, as the original cost was very low, the
resulting cost per kW of generating capacity is still attractive.
The project is virtually completed and the fourth and last gen-
erating unit is expected to be in commercial operation shortly.
The Closing Date of the project was postponed a second time to
June 30, 1976 to permit payments to continue on several purchases
already placed. The original Closing Date was January 31, 1975.
656       Industry: US$25 million loan of February 16, 1970 to Banco do
Nordeste do Brasil (BNB); Effective Date: August 31. 1270;
Closing Date: December 31, 1975. The loan has been fully com-
mitted. The Terminal Date for submission of subprojects, orig-
inally June 30, 1972 and postponed to June 30, 1973, was post-
poned a second time to June 30, 1974 to give BNB an opportunity
to submit subprojects in an advanced stage of preparation.
Accordingly, the Closing Date, originally June 30, 1974 has been
postponed a second time to December 31, 1975. Slow utilization
of the loan was due mainly to BNB's unusually burdensome
procedures and its emphasis on larger scale projects, for
which financing from other than World Bank funds has been
available.
677       14arimbondo Hydroelectric Project:  US$80 million loan of May 25,
1970; Effective Date: September 29, 1970; Closing Date: May 31
1977. Construction work is proceeding on schedule. The cost of
increased excavation and concrete work resulting from poor rock
foundation and increased equipment cost will result in an in-
crease over the original cost estimate of US$42 million of 15%.
This does not significantly affect the economic justification
of the project.
728       Salto Osorio Hydroelectric Project:  Us$70 million loan of April 5,
1971; Effective Date:  July 19, 1971; Closing Date:   May 31, 1977.
The construction of the Salto Osorio hydroelectric plan is pro-
gressing satisfactorily. A cost overrun of about US$72 million,
due to increased equipment and construction costs, is foreseen,
but this does not significantly affect the economic justification
of the project. The cost overrun is being financed by loans from
ELETROBRAS and a commercial bank. The construction of the trans-
mission system, delayed to allow a re-examination of ELETROSUL's
market, is proceeding with corresponding modifications.



ANNEX II
Pag-e6 of 10
Loan No.
755       Education Project: US$8.4 million loan of Jtune 21, 1971;
Effective Date: October 26, 1971; Closing Date: December 31,
1977. Progress on the construction and equipment of the project
schools is now proceeding satisfactorily. However, the project
implementation is behind the original schedule due to initial
delays in establishing and staffing the project unit and because
of subsequent changes in project content. The original Closing
Date was December 31, 1975.
756       Santos Port Project: US$45 million loan of June 21, 1971; Effec-
tive Date: October 29, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Execution of the project is now proceeding satisfactorily, although
there have been further delays and cost overruns which will be
financed by the Borrower. The Government has approved legislation
which converted DNFVN from a government agency to a public corpora-
tion, PORTOBRAS. PORTOBRAS, with the assistance of management
consultants, has been improving port operations in Santos. The
National Port Development Study financed under the project is
nearly completed.
757       Sao Paulo Water Supply Project: US$22 million loan of June 21,
1971; Effective Date: January 13, 1972; Closing Date: June 30,
1976. The project suffered initial delays caused by the State of
Sao Paulo not furnishing the required counterpart funds which are
now included in the state budget. The Government has consolidated
all the water and sewerage companies in the state into a single
company, SABEP, and a loan assumption agreemient with the new
company was concluded on December 18, 1974. During the last four
months progress has been slow but improvements are expected with
new marnagement of the company which took office recently. The
original Closing Date was June 30, 1975.
758       Sao Paulo Pollution Control Project: US$15 million loan of
June 21, 1971- Effective Date: January 13, 1972; Closing Date:
June 30, 1976. A review of the original design resulted in its
modification to exclude the discharge of raw sewage and a related
treatment facility. Bidding procedures are in progress for other
portions of the project. As a result of the modifications in the
project, the loan amount was reduced to US$12 million. The Govern-
ment has consolidated all the water and sewerage companies in the
state into a single company, SABESP, and a loan assumption agree-
ment with the new comparey was concluded December 18, 1974. Progress
of the project is expected to improve with neu management which took
office recently. The original Closing Date was June 30, 1975.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 10
Loan No.
786       Railway Project - MBR:   US$46 million loan of August 25, 1971;
Effective Date: February 4, 1972; Closing Date: March 31, 1978.
The project is now completed, except for the construction and
equipping of the Borrower's main workshop at Jaceaba. The pur-
chase of equipment for this workshop was delayed because of a
change in the location of the workshop resulting from the Govern-
ment's decision to build a new railway line between the cities
of Belo Horizonte and Volta Redonda. To allow additional time
required for the purchase of this equipment, the Closing Date,
originally September 30, 1975, was postponed to March 31, 1978.
797       CSN Steel Expansion Project:   US$61.5 million loan of February 8,
1972; Effective Date: August 31, 1972; Closing Date: July 1,
1976. The latest cost estimate is US$617 million, an increase of
about 46% over the appraisal estimate due to design evolution,
unforeseen site works and increases in local construction costs.
The project is now 70% complete and is about six months behind
the appraisal schedule.
812       USIMINAS Steel Expansion Project:    U$ 63 million loan of April 11,
1972; Effective Date: July 28 1972; Closing Date: June 1, 1976.
The latest cost estimate is US$952 million, an increase of about
67% from the appraisal estimate due primarily to design evolution
and increases in local construction costs. The project is 75%
complete and is about six months behind the original schedule.
813       Third Highway Construction Project:    US$89 million loan of
April 11, 1972; Effective Date: December 4, 1972- Closing Date:
June 30, 1976. Construction works are more than 80% completed,
but are slightly behind schedule; the estimated total contract
cost is slightly above the appraisal estimate. The feasibility
studies and detailed engineering financed under the loan were
started later than planned, but are now completed at a cost sub-
stantailly below the appraisal estimate. Disbursements are
lagging behind the appraisal forecast, but have improved during
the past year.
828       COSIPA Steel Expansion Project:    US$61t.5 million loan of June 1a,
1972; Effective Date: October 5, 1972; Closing Date: January 1f,
1977. The latest cost estimate is US$720 million, an increase of
about 52% over the appraisal estimate due primarily to increased
local construction costs. This will not significantly affect the
economic justification of the project. The project is now 65%
complete and is about nine months behind the original schedule.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 10
Loan No.
829       Sao Simao Hydroelectric Project:   US$60 million loan of
June 1lt, 1972; Effective Date: September 20, 1972; Closing
Date: September 30, 1979. The contract for the civil works
was awarded to an Italian-Brazilian consortium in May 1973,
and the project is proceeding according to schedule. An
anticipated 50% cost overrun is being covered by local and
foreign borrowing.
853       Alto Turi Land Settlement Project:   US$6.7 million loan of
July 21, 1972; Effective Date: February 15, 1973; Closing
Date: December 1, 1978. COLONE has prepared revised farm
development plans whose credit component, to be financed by
public financial institutions, will be significantly higher
than originally estimated, although still low in comparison
to other settlement projects. Adninistrative delays in the
release of public funds for farm credit and COLONE working
capital requirements and difficulties in recruiting project
staff delayed the start of project execution. Settlement,
however, has now begun and the project should be completed
in 1978 as envisaged.
85L       Fourth Highway Construction Project:   USI;51 million loan of
August h, 1972; Effective Date:  March 21 1973- Closing Date:
December 31, 1976. Construction is more than oO completed
but behind schedule. However, disbursement is expected to be
completed by the Closing Date. The estirLated total contract
cost is above the appraisal estimate.
857       Grain Storage Project:   US$30 million loan of September 27,
1972; Effective Date: January 16, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979. After some initial difficulties with the
appraisal of subprojects, the project had been progressing
satisfactorily. However, in April 1975 the Government
adopted a national grain storage financing program involving
subsidized interest rates. Therefore, on October 28, 1975,
the Bank and the Borrower agreed to cance:l the uncommitted
balance (about 20%) of the loan.
868       Interim Second Livestock Project:   US$26 nillion loan of
December 19, 1972; Effective Date: May 2Ls, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1977. The project is proceeding normally.
The loan has been fully committed and is expected to be
disbursed as scheduled.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 10
Loan No.
887       Power Distribution Project:  US$20 million loan of April 16,
1973; Effective Date: July 31, 1973; Closing Date: June 30,
1976. Principally due to difficulties encountered in preparing
bidding documents and delays in deliveries of equipment and
materials, the project is about one year behind schedule.
Complete delivery and installation of equipment and materials
to be financed by the loan will probably take until July 1976
and a postponement of the Closing Date may be required.
923       Itumbiara Hydroelectric Project:  US$125 million loan of
August 1, 1973: Effective Date: October 30, 1973: Closing
Date:  December 31, 1982. Contracts for both the concrete
and earth works have been awarded and procurement of main
equipment is on schedule. Commissioning of the first
generating unit is scheduled for March 1980, four months
behind original schedule due to delay in awarding of the
civil works contracts.
924       Agro-Industries Credit Project:  US$54 million loan of
August 1, 1973; Effective Date: March 11, 1974: Closing
Date: December 31, 1978. The Central Bank expects to
complete comuitment of project funds by mid-1976.
1008      Paulo Afonso IV Hydroelectric Power Project:   US$81 million
loan of June 17, 1974; Effective Date: April 15, 1975:
Closing Date: December 31, 1978. A Bank mission recently
reviewed the progress of the preparation and implementation
of plans for resettlement of the 9,700 families to be dis-
placed by the Sobradinho reservoir. These plans are now at
an advanced stage of preparation, and construction of new
towns to house the urban portion of' the population has begun.
The rural population is to be offered the opportunity of re-
settlement in a promising new agricultural area in the
Corrente River region in the western part of the State of
Bahia. Those who prefer to remain near their present houses
will be resettled in new villages on the edge of the future
reservoir.
1009      Minas Gerais Water Supply Project:  US$36 million loan of
June 17, 197h; Effective Date: January 9, 1975; Closing
Date: August 15, 1977. The State Water Supply Company
changed its name from Companhia Mineira de Agua e Esgotos
(COMAG) to Companhia,de Saneamento de Minas Gerais
(COPASA-MG). The project is progressing on schedule.



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 10
Loan No.
1067      Second Education Project:  US$23.5 million loan of December 27,
1974; Effective Date: April 17, 1975; Closing Date: December
31,1979. Project execution has started reasonably well, and
is expected to be completed by the target date. Project imple-
mentation units have been established in all eight project
states and these, together with the main project unit, PREMEN,
are working well. The pre-investment studies in the Northeast,
financed under the loan, are underway and are expected to
yield useful information for future sector investment planning.
1074      Second Railway Project:  US$175 million loan of January 17,
1975- Effective Date: June 17, 1975- Closing Date: December
31, 1979. Project execution is progressing reasonably well
and appropriate steps are being taken to strengthen project
management and control. Cost estimates for the Investment
Plan, of which the project is a part, have increased substan-
tially on several items. The Borrower is therefore preparing
a revised Plan in which items with low priority will be post-
poned or delayed. This revision is not expected to affect the
project items. Tendering for Bank-financed items is on schedule.
1075      Fifth Highway Project:  US$110 milion loan of January 17,
1975; Effective Date: May 15, 1975; Clo3ing Date: December
31, 1979. Project execution is now proceeding satisfactorily,
but it is behind schedule due to initial delays.
1153      Lower Sao Francisco Polders Project:  U$.0 million loan of
Augast 4, 1975; Effective Date:  November 2     1975; Closing
Date: December 31. 1979. Project execution has started.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
BRAZIL
SECONDARY AND FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Loan and Project Summr
Borrower:            The Federative Republic of Brazil.
Beneficiary:         Banco Nacional do Desenvolvimento Economico (BNDE).
Amount:              US$55 million equivalent.
Terms:               Payable in 16 years, including 5 years of grace,
at 8A interest per annum.
Relending Terms:     Loan proceeds would be made available by the
Government to BNDE on the same financial terms and
conditions as the Bank loan. BNDE, in turn, would
relend the proceeds, in cruzeiros, to state high-
way departments and municipal consortia for the
construction and improvement of secondary and
feeder roads. Interest rates to beneficiaries
would be regionally differentiated with real rates
ranging from 4% to 7%. Loan principal would be
subject to full monetary correction. Subloans would
carry maturities from 10 to 12< years, including 2
to 2 years of grace. The foreign exchange risk
would be assumed by BNDE.
Pro'ect              The project would consist of the construction, reha-
Description:         bilitation or improvement of about 10,000 km of
secondary and feeder roads linking agricultural areas
to federal and state primary highway networks, and
the construction of penetration roads into areas of
good agricultural prospects. It would include con-
sulting services for engineering studies and super-
vision.
Estimated Cost:                                   Local    Foreign   Total
-(US$ Million)--
Construction and improvement
of rural roads             159.1      55.9    215.0
Consulting services for
engineering studies andl
subproject supervision      19.8       2.2     22.0
178.9      58.1    237.0
zz          2:



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
Financing Plan:                                            Us$ Million
IBRD                                     55.0
BNDE                                     55.0
National Highways Department (DNER)       32.0
Sub-borrowers                            95.0
237.0
Estimated                            US$ Mllion_by IBRD Fiscal Year
Disbursements:                     FY77    F        ;Y      FYO   FY81
Annually       2.0    14.0    :L6.o   15.0     8.0
Cumulative     2.0    16.0    32.0    47.o   55.o
Free Limit:           The following subprojects wouLd be referred to the
Bank for approval: (i) the first subproject to be
submitted by each sub-borrower, except for six of
the most experienced state highway departments;
(ii) the first subproject to be submitted by each
sub-borrower under alternative methods of sub-
project evaluation that may be agreed among the
Bank, BNDE and DNER; and (iii) subprojects with
Bank participation of US$2.5 million or more.
Procurement:          Procurement would follow the Government's competi-
tive bidding procedures, with local advertising
only.
Commitment and        Full commitment of the loan is scheduled by
Disbursement:         December 31, 1978, finalization of construction
works by December 31, 1980, and full disbursement
by December 31, 1981. DIsbursement would be made
in the form of reimbursing BNDE to cover 50% of
its outlays made to sub-borrowers for subprojects.
Rate of Return:       Not calculated (see paragraph 52), but sub-
projects would have to have a tinimum economic rate
of return of 10%.



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
Summary Income                                                   1974
Statement of BNDE:                                       (In US$ Million, at a rate
of Cr$6.82 per dollar)
Income
Interest, commissions and
monetary correction on loans            751-3
Dividends, bonuses and other
income
Total Income                    790.4
Expenses
Interest, commissions and monetary
correction on borrowings                226.6
Salaries                                   10.8
Other Administrative and General Expenses  15.3
Total Expenses                  252.7
Net Profit                                  5.7
Summary Balance                                             December 31. 1974
Sheet of BNDE:                                           (In US$Million, at a rate
of Cr$7.44 per dollar)
Assets
Current assets                            173.8
Loans outstanding                       3,108.5
Investments                               759.3
Fixed and other assets                     29.8
Total Assets                  4,071.3
Liabilities
Current liabilities                       183.2
Domestic borrowings                     1,514.4
Foreign currency loans                     350.3
Other liabilities                          47.8
Total Liabilities             2,095.7
Equity                                    1,975.6
Total Liabilities & Equity    4,071.3
Appraisal Report:       -BR of January    , 1976



i t_~~~~~~~~~~~~5 5i ,, F.6..                                              i,'_,....W ' -DEP I, 
tv E N E Z U E L A      f      f   ;:Clt
\     C      t ,z | S ~~(U SI N A M Pl 
C O L O M B I A)           OVITf      ,      ,    t
. t     BRORAW1~~~~~ISA \ /1             ...........   ''/'               ;S
.,;;;2-ORI~A 4_ g    9             AMAP              ,.|,,
5 $' '' {{4 X M~~ A                                        C  > EB ,AH ;,4' Rl'' A0; 
t  tj   /   GiOIANIA   h-  9   e           C) 
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ y ,                         tv ECIFEN 
~~~~~~ ZSOPAUO BR;-*:LE~ 
EO Rto Uoltl                                   G    0L  p A  , 
r     __ S:t blcble                tv1-r  L\     -7T,.0
_._~~~~~~~~~~ Ir"Aboe OnOlc{]^      S                                  -. 
A~~HMrc                                 1_.z 5CUABA T  BRASILARl   ;. , |)t.
,   ;          t    ;  /,.h    \,     lOj,.nAtZN''\-'l':   '  '  ;  I   '_GOI NII 
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ IN                      R   ED S'J -;rPFCF,*,P<,iI1 -00 
-3ro            t e  .   Vs<      1  j  '         1   |    ,  *- |  '   'if~~~~~~) PIT
r3*OW  #, ^Pd,   *--a   t      ;        ,     ,1 1,,;.  I  Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 --
,<.~~~~~~~~~                            0 ,                    r.. ..,.
_kl.a                H!rr .- j :^; f .~~~~~~~~~~U.r iresl.5 : 4D'E' .JA ., E.I .



