Report No. 993-BR                       F              COPY
Brazil:                                   FILE COPY
Appraisal of a
Secondary and Feeder Roads Project
January 21, 1976
Latin America and Caribbean Projects Department
Not for Public Use
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit      = Cruzeiro (Cr$) divided into 100 centavos
US$1.00            = Cr$8.90 (November 25, 1975) *
Cr$l               =  US$0.11
Cr$1 million       = US$112,360
Fis¢,,al Year
January 1 - December 31
Unit,sk ofW,eights and Measures: Metric
Metric,: flziti,h/US Equivalent
1 kilometer (km)               = 0.62 mile (mi)
1 meter (m)                    = 3.28 feet (ft)
1 square kilometer (km2)       = 0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 metric ton (m ton)           = 0.98 long ton (lg ton)
1 metric ton (m ton)           = 1.1 US short tons (sh ton)
Abbreviation
BNDE              - Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico
(National Bank for Economic Development)
DER               -  Departamento de Estradas de Rodagem
(State Highway Department)
DNER              - Departamento Nacional de Estradas de Rodagem
(National Highway Department)
ORTN              - Obrigacoes Reajustables do Tesoro Nacional
(Indexed National Treasury Bonds)
UJNDP             - United Nationo Development Programme
USAID             - United States Agency for International Development
* Average exchange rate for 1974 was US$1.00 = Cr$6.80
Latin America and the Caribbean Projects Department



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF A SECONDARY AND FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ................................    i - ii
1.   INTRODUCTION .................................................  1
2.   BACKGROUND ... ..         .    ................................  2
3.   THE SECTORS ........      ..............................       3
A. The Transport Sector                ..                      3
B.   The Agricultural Sector ................                  5
C.   Planning and Coordination for Rural Roads  ...            6
4.   THE AGENT (BNDE) AND THE CO-EXECUTOR (DNER)    ......          7
A.   BNDE's Organization ..................                    7
B.   BNDE's Resources, Portfolio and Financial
Performance ...... .............                       8
C.   BNDE's Operations ..........................              9
D.   BNDE's Lending in the Transport Sector   ......          10
E.   DNER's Organization and Financing ......... ..           11
F.   BNDE and DNER's Capability to Appraise and
Supervise Projects ........... .. ...........        12
5.   THE SUB-BORROWERS ................................            12
A.   State Highway Departments .....        ..............    12
B.   Municipal Consortia .........................            13
6.   THE PROJECT ......................................            14
A.   General Description .....       ....................     14
B.   Sub-Project Eligibility and Preparation   .....          16
C.   Methodology for Sub-Project Evaluation   ......         17
D.   Sub-Project Review ............ .. ............         20
E.   Sub-Project Execution and Supervision    .......        21
F.   Financing and Disbursements .................            23
G.   Sub-Loan Terms and Conditions           .      .        24
H.   Socio-Economic Impact Study .        ................    25
7.   JUSTIFICATION OF THE PROJECT ........ .* ............         25
8.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ....        ........    27
This appraisal report has been prepared by Messrs. Per E. Fossberg (Engineer)
and Renato Schulz (Economist) and has been edited by Miss Virginia Foster.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS - Continued
TABLES
1.   1965 vs 1972 Highway Network
2.   Highways per Capita and per Unit of Area
3.   BNDE:  Staffing Situation
4.   BNDE:  Audited Comparative Balance Sheets, December 31, 1972-1974
5.   BNDE:  Audited Comparative Income Statements, Years Ended
December 31, 1972-1974
6.   BNDE:  Past (1972-1974) Financial Ratios
7.   Rural Road Design Standards for IBRD-BNDE Project
8.   Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
ANNEXES
1.   Typical Sub-Project Implementation, Supervision and Monitoring
2.   Rural Road Appraisal Methodology (A Case Study)
CHARTS
1.   Organization Chart, BNDE
2.   Organization Chart, DNER
3.   Organization Chart, State Highway Department of Minas Gerais
4.   Organization Chart, Municipal Consortium of Ceara



BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF A SECONDARY AND FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Since 1964, the Bank has had a continuing exchange of views with
the Government of Brazil regarding the improvement and expansion of the high-
way network. Excluding a small maintenance project in 1953, this would be
the sixth Bank-financed project in the highway sub-sector; the first two are
now complete, and the other three, although slightly delayed, are progressing
satisfactorily. All previous Bank operations in highways in Brazil have
financed major individual construction and maintenance projects in the primary
or trunk network and have been executed by the National Highways Department
(Departamento Nacional de Estradas de Rodagem, DNER). The proposed project
would represent a departure from this approach in that it would finance a
program of sub-projects not yet defined, for the construction and upgrading
of rural feeder roads, and would be executed by a major national financial
institution, the National Development Bank (Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento
Economico, BNDE) in collaboration with DNER. This approach has been adopted
partly because the proposed project would be the continuation of a successful
existing program set up in that fashion, and partly because of the practica-
lities of the scheme.
ii.       The proposed project would consist of a program of sub-loans to
State Highway Departments (DER's) and/or Municipal Consortia to finance (a)
the construction or improvement of rural roads linking agricultural areas to
federal and state trunk networks; (b) the improvement of existing earth roads
to minimum design, all-weather standard to eliminate the isolation of areas
with high economic, especially agricultural, potential; and (c) the construc-
tion of minimum standard all-weather roads into virgin areas of high potential.
iii.      The cost of the program, for which a Bank loan of US$55 million is
proposed, would be US$237 million equivalent; the loan would thus finance
23.2% of the costs, which is within Bank estimates of the foreign exchange
component (about 25%) for these types of roads in Brazil. The remaining
US$182 million of program costs would be financed by BNDE (US$55 million,
23.2%), DNER (US$32 million, 13.5%) and the beneficiaries themselves (US$95
million, 40.1%). Eligible expenditures under the program would be financed
in the same proportion as each entity contributes to the funding.
iv.       The loan would be made to the Government of Brazil, and the proceeds
would be passed on to BNDE, as Agent of the Government.
V.        Execution of the project would be the responsibility of BNDE, but
DNER would act as co-executor in that it would collaborate closely with BNDE
in reviewing applications for assistance under the program and, later, in
the supervision of the execution of the civil works. Under the proposed
"free limit" system, BNDE would send to the Rank for approval about 12 to 14 sub-
projects out of a total of 30 to 40 expected under the program.



- ii -
vi.       Procurement of civil works would be generally in line with Bank
guidelines, but would follow local procedures as contained in Decree-Law
No. 200 of February 25, 1967, and in Decree No. 73.140 of November 9, 1973,
both of which have been reviewed and considered to ensure adequate competition
and reasonable prices. Although these procedures allow foreign contractors
to bid, it is expected that most, if not all, of the civil works would be
contracted to local firms.
vii.      An economic return for the project has not been calculated because
the sub-projects are not yet defined; however, judging from past experience
of BNDE, sub-project rates of return are expected to vary between 10% and
40%, and a minimum economic rate of return of 10% is required for a sub-
project to be eligible for financing under the program.
viii.     The project would be monitored by the Borrower for a period of at
least five years after completion of the civil works by means of traffic
counts and other surveys undertaken in the area of influence of the roads
built. These studies would be financed by the Government and undertaken by
GEIPOT (the Government's Transport Planning Company).
ix.       The project provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$55 mil-
lion equivalent to the Government of the Federal Republic of Brazil. On the
basis of the average useful life of the sub-projects to be financed and the
average length of the construction period, an appropriate term would be
16 years, including a five-year period of grace.



BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF A SECONDARY AND FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Federal Republic of Brazil has requested a
loan of US$55 million to help finance the continuation of a rural road con-
struction and improvement program in which it has been engaged since 1967;
the program is being executed by BNDE (Banco Nacional do Desenvolvimento
Economico).
1.02      Excluding a small maintenance project in 1953, this would be the
sixth Bank-financed project in the highway sub-sector of Brazil. The first
four Were based on a National Transport Survey carried out with partial Bank,
UNDP and USAID financing during 1965-1970, and their main component was high-
way construction. The fifth project, in addition to highway construction and
upgrading, also contained a substantial maintenance element. The first two
projects are now complete, and the other three, although slightly delayed, are
progressing satisfactorily. Bank-financed highway projects in Brazil have
been, overall, highly successful, and have contributed substantially toward
improving both the highway network and the institutions of the country.
1.03      The proposed project would, however, represent a departure from the
customary Bank lending approach in highways in that it would finance a program
of sub-projects for rural roads not yet defined. Moreover, the loan would be
made available, through the Government, to a major national financial insti-
tution (BNDE) which would relend the proceeds to State Highway Departments
(DER's) and/or Municipal Consortia which, in turn, would be responsible for
the execution of the sub-projects in their respective states. This mechanism
was chosen because:
(a)  it would be almost impossible for the Bank to evaluate and
follow up on the very large expected number of relatively
small sub-projects scattered throughout the country with-
out a major increase in Bank staff input;
(b)  it would be impractical to have all the sub-projects prepared
at once, and the program approach lends itself more readily
to this situation;
(c)  the proposed project is, in fact, providing continuity to, and
strengthening of, a successful existing program already struc-
tured in this fashion; and
(d)  BNDE has had substantial experience in the execution of this
type of program and is keenly interested in its continuation.
1.04      This new approach is also practical in that BNDE would eventually
perform most of the appraisal and supervision work, normally carried out by
the Bank, for the large number of sub-projects foreseen to be included in the



program, and which would demand excessive input by Bank staff. Initially,
however, very close cooperation between BNDE and the Bank would be needed
to help strengthen BNDE's appraisal and supervision of projects according to
Bank standards (para. 6.26 and Annex 1).
1.05      Moreover, BNDE, as the major economic development bank in Brazil,
would be particularly interested in seeing that complementary investments
necessary to the agricultural development of the areas to be served by the
roads would be present, planned for execution, or induced by the program.
1.06      The proposed project would expand lending activities in areas where
the Bank's transportation projects in Brazil have, to date, impinged only
marginally and would be consonant with the Bank's emphasis on reaching the
rural population of its member countries.
1.07      The proposed Bank loan would be made to the Government, which would
make the proceeds available to BNDE for onlending to DER's and/or Municipal
Consortia. BNDE would be the Government's Agent for the execution of the
program and, consequently, of the proposed project.
1.08      This report was prepared by Messrs. Per E. Fossberg (Engineer) and
Renato Schulz (Economist) following an appraisal mission to Brazil in July
1975. The report has been edited by Miss Virginia R. Foster.
2. BACKGROUND
2.01      As a result of requests from state and local governments for assist-
ance in financing rural roads, BNDE, in 1967-1968, developed a three-year
program ("Programa Nacional de Estradas Vicinais") for the construction of
agricultural roads. The program was funded with about Cr$ 60 million and
financed 60% of the costs of approved projects. At the end of the first year,
however, almost all the financial resources of the program were committed.
In early 1969, the program was expanded by BNDE, increasing its funding
to a total of Cr$ 100 million (approximately US$25 million). By the end of
1969, the financial resources of the program had again been fully committed
because of the high demand, and BNDE then requested assistance from USAID for
continuation of the program. A US$83 million program was developed by BNDE,
to which it committed US$25 million; USAID loaned US$25 million, and the re-
maining US$33 million was raised by the beneficiaries. This new program is
again fully committed,and BNDE now envisages an additional program of about
US$200 million to fill the immediate gap of projects under review and prep-
aration; this, in fact, is the genesis of the project now proposed.
2.02      Under the BNDE-USAID program, DER's and Municipal Consortia with
state guarantees were eligible for assistance, and there was a tendency to
submit relatively large packages of projects, mostly based, and justified,
on area studies. As a result, the joint BNDE-USAID program financed only nine
projects in eight states, covering some 6,000 km of roads. The average project



- 3 -
contained between 20 and 30 sub-projects and had an average cost of about
US$9.0 million. The main advantage of preparing relatively large packages was
that it allowed the states to develop an integrated approach in the selection
of sub-projects included in each proposal.
2.03      The BNDE-USAID program was not limited to any specific geographic
area of the country. However, because the need for minimum standard roads to
reach relatively under-utilized agricultural areas is most evident in the north,
northeast and west of the country, most of the projects financed by the pro-
gram were located in those areas.
2.04      BNDE, in order to complement its own capabilities for the execution
of the program, entered into an agreement with the National Highways Depart-
ment (Departamento Nacional de Estradas de Rodagem, DNER) for the review and,
during execution, supervision of the engineering of each of the sub-projects.
Moreover, in order to have some uniformity in the preparation and presentation
of applications for assistance under the program, BNDE, DNER and USAID pre-
pared a Manual for Applicants that specified the conditions, types of projects
and studies that need to be submitted in support of an application, and the
technical standards accepted under the program. For the purposes of the pro-
ject now proposed, the Manual has been improved, as described in Chapter 6.
2.05      An important qualification for eligibility under the BNDE-USAID
program was the ability of the DER to maintain the roads constructed. Muni-
cipal Consortia were required to enter into a maintenance agreement with the
state for the upkeep of the roads built. However, neither BNDE nor DNER con-
sidered the maintenance problem very serious because the roads in the program
were of a standard that was considered to require little and cheap maintenance.
2.06      In retrospect, USAID considers the program a very successful one;
however, it does not plan to continue it, in line with its general policy
of terminating its lending operations in Brazil.
3. THE SECTORS
A.   The Transport Sector
General
3.01      A detailed description and analysis of the transportation sector
is contained in "The Transport Sector of Brazil", Report No. 571a of December
20, 1974; information contained therein is generally omitted from this appraisal
report; only relevant material is repeated. During the period from 1969 to
1973, investment in transportation increased an average of 16% per year to
about 18% of total public investment expenditures. In 1973, investments in
transportation were about US$1.8 billion equivalent. Since 1965, and until
the change of Government in March 1974, priority was given to highways; this
emphasis is now changing, however, and, from a national point of view, in-
creased importance is being given to other modes of transportation, especially
railways.



-4-
3.02      The main transport flows which have developed in Brazil are the
very large movement of industrial products and iron ore within the triangle
formed by the cities of Sao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro and Belo Horizonte, and
the flow of agricultural products in the south and southeast either to ports
for export, or to main consumption centers such as Rio de Janeiro and Sao
Paulo. Intercity freight movement grew at an average annual rate of 10% be-
tween 1960 and 1972, when it reached an estimated total of 208 billion ton-km.
Of this, 73% was by road, 16% by rail, 11% by coastal shipping and a negligible
amount by air. Intercity passenger transport grew at an average annual rate
of 12% over the same period and, in 1972, reached roughly 150 billion pass-km,
of which 95% was by road, 3% by rail and 2% by air.
The Highway Sub-Sector
3.03      In 1972, the total highway system of Brazil comprised 1.26 million
km of roads, of which almost 5% were federal roads, almost 12% were state roads
and the remaining 83% were municipal roads, as shown in the following table:
Brazil's 1972 Road System
(thousands of kilometers)
Paved      Unpaved        Total       %
Federal Roads                  29.6           29.7         59.3      4.7
State Roads                    30.2          115.2        145.4    11.6
Municipal Roads                  2.0       1,053.0      1,055.0    83.7
Total                     61.8        1,197.9      1,259.7   100.0
Percentage                      4.9           95.1        100.0
3.04      The municipal road system, of which 99.8% is unpaved, consists
mostly of earth roads and tracks, frequently passable only by four-wheel drive
vehicles and, at times, particularly in the rainy season, closed completely.
Less than 10% of this network is in relatively good condition, although spe-
cific information on the state of the municipal road system is scant.
3.05      Since 1965, there has been a significant increase both in length
and quality of the network. While length has been increased on all classes
of roads, the quality improvements have been almost exclusively on federal
and state roads. In the period 1965-1972, paved federal roads increased by
135% and paved state roads by 119%, for a total of 33,400 km built, compared
with only 2,000 km of paved municipal roads built. Yet, the rather large
increase in the municipal network (431,500 km from 1965 to 1972) is indica-
tive of an important shift in new road building in the country (Table 1).
3.06      The greater part, more than one million km, of Brazil's highway
network can thus be classified as rural roads. These, which, as mentioned,
are mainly earth roads and tracks, are largely under the jurisdiction of



-5-
municipalities. During the last few years, semi-public corporations
("Consorcios Rodoviarios Municipais") have been established in many states
for the purpose of building and maintaining rural roads. These corporations
receive budgetary appropriations or guarantees from the states that allow them
to borrow for the construction of the roads. Although total km of rural roads
increased substantially during the last few years, much more needs to be done
to develop an adequate rural network.
3.07      Table 2 gives the relationships between area, population, and length
of federal and state highways in each region. It shows that the southern and
center-east regions, where about 70% of the population is concentrated on
about 17% of the country's surface, are well served, with more than 97,000 km
of federal and state roads (about 48% of the total). Nevertheless, these
regions have problems because transport demand has increased rapidly, and,
consequently, numerous roads still need to be built. In the northeast, where
30% of the population is concentrated in about 18% of the country's area,
there are about 49,000 km of federal a..i state roads (about 24% of the total).
Traffic densities in this region are low, but improvements are needed to
reduce transport cost and speed up economic development. The states of Goias
and Mato Grosso, in the west of the country, cover such a large surface (about
22% of the total of the country) that, although crossed by numerous roads
(39,000 km, 20% of the total), they still have extremely limited highway
facilities. These regions have very high agricultural potential, and, because
of Government efforts to develop them, they will require a substantial increase
in their network. The northern region of the country, most of which is prac-
tically unpopulated, has a very rudimentary highway network.
B.   The Aricultural Sector
3.08      A number of Bank reports deal in detail with the Brazilian agri-
cultural sector, e.g., Report PA-52a of August 1970, Report No. 38-BR of
March 1973, Report No. 355a-BR of June 1974 and, most recently, Report No.
665a-BR of June 1975; information contained in them is generally omitted from
this appraisal report, but relevant material is briefly repeated. After a
period of Brazil's development during which the primary emphasis was on
industrialization, the Government is now giving more attention to the need
for modernization of agricultural production and marketing and to the expan-
sion of the frontier of cultivation. The present Government, which assumed
office in March 1974, has indeed reformulated agricultural policy. On the
one hand, it has established a goal of 40% real increase in agricultural
output for the 1975-1979 period, with the aim of making Brazil one of the
foremost producers and exporters of foodstuffs. On the other hand, acknow-
ledging the gravity of the country's income distribution problem, the Govern-
ment has initiated programs to improve small farmers' productivity. One
such scheme alone, the POLONORDESTE, envisages investment expenditures of
about US$3 billion during 1975-1979. Brazil has the potential for sustain-
ing relatively high long-term growth in agriculture. It is one of the few
countries in the world that still has available abundant land on which con-
tinued expansion of output can be obtained without significant improvements
of agricultural technology, although large increases in productivity can be
achieved with the use of modern techniques and improved inputs. However,
because new lands that are available are distant from the markets and lack



- 6 -
supporting infrastructure, increasing production could pose serious diffi-
culties.
3.09      A serious limiting factor in attaining increased production is the
inadequate rural infrastructure in areas of agricultural potential in the
zones of influence of already existing state and federal trunk roads. The
inherent problem of distance is indeed compounded by the lack of local roads
giving access to markets and consumer centers. While much work has been,
and is being, done on the primary highway network which connects the country's
major urban centers, there are still large regions which have no, or inade-
quate, access to these trunk highways and which, as a result, are isolated
from the mainstream of economic activity and isolated from participating in,
and benefiting from, the policies and programs being executed in the agricul-
tural sector.
3.10      Full agricultural development of areas within the zone of influence
of major trunk roads depends on the existence of an adequate internal network
of rural access roads. The proposed program should, therefore, be viewed as
an agricultural development program as well as a transport investment program.
Transport is an essential ingredient of almost every aspect of development and
should be an integral part of investment programs in agriculture. Partly be-
cause of high transport costs, farmers pay relatively high prices for their
inputs such as fertilizers, farm machinery etc., which discourages them from
adopting new techniques. Prices tend to be high also because low sales volumes
beget high marketing costs per unit sold.
3.11      Although Brazil should continue to produce agricultural commodities
mainly to meet domestic demands, the agricultural sector should, and is
certainly able to, make a major contribution toward increased foreign exchange
earnings. This appears possible for a wide range of non-traditional products
which Brazil can produce and export at competitive prices. It also, however,
implies emphasis on transport facilities and investments that promote export
capabilities. Despite competitive farm-gate prices for bulk grain and soybean,
for example, high local transport costs often leave the FOB prices of poten-
tial exports less than fully competitive with those of major world suppliers.
For farmers to receive the full benefits of increased output - especially
from more production of non-traditional exports such as maize, soybeans, other
oilseeds, forest products, meat, orange juice, nuts etc. - greater invest-
ments in transportation and other related facilities, such as storage, are
needed.
3.12      In short, agriculture is in dire need of improved transportation
services - many farms lack access to all-weather local roads, and local
communities lack good highway and/or rail connections with large consuming
centers or export ports. There is, therefore, a need for more attention to
local transport problems.
C.   Planning and Coordination for Rural Roads
3.13      Despite the fact that rural roads (secondary access and feeder
roads) account, by far, for the largest proportion of the existing highway
network, the system has received little national attention until recently.



7-
Few statistical data are available, and a general lack of studies bearing on
the contribution of rural roads to both regional and sectoral development has
complicated the formulation of guidelines for setting investment priorities.
Moreover, suitable methodologies for the study of individual rural road
projects are only now being developed.
3.14      A national policy toward rural roads dates to 1967 when BNDE,
in agreement with DNER, established the "Programa Nacional de Estradas
Vicinais" (paras. 2.01 to 2.06); more recently, the creation of "Consorcios
Rodoviarios Municipais" (para. 3.06) has helped bring about a better micro-
regional integration and increased technical assistance to municipalities
from BNDE, DNER and the DER's. These schemes touch on some crucial points
which have handicapped rural road construction in the past. One is the lack
of agencies at the municipal level which are competent in the technical and
financial planning and in the supervision of rural road projects. BNDE, DNER
and most DER's are well staffed, however, and could extend their expertise to
aid in the preparation and execution of rural road projects.
3.15      Another problem has been the severe inadequacy of funds available
for road construction and maintenance at the municipal level. Locally gener-
ated funds have been scarce, and transfers from the National Road Fund (Fondo
Rodoviario) have been insufficient. Still another problem is that road funds
have been distributed among projects in less than optimal fashion, and economic
considerations have too often had to yield to purely technical or political
criteria at all levels of government. Expanded efforts at the municipal level
will have to cope with, and overcome, these numerous difficulties.
4. THE AGENT (BNDE) AND THE CO-EXECUTOR (DNER)
A.   BNDE's Organization
4.01      BNDE was created, by Law No. 1628 of June 20, 1952, as a Federal
"Autarchy" under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance; this was later
changed by Law No. 5662 of June 21, 1971, turning it into a public company
under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Planning and General Coordination.
BNDE has administrative and financial autonomy, independent juridical person-
ality as defined in private law, and its own assets and liabilities. According
to its by-laws-Decree No. 73.713 of March 1, 1974, BNDE is the main instrument
for the execution of the Federal Government's investment policy, and its pur-
pose is to provide support to programs, projects, work and services connected
with the development of the national economy.
4.02      BNDE is administered by the Administrative and Fiscal Councils, and
day-to-day management is the responsibility of the Board of Managing Directors,
as shown in Chart 1. The Administrative Council, BNDE's highest executive
body, is chaired by BNDE's President and has eleven members: the Secretaries-
General of the Ministries of Finance, Industry and Commerce, and eight members
appointed by the President of Brazil. The Council defines policies, internal
organization and regulations, and monitors BNDE's assets, liabilities and



accounts. These latter are also controlled by the Fiscal Council, consisting
of three members appointed by the President of Brazil. The Board of Managing
Directors consists of the Bank's President and five Directors, all appointed
for a four-year term by the President of Brazil. The Board decides on BNDE's
day-to-day operation and direction. The highest executive officer is BNDE's
President, who, during long absences, may delegate his powers to one of the
Directors.
4.03      BNDE's organization was restructured by Internal Resolution 475/75
of April 24, 1975, which provides for four advisory units to the President
(namely the Cabinet, Technical Counsel, Legal Counsel and Internal Audit)
and six functional areas of operations (Planning, Representation, Industrial
Projects, Special Projects, Operations with Agents and Administrative Services)
each with its own departments. Infrastructure projects fall into the area of
Special Projects (Chart 1).
4.04      BNDE is staffed by competent and dedicated professionals, who
enter the institution following a very competitive selection process. With
its three-fold increase in operations in real terms during 1972-1974, BNDE
has encountered some staffing problems although the professional staff
increased by 66% during the last three years to 345, out of a total of 984
staff at the end of 1974 (Table 3). The more experienced staff have, there-
fore, been working under considerable pressure in recent years. BNDE is
currently recruiting an additional 100 senior professionals. It should not
encounter difficulty in achieving this goal since pay scales, together with
other benefits, are generally competitive vis-a-vis the private sector.
B.   BNDE's Resources, Portfolio and Financial Performance
4.05      BNDE's resources, as of December 31, 1974, consisted of its large
equity (Cr$ 14.7 billion, including Cr$ 9.0 billion share capital), domestic
borrowings (Cr$ 11.3 billion), a limited amount of foreign borrowings (Cr$ 2.6
billion) and a small amount of short-term deposits belonging to clients (Table
4). The two national social funds, namely the Program for Social Integration
(PIS) and the Program for Creation of Public Servants' Patrimony (PASEP), which
BNDE has administered for the Government since 1973, have been, and will
continue to be, the mainstay of its resources; BNDE forecasts that receipts
from these sources will reach between Cr$ 11 billion and Cr$ 12 billion during
1975, increasing to around Cr$ 18 billion by 1978. Other sources of BNDE
funds include annual Government budgetary grants, which eventually are in-
corporated into the capital; a share of the national tax on financial trans-
actions (Monetary Reserve); and special borrowing agreements with other financ-
ing institutions, such as the Central Bank (BC) and the National Housing Bank
(BNH).
4.06      Up to now, BNDE has not mobilized resources in Brazil's private
capital market. It has, however, increased its borrowings in the international
market, both to strengthen its own financial position and to support the Gov-
ernment's balance of payments stabilization efforts. It has encountered, how-
ever, increasing difficulty in obtaining favorable terms from external sources.



- 9 -
4.07      As of December 31, 1974, BNDE's portfolio included Cr$ 23.1 billion
(US$3.1 billion equivalent) in loans and Cr$ 5.6 billion (US$0.8 billion equi-
valent) in equity investments, an increase in real terms of 100% and 26%,
respectively, over 1972 (Table 4). About 20% of the loan portfolio and 82%
of the equity portfolio represent loans and participations in steel industries
and their subsidiaries; however, during 1975, BNDE divested itself of these
interests.
4.08      Comparative income statements for 1972, 1973 and 1974 are given
in Table 5. Because of inflation, the substantial net profit which BNDE
generated in 1974 (Cr$ 3.7 billion), for a year-end equity of Cr$ 14.7 billion,
is overstated. Similarly, some of the financial ratios given in Table 6
should be interpreted with caution because of inflationary distortions. It
is BNDE's policy as a public development institution to charge relatively
low interest and fees and thus keep profits to the bare minimum, just enough
to cover the impact of inflation on its equity.
4.09      BNDE's capital structure is sound, with low financial leverage.
Total debt/equity ratio at year-end 1974 was 1.06:1; including guarantee opera-
tions in its own name, the ratio was 1.16:1 (Table 6). This should allow the
institution considerable room to undertake an ambitious operational expansion.
BNDE's foreign exchange borrowings are relatively limited, 18.8% of outstanding
debt. Moreover, BNDE normally passes on the foreign exchange risk to its
ultimate borrowers or lends in ORTN's. 1/ Since 1969, ORTN variations have
been considerably higher than the dollar variation against the cruzeiro, thus
providing BNDE with a foreign exchange gain. This situation is expected to
continue, in line with the Government's policy of devaluating the cruzeiro by
an amount that takes into account Brazil's inflation less the domestic infla-
tion of its principal trading partners.
C. BNDE's Operations
4.10      BNDE's investments during its first five years of existence, 1952-
1956, went primarily to transportation, especially railways. From 1957 to
1964, heavy emphasis was placed on resources for electrification and also for
expansion of the national steel industry. Since 1965, BNDE's activities have
become more diversified, and special programs have been set up to support
development in many fields, notably the industrial sector. In the last few
years, but particularly since the reorganization in 1974, priority has been
assigned, not only to national undertakings requiring a large concentration
of resources, but also to the expansion, modernization and strengthening of
the country's private industry.
1/   ORTN's - Obrigacoes Reajustables do Tesoro Nacional - are Brazilian
Government Treasury Bonds which have a nominal value that varies accord-
ing to an index prepared by the Ministry of Planning. This index closely
follows the evolution of Brazil's wholesale price index.



- 10 -
4.11      BNDE has employed a variety of operational methods which can be
summarized as follows:
(a) Programs directly financed and executed by BNDE;
(b)  Joint programs with public or private entities;
(c)  Projects carried out by subsidiary corporations, created
for that purpose;
(d)  Projects undertaken through accredited financial agents
such as state development banks and investment banks;
(e)  The underwriting of shares and debentures; and
(f)  Acting as guarantor for overseas operations relating
mainly to the importation of goods and services.
4.12      BNDE's activities have expanded about five-fold in real terms
over the five-year period 1970-1974; lending in 1974 amounted to Cr$ 20.3
billion (US$2.9 billion), and guarantees represented a further US$355 million.
Of the lending, about 68% was devoted to manufacturing and other industries,
24% to public utilities including transportation, 5% to agriculture and
foodstuffs, and the remaining 3% to other sectors. In a regional context,
the greater part (57%) of BNDE's lending in 1974 went to the southeastern
region, 16% went to the southern region and 13% to the northeastern region;
11% of its lending was inter-regional, and the remAinder went to other
regions of the country.
4.13      BNDE's objectives and priorities are closely identified with those
of the Government's Development Plan (1975-1979) and were embodied in the
bank's Plan of Action for 1974-1978. -That Plan of Action is, however, pres-
ently being revised because of a reorientation in priorities and the recent,
and projected, dramatic growth of BNDE's operations; it is estimated that BNDE's
lending in 1979 will account for 16% of Brazilian gross capital formation,
compared to 7-1/2% in 1974. The draft Plan of Action, however, has some basi-
cally unchanged objectives, such as: (a) the acceleration of economic develop-
ment; (b) the strengthening of Brazilian private enterprise; (c) the reduction
of regional inequalities; (d) the promotion of integrated sectoral development;
(e) the growth and diversification of exports; (f) the preservation of the
environment; and (g) the improvement of the living standards of the population.
4.14      BNDE has recently created an operations evaluation unit within its
organization to monitor the effectiveness and performance of its activities
and, as appropriate, to recommend improvements and changes. This action should
allow it to improve further its management and operational capabilities.
D. BNDE's Lending in the Transport Sector
4.15      BNDE's involvement in transport financing has been relatively high
in absolute terms. In 1974, it invested Cr$ 3.9 billion (US$0.5 billion) in
the sector, nearly 20% of BNDE's total lending that year, and nearly a five-
fold increase over the previous year.



- 11 -
4.16      A major part of the increase is in railway investment, which is
in line with the priorities of the current national transportation policy.
BNDE's support to RFFSA (Federal Railways), DNEF (National Railways Depart-
ment) and FEPASA (Sao Paulo State Railways) has helped finance the construction
and modernization of vital lines such as the Belo Horizonte-Sao Paulo connection,
the Itapeva-Ponta Grossa and Roca Sales-Passo Fundo connections, the south
sector of the Sao Paulo ring-rail system, and suburban lines in Greater Rio
de Janeiro and Greater Sao Paulo. BNDE has also financed the rehabilitation
and modernization of the rolling stock of the major railways, which, in turn,
has also assured valuable support to the Brazilian rolling stock manufacturing
industry.
4.17      BNDE's involvement in ports and navigation and in aviation, on
the other hand, has been minor. Nonetheless, BNDE has financed some port
works and equipment, for instance in Santos, and has assisted in the purchase
of commercial aircraft and spares. More recently, BNDE carried out an econo-
mic and financial evaluation of the merger of certain Brazilian airline com-
panies.
4.18      BNDE's involvement in the highway sub-sector has mainly been with
states and municipalities, on the financing of rural roads. The development
of this program is described more fully in Chapter 2. The total cost of
sub-sector works financed in this way is Cr$ 1.25 billion, of which BNDE's
participation was close to Cr$ 750 million. Nearly 15,000 km of roads have
been constructed by states and municipal consortia, with BNDE and - more
recently - some USAID funds.
E.   DNER's Organization and Financing
4.19      DNER, an autonomous agency under the Ministry of Transport, admin-
isters the national highway network. DNER's organizational structure, follow-
ing changes in 1974, is shown in Chart 2. The executive head of DNER is the
Director-General, appointed by the President of Brazil; assisted by the Deputy
Director-General, appointed by the Minister of Transport. The Director-
General and his deputy have certain functions under their direct control,
such as financial audit, security and information, systems control and bid-
ding procedures, but DNER's operations are otherwise carried out by nine
departments, eight headed by a Director and one by a Solicitor-General, all
nine appointed by the Director-General. The governing body of DNER is the
Administrative Council, presided over by the Director-General and including
his deputy and the nine department heads. DNER exercises its responsibility
for the highway network through 20 district offices (one in each state except
Acre); roads in the four territories are administered by DNER offices in
neighboring states.
4.20      DNER derives its funds mainly from road user taxes.  The two main
sources are the Tax on Fuels and Lubricants (Imposto Unico) and the Road
Tax; typically, for the period 1971-1973, they accounted for 41% and 14%,
respectively, of the Federal Government's investments in federal, state and
municipal roads. For the same period, other taxes, tolls, and other resources
of DNER and certain special programs accounted for about 15%, while the re-
maining 30% was raised through external financing. The proceeds of the Road



- 12 -
Tax are earmarked for road maintenance and are distributed 40% to DNER, 40%
to the states, and 20% to municipalities. The proceeds of the Imposto Unico
were earmarked in 1974 for the National Highway Fund (76.7%), railroad de-
velopment (8%), and other uses (13.3%). The allocation to the National High-
way Fund is all turned over to DNER for its own use (49.5%), and for trans-
fer to the states (40%) and municipalities (10.5%). It is expected, however,
that, following the creation of a new National Development Fund, which will
be funded largely by the Imposto Unico, the allocation to the National High-
way Fund will gradually decrease to about 50% in 1978. Since, however, DNER
will be able to draw resources from the National Development Fund, no drastic
reduction in DNER's financial resources is foreseen at this time.
F.   BNDE and DNER's Capability to Appraise and Supervise Projects
4.21      Both BNDE and DNER have been engaged since 1967 in a program similar
to the one proposed under this project.  Their staffs have accumulated ex-
perience and knowledge concerning rural roads that should be helpful in the
execution of the proposed project; additionally, the staffs of both BNDE and
DNER are proficient and professional. However, their most recent experience
is related to methodologies different from those proposed to be used in the
program (paras. 6.10 and 6.11), and some training would consequently be re-
quired to familiarize them with the new techniques and with normal Bank proce-
dures and standards of appraisal of sub-projects. Such training is expected
to be accomplished as part of the normal supervision function of the Bank
(para. 6.26(d)), but this implies that supervision requirements of the project,
particularly in the beginning, will be heavier than normal.
4.22      The proposed project is, moreover, expected to be composed of a
relatively large number of sub-projects and, within these, an even larger
number of individual roads. To analyze,-each road in each sub-project ade-
quately and within a reasonable period of time, the staffs of both BNDE and
DNER will have to be supplemented with some additional professionals. It is
expected that substantial increases in the staffs of both institutions would
take place before the project is made effective (para. 6.17). The addition of
new staff involves implicitly the need to train and prepare them in their duties
and functions; this will add to the training needs of both institutions.
5. THE SUB-BORROWERS
A.   State Highway Departments
5.01      Each of Brazil's 21 states has a State Highway Department (DER)
responsible for the construction and maintenance of the state highway network
and for all technical services connected therewith. In addition, the DER's
cooperate with state planning agencies to prepare state highway plans, to
regulate public transportation services, to police the use of state highways
and, at times, to assume responsibility for the construction, maintenance and
policing of municipal roads. In the last few years, DNER has also delegated



- 13 -
the maintenance of some federal roads to the DER's in nine states, and pro-
grams for delegation of maintenance of all federal roads in two states (Rio
Grande do Sul and Minas Gerais) are under way with Bank financing.
5.02      The organization of all the State Highway Departments is essen-
tially similar (see Chart 3 for the State of Minas Gerais). Although some
details vary slightly from state to state, most of the DER's have the
following in common:
(a) They form part of a state's Department of Public Works or
Secretariat of Transportation, with the exception of a
few autonomous DER's which are directly responsible to the
state Governor.
(b) They have a governing body, known as the Highway Council,
having as members the Director of the Department, a
representative of the Department of Public Works or the
Secretariat of Transportation, and a representative of
the State Engineering Association; the Council is headed
by an independent engineer appointed by the Governor.  The
Council is responsible for approving policies, programs
and the budget of the Highway Department.
(c) An Executive Council is, in effect, the board of directors
for the Department; the Council comprises the Director of
the DER, who chairs it, and all his division directors:
Planning, Operations, Engineering and Legal Affairs.
5.03      Financially, the DER's are dependent upon annual allotments from
the state budget and revenues from the National Highway Fund administered by
DNER. The proceeds are apportioned to the states on the basis of their fuel
consumption, population and area.
B.   Municipal Consortia
5.04      Because of the limited technical and financial resources of indi-
vidual municipalities, several states have encouraged the formation of muni-
cipal consortia or other special agencies to plan, construct and maintain
local municipal roads. These consortia and special agencies are incorporated
as companies by state law. Their primary purpose is the construction of an
integrated municipal road system and proper maintenance of completed roads.
They are financed by contributions from the state, private investors, and the
municipalities themselves, when they are shareholders.
5.05      In a typical case (e.g., in the States of Bahia, Ceara, Goias),
the consortium is a "mixed-economy" company, where the state and the partici-
pating municipalities hold 51% or more of the shares, and the rest is held
by private or other public investors. In other cases (e.g., in the State
of Rio Grande do Sul), all shares are held by the state and the municipalities.
Typically, a consortium is administered by a Board of Directors, elected by
the General Assembly - the consortium's highest governing body. Finances



- 14 -
are usually controlled by a Fiscal Council, consisting of three members,
according to the specific state law on corporations. Normally, the consortia
work with their municipalities on planning and engineering a project, and they
also award and manage the construction contracts. In most cases, the con-
sortia work very closely with the state DER; in fact, in many states such
cooperation is a statutory requirement of the consortium constitution. The
organization of a typical consortium (in Ceara) is shown in Chart 4.
5.06      The consortia also aid in the maintenance of municipal roads by
setting maintenance standards and providing financial assistance for the
purchase of maintenance equipment by the municipalities. Many consortia have
broad powers pertaining to adequate maintenance of the roads. In the case of
Bahia, for example, the agreement with the municipalities specifies that, if
the latter do not properly maintain the roads, the agency can have it done by
contract and deduct the cost from the municipality's share of the National
Highway Fund.
5.07      Since the constitutions of the individual consortia and agencies
vary, detailed information about the sub-borrowing agency or consortium will
be stated in the request for financial assistance under the proposed program.
Thus, at the time of sub-loan appraisal under this proposed project, an in-
depth analysis of the sub-borrower will be carried out by BNDE.
5.08      The technical competence of the municipal consortia, particularly
their professional expertise in planning, design,execution and maintenance
of municipal roads, varies considerably - certain consortia have sufficient
funds to buy equipment and hire qualified professionals while other consortia
have weak financial bases and, hence, are also technically weak. For this
reason, adequate guarantees are required from the state governments, both
with regard to financial backing and to the technical execution of the sub-
projects.
6. THE PROJECT
A.   General Description
6.01      The proposed project would consist of a program administered by
BNDE, with on-lending to sub-borrowers, for the construction and improve-
ment of rural roads. Specifically, the program would comprise:
(a) the construction, rehabilitation or improvement of rural
roads linking agricultural areas to federal and state
trunk networks;
(b)  the improvement of earth roads to an all-weather status
in isolated areas of high economic potential; and
(c) the construction of new minimum standard all-weather roads
in virgin areas of high agricultural potential.



- 15 -
6.02      Apart from the immediate advantages of improved and reliable road
access, in the longer term, the project is expected to:
(a) facilitate the modernization of the agricultural sector;
(b) facilitate changes that would contribute to a higher
commercialization of the agricultural sector;
(c) provide the means and the incentives for higher
agricultural productivity through better use of the
land within the zone of influence of the existing trans-
portation system;
(d) break down the isolation of some areas in order to
improve health, education and social interaction and
promote increased demographic and territorial inter-
relationships; and
(e) promote the institutional development of the participating
agencies, particularly the state DER's and the municipal
consortia but also DNER and BNDE, in appraising and super-
vising secondary and feeder road projects.
6.03      The program would be jointly financed by IBRD, BNDE, DNER and the
sub-borrowers, with DNER's contribution being in the form of a donation.
The program is expected to cost US$237 million equivalent, financed as follows:
IBRD                      US$55 million        23.2%
BNDE                      US$55 million         23.2%
DNER                      IUS$32 million        13.5%
Beneficiaries             US$95 million         40.1%
The proposed Bank loan would consist of a line of credit extended through the
Government to BNDE. BNDE would, in turn, on-lend the proceeds of the loan to
state DER's or to municipal consortia, or both. A condition for loan effect-
iveness is that a subsidiary agreement has been signed between DNER and BNDE,
securing DNER's financial and technical participation in the project.
6.04      Sub-borrowers would apply the proceeds of the sub-loans to procure
the construction, rehabilitation or improvement of roads and structures, and
the procurement of consulting services to carry out the final engineering and
supervise the execution of civil works. Eligible expenditures under the
program would be financed in the same proportion as each entity contributes
to the total funding of the program. Thus, Bank participation would be
23.2% of the total cost of sub-projects or components of them, which is
within Bank estimates of the foreign exchange component (para. 6.28) for
these types of roads.



- 16 -
6.05      Sub-projects may include the following types of work:
(a) new construction -- construction of roads, where none existed
before, to the specified standards (Table 7);
(b) improvements - upgrading of an existing road to the
specified standard, substantially along the existing
alignment of the road; and
(c) rehabilitation -- replacement of sections of roadway
that have failed; such work may consist of replacing
drainage structures and bridges, or constructing them
where none exist, and constructing side ditches or any
other rehabilitation to meet the specified standard.
B.   Sub-Project Eligibility and Preparation
6.06      Roads eligible for financing under the proposed program would have
to meet conditions (d) and (e), and at least one of conditions (a), (b) and
(c) below:
(a)  they would be roads linking agricultural communities or
areas to federal or state trunk networks, or to market
centers, consumption centers or export centers;
(b) they would provide road access to previously unsettled
areas which have demonstrated potential for agricultural
development (according to the methodologies defined later
in this report);
(c) they would be municipal roads, or state roads not otherwise
due to be constructed to state road standards within the
next 10 years;
(d) they would have a maximum (average annual) volume of
traffic of 200 vehicles per day in the first year after
rehabilitation or improvement of existing facilities, or
completion of construction of new roads; and
(e) they would have to attain a minimum economic rate of return
of 10%, according to the methodology described later in
this report and in the Manual for Applicants (para. 2.04).
6.07      For a first loan under this program to any state DER or municipal
consortium, the roads to be financed would have to be part of a state's highway
plan or of state, regional or sectoral development programs. However, if a
road is not part of or framed into any of the above, a pronouncement of the
State Planning Department, in writing, regarding the compatibility of the
road with state development programs would be required.



- 17 -
6.08      Subsequent to a first loan, further loans would be made only for
roads included in either a state highway plan, a river basin development plan
or any other broad planning program developed by the State Planning Department
or other equivalent authority within the state.
6.09      Responsibility for the preparation and presentation of sub-loan
applications to BNDE would rest with the sub-borrower. Applications would
be supported by technical and economic studies of the roads as well as
detailed information on the financial position of the sub-borrower and its
capability to plan, supervise construction and maintain the roads. Few
sub-borrowers currently have the capability to carry out by themselves the
project analysis, particularly the economic evaluation of the roads. It is
consequently expected that consultants will be hired to prepare the feasibility
studies in collaboration with the sub-borrowers' resident staff (such con-
sultancy, however, is not eligible for financing under the project). Prepara-
tion work should be greatly facilitated by the guidelines contained in the
Manual to be provided to all interested applicants. The detailed provisions
of the Manual were agreed during negotiations.
C.   Methodology for Sub-Project Evaluation
6.10      The methodology for the economic evaluation of the sub-projects is
explained in the Manual for Applicants. Three cases would be considered in
the development of the economic analysis, depending on the character of the
area in which the sub-project is located, as follows:
(a)  Sub-projects in relatively developed areas, where economic
activity and, consequently, traffic are already substantial
(say, at least 150 ADT). In these cases, economic justifi-
cation based on vehicle operating cost savings would be
accepted. However, savings accruing only from normal
traffic would be allowed, and savings from generated traffic
would not be accepted. Most of these cases would deal either
with rehabilitation or improvement of existing roads and
bridges.
(b)  Sub-projects in areas where no road existed before.  In
such cases, the expected net value added of new production
would be used. This approach requires a thorough research
of the agricultural prospects of the area of influence of the
road, estimates of acreages that would be put into production,
yields, farm-gate prices, production costs, transportation
costs, etc. to enable the net value added by the new produc-
tion to be calculated. A clear explanation of the rationale for
the assumptions used in forecasting the best estimate of likely
developments would be required. This method requires that estimates
of production and yields be based on plausible and realistic
assumptions and permits establishing a direct connection between
the benefits and the complementary investments required to bring
these benefits about. These latter investments would be considered
part of the cost of the project for economic analysis purposes but
not for financing purposes (para. 6.11e.)



- 18 -
(c) Sub-projects in relatively undeveloped areas, where economic
activity and, consequently, traffic is low (say, 10 to 150
ADT), or in cases where one can expect substantial development
from .he road. In these cases, a combination of the two
methods above would be accepted. In other words, vehicle
operating cost savings to normal traffic only would be
supplemented by the net value added from increased produc-
tion estimated in the same way as if this were a virgin
area. Again, assumptions would have to be spelled out
clearly and their plausibility assessed, and care would be
exercised not to double count benefits. Similarly, a
thorough review of constraints to development would have to
accompany this analysis to ensure that estimated increased
volumes of production would be possible.
6M1       The methodologies require essentially that the following informa-
tion be obtained:
(a) Description and analysis of the area of influence of the
proposed sub-project, including relevant maps of the federal,
state and municipal road networks, and an explanation of the
objectives sought with the proposed road.
(b) Description of the development plans for the area and an
explanation of how the proposed road fits into such plans.
(c) Description and quantification of the expected benefits,
including, when applicable, vehicle operating cost savings
and the effect upon agricultural production, storage,
distribution and marketing. Non-economic, social and other
benefits that cannot be quantified would be described.
(d) Identification, to an extent satisfactory to the Bank,
of the likely beneficiaries of the expected reduction in
transportation costs throughout the distribution system,
whether producers, intermediaries such as truckers, whole-
salers, retailers, or consumers, and, inasmuch as practicable,
an identification of the strata of the population that would
benefit.
(e) Identification and description of constraints in sectors
other than transportation that might prevent the materialization
of the full expected impact of the road investment in the area
of influence. Possible solutions to these constraints to develop-
ment would be offered, and estimates of the cost of removing them
would be included. These costs would be added to the road invest-
mert costs (g) below for the purposes of calculating the economic
return (M) below.



- 19 -
(f) Description of the engineering alternatives and the standard
proposed for the work, whether the road would be class A or
B, as described in the Manual (Table 7).
(g) Cost estimates based on preliminary engineering designs prepared
either after field studies or using other techniques, such as
aerial photography.
(h) Estimate of the total costs, including road construction costs,
maintenance costs over the expected life of the road, i.e., 10
years, and other complementary investments as identified
in (e) above; and a description of the anticipated sources
of financing, particularly for the complementary investments.
(i) Calculation of the economic rate of return over the expected
life of the road, i.e., 10 years, including a sensitivity
analysis of the rate with respect to a 20% increase in the
costs.
6.12      It is the sub-borrower's responsibility to develop the necessary
information and analysis. Considering the limited resources of most of the
expected sub-borrowers, the methodologies to be used in the evaluation of
sub-projects were designed to:
(a) be sufficiently simple, yet adequate, to be applied by
such sub-borrowers; at the same time, however, the method-
ologies should be sufficiently flexible to permit a more
sophisticated analysis wherever it can be provided;
(b) take into account that, in most states, data and statistical
information are limited. The objective would then be to
utilize available sources first and to develop new data
afterward;
(c) be flexible enough to handle varied situations ranging from
roads with some established traffic to roads with very low
levels of existing traffic and to roads in areas where none
existed before; and
(d) be relatively simple and inexpensive and, hence, not
out of tune with the costs of executing the project, since
the latter would tend to be low.
6.13      Sub-project costs would, at the sub-borrower's option, be esti-
'mated on one of the following bases: (a) unit costs as published by either
DNER for all regions of the country or by the DER for the specific state in
question; or (b) the Highway Unit Cost Manual published by DNER, appropriately
adjusted for price changes by means of the price index calculated by the
Getulio Vargas Foundation. Costs would be increased a total of 40% to account
for detailed engineering and supervision (15%) and general administration and
mobilization (10%); on the totals thus obtained, adjustments on account of
physical contingencies (5%) and taxes and profits (7%) would be applied.



- 20 -
6.14      The economic analysis would be carried out on the basis of economic
costs, for which purpose direct costs (as determined above, para. 6.13) would
be adjusted for taxes and transfers as follows: earthworks (-17%), pavement
(-13%), drainage works (-22%), minor structures (-15%) and complementary works
(-20%). These adjustments have been developed from studies carried out in
various states of Brazil and are normally accepted by both DNER and BNDE.
D.   Sub-Project Review
6.15      BNDE alone would be responsible for approving applications for
assistance under the program; however, in deciding whether to approve a sub-
project or not, BNDE would have the assistance of DNER. DNER would analyze
the technical adequacy of the proposal, including a review of the standards,
the costs, the capability of the applicant to supervise the construction and
carry out the maintenance of the roads, the compatibility of the proposal
with federal or state road or highway development plans, and the suitability
of the plan for the execution of the project. BNDE would be responsible for
the analysis of the economic viability of the sub-project. Conditions for
acceptance are laid out in paragraphs 6.06, 6.07 and 6.08.
6.16      For the purposes of carrying out its own appraisal of each appli-
cation, including an assessment of the creditworthiness of the applicant
and its financial capacity to contribute its share of the costs as well as
its capacity to maintain the roads built, BNDE has agreed to strengthen its
Permanent Working Group to about double its present size, i.e., to consist
of at least two economists, five engineers, one lawyer and one financial
analyst or accountant. This Group, which would always make site inspections
of the sub-projects, would be responsible for the economic and financial
analysis of the proposal and for reviewing comments submitted by the other
parties involved in the decision process. The Group would also prepare a
report upon which the decision regarding the application would be based.
6.17      In order to carry out its duties under the program, DNER has
agreed to create two Working Groups, one within the Directorate of Planning
to analyze applications, and one within the Directorate of Construction to
monitor the execution of the program. The staffing, functions, duties and
authorities of the Working Groups both in BNDE and DNER were agreed during
negotiations, and their being established, fully staffed and operational,
is a condition for loan effectiveness.
6.18      A central goal of the project is to promote the institutional
development of the participating agencies in appraising and supervising the
execution of secondary and feeder road projects. For this reason, the Bank
would review and comment on all individual applications which fall into one
or more of the*following three categories:
(a) the first project to be submitted by each sub-borrower except
for projects submitted by the state highway departments of Minas
Gerais, Parana, Rio de Janeiro, Rio Grande do Sul, Santa Catarina
and Sao Paulo.



- 21 -
(b) the first project to be submitted by any sub-borrower under
any alternative method of selecting roads other than that
contained in the Manual (para. 6.06), for example, based on an
overall highway plan (para. 6.08), or as may be agreed upon as
the program progresses; or
(c) those with Bank participation of US$2.5 million or more
(involving a sub-project size of US$10.8 million or more).
This "free limit" of US$2.5 million was agreed during negotiations.
6.19      On this basis, the Bank would review about 12 to 14 sub-projects
out of a total number of 30 to 40 expected under the program. For such
sub-projects that require Bank review, BNDE would send a copy of the appli-
cation to the Bank. The Bank would then, within 60 days, accept or reject
the sub-project or any road within a sub-project, according to the criteria
set out in paragraphs 6.06, 6.07 and 6.08. Sub-projects or components not
approved by the Bank in accordance wiith the foregoing procedure would be
excluded from the project.
E.   Sub-Project Execution and Supervision
6.20      Once an application has been accepted, the sub-borrower may proceed
to have the final engineering done. There are two alternatives for this:
(a) the sub-borrower may do the engineering with his own
resources if, in BNDE's opinion (taking cognizance of DNER's
opinion), adequate expertise and capacity are available to
him; in this case, the program would not pay for the cost of
the engineering; or
(b) the sub-borrower may hire consultants to do the work if
he so desires, or if BNDE so insists; in this case, the
consultant would have to be approved by BNDE (after
obtaining DNER's opinion), and the program would pay for
the services of such consultant in the same proportions
as other expenses are paid.
The execution of the engineering would be closely monitored by DNER and BNDE,
and the Bank would be kept informed on the progress of the work.
6.21      If the costs based on the final engineering were to exceed the cost
estimates contained in the application (which would be based on preliminary
engineering designs, para. 6.11(g)) by more than 20%, a new project evaluation
would be required from the applicant.
6.22      The sub-borrower would be responsible for the execution of the
sub-project. Procurement of civil works would follow the Government's
competitive bidding procedures with local advertising only, which is acceptable
and in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for these types of works. Although
these procedures allow foreign contractors to bid, it is expected that most,
if not all, of the civil works would be contracted to local firms. Procedures
for civil works procurement are contained in Decree-Law No. 200 of February 25,
1967 and in Decree No. 73.140 of November 9, 1973, both of which have been



- 22 -
reviewed and are found acceptable since they ensure adequate competition and
reasonable prices. Local advertising only is appropriate for these feeder and
secondary roads projects since the roads would be of relatively low cost and
would be scattered over several states, so that foreign firms, not already
established in Brazil, would not be interested. Procurement procedures and
the Bank's review of procurement were agreed during negotiations.
6.23      Contracts for the construction, rehabilitation or improvement of
roads are thus expected to be let, in practically all cases, to construction
contractors already established in Brazil. To this effect, DNER would carry
out a preliminary assessment of the capacity of the construction industry in
the state of the applicant to tailor the size and scope of sub-projects
(within the overall US$20 million limit imposed for any individual applica-
tion, para. 6.32) to the capacity of any applicant to carry out the road
building program proposed. Assurances by the Government that this study will
be carried out were obtained during negotiations.
6.24      Supervision of sub-projects would formally rest with the sub-borrowers
themselves, and, to this effect, their capacity to carry out this task would be
assessed at an early stage in the process of reviewing applications. If, in
the opinion of BNDE (upon DNER's advice), the sub-borrower has the capacity
to supervise the works himself, this would be permitted, but not paid for by
the program. If, on the other hand, the sub-borrower hires a consultant for
this task (preference being given to the consultant who carried out the final
design), the cost of this service would be eligible for financing under
the program and would be covered in the same proportions as the contributions
to the funding of it (para. 6.03).
6.25      BNDE, with the assistance of DNER, would also, by means of regular
supervision, ensure that the terms and conditions of the sub-loans, particular-
ly the technical standards of construction, are adhered to. Hence, BNDE, with
the help of DNER, would closely monitor the progress of sub-projects and inform
the Bank accordingly in a summary report every quarter. The Permanent Working
Group in BNDE (para. 6.16) and the Working Group in DNER's Directorate of
Construction (para. 6.17) would be responsible for these tasks. The prepara-
tion and submission of reports by BNDE to the Bank were agreed during
negotiations.
6.26      The Bank would take the following measures to assure proper execu-
tion of the program (Annex 1):
(a) Based on the information on the progress of the work as
supplied by BNDE and DNER (para. 6.20), review and approve
ex-ante-facto the final engineering for those sub-projects
that require Bank review of the application (para. 6.18), and
ex-post-facto, on a sample basis, for other sub-projects.
(b) Review a sample of procurement documents and contract awards
on an ex-post-facto basis, with the right to exclude from
financing such contracts not awarded following the agreed
procedures (para. 6.22).



- 23 -
(c) Review progress reports and other pertinent information (para. 6.25).
(d) Provide supervision missions which would analyze the
efficiency of the institutions in operational procedures,
visit sub-project sites to review progress and quality and,
on a continuing basis, reassess the program to see whether
it would need changes to improve it. This review by Bank
staff would, however, of necessity, be on a sample basis.
Bank supervision would, by means of discussion and exchange
of views, emphasize training of the groups within BNDE and
DNER taking care of project appraisal and supervision. It is
expected that, after a relatively heavy initial Bank involvement,
supervision could be reduced, leaving most of the burden to BNDE
and DNER.
6.27      Engineering for sub-projects is expected to start in late 1976.  The
first civil works are expected to start early in 1977 and to be completed over
a two-year period. The funds of the program are expected to be committed in
about three years and disbursed in about six. The project should, therefore,
be completed in early 1981. A typical implementation schedule for a sub-
project is given in Annex 1; this schedule was discussed and agreed during
negotiations. Annex 1 also shows the appropriate supervisory input by the
Bank. The indicators to be used for project monitoring are discussed in
Annex 1. An understanding was reached with the Government to the effect that
GEIPOT (the Government's Transport Planning Company) would carry out the
necessary studies for project monitoring in a form and time acceptable to the
Bank (para. 6.35).
F.   Financing and Disbursements
6.28      The foreign exchange component of construction has been estimated
at 26% on the assumption that all work would be executed by local firms, using
locally produced equipment almost exclusively. The foreign exchange for
consultants' services is estimated at 15% (mainly for imported equipment).
Assuming further that consultant services would amount to about 10% of the
construction cost, the overall foreign exchange component would be about 25%.
6.29      The Bank would reimburse BNDE 23.2% of the total cost of sub-
projects; BNDE would likewise finance 23.2%; DNER would contribute, as a grant,
13.5%; and the remaining 40.1% would be financed by the sub-borrowers. The
Bank would make reimbursement to BNDE against applications supported by certi-
ficates and relevant documentation presented periodically by BNDE showing the
amounts it had disbursed to sub-borrowers. The Bank would, however, reserve
the right to review ex-post-facto a sample of bid documents and bid evaluation
procedures for sub-projects for which reimbursements are being claimed and to
exclude from financing those contracts not awarded according to the require-
ments of paragraph 6.Z2. Disbursement procedures were agreed during negotia-
tions.
6.30      The estimated disbursement schedule, shown in Table 8, reflects the
expected implementation schedule discussed in paragraph 6.27.



- 24 -
G.   Sub-Loan Teruns and Conditions
6.31      The proposed project would help finance a program of sub-loans to
states and municipal consortia; these sub-loans would be made available for
a period of not less than eight and not more than ten years plus two to two-
and-one-half years of grace (the latter depending on the expected construction
period for each particular sub-project). They would be made in cruzeiros and
indexed according to ORTN's to adjust for internal monetary variations and
would bear interest at the following rates, depending on the state of the
applicant (these were agreed during negotiations):
4%   for the States of Amazonas, Para, Acre, Maranhao,
Piaui, Ceara, Rio Grande do Norte, Paraiba, Pernambuco,
Alagoas, Sergipe, Bahia, Espirito Santo, Goias, Mato
Grosso and the Territories;
5%   for the States of Rio Grande do Sul, Santa Catarina,
Parana, Rio de Janeiro and Minas Gerais; and
7%   for the State of Sao Paulo.
BNDE would fully bear the exchange risk between the currencies disbursed by
the Bank and the Brazilian cruzeiro.
6.32      A maximum limit to any individual application for assistance of
US$20 million equivalent has been agreed; however, it is expected that the
average size of applications would be on the order of about US$7 million,
mainly because applicants would be expected to carry out all works proposed
in an application at about the same time instead of spreading them over a
longer period of years. This is necessary in order to (a) avoid overstated
ueeds just to get a commitment of financial assistance and have disbursements
delayed for this reason, (b) reduce the cost of preparing final designs and
(c) reduce the risk inherent in making estimates too far in advance of execu-
tion.
6.33      Similarly, in order to avoid overconcentration of the resources of
the program in the states better able to prepare applications, i.e., the
more developed states of the country - a situation considered undesirable in
terms of the aims of the program - the Bank agreed with the Government
and BNDE during negotiations not to spend more than US$40 million equivalent
in any one state. Assuming that the more developed states would prepare
applications of the maximum allowable size, this would limit the number of
operations in any one of the more advanced states to two.
6.34      An important condition of the financial assistance under the program
would be the assumption by the beneficiary of the responsibility for the mainte-
nance of the roads built. To this effect, formal agreement would be contained
in the sub-loan contracts, between BNDE and the DER's and, in the case of a
municipal consortium, a formal agreement between it and the state would be
required before the sub-loan is effected. Assurances of the Government to
this effect were obtained during negotiations.



- 25 -
H.   Socio-Economic Impact Study
6.35      In connection with the proposed project, the Government would
undertake a study, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, of the
contribution of rural roads to the economic and social development in their
areas of influence. The study would involve the monitoring and evaluation,
through surveys carried out periodically over a period of not less than five
years after their completion, of economic and social activity on a sample of
roads. The results would help improve the selection, planning and appraisal
of rural roads by identifying the most relevant factors to be considered in
the analysis. The study would be financed entirely by the Government.
7. JUSTIFICATION OF THE PROJECT
7.01      It is almost axiomatic that agricultural productivity will not be
increased to a significant degree where access roads are impassable or non-
existent, where transport costs are high, and where ability to get to the
markets is uncertain. Under these conditions, there are neither the means
nor the incentives to produce a surplus. This project is geared to help in
solving these problems, which, in spite of the efforts being made by the
Brazilian Government, still exist in some regions of the country.
7.02      Traditionally, in Brazil, increases in agricultural production have
been accomplished by placing additional land into production. Now, however,
because new available lands are distant from the main markets and lack invest-
ments in supporting infrastructure, further gains can also be most economically
achieved through a better use of the land within the zone of influence of the
existing transportation systems. A limiting factor in attaining these gains
is the inadequate rural transportation infrastructure in areas of agricultural
potential in the zone of influence of federal and state trunk roads. The
proposed project would help in solving this situation not only inasmuch as it
would produce significant benefits in road user savings to existing traffic,
but also in the provision of better accessibility to the rural population.
7.03      Improved access also increases rural contact with services from
Government agencies and private sources and companies, including extension
services, medical and veterinary coverage, marketing cooperatives, credit
agencies, and equipment suppliers. In many cases, however, the provision of
these services has to be motivated and channeled, and additional investments
may be required to bring about an effective incorporation of the agricultural
sector into the modern section of the economy. The channeling of the resources
of the project through a national financial institution, such as BNDE, affords
the Bank assurances that the proper incentives and ancillary investments would
be present, planned by the appropriate authorities, or induced by the program.
Similarly, BNDE, as a major source of financial means for development purposes,
is in a good position to collaborate with, and to seek guarantees from, state
authorities to the effect that obstacles to development, identified in the



- 26 -
process of elaborating the sub-projects, would be removed either concurrently
with, or as an extension of, the road investment. In this sense, the project
is in keeping with the objective of maximizing the return on investments and,
consequently, the growth prospects of the country.
7.04      A large part of the construction needs of the federal highway system
have been, or are being, met, and, in the future, more of the total resources
available for highway construction should be used for high priority works on
the state highways and the rural systems and for improvements in the cities.
The proposed project is in keeping with this shift in emphasis and in line
with the Bank's policy of reaching the rural population of its member countries.
7.05      Apart from a need for improved transport in areas already developed,
Brazil needs roads for the new areas being brought into cultivation in the
frontier states. Some settlement is taking place along the network of main
highways being built across the interior of the country, but increased invest-
ment in rural roads is essential if the interior is to be occupied in an
economically meaningful way, and not merely traversed by the new trunk roads.
The proposed project makes provision for the construction of connections
between these new areas and the main trunk network in order to increase the
use of that network.
7.06      A global rate of return has not been calculated for the Bank project,
nor for its components, because the feasibility studies for the sub-projects
to be included in the program have not been completed. However, the economic
justification of the roads to be financed under the program will be in con-
formance with the proposition that the cost of the resources used yield
economic benefits at least as high as if committed to alternative uses. To
this effect, sub-projects to be financed will have to attain a minimum eco-
nomic rate of return of 10%.
7.07      Judging from BNDE's past experience with similar projects, albeit
assessed by a different method which the revised Manual has improved (paras.
6.10 and 6.11), rates of return for sub-projects may be expected to vary
between 10% and 40%. To wit, BNDE has previously financed programs in the
State of Maranhao, for which the economic rates of return of sub-projects
varied between 11% and 37%, in Ceara with rates between 13% and 39%, in
Mato Grosso with rates varying between 10% and 30% and in Bahia, where rates
varied between 20% and 40%. The weighted average economic rate of return for
these projects was about 25%.
7.08      To give a notion of the operation of the methodology contained in
the revised Manual (paras. 6.10 and 6.11), a hypothetical example has been
prepared. Details are given in Annex 2.
7.09      Finally, although difficult to judge at this time because of the
uncertainties with relation to the specific roads to be included in the appli-
cations, it is expected that most of the benefits, if not all of them, would
accrue to farmers in the areas of influence of the sub-projects or to consumers
of the products generated by the expected increase in agricultural production.



- 27 -
Since competition in the road transport industry in Brazil is quite high,
it is expected that few of the potential benefits will remain in the truckers'
hands without being passed on, either to producers or consumers.
8. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government
and BNDE on:
(a) the detailed provisions of the Manual for Applicants for
the preparation of projects (para. 6.09);
(b) the staffing, functions, duties and authorities of the
Working Groups in BNDE and DNER (para. 6.17);
(c)  the free limit below which BNDE may authorize projects
without Bank review (para. 6.18);
(d) the procurement procedures and the Bank's review of
procurement (para. 6.22);
(e) the preparation and submission of reports by BNDE to
the Bank (para. 6.25);
(f) the typical implementation schedule of a sub-project
(para. 6.27);
(g) the disbursement procedures (para. 6.29);
(h) the terms and conditions of sub-loans, particularly the
interest rates to be charged by BNDE to sub-borrowers
(para. 6.31); and
(i) the limitation of the amount of investment in individual
sub-projects (para. 6.32) and the volume of funds that may
be used in any one state (para. 6.33).
8.02      During negotiations, Government assurances were obtained:
(a) that DNER will carry out preliminary assessments of the
capacity of the construction industry in the states where
sub-projects are to be located (para. 6.23); and
(b) that satisfactory agreements will be established between states,
municipal consortia and BNDE for the maintenance of roads
built under the program (para. 6.34).



- 28 -
8.03      Conditions for loan effectiveness are:
(a)  that a subsidiary agreement has been signed between DNER
and BNDE, securing DNER's financial and technical partici-
pation in the project (para. 6.03); and
(b)  that the Working Groups both in DNER and BNDE have been
established and are fully staffed and operational (para. 6.17).
8.04      With the agreements and assurances indicated, the proposed project
provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$55 million equivalent to the
Government of the Federal Republic of Brazil. An appropriate term would be 16
years, including a grace period of five years.
January 21, 1976



TABLE 1
BRAZIL
SECONDARY AND FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
1905 vs  1972 T-{ighway Network
(thousands of kilometers)
Paved      %      Unpaved                 T Total    %        of
change               charge             change    Total
19-.U   12.h                22.0                 34.6              4.
Federal                      135                   35                 71
1972   29.b                 29.7                 59.3              4.7
19o5   13.8                 81.0                 94.8             128. 
State                        119                   42                 53
1972   30.2                115.2                145.4             11.U
19b5     -                 621.5                621.5             82.
Junicipal                                          70                 70
1972    2.0              1,053.0              1,055.0             83.7
1965   26.4                724.5                750.9            100.0
TOTAL                        134                   b5                 b8
1972   ol.8              1,197.9              1,259.7            100.0
1965    3.5                 9b.4                100
< of TOTAL
1972    4.9                 95.1                100
Source: DNER
july  1975



BRAZIL
SECONDAIRY AND FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Highways per cApita and per unit of area
Population            Area 2           Total Highways            Highway Network
('000)           ('000 km )                (km)            km per 000   km peS 000
population      km
0/0        _2 /0/ , _/°
Southern Region /     17,662   17.6       578    6.8        35,143     17.2             2.0         60o8
Centre-East Region    42,710   42.7        925   10,9       62,282     30.4             1.5         67.3
Centre-West Region     4,893    4.9     1,873   22.0        38,823     19,0             7.9         20.7
Northeast Region      30,361   30.3    1i546   18.2         49,470     2402             1.6          32.0
Northern Region       4h,444    4.4    3.584   42.1         19,046      9.3            4h2           5.3
TOTAL          100,070   100      8,506    100       204,764      100             2.0         24.1
1  ParanA, Sta. Catarina, Rio Grande do Sul
M Minas Gerais, Espirito Santo, Rio de Janeiro, Sao Paulo
/ Goias,  NIato Grosso
M Maranhaq, Pia 4  Ceara, Rio Grande do Norte, Paraiba, Pernambuco , AIagoas, Sergipe, Bahia
/ Para, Amazonas, l3ondo^nia , Acre, uioraima , Amap' , Fernando de Noronha, Distrito Federal. ,
Source:  DNWh, April 1974



BRAZIL
SErONDARY AND FEEDER ROADS PIDIJICT
BNDE: Staffing Situation
BNDE
Staff on Hand
New Recruits             Tenainations              at end of  year
1972   1973   1974        1972   1973   19714      1972   1973   1974
Management                           18     15      11          2       8      4       126    133    140
Professional staff                   33     48    147           7      35     23       208    221    345
Economists                         4      11      36          -      5       4        51      57      89
Engineers                          4      11      27          2      7       4        50      54      77
Business  tdministrators            -      -       2          1       -      -         9       9      11
Financial analysts                  -      4      21          -       3      2        45      46      65
Lawyers                            8       4      23          2       5      5        44      43      61
Other                              17     18      38          2      15      8         9      12      42
Other Staff                          13     11    168           3      16     17       353    348    499
TOTAL               64      74    326          12     59      44       687    702    984
Source:  BNDE
LCPDF
Septermber 1975



TABLE 4
BRAZIL
SECONDARY AND FEEDER IIDADS PROJECT
BNDE: Audited Comparative Balance Sheets, Detcember 31. 1972-1974
(millions of current Cruzeiror)
ASSETS                                   _       1972        1973
CURRENT ASSETSI'
Cash, Bank balances
and funds in transit                          493.5       490.4      1,293.1
LOANS OUTSTANDING
Subsidiaries2/                                1,703.9      2,770.8     4,576.3
Govt. tnterprises                             1,972.5      2,644.3     3,887.6
Private enterprises3/                         4,376.7      6 605.7    15,000.6
Gross loan portfolio                          8,053.1   '2,020.8    23,464.5
Less:  provisions against doubtful loans        340.1        337.5       337.5
Net loan portfolio                            7,713.0    11,653.3    23,127.0
INVESTMENTS                                     3,024.2      3,597.7     5,649.3
FIXED ASSETS (NET)                                 47.2         69.9        84.5
OTHER ASSETS                                      382.0        105.4       136.9
TOTAL ASSETS                           11,659.9    15,946.7    30,290.8
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
CURRErlT LIABILITIES-/                            551.6        658.o     1,363.3
LONG-TERM BORROWfINGS                           3,284.7      5,144.0    13 873.1
Central Bank                                  1,615.2      2,626.9     4,717.o
Fed. Savings Bank                               160.0        431.2     2,141.2
Bank of Brasil                                   -            51.9     1,669.4
Nat. Housing Bank                                66.3        138.9     2,307.0
FINAME                                           -            97.2       245.6
Brazilian Treasury                              558.8        218.9       185.9
Foreign currency loans                          884.4      1,579.0     2,606.2
OTHER LIABILITIES                                 209.2        197.3       356.0
EQUITY                                          7,614.4      9,947.4    14,698.4
Share capital                                 5,069.4      5,069.4     9,000.0
Special Reserve                               1,420.0      1,420.0        -
Reserve for capital increase                    380.0      1,886.3     5,457.8
Govt. budgetary contributions                   709.6      1,459.6        -
Miscellanous reserves                            35.4        112.1       240.6
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY           11,659.9    15,946.7    30,290.8
CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
Guarantees (BNDE's responsibility             1,347.3      1,222.8     1,455.3
Guarantees (Treasury's responsibility)        2 479.3      2,388.7     3 104 7
Total Guarantees                     3,826.6     3,611.5      4!560.o
Loans committed but not disbursed               2,076.8      2,829.1     8,322.1
1/ Current assets and liabilities are not fully represneted under these accounts;
current Central Bank Accounting Plan does not negregate short and long term.
2/ Three steel industries and FINAME does not represent all of BNDE's pending to
subsidiaries.
3/ Does not necessarily comprise loans only to private sector.
LCPDF
September 1975



TABLE 5
BRAZIL
SECONDARY AND FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
BNDE: Audited Comparative Income Statements, Years ended December 31, 1972-1974
(Millions of current Cruzeiros)
1972           1973            1974
INCOME
Interest on loans                             424.4           581.o           901.2
Commissions and other charges                  30.2            35.5            63.0
Monetary correction on loans_/                   T/           875.6         4,159.7
SUB-TOTAL                                      1,492.1         5,123.9
Guarantee charges                               34.2           27.2            29.3
Dividends                                       34.4          103-5           119.9
Share bonuses                                 148.9           366.2           100.7
Other income                                    28.5           13.3            16.2
TOTAL INCOME                      700.6        2,002.3         5,390.0
EXPENSES
Interest and commissions on borros g          10>.7           277.7           631.5
Monetary correction on borrowings1              1              94.9           913.9
Salaries and other pers. charges               46.4            51.1            73.7
Other administrative and gen. expenses          34.9           63.1            77.8
Grants                                           -             51.9            26.4
Provision fund                                268.3             _               -
TOTAL EXPENSES                    455.3          538.7         1,723.3
NET PROFIT                        2453. /       1.463.6        3,666.7
APPROPRIATIONS
Reserve for capital increase                  219.6         1,445.8         3,483.4
Miscellaneous Reserves                          25.7           17.8           18.3
TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS              245.3        1,463.6         3,666.7
1/ Prior to 1974 BNDE adopted an accounting procedure whereby the net income from
monetary correction, foreign exchange operations, and share bonuses due to
monetary correction of fixed assets, was directly incorporated into an equity
account-Reserve for Capital Increase. Starting in 1974, monetary correction, etc.,
is first accounted in the Income Statement. The 1973 Income Statement has been
adjusted to the new procedure. The net monetary connection during 1972 was
735.9 million.
2/ On an adjusted basis, according to the above note 1/ the net profit during 1972
would be Cr$981.2 million.
LCPDF
September 1975



TABLE 6
BRAZIL
SECONDARY AND FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
BNDE: Past (1972-1974) F-inancial Ratios
1972        1973         1974
Total income as % of average total
assets (ATA)                            1/          14.5         23.3
Financial Expenses % of ATA                T/            2.7         6.7
Gross Spread as % of ATA                   T/          11.8         16.6
Administrative Expenses as % of ATA        T0.8          0.8         0.7
Provisions as % of ATA                      3.4         2.4          1.5
Provisions as % of loan and equity
portfolio                                3.2         2.2          1.2
Income on loans as % of average loan
portfolio                               1/          15.0         29.1
Financial expenses as % of average
borrowings                              1/           8.9         16.2
Nominal net profit as % of average
Share capital                           20.6        28.9         52.1
Equity                                  14.3        16.6         24.9
Nominal net Income (Cr$ million)2/        981.2     1,463.o      3,667.0
Adjusted Net Income (Cr$ million)3/      (177-3)      137.2        142.8
Total Debt/Equity                           0.53        o.60         1.06
Including Guarantees                     0.71        0.73         1.16
1/  Owing to accounting procedures prevailing through 1972 which netted
monetary correction on assets and liability and credited the balance
directly to equity, it. is not possible to calculate this ratio.
2/  Includes the net monetary correction for the year.
3/  Adjw ted for inflation-allowing for equity value maintenance.
Souroe: BNDF
LCPDF
September lQ75



TABLE 7
BRAZIL
SECONDARY AND FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Rural Road Design Standards for IBRD-BNDE Project
Class A    Class B
Specification                Type of Terrain         Road       Road
First Year Traffic (ADT)                                      50-200   (50
Flat to Rolling*              60         60
Design Speed (km/hr)            Rolling to Hilly **           40          40
Hilly to Mountainous***       30         30
F to R                       110        11O
Minimum Radius (m)              R to H                        50          50
H to M                        30         30
F to R                         4          6
Maximum Gradient (%)            R to H                         6           8
H to M                         8         10
F to R                        75         75
Stopping Sight Distance (m)   R to H                          50          50
H to M                        50         50
F to R                       380        240
Passing Sight Distance (m)      R to H                       240         175
H to M                        -           -
F to R                        30         30
Right of Way Width (m)          R to H                        40          40
H to M                        50         50
F to R                       8.6        7.0
Roadway Width (m)               R to H                       8.6         7.0
H to M                       7.6        6.0
F to R                       1.3        1.0
Shoulder Width (m)              R to H                       1.3         1.0
H to M                       0.8        0.5
F to R                       6.0        5.0
Carriageway Width (m)           R to H                       6.o        5.0
H to M                       6.0        5.0
Free Width Bridges (m)                                        t.2        4.2
* Flat to Rolling terrain is on vertical slopes less than 5%.
** Rolling to Hilly terrain is on vertical slopes between 5% and 20%.
t*** Hilly to Mountainous terrain is on vertical slopes more than 20%.
Notes:
1. Gradients of more than 8% not to exceed-300 m.
2. Bridges to be of concrete o- ti.ih- to ha dpsiened to ABNT's 36-ton load standard.
3. Gravel pavements to comply with DNER's specifications in the "Manual de Implantacao
Basica".
4. Bituminous surface treatments to comply with DNER's "Especificac,oes Gerais para
Ohras Rodovi aria.s".
Source: BNDE and DNER
January 1976



TABLE 8
BRAZIL
SECONDARY AND FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year                                          Cumulative Disbursement
and End of Quarter                                           at End of Qu ±br.
US$ million
1976/77
December 31, 1976                                              o05
March 31, 1977                                                 10
June 30, 1977                                                   200
1977/78
September 30, 1977                                              40
December 31, 1977                                               8.0
March 31, 1978                                                 1200
June 30, 1978                                                 16.0
1978/79
September 30, 1978                                            20.0
December 31, 1978                                              24.0
March 31, 1979                                                 28.0
June 30, 1979                                                 32,0
1979/80
September 30, 1979                                             36.0
December 31, 1979                                              40O 0
March 31, 1980                                                 44h0
June 30, 1980                                                 47.0
1980/81
September 30, 1980                                             50.0
December 31, 1980                                              52.0
March 31, 1981                                                 54eO
June 30, 1981                                                 5500
Source:  Mission Estimate
October 1975



ANNEX 1
Page 1
BRAZIL
SECONDARY AND FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Typical Sub-Project Implementation, Supervision and Monitoring
1.        The proposed project would finance the construction and improvement
of roads as requested in specific applications. The execution of the project
is thus based on the analysis, approval and implementation of the application.
Since, at this stage, there is exact knowledge of the contents of these
applications, a well-defined implementation schedule cannot be given. How-
ever, a schedule has been developed for a typical sub-project; it should be
understood that, although the sequence of the events that take place in the
processing of an application may not vary too much, the time required to carry
them out may vary considerably with tLe nature and content of specific requests.
Table 1 of this Annex provides a sample schedule showing the sequence of key
events in a typical application and a possible timing framework.
2.        Bank supervision requirements for the project are as follows:
(a) ex-ante-facto review of all applications covered in paragraph 6.18;
(b) ex-post-facto review, on a sample basis, of other applications;
(c) ex-ante-facto review of final engineering design for all sub-
projects in (a) above;
(d) ex-post-facto review, on a sample basis, of final engineering design
for other sub-projects;
(e) ex-post-facto review, on a sample basis, of procurement documents
and contract awards for sub-projects;
(f) in-situ inspection, on a sample basis, of civil works under the
project;
(g) review of progress reports and other pertinent information sub-
mitted to the Bank monthly and quarterly by BNDE (para. 6.25), and
(h)  review, on an on-going basis,. of the efficiency of the institutions
in operational procedures and, periodically, reassessment of the
program to see whether it would need changes to improve it (para.
6.26(d)).
3.        Since it is not exactly known how many sub-projects will be covered
by the conditions in paragraph 6.18 and how many will not, firm estimates of
the supervision requirements of the project cannot be given at this time; it
is estimated that a total of 12 to 14 sub-projects will be reviewed for approval.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
Moreover, since the content of specific sub-projects is not known either,
there may be significant variations in the time devoted to any one in parti-
cular. Nonetheless, the Bank supervision requirements during the execution
of a typical sub-project can be estimated as follows;
Home Office          Field
work              work
Typical sub-project covered by
conditions in paragraph 6.18
on account of (a) above (para. 2)  2.0 man-weeks          1.0 man-week
on account of (c) above                                   1.0 man-week
on account of (e) above              0.2 man-week         0.2 man-week
on account of (f) above                   -               4.0 man-weeks
Typical sub-project not covered by
conditions in paragraph 6.18
on account of (b) above                   -               2.0 man-weeks
on account of (d) above                   -               1.0 man-week
on account of (e) above                   -               0.4 man-week
on account of (f) above                   -               3.0 man-weeks
General supervision
on account of (g) above              0.4 man-week/month  0.2 man-week/mission
on account of (h) above                                   0.4 man-week/mission
The above estimates include both the economist's and the engineer's time; the
split between the two would, on average, be about 40% and 60% respectively.
The above are estimates to completion of civil works and do not include time
for monitoring the projects either during the implementation stages or there-
after.
4.        It is clear that a project can be monitored only by quantifying the
targets it is supposed to accomplish, in this case, targets at the rural
level, which pose very difficult data-gathering and statistical problems.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
Goals such as (a) the increase in rural income; (b) the increased productivity
of land, labor and capital allocated to the agricultural exploitation before
and after the project is implemented; (c) the employment generated; (d) im-
provements in educational, health, and social services; (e) improvements in
the general quality of life for the rural people; (f) increased modernization
and monetization of the agricultural sector in the area of influence of the
roads, etc. are indeed very difficult to measure and more so to monitor on a
regular basis.
5.        It should also be clear that the "monitoring function" for these
projects should be simple and easy enough to be applicable to the very large
number of projects expected to be included in the program. It is envisaged
that no large data-gathering exercise would be mounted to monitor the impact
of these, after all, relatively inexpensive roads. Moreover, the length of
time it takes to carry out the monitoring, and the period over which the
monitoring is to be extended, should be commensurate with the nature (size, cost,
length, expected benefits) of each sub-project.
6.        For the reasons mentioned above, projects would be monitored largely
on the basis of increased traffic only and occasionally surveys tailored to
the goals and problems identified in the respective feasibility study. An
understanding was reached with the Government to the effect that the studies
required to monitor the projects would be undertaken by GEIPOT (the Government's
Transport Planning Company), in accordance with terms of reference to be agreed
upon with the Bank.
January 1976



BRAZIL
SECONDARY AND FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
TYPICAL SUB-PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
SCHEDULE
Activity                                              Months
1 2 3 h 5 6 7 8 9 lo 11 12 13 14 15              4o
1.  Review and approval of application
2.  Hiring of consultant for final engineering
3.  Execution of final engineering
4. Review and approval of final engineering                            H
5.  Tender civil works for bids
6.  Review of bids and award of contracts                                          1-j
7.  Execution of civil works                                                            1-k--A
8. Monitoring of Project /
/ A once-a-year survey designed and agreed upon with the Bank on projects
requiring ex-ante-facto approval of the Bank.
Source: Mission Estimates
January 1976                                                                                          -



ANNEX 2
Page 1
BRAZIL
SECONDARY AND FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Rural Road Appraisal Methodology (A Case Study)
Introduction
1.        This case study attempts to illustrate the practical steps necessary
to appraise a rural road investment in which there is limited normal traffic
and where substantial increases in output, particularly agricultural produc-
tion, are expected.
2.        A hypothetical 35-km road has been selected for analysis.  Improve-
ment of the road from earth to an all-weather gravel standard is proposed and
an economic life of 10 years has been assumed for the project. One terminus
of the road is an administrative and marketing center for the surrounding
district. The topography of the area ranges from flat to rolling hills.
3.        The principal economic activity in the region is agriculture, mostly
at the subsistence level. Maize, food-grain, wheat and pulses are assumed to
be the main crops exported from the region.  Limited amounts of oilseed, pepper
and coffee would also be exported. Crops grown mainly, or exclusively, for
home consumption would include potatoes and certain fruits and spices.
4.        It is assumed that over half the farmers in the district are tenants,
cultivating an average area of 0.5 ha. Rent payments to landlords would be
both in kind and cash, plus some labor contribution.
5.        Agricultural commodities would be transported from the area by truck.
Passenger transportation is by bus. Beyond the end of the road, transport is
largely by pack animal, although human porters are also used. Traffic on the
road averages four buses and four trucks per day. The area of influence of the
road comprises about 10 km on either side of it; a total of 70,000 ha is under
the influence of the road, and it contains a rural population of approximately
63,000 people. The growth rate of the population has been estimated at 2.5%
per annum.
Hypothetical Project Components
A.   Road Construction and Maintenance
6.        The major project cost would be for construction.  The total cost of
upgrading the existing 35 km of earth surface road to gravel standard is approx-
imately $4.4 million. 1/   A comprehensive program of routine and periodic
1/   The monetary sign is used for reference only and does not refer to any
particular currency.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
road maintenance will also be necessary. With such maintenance, vehicle
operating costs are estimated to remain at approximately the same level over
the life of the project. Annual road construction and maintenance expenditures
are as follows:
Construction               Maintenance
Costs                      Costs
Year                  ( $ '000)                  ( $ '000)
1975                   1111                          -
1976                   2000
1977                   1333                          -
1978                                                 35
1979                                                 35
1980                                                 35
1981                                                 87
1982                                                 35
1983                                                 35
1984                                                 35
1985                                                175
1986                                                 35
1987                                                 35
B.   Complementary Agricultural Investments
7.        Traditional methods of cultivation predominate in the project area.
Basic techniques include haphazard rotation of crops and tumble-down fallow
for livestock. Under these conditions, it is unlikely that feeder road con-
struction alone will be sufficient to-trigger significant increases in crop
yields and agricultural output.
8.        In order to maximize the impact of feeder road investments, the
project would incorporate a Minimum Package Program (MPP), whereby a selected
number of inputs is made available to subsistence farmers; these inputs would
include fertilizer, extension services, and improved seeds and harrow. Expend-
itures associated with the minimum package program represent an incremental
cost of production to be deducted from the project benefits.
9.        During the project life cycle, MPP inputs would be applied to pro-
gressively larger crop areas, which are called "improved crop areas". Benefits
from improved crops are reflected as incremental output due to increased yields.
10.       Data concerning crop areas, yields, and production costs in the area
under the influence of the road are considered in subsequent sections.
Analytical Approach
11.       The economic analysis is based on the producer surplus (value added)
approach. This approach focuses on the differences in the producers' revenues



ANNEX 2
Page 3
and costs due to the road investment and any complementary investments. It
also takes into account effects on other markets, final consumers and middle-
men.
12.       In applying the producer surplus approach, considerable effort must
be devoted to an accurate description of the existing conditions in the produc-
tive sector and changes which would be induced by the project.
A.   Information Requirements
13.       While specific data requirements will vary from case to case, the
producer surplus approach generally requires the following types of informa-
tion: 1/
(a) Area of Influence of the Road. The geographical area which would be
affected by the construction or improvement of a road, and where
implementation of the project is likely to alter land use patterns,
production costs and revenues, marketing, etc.
(b) Total Cultivated Area. The quantity of land actually under cultiva-
tion. The total cultivated area is likely to change over time and
must therefore be estimated for each year of the project.
(c) Crop Area Breakdown. A crop-by-crop division of the cultivated area.
The crop area breakdown must be forecast for the without- and with-
project cases in each year of the project. All crop land brought
into production over and above that which was cultivated in year 0
(i.e., newly cultivated land) should likewise be identified to esti-
mate the production cost function on such land.
(d) Unimproved and Improved Crop Areas. The crop areas receiving com-
plementary agricultural investments (e.g., fertilizer, extension,
improved seeds) must be determined for each crop and in each year
of the project.
(e)  Population Statistics.  The total population residing within the
area of influence (both without- and with-project) over time.
(f)  Per Capita Consumption.  The per capita consumption of persons re-
siding in the area. With the data on local population and per capita
consumption for each crop, it is possible to determine the quantity
of production consumed locally and the quantity which is exported
from the project region (i.e., the exportable surplus).
1/   The data requirements listed are applicable in cases where agriculture
(specifically crop production) is the principal economic activity in the
area.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
(g) Ex-Farm Prices. The unit farm-gate prices for each crop in both the
without- and with-project cases. To the extent that project-induced
transport cost savings are passed on to the farmers, ex-farm prices
can be expected to increase after project implementation.
(h) Agricultural Production Costs. These costs would typically include
the following components:
(i) Production Costs on Old Land and New Land; consist of expendi-
tures for labor, seed, fertilizer and so on. On New Land, it
is assumed that the same cost items are involved, but that
unit expenditures are somewhat higher, reflecting the generally
higher marginal cost curve encountered on new land. (Such land
is usually further removed from productive services than old
land and production costs are therefore greater.)
(ii) Improved Crop Area Costs; are the incremental costs of
beneficiating certain crop areas, irrespective of whether they
are old or new land. (All non-incremental or "basic" production
costs should be included in component (i) above.)
(iii) Clearing Costs on New Land; are a one-time expenditure which
occurs on new land during the year in which that land is first
brought into production.
(iv) Opportunity Cost of the Land; is dependent upon the value of
production foregone in the with-project case. It may be approx-
imated in several ways, depending on the conditions prevailing
in the area of influence.
(i) Agriculture Ttaffic Costs and Revenues. This requires estimating the
unit operating costs and prices charged by transporters in the
without- and with-project cases. Combining these figures with data
on the exportable surplus in each year of the project life enables
the determination of total costs and revenues per annum of
transporters. The with-project ex-farm prices should also reflect
the amount of transport cost savings passed on to the farmer.
(j) Non-Agricultural Traffic. The volume of non-agricultural traffic, by
vehicle type, moving over the road in a given year. Traffic data
must include forecasts of both normal and non-agricultural generated
traffic growth.
(k) Non-Agricultural Vehicle Operating Costs. Data must be gathered for
the without- and with-project operating costs by non-agricultural
vehicle type using the road. This information, together with the
traffic data gathered in item (i), is then used to quantify non-agri-
cultural vehicle cost savings.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
(1) Road Construction and Maintenance Costs. These are the costs of
constructing (or improving) the road in question and the costs of
routine and periodic maintenance; these costs must be estimated for
both the without- and with-project cases.
(m)  Other Project Costs and Benefits.  Most projects have other costs
or benefits which are not necessarily related to any of the above.
For example, previously unemployed labor could be utilized in the
marketing and handling of vegetables. The use of such labor
involves both costs and benefits which would need to be considered.
B.   Analysis
14.       In order to facilitate appraisal of the road, a recently developed
"feeder road analysis package" (FR75) is utilized. In its current state of
development, the package consists if a set of models, each of which performs
an operation or operations necessary for computing the internal rate of return
of a rural road project. The data inputs needed to run FR75 correspond
roughly to the information requirements outlined above.
15.       The flow of calculations in the FR75 package is shown in Figure 1.
Models 1 through 9 focus on the agricultural (or primary commodity) sector.
These models yield the total value and costs of production and also measure
the net revenue which accrues to agricultural transporters. Models 10 and 11
serve to identify project induced cost-savings on non-agricultural vehicle
traffic. Model 12 is used to store data relating to road construction and
maintenance costs. Finally, Model 13 provides space for any other costs or
benefits associated with the project.
16.       As shown in Figure 2, the cost and benefit streams emerging from
Models 1 through 13 are collected in Model 14, which then computes net benefit
and costs streams. These streams are, in turn, fed directly into CBPACK, the
Cost/Benefit Package used by the Bank. "Chaining" into CBPACK is done by
Model 15, the last model in the FR75 sequence.
17.       The flow of calculations shown in Figures 1 and 2 is treated more
fully below. By proceeding on a Model-by-Model basis, an illustration is
given of:
(a) the operational aspects of collecting and interpreting the data,
and
(b) the various intermediate calculations required to quantify project
costs and benefits and determine the economic rate of return.
18.       No attempt is made to consider questions which relate solely to the
operation of FR75.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
Model 1 (Total Cultivated Area)
19.       Once the area of influence is specified (a base data), patterns of
agricultural production within it can be identified. Model 1 computes total
cultivated area in hectares both without (TCAWO) and with (TCAW) the project.
Model 1
Total Cultivated Area
(ha)
INPUT                                OUTPUT
Year      Without Project      With Project       Without Project   With Project
1               18%                18%              12,600 ha         12,600 ha
2               18%                18%              12,600            12,600
3               18%                18%              12,600            12,600
4               19%                19%              13,300            13,300
5               19%                20%              13,300            14,000
6               19%                21%              13,300            14,700
7              20%                 22%              14,000            15,400
8               20%                23%              14,000            16,100
9               20%                24%              14,000            16,800
10               21%                25%              14,700            17,500
11               21%                26%              14,700            18,200
12               21%                27%              14,700            18,900
13               22%                28%              15,400            19,600
Model 2 (Crop Area Breakdown)
20.       Prices, yields and production of each crop differ, and a knowledge
of the various crop areas is necessary to determine agricultural value added.
In essence, the Crop Area Breakdown figures computed in Model 2 amount to a
finer division of the total Cultivated Area output derived in Model 1.
21.       In the without-project case, it will be noticed that crop areas in-
crease slower than in the with-project case. In estimating crop areas, trans-
port cost savings, for example, might make it possible to grow crops which
were previously considered uneconomic. Similarly, road improvements might
lead to time savings and eliminate previously encountered perishability prob-
lems.
22.       Model 2 also distinguishes between Original Cropped Area (OCA) and
Newly Cropped Area (NCA). This distinction is important when production costs
are considered because such costs are generally higher or Newly Cropped land
(i.e., the economic rent is lower). The Original Cropped Area (in year 0) of
each crop under consideration is assumed as in the following figures; output,
however, is given for only one crop, maize.



ANNEX 2
Page 7
Original Cropped Areas
(ha)
Year      Maize      Coffee    Food Grain      Pulses    Oilseed   Pepper
0         7056       630         2268          1260        252       0
23.       Once the Original Crop Area is specified, Model 2 computes the Newly
Cropped Areas, Total and Incremental (NCAT and NCAI), respectively. On all
NCAT land, a somewhat higher cost of production is assigned. Once again, this
is because the Marginal Cost curve on new land is generally steeper than the
one on original land. Incremental Newly Cropped Area (NCAI) is likewise broken
out separately because it is on this land that clearing costs will be charged
later in the development (see Model 8).
24.       With-project Crop Area Breakdown and Newly Cropped Area output for
one crop, maize, are shown.
Model 3 (Improved Crop Area)
25.       Model 3 distinguishes between crop areas which have been "improved"
and those which are left unimproved. As mentioned earlier, improved land is
land to which the minimum package of inputs (e.g., fertilizer, extension,
improved seed varieties) is applied. Yields on improved land will generally
be higher (see Model 4), but so will costs (see Model 8). The improved Crop
Area (ICA) inputs for maize in the example are shown below. Similar ICA data
are needed for each crop under cultivation, in both the without- and with-
project cases.
Model 2
INPUT
Crop Area Breakdown, Without the Project -
Year      Maize      Coffee    Grain      Pulses    Oilseed   Pepper
1         56          5        18         10         2         0
2         56          5        18         10         2         0
3         56          5        18         10         2         0
4         56          5        18         10         2         0
5         56          5        18         10          2        0
6         56          5        18         10         2         0
7         56          5        18         10         2         0
8         56          5        18         10          2        0
9         56          5        18         10         2         0
10         56          5        18         10         2         0
11         56          5        18         10         2         0
12         56          5        18         10         2         0
13         56          5        18         10         2         0
1/   Expressed as percent of Total Cultivated Area



ANNEX 2
Page 8
Crop Area Breakdown With the Project -
Year      Maize      Coffee    Grain       Pulses    Oilseed   Pepper
1         56         5          18         10          2          0
2         56         5          18         10          2          0
3         56         5          18         10          2          0
4         56         5          18         10          2          0
5         57         5          16         11          2          0
6         57         5          15         11          2          0
7         58         5          14         11          3          1
8         58         5          13         12          3          1
9         58         4          13         12          3          1
10         58         4          13         12          3          1
11         58         4          13         12          3          1
12         58         4          13         12          3          1
13         58         4          13         12          3          1
Model 2
OUTPUT
Crop Area Breakdown - MAIZE
Without Project                    With Project
Year
1                        7056 ha                            7056 ha
2                        7056                               7056
3                         7056                              7056
4                         7448                              7448
5                        7448                               7980
6                         7448                              8379
7                         7840                              8932
8                         7840                              9338
9                         7840                              9744
10                        8232                              10150
11                        8232                              10556
12                        8232                              10962
13                         8624                             11368
If   Expressed as percent of Total Cultivated Area



ANNEX 2
Page 9
Model 2
OUTPUT
Crop Area            Total Newly          Incremental Newly
Year      Breakdown             Cropped Area           Cropped Area
1         7056                       0                         0
2         7056                       0                         0
3         7056                       0                         0
4         7448                     392                       392
5         7980                     924                       532
6         8379                    1323                       399
7         8932                    1876                       553
8         9338                    2282                       406
9         9744                    2688                       406
10        10150                    3094                       406
11        10556                    3500                       406
12        10962                    3906                       406
13        11368                    4312                       406
Model 3
INPUT
1/
Improved Crop Area - Maize-
Year            Without Project      With Project
1                    0                  0
2                    0                  0
3                    0                  6
4                    0                  8
5                    0                 16
6                    0                 30
7                    0                 40
8                    0                 49
9                    0                 60
10                    0                 65
11                    0                 70
12                    0                 73
13                    0                 76
1/   Expressed as percent of Maize Crop Area Breakdown



ANNEX 2
Page 10
26.       Multiplying each ICA input figure in a given year by the corresponding
figure in Model 2 yields Improved Crop Area in square units; this is then shown
as output of Model 3.
Model 3
OUTPUT
Improved Crop Area - Maize (ha)
Year                  Without                  With
1                       0                         0
2                       0                         0
3                       0                      423
4                       0                      596
5                       0                     1277
6                       0                     2514
7                       0                     3573
8                       0                     4576
9                       0                     5864
10                       0                     6598
11                       0                     7389
12                       0                     8002
13                       0                     8640
Model 4 (Crop Yields and Production)
27.       The principal function of Model 4 is to quantify agricultural produc-
tion without and with the project. Since both improved and unimproved crop
areas have already been estimated, only yields on each type of land to deter-
mine total agricultural output have to be specified. The two variables which
are used in this process are Yield on Unimproved Land (YUN) and Yield on Im-
proved Land (YIM).
28.       Once the appropriate yield data have been entered, Model 4 calculates
the measures of production:
(a) Agricultural Production on Improved Land (APIM)
(b) Agricultural Production on Unimproved Land (APUN)
(c) Total Agricultural Production (TAP)
29.       Model 4 output for maize only is shown, but a similar output is com-
puted for each crop.



ANNEX 2
Page 11
Model 4
INPUT
Maize Yields
Yield on Unimproved            Yield on Improved
Year                Land (YUN)                    Land (YIM)
1                 1 ton/ha                      1     ton/ha
2                 1                             1
3                  1                            3.4
4                  1                            3.4
5                 1                             3.4
6                  1                            3.4
7                  1                            3.4
8                  1                            3.4
9                 1                             3.4
10                  1                            3.4
11                 1                             3.4
12                  1                            3.4
13                  1                            3.4
Model 4
OUTPUT
Agricultural Production, Maize
Without                        With
Year           APIM      APUN     TAP          APIM      APUN     TAP
1              0       7056    7056             0     7056    7056
2              0       7056    7056             0     7056    7056
3              0       7056    7056          1439      6633    8702
4              0       7448    7448          2026      6852    8878
5              0       7448    7448          4341      6703   11044
6              0       7448    7448          8547     5865   14412
7              0       7840    7840         12148     5359   17507
8              0       7840    7840         15557     4762   20319
9              0       7840    7840         19878      3898   23775
10              0       8232    8232         22432      3553   25984
11              0       8232    8232         25123     3167   28290
12              0       8232    8232         27208      2960   30167
13              0       8624    8624         29375      2728   32103



ANNEX 2
Page 12
30.       By placing a value on the volume of agricultural production of each
crop, gross agricultural benefits can be derived. It should be noted, however,
that, in order to assess benefits in strictly correct theoretical terms, it
is necessary to divide total agricultural production into local consumption and
exportable surplus and a distinction has to be made as to the market in which
surpluses are sold; whether or not the improved road is used to get to the market
is of importance. These sophisticated features of the model are not being consid-
ered in the simplIfied evaluation procedures described in the Manual for Applicants
(para. 6.10 of Main Report). The first step in determining local consumption is
to define the population which resides within the area of influence of the road;
this is done in Model 5.
Model 5 (Population Schedule)
31.       It is assumed that approximately 63,000 inhabitants are living within
the area of influence of the road and that population is growing at the rate
of approximately 2.5% per annum. On the basis of this information, total popu-
lation in each year of the project is calculated.
Model 5
OUTPUT
Total Population, Area Under Road Influence
Year      Population                 Year            Population
1          63,000                     8               74,887
2          64,575                     9               76,759
3          66,189                    10               78,678
4          67,844                    11               80,645
5          69,540                    12               82,661
6          71,279                    13               84,728
7          73,061
32.       Once total population is calculated, per capita consumption has to be
specified in order to calculate local consumption. This analysis is performed
in Model 6.
Model 6 (Local Consumption and Exportable Surplus)
33.       Local Consumption Per Capita (LCPC) was estimated to be as follows:



ANNEX 2
Page 13
Model 6
INPUT
Local Consumption Per Capita
(kg)
Crop            Without Project           With Project
Maize               90.0 kg                    94.5
Coffee               5.0                        5.0
Food grain          30.0                       31.5
Pulses              15.0                       16.0
Oilseeds             5.0                        5.0
Pepper                -                         0.5
34.       Given these inputs, Totzl Local Consumption (TLC) is calculated for
each year and for each crop.  Total Local Consumption is then subtracted from
Total Agricultural Production (TAP) to obtain Exportable Surplus (EXSU).  Local
Consumption and Exportable Surplus for maize are shown below.
Model 6
OUTPUT
Total Local Consumption and Exportable
Surplus - Maize 1/
Without Project                With Project
Year   TAP 2/  TLC       EXSU        TAP 2/   TLC       EXSU
1     7056    5670      1386        7056    5670       1386
2     7056    5812      1244        7056    5812       1244
3     7056    5957      1099        8072    5957        1099
4     7448    6106      1342        8878    6411        2467
5     7448    6259      1189       11044    6572       4473
6     7448    6415      1033       14412    6736       7676
7     7840    6575      1265       17507    6904      10602
8     7840    6740      1100       20319    7077      13243
9     7840    6908       932       23775    7253      16522
10     8232    7081      1151       25984    7435      18549
11     8232    7258       974       28290    7621      20669
12     8232    7440       792       30167    7812      22356
13     8624    7626       998       32103    8007      24096
11   All figures in tons
2/   TAP calculated in model 4



ANNEX 2
Page 14
Model 7 (Ex-Farm Prices)
35.       As mentioned, it may be desirable to place different values on output
which is consumed locally and output which is exported. Accordingly, Model 7
provides for two ex-farm price variables:
(a) Farm-Gate Prices for Crops Consumed Locally (FGPL)
(b) Farm-Gate Prices for Exported production (FGPX)
In this example, the farm-gate price of crops consumed locally and that of
exported surpluses were assumed to be equal (as was in the Manual, para. 6.10
of main text). As noted, however, an adjustment has to be made to slightly
decrease the benefits due to local consumption because no transport cost savings
accrue to this production. This adjustment is done internally by the Model
and is reflected in the output of Model 7.
Model 7
INPUT
Farm-Gate Prices
($/ton)
Local Consumption        Exportable Surplus
crop      Without         With       Without         With
maize        148           150         148            150
Coffee     1468           1470        1468           1470
teff        238            240         238            240
pulses      183            185         183            183
oilseed     268            270         268            270
pepper      418            420         418            420
36.       The farm-gate prices are assumed to increase by $2.00/ton reflecting
transport cost savings which are passed on to the farmer.  Only to the extent
that such savings are passed along is it justifiable to increase farm-gate
prices. In this respect, a thorough understanding of transport cost and price
mechanisms is necessary to accurately determine the percentage of transport
cost savings reaching the farmer and the percentage retained by the transport
sector. Once farm-gate prices have been specified, Model 7 computes four
measures of agricultural output:
(a) The Value of Production Consumed Locally (for each crop)
(b) The Value of Production Exported (for each crop)



ANNEX 2
Page 15
(c) Total Value of Production (for each crop)
(d) Total Value of Production (for all crops)
Model 7
OUTPUT
Value of Agricultural Production - Maize
(E$ '000)
Total Value of         Value of Production       Value of Production
Maize Production                Exported            Consumed Locally
Year      Without        With       Without        With       Without     With
1         1044.3       1047.0        205.2        207.9         839.1    839.1
2         1044.3       1046.8        184.1        186.6         860.2    860.2
3         1044.3       1046.4        162.7        164.8         881.6    881.6
4         1102.3       1318.9        198.6        370.0         903.7    948.9
5         1102.3       1643.5        176.0        670.9         926.3    972.7
6         1102.3       2148.3        152.9       1151.4         949.4    996.9
7         1160.3       2612.2        187.2       1590.4         973.1   1021.8
8         1160.3       3033.8        162.8       1986.4         997.5   1047.4
9         1160.3       3551.8        137.9       2478.2        1022.4   1073.4
10         1218.3       3882.7        170.3       2782.3        1048.0   1100.4
11         1218.3       4228.3        144.1       4100.5        1074.2   1127.9
12         1218.3       4509.5        117.3       3357.4        1101.1   1156.2
13         1276.4       4799.5        147.8       3614.5        1128.6   1185.0
37.       By aggregating the value of agricultural production for each crop,
Model 7 also computes the Total Value of Production for All Crops (TVPA). The
difference between without- and with-project TVPA constitutes the net benefit
stream B1, which is fed into CBPACK at a later stage of the analysis.
Model 8 (Agricultural Production Costs)
38.       Total production costs per crop are computed by adding the following
items: -
(a)  Production Costs on Old Land (PCOL)
(b)  Production Costs on New Land (PCNL)
(c)  Minimum Package Improvement Costs (MPIC)
(d)  Clearing Costs on New Land (CCNL)
(e)  Opportunity Cost of Agricultural Land (RENT)



ANNEX 2
Page 16
39.       These items must be estimated in both the without-and with-project
cases in order to identify net costs of production. The estimated unit pro-
duction cost components for maize are shown in Table 1 of this annex.
40.       The Model 8 input and output data for maize are summarized below.
Model 8
INPUT
Production Cost Components - Maize
( $ per ha unless otherwise noted)
Without     With
Production Cost on Old Land (PCOL)                         126.00    126.00
Production Cost on New Land (PCNL)                         139.00    139.00
Minimum Package Investment Costs (MPIC)                          0     83.00
Clearing Costs on New Land (CCNL)                          281.00    281.00
Opportunity Cost of Agricultural Land (RENT)                25% TVP   25% TVP
41.       By aggregating costs of production for each crop, Model 8 also com-
putes the Total Production Costs of All Crops (TPCA). The difference between
without- and with-project TPCA constitutes net cost stream Cl which is fed
directly into CBPACK.
Model 9 (Agricultural Transporter's Costs and Revenues)
42.       The derivation of agricultural transport costs and prices is a key
phase of rural road analysis. Transport cost savings passed on to the farmer
determine the extent to which with-project farm-gate prices are assumed to
increase. Higher farm-gate prices, in turn, influence the increase in produc-
tion. The linkage between transport cost savings and increased production
suggests that transport cost and price mechanisms must be thoroughly understood
before predictions can be made regarding with-project levels of agricultural
output.
43.       Model 9 incorporates two variables to describe the unit costs and
prices of agricultural transporters: (a) Agricultural Transport Price per
Unit (ATPU) and (b) Agricultural Transport Cost per Unit (ATCU).
44.       Since unit costs and prices vary according to the weight and bulk of
the commodities which are transported, it is necessary to estimate ATPU and
ATCU for each of the crops exported. In this hypothetical case, unit transport
costs are assumed to be the same for all commodities.
45.       Standard road appraisal techniques are used to calculate agricultural
vehicle operating costs. The use of these techniques requires three types of
information:



ANNEX 2
Page 17
Model 8
OUTPUT
Agricultural Production Costs
Maize - ($)
Without Project
Production  Production       Minimum         Clearing  Opportunity      Total
Costs on    Costs on        Package        Costs on  Cost of Land Production
Year  Old Land    New Land   Improvement Costs New Land         (RENT)        Costs
1    889056         0              0               0         261072       1150128
2    889056         0              0               0         261072       1150128
3    889056         0              0               0         261072       1150128
4    889056       54486            0            110152       275576       1329270
5    889056       54486            0               0         275576       1219118
6    889056       54486            0               0         275576       1219118
7    889056      108973            0            110152       290080       1398261
8    889056      108973            0               0         290080       1288109
9    889056      108973            0               0         290080       1288109
10    889056      163459            0            110152       304584       1467251
11    889056      163459            0               0         304584       1357099
12    889056      163459            0               0         304584       1357099
13    889056      217946            0            110152       319088       1536242
With Project
Production  Production       Minimum         Clearing  Opportunity       Total
Costs on    Costs on        Package        Costs on  Cost of Land Production
Year  Old Land    New Land   Improvement Costs New Land    _(RENT)_    Costs
1   889056          0              0               0         261750       1150806
2   889056          0              0               0         261700       1150756
3   889056          0            33298             0         261600       1183954
4   889046        54488          46863           110152      329725       1430284
5   889056       128432         100480           149492      410875       1678335
6   889056       183892         197708           112119      537075       1919850
7   889056       260756         281000           155393      653050       2239255
8   889056       317189         359879           114086      758450       2438660
9   889056       373621         459820           114086      887950       2724533
10   889056       430054         518893           114086      970675       2922764
11   889056       486486         581160           114086    1057075        3127863
12   889056       542918         628377           114086    1127375        3302812
13   889056       599351         679511           114086    1199875        3481882



ANNEX 2
Page 18
(a) Number of Agricultural Vehicle Types Using the Road
It is assumed that agricultural commodities are moved on 10-ton
trucks. The average load factor is assumed to be 70%.
(b) Terrain
The following breakdown is assumed: 40% flat; 48% rolling; 12% moun-
tainous.
(c) Unit Vehicle Operating Costs, by Road Surface Type
Total unit vehicle operating costs typically include expenditures
for fuel, oil, wages, interest, depreciation, tires and tubes, and
maintenance and repair. These cost elements must be estimated in
both the without and with-project cases. Table 2 of this annex
summarizes the economic operating costs of seven vehicle types on
paved, gravel and earth surfaces.
46.       Without-and with-project agricultural vehicle operating costs are
calculated below by adjusting the data shown in Table 2 to conform to the
specific terrain of hypothetical road.
Agricultural Vehicle Operating Costs
(t/km)
Without Project (Earth Surface)
Flat, Straight                            119.7 x 20% = 23.9
Flat                                      133.2 x 20% = 26.6
Rolling                                   160.1 x 48% = 76.8
Mountainous                               220.8 x 12% = 26.5
Average ATCU (without)                                   21.9
With Project (Gravel Surface)
Flat, Straight                             77.1 x 20% = 15.4
Flat                                       85.1 x 20% = 17.0
Rolling                                   101.1 x 48% = 48.5
Mountainous                               137.1 x 12% = 16.5
Average ATCU (with)                                      13.9



ANNEX 2
Page 19
47.       In order to determine agriculture transport revenues and, ultimately,
the magnitude of possible savings passed on to farmers, the cost estimates
above have to be combined with data on transport prices for agricultural pro-
ducts. It is assumed that, without the project, the price is $10 per ton.
Assuming the average trip on the road to be 17.5 km each way, the price per
ton-km is $0.29. Assuming that the carrierst margin, if the project is under-
taken, increases by 30%, i.e., it increases from $0.07 to $0.09, known the cost
of haul under the new conditions, the price can be estimated. The new price
would be $0.23 per ton-km, which, vis-a-vis the price before the project of
$0.29, leaves a margin of $0.06 which is assumed to be passed on to the farmer.
Model 9 inputs are thus as follows:
Model 9
INPUTS
Without        With
ATPU         .29           .23
ATCU         .22           .14
48.       Once the unit costs are specified as above, Model 9 calculates the
agricultural transport costs and revenues to each crop (only maize is shown).
Furthermore, by taking the difference between the with- and without-road proj-
ect, Model 9 identifies net costs and benefits which are transferred to CBPACK
as streams C2 and B2 respectively.
Model 10 (Non-agricultural traffic)
49.       Model 10 computes the non-agricultural traffic for each year both
with and without the project. A distinction is made between normal and
generated non-agricultural traffic, because of the different treatment of
vehicle operating cost savings in each case when computing the benefits attri-
butable to the project.  In this simplified example,-only buses are considered,
but any mix of vehicles can be handled.
Model 11 (Non-agricultural vehicle operating cost savings)
50.       In model 11, benefits attributable to the road and imputed to non-
agricultural vehicles are calculated by means of the vehicle operating costs
in Table 2 and the traffic volumes determined in Model 10. The difference
between the with- and without-project case is then shown as a net benefit
which is transferred as B3 stream to CBPACK.
Model 12 (Road Construction and Maintenance Costs)
51.       Model 12 summarizes the construction and maintenance costs as were
shown in paragraph 6 and transfers these to CBPACK as cost streams C3 and C4
respectively.



ANNEX 2
Page 20
Model 9
OUTPUT
Agricultural Transport Costs and Revenues
(Maize -
Agricultural                   Agricultural
Transport Costs               Transport Revenue
Year      Without         With            Without         With
1        10,672        10,672            14,068        14,068
2         9,581         9,581            12,629        12,629
3         8,462         8,462            11,154        11,154
4        10,333        12,088            13,621        19,859
5         9,155        21,918            12,068        36,008
6         7,954        37,612            10,485        61,792
7         9,741        51,950            12,840        85,346
8         8,470        64,891            11,165       106,606
9         7,176        80,958             9,460       133,002
10         8,863        90,890            11,683       149,319
11         7,500       101,278             9,886       166,385
12         6,098       109,544             8,039       179,966
13         7,685       118,070            10,130       193,973
Model 13 (Other Costs and Benefits)
52.       FR75 has the built-in capability of handling additional cost and
benefit streams should these be necessary in any particular case. In this
example, this capability has not been used.
Model 14 (Aggregation of Project Costs and benefits)
53.       This model collects all costs and benefits as identified in the
preceding models into a comprehensive data file which is then transferred by
Model 15 to CBPACK for computation of the rate of return or any other calcula-
tion within the capability of it. Model 15 establishes the chaining to CBPACK.



ANNEX 2
Page 21
Model 14
Aggregation of Costs and Benefits -/
YEAR             C1            C2                  C3           C4
1              .0            .0        1,111,000.            0.
2              .0            .0        2,000,000.            0.
3              .0            .0        1,333,000.            0.
4       383893.         -775.                   0.      87000.
5       440981.         3561.                   0.      35000.
6       819284.        15238.                   0.      35000.
7      1136331.        31043.                   0.      35000.
8      1153231.        46045.                   0.     175000.
9      1637722.        65879.                   0.      35000.
10      1927531.        82698.                   0.      35000.
11      1885262.        87937.                   0.      35000.
12      2239002.        96287.                   0.     175000.
13      2150306.        99060.                   0.      35000.
YEAR             B1            B2                  B3
1              .0           .0                   .0
2              .0           .0                   .0
3              .0            .0                  .0
4       155592.         1101.               10923.
5       277359.         7844.               12136.
6       623548.        26636.               12136.
7      1099053.        52200.               12136.
8      1556628.        76436.               12136.
9      2163885.       108598.               12136.
10      2689842.       135860.               10923.
11      2870986.       144468.               13350.
12      3141746.       158187.               14564.
13      3237561.       162742.               14564.
1/ Figures shown are for all crops and not just maize as shown before.



ANNEX 2
Page 22
Model 15
Final Data Table
(all crops)
YEAR      TOTAL COST      TOTAL BENEFIT         NET BENEFIT
1        1111000.                 0.           -1110000.
2        2000000.                 0.           -2000000.
3        1333000.                 0.           -1333000.
4         470118.            167616.            -302502.
5         479542.            297339.            -182203.
6         869522.            662320.            -207202.
7        1202374.           1163389.             -38985.
8        1374276.           1645200.             270924.
9        1738600.           2284619.             546019.
10        2045229.           2836625.             791396.
11        2008199,          3028804.             1020605.
12        2510289.           3314497.             804208.
13        2284366.          3414867.             1130501.



ANNEX 2
Table 1
BRAZIL
SECONDARY AID FEDER ROADS PROJECT
Costs of Production - Maize
j$ per ha. unless otherwise noted)
1. Production Costs on Old Land (PCOT)
Without    With
Labor        106.0    106.
Seed          20.00    20.00
Fertilizer       -        -
Other            -        _
Total  126.00   126.00
2. Production Costs on New Land (PCIL)
Without    With
Total  139.00   139.00
3.   Minimum Package Improvement Costs (MPIC)
Without    With
Seed           -         9.00
Fertilizer    -         64.oo
Extension      -        lo,00
Other          -          -
Tgtal   -         83.00
4.  Clearing Costs on New Land (CCIOL)
Without    With
Total  281.00   281.00
5.  Opportunity Cost of Agricultural Land .(R31NT)1/
Without       With
Total     25% of T1VP  23% of TVIP
1/ Expressed as percent of Total Value of Production



SECOM10Y Ai\ND F91.Dt iOADS PROJ CPCT
Hypothetical Vehicle Operating Costs on Paved, Gravel and EIarth Roads
( cents per km )
2Z-Ton     10-Ton    7-Ton    Large    Small   Large    Small
Terrain            Tr. / Tr.   Truck    Trtick      Bus.      Bus      Car      Car
Paved Surfaces
Flat, Straight           89.1        62.3       41.3     77.2     33.2    21.2        15.5
Flat                    117.4        68.9       43.3     83.6     33.9    21.2        15.5
Rolling                 168.1        82.0       51.4     96.5     40.6    22.1       16.2
Mountainous             Z41.9       111.7       64.5    125.4     51.5    24.4       17.8
Gravel Surfaces
Flat, Straight          106.2        77.1       49.2     97.1     41.7   -27.4       19.9
Flat                    140.1        85.1       51.6    104.9     43.7    27.4       19.9
Rolling                 201.3       101.1       61.5    120.4     51.9    28.5       20.7
Mountainous             289.5       137.1      77.5    155.4      65.1    31.1       22.6
Earth Surfaces
Flat, 'Straight         181.2       119.7       83.5    163.6     68.5    44.4       32.7
Flat                    Z38.5       133.2       87.5    176.7     71.8    44.4       32.7
Rolling                 341.8       160.1      103.6    202.9     84.9    46.0       33.8
Mountainous             490.9       220.8      129.8    261.8   :106.3    50.0       36.7
-3 I
5 D
CD e
ro: X



BRAZIL
SEGONDARY AITD FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
ANNEX 2
Flow of Calculations - FR 75                Figure 1
Hodel o
BASF  DATA
TOTAL CTIodelTED IMode  10                                    Model 12
TOTkL CUTIVATEDNON-AG!UcrULT1U                   ROAD CCflST~:UCTIOCN&
TRAFFIC        I     1   r ; C  CCS'TS
Model 2                    Model 11                    Model 13
CROP l1.:l       C7XaG-'CULU'A                      CTIHER FROOi,  I CC- C
BREAKDCO3        .      EFHICL'v CG_T               OTVHR &R;C  C Sc
Model 3
1 IRNPRC'OvED &;-
TDhPBOC'ED CROP AREAS
YModel b                                         1Qo0e" 114
CROP YIELDS L                                  AGGC.&'.T    C,:- PRO-
PRODIUCTICN                                 JECT CCSTS & BEUN'iFIT'
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ____=___                                p.
Model 5                                          I'odel l5
POFULkAT!CHl                                ESTABLIS'. (CB5AP*.CK)
SCHEDU>'LE                                     DATA FTILhS
IZ-LIZ,
Model 6
LOCAL CON%SU"YPT C'.N 
EXPORTABLE SURPLUS
TO (CBPACK)
Model 7
EX-FALI PRICES
Model 8        I                            (CBPACK) ANALYSIS
AGRICULTURAL PRO-
DUCTICN CC6TS
MRIC. TRANSPORTYR c
OSTS &- REVELUES



BRAZIL
SECONDARY AND FEEDER ROADS PROJECT              ANNEX 2
Figure 2
Derivation of Cost and Benefit Streams - FR 75
Models 1 thru 9          Models 10 and 11               Model 12                   Model 13
give Agricultural        give Fon-Agricul-          gives Road Con-           gives Other Pro-
Costs and                tural Vehicle              struction and             ject Costs and
Bonefits:                operating Cost             Maintenance Costs.        Benefits:
Savings:
B1 
TOTAL VALIE OF
PRODUCTIOI                  B3 =                       3 -5
BON-ACstIC.               ROAD CCGNSTPUCT1CN         OTHIER PRCJECT
VEIIICE, COST                 COSTS                    COSTS
SAVINGS
TOTAL COST OF
P RODUCTIC11                                             C
ROhD l'iATlThjA;NC)T OTHER FPRCJECT
COSTS                   P EFiTS
AGRICUL TU?RAL
TR,NSPC!(T7R'c
02 =
AGRICUL TUHAL
TRANISPORTR1 S
Model 114 *         ( *Calculates with-urcoect miinus
AGGT>EGATIO'J OF PRI'rJlCT j  without project costs and
COSTS 1"d0DPN9E;'1l'S         benefits)
M,1odel 15
ESTABLISII (CBPACK) DATA
FILES
TO (CBrACK)
[(CBPACK) ANALYSIS



BRAZIL
SECOND&RY AND FEEDER P6OADAS PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART - BNDE
Administrative
Council                                                                    ' . _
PRESIDENT        .        Board of Directors
Fiscal  Council
Advisory Units:
Technical                   Legal               Internal
Cabinet              Counsel                   Counsel               Audit
Operational Areas:
Industrial                 Special        Project9with            inistrative
Planning          Representatio     |     Prcjects                 Projects            Agents             Services
|Coordination 
Special
Departraents:                                      Studies
Modernization  f        Infrastructure        Agricultu rea d
Traditional Ind.      L"'              j    *Livestc
Urolups                                                            -
Group for
Rural Roads






BRAZIL
SECONDARY AND FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Organization Chart, DNER
AVIRIRISIRATIA- CU:;CIA  ATRrTCT_  GF                                      C      CTRAL
SECURITY g& I DFR TO 
j    SYSTEM  Ce) lT  HElTl.   C _.  AL
fr-LDING COIrTE
DIRECTOR     |IEE                                                                                                                    D      R                    DIRECTOR DRDDECTOR                                   SOLICITOR-
RJAD RESEARC I               PLA l.JI,iG   l             zEORNS       l           'AI .TETEA lC           AFUTY AD      C            RAD TRAiSPORT                 PERSOIi                   ADMINISTRATION G|EERAL
TCUT£STI.i-O0 iRORMr                                   CO.JSRTTh!TIr             M   AI STS IU ICE  ;       AID SAFRTY             | TASOT                      LEGISLATTO I                   E R:A ICE               h SDBESOLICITGRS 
TRIDGES AD |                      E DTS                                                                 |  SEl.FCTTOl                   M  EIL
STRUCTITRES             REHABILITATION |       -                                     AAY PCLICE |OD A  EIALS
fi  I. MATIC.;  |          H    ESI EER EGTPEI                                                                     ROADS_l -|  GI                                   CLASSIFICATION T           COORDINATTIO
j PROCADE  AoSOCIAL SECTRITY|
IR
FEDE AL EITC E AY DI3TRICTS
One in each state, except Acre (20 in totels)
Source: DNER - June  1974






BRAZIL
SECONDARY AND FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Organization Chart
State Highway Department of Minas Gerais
GOVER.NMENT OP THE STATE
OF PANAS GERATS
CIRDIRTCTOE R  GENERAL    -      _         HIGHWAY
D.E.R.                         COUNCIL
COU:4CIL FOR
INTERMUNICIPA.
BUS TRAiiSPOR
LEGAL ADVISOR _____
PLANNING AND                                                       TEHIA
COORDINATION~                           _                            _ _ _ _ VICE-DIRECTOR P _ - -STANDARDS
DATA                    BIDDIG                     AUDITO                1PERMANEST INTER:IAAL
PROCESSING                COLITTEE                                                IiNVESTIGATION             INFORMATION
COMMITTEE                                 ~~~~~~~~~COMMITTEE
DIRECTY OFAN                     PROECT                           DIRECTORY OF                       DIRECTORY OF                      DIRECTORY OF
I ADMINISTRATION    {   L  -  S   .  {   |   CONSTRUCTION  |   |  MAINTENANCE                 BUS TRANSPORT






BRAZIL
SECONDARY AND FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART:  HIGFHWAY CONSORTTIW  OF CEARA
General Assembly    - - - 11111
Directory
Prsi .ent     Secretariat
Economic and
Financial Counsel                        Lega-Conse
Administrative 7and ||TcnclDrco
FinancialDrt                                                          ehial Director
Administration|                                Finance   |Pro4ects and                                       Construction and|
Division    l                               Division |      Supervision Division                      Maintenance Division
-| PersonnelServices|           1Financial           _[!  and::i:b                                or   ea  
Se c|Tcsu             Feasibility Studies                       Work Team I
~~~~~c e S ~     ~     ~     ~    rormn                  and ProAects
|[Control Services       Accounting and
1 Control Services |                      [   Payments
5enSersmSrices|



