CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1207-BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Secondary and Feeder Roads Project)
between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated March 1, 1976


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 1, 1976, between FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC
OF BRAZIL (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agree-
ment by making the Loan as hereinafter provided:
(B) Banco Nacional do Desenvolvimento Economico (hereinafter
called BNDE) is willing to assist the Borrower in the carrying out
of the Project and the Borrower will make available the proceeds
of the Loan to BNDE as hereinafter provided; and
(C) The Bank is willing to make the Loan available upon the
terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agree-
ment of even date herewith between the Bank and BNDE;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
0II


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said Gen-
eral Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the
Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the con-
text otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General
Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respec-
tive meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and BNDE of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Project
Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(b) "DNER" means Departamento Nacional de Estradas de Rodagem,
an autarquia of the Borrower, and includes any successor thereto;
(c) "Sub-project" means a project for construction, rehabil-
itation or improvement of one or more rural roads included in the
Project, which BNDE proposes to finance in part out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan;


﻿-3-
(d) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means any of the agreements
entered or to be entered into between BNDE and a Beneficiary (as
hereinafter defined) for the purpose of financing a Sub-project;
and "Sub-loan" means the loan provided for in the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement;
(e) "Beneficiary" means either a State Highway Department or
a Municipal Consortium responsible for the carrying out of a Sub-
project and to which BNDE has made or proposes to make a Sub-loan;
(f) "DNER Working Groups" means the working groups referred
to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement;
(g) "BNDE Working Group" means the working group referred
*       to in Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement;
(h) "Estatutos" means BNDE's estatutos approved by Decreto
No. 73713, dated March 1, 1974, as amended by Decreto No. 75953,
dated July 8, 1975, both of the Borrower;
(i) "cruzeiro" means the currency unit of the Borrower; and
(j) "Manual" means the Manual for Applicants, containing the
guidelines for preparation and presentation of Sub-projects, is-
sued by BNDE on February 18, 1976, as such Manual may be amended
with the agreement of the Bank and DNER.


﻿ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty-five mil-
lion dollars ($55,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Proj-
ect and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
works and services (other than consultants' services) for the Proj-
ect to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be pro-
cured in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.01(b)(ii)(1)
of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1981 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall prompt-
ly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.


﻿-5-
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and one-half per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the princi-
pal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal of the
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. BNDE is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permit-
ted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agree-
ment and Article V of the General Conditions.


﻿- 6 -
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrow-
er shall cause BNDE to perform in accordance with the provisions
of the Project Agreement all the obligations therein set forth,
shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the provi-
sion of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary
or appropriate to enable BNDE to perform such obligations, and
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent
or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make available the proceeds of the
Loan to BNDE for purposes of the Project on the same financial
terms and conditions as such proceeds are lent by the Bank to the
Borrower.
(c) The Borrower shall cause DNER (i) to enter into an agree-
ment with BNDE whereby DNER will undertake (1) to provide BNDE with
an amount equivalent to $32,000,000 to be transferred by BNDE to
the Beneficiaries in amounts equivalent to 13.5% of the cost of
each Sub-project, and (2) to assist BNDE in the technical aspects
of the Project as provided in Sections 3.02 and 3.03 of this Agree-
ment; and (ii) not to take or concur in any action which would have
the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving any provi-
sion of such agreement.


﻿- 7
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall cause DNER (i) to assist
BNDE in the review of proposed Sub-projects by analyzing their tech-
nical adequacy, including a review of the road standards, the costs,
the capability of the applicant to supervise construction and carry
out road maintenance, and the compatibility of the proposal with
federal or state road or highway development plans; (ii) to create,
for the purpose of such assistance, a working group within its Di-
rectorate of Planning, composed of at least two economists and two
engineers, all to be experienced and qualified professionals; (iii)
to assist BNDE in the monitoring of the carrying out of the Project;
and (iv) to create, for the purpose of such assistance, a working
group within its Directorate of Construction, composed of at least
four engineers, one lawyer and one financial analyst or accountant,
all to be experienced and qualified professionals.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause DNER to carry out an
assessment of the technical and financial capacity of contractors
to carry out construction, rehabilitation or improvement of roads
in the States of the Borrower where Sub-projects will be carried
out, in order to ensure that the size and scope of Sub-projects
are compatible with such capacity.


﻿- 8 -                                    (
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, specific security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of foreign
exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such member.
To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public assets (as
hereinafter defined), as security for any external debt, which will
or might result in a priority for the benefit of the creditor of
such external debt in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the Bank shall other-
wise agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and rat-
ably secure the principal of, and interest and other charges on,
the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or permitting the creation
of such lien, shall make express provision to that effect; provided,
however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason such
provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created on assets
of any of its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrow-
er shall promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal
of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;


﻿-9-
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administra ive subdi-
vision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or oper-
ating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such sub-
division, including gold and other foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or ex-
change stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall carry out or cause to be car-
ried out, a study designed to monitor the economic and social im-
pact of a sample of rural roads in their area of influence, in ac-
cordance with terms of reference and a timetable satisfactory to
the Bank, such terms of reference to be sent to the Bank not later
than December 31, 1976 or such other date as the Bank shall agree.


﻿-10-
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) BNDE shall have failed to perform any covenant, agreement
or obligation of BNDE under the Project Agreement;
(b) as a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Project Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have
arisen which shall make it improbable that BNDE will be able to
perform its obligations under the Project Agreement;
(c)  the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of BNDE or for the suspension of its operations; and
(d) a change shall have been made in the Estatutos which
will materially and adversely affect the financial condition or
operations of BNDE.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:


﻿- 11 -
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower and BNDE; and
(b) any event specified in paragraph (c) or (d) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 12-
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addition-
al conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the General Conditions:
(a) the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on
behalf of BNDE have been duly authorized or ratified by all nec-
essary corporate and governmental action;
(b) the agreement between DNER and BNDE provided for in Sec-
tion 3.01(c) of this Agreement has been duly executed and delivered
on behalf of the parties thereto;
(c) the DNER Working Groups and the BNDE Working Group have
been established and staffed as provided in Section 3.02 of this
Agreement and Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement, respectively;
(d) the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by the Banco
Central do Brasil; and
(e) all necessary acts, consents and approvals (including
such acts, consents and approvals as are required for the purpose
of making available the proceeds of the Loan to BNDE) to be per-
formed or given by the Borrower, by its political subdivisions or
agencies, by any agency of any such political subdivision, or
otherwise to be performed or given in order to authorize the car-
rying out of the Project and to enable the Borrower and BNDE,


﻿- 13 -
respectively, to perform all of the covenants, agreements and obli-
tions of the Borrower in the Loan Agreement and of BNDE in the Proj-
ect Agreement contained, together with all necessary powers and
rights in connection therewith, have been performed or given.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional mat-
ters, within the meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Condi-
tions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished
to the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, BNDE, and is
legally bindiag upon BNDE in accordance with its terms;
(b) that the agreement between DNER and BNDE provided for in
Section 3.01(c) of this Agreement has been duly executed and deli-
vered on behal- of the parties thereto and has become effective
in accordance with its terms;
(c) that all acts, consents and approvals referred to in
Section 6.01(e) of this Agreement, together with all necessary
powers and rights in connection therewith, have been duly and val-
idly performed or given and that no other such acts, consents or
approvals are required in order to authorize the carrying out of
the Project and to enable the Borrower and BNDE to perform all of
the covenants, agreements and obligations of the Borrower in the
Loan Agreement and of BNDE in the Project Agreement contained;
and


﻿- 14-
(d) that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by Banco
Central do Brasil.
Section 6.03. The date June 1, 1976 is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿-15 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is de-
signated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Sec-
tion 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio da Fazenda
Edificio Ministerio da Fazenda
Esplanada dos Ministerios
Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
With copies to:
Banco Nacional do Desenvolvimento Economico
Av. Rio Branco, 53
Rio de Janeiro, RJ 20000
Brazil
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINIFAZ                            NR 31442
Brasilia, Brazil
With copies to:                    Telex:
BADEC                              2122466
Rio de Janeiro


﻿-16-
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By /s/ Celso Diniz
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Adalbert Krieger
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿-17 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expend-
itures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil works and            55,000,000         50% of payments
consulting serv-                             made by BNDE
ices included in                             to Beneficiaries
Sub-projects                                 under Sub-loans
TOTAL      55,000,000


﻿- 18 -
2.   The disbursement percentage has been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase
or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy
of the Bank.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date
of this Agreement.
4.   Notwithstanding the disbursement percentage set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Loan will be insufficient to finance the
agreed percentage of all expenditures, the Bank may, by notice
to the Borrower, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.
5.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procure-
ment of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the proced-
ures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expenditures
for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting any


﻿-19 -
other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement,
by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as, in
the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such ex-
penditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing
out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 20-
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of BNDE's program for the financing of
construction, rehabilitation or improvement of secondary and feed-
er roads linking agricultural areas and communities to federal and
state primary highway networks, or penetrating into areas with
good economic prospects.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1980.


﻿-21 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                             (expressed in dollars)*
March 15, 1981                                      1,555,000
September 15, 1981                                  1,630,000
March 15, 1982                                      1,695,000
September 15, 1982                                  1,765,000
March 15, 1983                                      1,845,000
September 15, 1983                                  1,920,000
March 15, 1984                                      2,000,000
September 15, 1984                                  2,090,000
March 15, 1985                                      2,175,000
September 15, 1985                                  2,270,000
March 15, 1986                                      2,365,000
September 15, 1986                                  2,465,000
March 15, 1987                                      2,570,000
September 15, 1987                                  2,680,000
March 15, 1988                                      2,795,000
September 15, 1988                                  2,910,000
March 15, 1989                                      3,035,000
September 15, 1989                                  3,165,000
March 15, 1990                                      3,300,000
September 15, 1990                                  3,440,000
March 15, 1991                                      3,585,000
September 15, 1991                                  3,745,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 22 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the prin-
cipal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the General
Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                          1-1/2%
More than three years but
not more than six
years before maturity                    2-3/4%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                          5-3/4%
More than eleven years but
not more than fourteen
years before maturity                        7%
More than fourteen years
before maturity                          8-1/2%


