CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1207-BR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
(Secondary and Feeder Roads Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANCO NACIONAL DO DESENVOLVIMENTO ECONOMICO
Dated March 1, 1976
0


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 1, 1976, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and BANCO NACIONAL DO DESENVOLVIMENTO ECONOMICO (hereinafter
called BNDE).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
Federative Republic of Brazil (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower
an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty-five million
dollars ($55,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that BNDE agree to under-
take such obligations toward the Bank as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS the Borrower has agreed to make available the pro-
ceeds of the Loan to BNDE; and
WHEREAS BNDE, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1 .01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿()                                     -3-
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) BNDE shall, with the assistance of DNER,
carry out or cause to be carried out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and engineering practices.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, BNDE shall re-
lend the proceeds of the Loan made available to it by the Borrower
in accordance with the lending policies and procedures set forth
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and under Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ments whereby BNDE shall obtain from the Beneficiaries rights ade-
quate to protect the interests of the Bank, the Borrower and BNDE,
including the right of BNDE to: (i) require the Beneficiaries to
carry out the Sub-projects with due diligence and efficiency and
in accordance with appropriate technical, financial and engineering
practices and to maintain adequate records; (ii) require that (1)
civil works contracts to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Sub-loans shall be let under the Borrower's competitive bidding
procedures in force on the date of this Agreement, and (2) the
Beneficiaries shall maintain adequate files containing, inter
-lia, the analysis of bids, recommendations for award, copies of
civil works contracts and the plans, specifications, reports and
work and procurement schedules for the Sub-projects, such files
to be available for review by BNDE and the Bank; (iii) require
that the Beneficiaries shall, as and when needed, employ qualified
consultants to assist in the carrying out of the Sub-projects;


﻿-4-
(iv) inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank
if the Bank shall so request, the sites, works and construction in-
cluded in the Sub-projects and any relevant records and documents;
(v) require that the Beneficiaries shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed
all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be required
for carrying out the Sub-projects; (vi) require that (1) in Sub-
projects where the Beneficiaries are State Highway Departments,
such Beneficiaries shall maintain the roads included in the Sub-
projects in accordance with appropriate engineering practices, and
(2) in Sub-projects where the Beneficiaries are Municipal Consortia,
such Beneficiaries shall enter into agreements with the correspond-
ing States, whereby such States will undertake to maintain the
roads included in the Sub-projects in accordance with appropriate
engineering practices; (vii) obtain all such information as the
Bank or BNDE shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing
and to the administration, operations and financial condition of
the Beneficiaries; and (viii) suspend or terminate the right of
the Beneficiaries to the use of the proceeds of the Sub-loans, and
to accelerate the maturity of the Sub-loan, upon failure by such
Beneficiaries to perform any of their obligations under the Subsid-
iary Loan Agreements.
(c) BNDE shall exercise its rights in relation to each Sub-
project in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the
Bank, the Borrower and BNDE, (ii) comply with its obligations under
this Agreement, and (iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
(d) BNDE shall send to the Bank, promptly after its execu-
tion, a copy of each Subsidiary Loan Agreement.


﻿-5-
Section 2.02. (a) BNDE shall cause the Beneficiaries to pre-
pare Sub-projects in accordance with the guidelines contained in
the Manual.
(b) BNDE shall not make any substantial change in the Manual
without the prior approval of the Bank and DNER.
Section 2.03. BNDE shall establish a working group to be res-
ponsible for the economic and financial analysis of any Sub-loan
application, the review of comments made by DNER on such applica-
tion and the,-preparation of a report upon which the decision re-
garding the application will be based, such working group to con-
sist of at least two economists, five engineers, one lawyer and
one financial analyst or accountant, all of them to be qualified
.       and experienced professionals.
Section 2.04. (a) BNDE shall (i) furnish to the Bank for ap-
proval all Sub-loan applications regarding (1) the first Sub-
project to be carried out by any Beneficiary other than the State
Highway Departments of the States of Minas Gerais, Parang, Rio de
Janeiro, Rio Grande do Sul, Santa Catarina and Sao Paulo; (2) the
first Sub-project of each Beneficiary prepared after any change
has been made in the guidelines for Sub-project appraisal contained
in the Manual; and (3) any Sub-project receiving the equivalent
of $2,500,000 or more out of the proceeds of the Loan; and (ii)
exclude from the Project any such Sub-project, or component there-
of, which shall not have been approved by the Bank.


﻿-6-
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, all such Sub-
loan applications shall be furnished to the Bank for approval on
or before December 31, 1978.
Section 2.05. BNDE shall, with the assistance of DNER, (i)
monitor the progress of the Sub-projects; and (ii) send to the
Bank a quarterly summary report, in form and substance satisfactory
to the Bank, on such progress, until completion of the Project.
Section 2.06. BNDE undertakes that Sub-projects shall include
only roads which are expected (i) to have a maximum average annual
volume of traffic of 200 vehicles per day in the first year after
rehabilitation or improvement of existing facilities or completion
of construction of new roads takes place; and (ii) to attain a min-
imum economic rate of return of ten per cent (10%), as such rate
of return is calculated in accordance with the methodology des-
cribed in the Manual.
Section 2.07. (a) BNDE: (i) shall maintain records adequate
to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the works and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan made available to it by the Borrower, and to disclose
the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation up-
on the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section, enable the
Bank's representatives to visit the facilities and construction
sites included in the Project and to examine any relevant records
and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank all such infor-
mation as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
any Sub-project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan so
made available to it and the works and services financed out of
such proceeds.


﻿-7-
(b) BNDE shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine
any relevant records and documents of BNDE in respect of the
Project.
Section 2.08. BNDE shall duly perform all its nbligations un-
der the agreement with DNER referred to in Section 3.01(c) of the
Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, BNDE
shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect
of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving such agreement or
any provision thereof.
Section 2.09. (a) BNDE shall, at the request of the Bank, ex-
change views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the Proj-
ect, of any Sub-project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Loan.
(b) BNDE shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress of
the Project, of any Sub-project, the accomplishment of the purposes
of the Loan, or the performance by BNDE of its obligations under
this Agreement.
0s


﻿-8-
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. BNDE shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with -m.sistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 3.02. BNDE shall: (i) have its accounts and financi-1
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by inde-
pendent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank
as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months
after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its finan-
cial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the
Bank such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of BNDE and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
time to time reasonably request.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of BNDE thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Loan Agreement.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, ca-
ble, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have desig-
nated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such re-
quest. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                          Telex:
INTBAFRAD                               440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                        248423 (RCA)
or
64145 (WUI)


﻿*                            -11 -
For BNDE:
Banco Nacional do Desenvolvimento
Econdmico
Av. Rio Branco, 53
Rio de Janeiro, RJ 20000
Brazil
Cable address:                          Telex:
BADEC                                   2122466
Rio de Janeiro
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of BNDE may be taken or executed by the Presi-
dent or such other person or persons as the President shall desig-
nate in writing.
Section 5.03. BNDE shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evi-
dence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of the person or persons who will, on behalf of BNDE, take any
action or execute any documents required or permitted to be taken
or executed by BNDE pursuant to any of the provisions of this
Agreement.
Section 5.04. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.


﻿- 12-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is/ Adalbert Krieger
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
BANCO NACIONAL DO DESENVOLVIMENTO ECONOMICO
By Is/ Marcos Pereira Vianna
Authorized Representative
By /s/ Sergio Barcala Baptista
Authorized Representative


﻿-13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Lending Policies and Procedures
1.   Sub-loans will be repaid in not less than 8 and not more than
10 years after a grace period of not less than 2 and not more
than 2-1/2 years, such grace period depending on the expected
construction period of the Sub-project.
2.   Sub-loans will be denominated in cruzeiros and the outstand-
ing principal amount thereof will be adjusted peiodically by
applying the same index used for the adjustment of the price
of Obrigacoes Reajustaveis do Tesouro Nacional (ORTN).
3.   The outstanding adjusted principal amount of each Sub-loan
will bear interest at any of the following annual rates de-
pending on the Beneficiary's state or territory:
4%        for the States of Amazonas, Para, Acre, Maranhao,
Piauf, Ceara, Rio Grande do Norte, Parafba, Pernam-
buco, Alagoas, Sergipe, Bahia, Espfrito Santo,
Goigs, Mato Grosso and the Territories;
5%        for the States of Rio Grande do Sul, Santa Catarina,
Parana, Rio de Janeiro and Minas Gerais; and
7%        for the State of Sao Paulo.


﻿-14 -
4.   Sub-loans will finance up to 46.4% of the total cost of each
Sub-project; the cost of any one Sub-project will not exceed
an amount equivalent to $20,000,000; and the aggregate cost
of Sub-projects in ary one state or territory will not exceed
the equivalent of $40,000,000.


