Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2352 
Operation Name 
Fourth Poverty Reduction Support Credit 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
General public administration sector (50%); Health (20%); 
General education sector (20%);Other social services 
(5%);General industry and trade sector (5%) 
Project ID 
P095730 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF GHANA 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
April 26, 2006 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
April 26, 2006 
Date of Board Approval 
May 30, 2006 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
The Ghanaian economy demonstrated significant resilience in 2005, maintaining strong real 
GDP growth and macroeconomic stability, notwithstanding the sharp increase in crude oil prices 
in international markets. 
 
The latest figures indicate that: (i) the annual real GDP growth rate 
reached 6.0 percent in 2005, up further from the 5.8 percent real GDP growth achieved in 2004; 
(ii) overall exports increased only modestly, with the decline in cocoa exports offset by increases 
in gold and timber exports; (iii) imports increased by almost 25 percent, largely due to the 45 
percent rise in the price of imported oil, leading to a sharp increase in the trade deficit; (iv) 
increases in official and private transfers (primarily expatriate remittances) partially offset the 
widening of the trade deficit, rising to US$2.0 billion, or the equivalent to 20 percent of GDP; (v) 
the fiscal deficit continued shrinking, falling to 3.0 percent of GDP by end-2005, down from 3.6 
percent of GDP in 2004, providing scope for an increase in the share of credit allocated to the 
private sector; and (vi) aggregate investment continued strong, with increases in private sector 
investment matching the recovery in public sector investment. 
 
2. Operation 
Objectives 
The proposed poverty reduction support credit (PRSC-4) would assist the government in making 
progress toward key GPRS II objectives, providing financing for the budget, and supporting the 
government
’s efforts to maintain a sound macroeconomic framework.  A stable macroeconomic 
framework would be essential for achieving the economy’s growth potential and reducing 
poverty as targeted under the GPRS II.  The operation would furthermore aim at enhancing 
growth potential by supporting measures to improve the business environment, increase energy 
supply, develop the rural economy, and improve the management of natural resources.  In the 
education sector, the operation would aim at increasing access, completion and quality in basic 
education in deprived regions, and at ensuring sustainable financing for the delivery of education 
to the poor.  In the health sector, PRSC-4 will focus on bridging the equity gaps in the access to 
health care services in deprived regions.  In areas of social protection, PRSC-4 would continue 
the ongoing support to the development and implementation of a comprehensive social 
protection strategy, as well as interventions to help contain the spread of HIV/AIDS, especially 
Page  2
among high risk groups and in areas of high prevalence.  Similarly, in the areas of safe water and 
sanitation, PRSC-4 would support the development of a comprehensive sector policy, allowing 
better targeting of investments, and supporting deprived districts in preparing water and 
sanitation plans to guide these investments.  Furthermore, to reinforce the programmatic links of 
the budget with the GPRS II, the operation would support key public sector reforms aimed at (i) 
laying the ground work for better service provision at the local level; (ii) enhancing the 
efficiency and transparency of public spending; and (iii) building the capacity to monitor and 
evaluate policy outcomes.   
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
The proposed poverty reduction support credit (PRSC-4) is the first in a second series of three 
annual operations supporting the implementation of the Ghana Growth and Poverty Reduction 
Strategy (GPRS II), in line with the 2004 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) and the proposed 
CAS Progress Report (CAS PR).
 
It will focus on three broad components of the government’s 
growth and poverty reduction agenda organized under: (i) accelerated private sector-led growth; 
(ii) vigorous human development; and (iii) governance and civic responsibility.  While the 
PRSC-4 support would translate primarily into funding for the implementation of the GPRS II, 
particular attention is given to policy dialogue and to monitoring resource allocation and 
outcomes.  PRSC-4 would also pay attention to welfare and poverty indicators that allow an 
assessment of whether poverty reduction objectives (including income and non-income 
dimensions of poverty) are indeed being achieved.   
 
4. Financing 
Source:          ($m) 
BORROWER/RECEPIENT 
        
 
 
 
0 
INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION 
   140 
 
Total  
140 
 
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
The Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning (MoFEP) 
 
6. 
Benefits and Risks 
The proposed PRSC-4 is expected to provide a series of benefits.  The main and ultimate benefit 
is the human progress towards the MDGs expected from economic growth and improvements in 
service delivery outcomes as a result of the implementation of the program supported by this 
operation.  In addition, there are two intermediate benefits.  The first benefit is helping maintain 
macroeconomic stability by contributing to the closing of the external financing gap.  The second 
benefit is enabling Government to generate the funds required to execute GPRS II policies and 
programs.   
 
There are five risks to the success of the program: (i) the size of the public sector, which might
 
limit the room available for private sector growth and reduce the scope for fiscal management; 
(ii) the continued appreciation of the cedi, which might slowdown export growth; (iii) quasi-
fiscal deficits in the energy sector stemming from the sale of power to Volta Aluminum 
Page  3
Company at subsidized rates; (iv) delays in structural reforms that could compromise long term 
growth prospects; and (v) remaining fiduciary weaknesses.   
 
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects: 
The proposed operation has been rated a development policy credit, requiring that the program 
document identify possible environmental outcomes arising from activities supported by the 
leading operation.  While there are no negative outcomes, there are potentially beneficial effects 
arising from actions aimed at strengthening the management of forestry resources.  These actions 
include the allocation of commercial timber rights in natural forests and harvest plantations 
through competitive bidding, the conversion of existing timber leases into timber utilization 
contracts, and the harmonization of the institutional arrangements for forest plantations.  Also, 
the team working on the preparation of this operation acknowledges that Ghana is aware of the 
importance for poverty reduction to meet the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) of 
ensuring environmental sustainability
,
and the cross-sectoral nature of the environment and its 
direct and indirect linkages to economic growth and poverty reduction agenda have been taken 
into account in the pr
eparation of the GPRS.  The GPRS builds on Ghana’s robust environmental 
institutional framework and considerable capacities to set, regulate and enforce environmental 
management standards.  The main frameworks are the 1991 National Environmental Policy, the 
1992 National Environmental Action Plan, and the 1994 Environmental Protection Agency 
(EPA) Act.  This framework laws give an adequate reflection of the national environmental 
policy objectives, seeking to reconcile economic development and natural resource conservation. 
 
8. Contact point: 
Contact: Carlos B. Cavalcanti 
Title: Lead Economist 
Tel: (202) 458-9076 
 
(233-21)22 96 81 
Fax: (233-21)22 78 87 
Email: Ccavalcanti@worldbank.org 
Location: Accra, Ghana (IBRD) 
 
9. 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
wb22579 
C:\Documents and Settings\wb22579\My Documents\Ghana\PRSC 4-PID - Appraisal Stage.doc 
05/04/2006 9:45:00 AM
Page  4
