Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
Report No.:  AB2266 
Project Name 
Fourth Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC-4) 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
 
Project ID 
P095730 
Borrower(s) 
GHANA 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning 
Date PID Prepared 
February 27, 2006 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
March 30, 2006 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
May 25, 2006 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Ghana’s key development objectives are outlined in the 2006-2009 Ghana Growth and Poverty 
Reduction Strategy (GPRS II), and include (i) accelerating private sector lead growth and poverty 
reduction by assisting the private sector grow and generate employment; (ii) investing in 
vigorous human resource development to ensure the development of a knowledgeable, well-
trained and disciplined labor force; and (iii) encouraging good governance and civic 
responsibility by empowering state and non-state entities to participate in the development 
process and collaborate in promoting peace and political stability.  Ghana is a low-income country 
of about 20 million inhabitants and a per capita income of US$380 (2004), which is about one-fifth 
below the average of US$490 for Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA).  Despite progress in raising per capita 
income and improving indicators of human development over the last twenty years, there are still 
large regional disparities within the country.  While just under 60 percent of the population lives in 
rural areas, these areas account for three-quarters of those living on one dollar or less a day.  There 
are also large differences in provision of human services between urban and rural areas, which are 
reflected in a one-to-five difference in the ratio of doctors to the overall population, and a female 
school enrollment that is one-quarter lower than the country average.   
 
The Bank supported the launching and the implementation of the first GPRS through the first 
PRSC series (PRSC-1 through PRSC-3) and would support the implementation of the first year 
of this second installment of the country’s poverty reduction strategy through continued quick-
disbursing assistance, providing predictable resources for the implementation of the 2006 budget.  
Through its PRSCs, the Bank has established a credible framework for supporting the GPRS, 
with increasingly close collaboration with other donors.  Bank support through PRSC-4 would be 
crucial to maintaining macroeconomic stability, and funding of human services in deprived 
areas, making possible progress toward meeting the MDG targets and the GPRS objectives.   
Page  2
2
Proposed objective(s) 
 
PRSC-4 would support the government in making progress toward key GPRS II objectives.  
By providing financing for the budget, including additional external financing, it would also 
support the government in maintaining a sound macroeconomic framework.  A stable 
macroeconomic framework would be essential for achieving the economy’s growth potential and 
reducing poverty as targeted under the GPRS II.  The operation would furthermore aim at 
enhancing growth potential by supporting measures to improve the business environment, 
increase energy supply, develop the rural economy, and improve the management of natural 
resources.  In the education sector, the operation would aim at increasing access, completion and 
quality in basic education in deprived regions, and at ensuring sustainable financing for the 
delivery of education to the poor.  In the health sector, PRSC-4 will focus on bridging the equity 
gaps in the access to health care services in deprived regions.  In areas of social protection, 
PRSC-4 would continue the ongoing support to the development and implementation of a 
comprehensive social protection strategy, as well as interventions to help contain the spread of 
HIV/AIDS, especially among high risk groups and in areas of high prevalence.  Similarly, in the 
areas of safe water and sanitation, PRSC-4 would support the development of a comprehensive 
sector policy, allowing better targeting of investments, and supporting deprived districts in 
preparing water and sanitation plans to guide these investments.  Furthermore, to reinforce the 
programmatic links of the budget with the GPRS II, the operation would support key public 
sector reforms aimed at (i) laying the ground work for better service provision at the local level; 
(ii) enhancing the efficiency and transparency of public spending; and (iii) building the capacity 
to monitor and evaluate policy outcomes.   
 
2. Preliminary 
description 
 
To support progress toward GPRS II objectives, PRSC-4 would support policies under three 
broadly-defined components: promoting growth, income and employment; improving the 
delivery of human services, and strengthening governance and public sector management.  
Policy reforms under the first component include measures to create a more diversified financial 
sector, opening room for increase credit to the private sector, and measures to strengthen the 
business environment through the expansion of energy supply services and the removal of 
administrative barriers for business development.  This component also supports measures to 
improve the performance of the rural sector through policy actions aimed at strengthening 
government’s support to agriculture, and at improving the management of forestry resources.  
Actions under the second component include measure aimed at assisting Ghana reach the MDG 
goals by improving service delivery in education, health, social protection, and water and 
sanitation.  Measures to improve service delivery in education focus on increasing access and 
completion of quality basic education, particularly in the three most deprived regions (Northern, 
Upper East and Upper West), and on improving the efficiency and equity of education financing, 
with greater attention to the poverty impact.  Measures to improve the delivery of health services 
center on bridging the equity gaps in the access to health care services in deprived regions 
(Northern, Upper East, Upper West and Central), and at reducing the spread of HIV/AIDS.  
Measures to improve social protection concentrate on actions supporting the vulnerable and the 
excluded, such as the people living with HIV/AIDS, orphans, the homeless and street children.  
Measures to expand the provision of safe water and sanitation include the implementation of a 
Page  3
3
comprehensive sector strategy that addresses issues ranging from existing coverage, sector 
implementation capacity, technology choices, and the incidence of water-born diseases.  Action 
envisioned under the third component center on moving ahead with a medium term agenda for 
public sector reform that includes decentralization, improving public sector performance, the 
modernization of the fiduciary framework and public expenditure management, and 
strengthening the capacity to monitor and evaluate the policy agenda.   
3. Environmental Aspects 
 
The proposed operation has been rated a development policy credit, requiring that the 
program document identify possible negative environmental outcomes arising from activities 
supported by the leading operation, and there are none
.
The team working on the preparation of 
this operation acknowledges that Ghana is aware of the importance for poverty reduction to meet 
the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) of ensuring environmental sustainability
,
and the 
cross-sectoral nature of the environment and its direct and indirect linkages to economic growth 
and poverty reduction agenda have been taken into account in the preparation of the GPRS.  The 
GPRS builds on Ghana’s robust environmental institutional framework and considerable 
capacities to set, regulate and enforce environmental management standards.  The main 
frameworks are the 1991 National Environmental Policy, the 1992 National Environmental 
Action Plan, and the 1994 Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Act.  This framework laws 
give an adequate reflection of the national environmental policy objectives, seeking to reconcile 
economic development and natural resource conservation.   
 
4. Tentative financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECEPIENT 0 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
125 
 Total 
125 
 
5. Contact point 
Contact: Carlos Cavalcanti 
Title: Lead Economist 
Tel: (202) 458-9076 
 
(233-21) 22 96 81 
Fax: (233-21) 22 78 87 
Email: ccavalcanti@worldbank.org 
 
