Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4186-GH 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Fourth Poverty Reduction Support Credit) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF GHANA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated June 19, 2006  
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4186-GH 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
Agreement dated June 19, 2006, entered into between REPUBLIC OF GHANA (
“Recipient”) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“Association”) for the purpose of 
providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to 
 
this Agreement).  The Association has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of 
(a) the actions which the Recipient has already taken under the Program and which are described 
in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an 
appropriate macro-economic policy framework.   
The Recipient and the Association therefore hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
—GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. The 
“International Development Association General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, 
dated July 1, 2005, as modified in Section II of the Appendix to this Agreement 
(“General Conditions”), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Financing 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the 
Appendix to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II
—FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set forth 
or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to ninety seven million 
four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 97,400,000) (referred to variously 
as “Credit” and “Financing”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the Program in 
accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the Unwithdrawn 
Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance shall be 
equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 1 and November 1 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with the repayment 
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
Page  3
2
ARTICLE III
—PROGRAM 
3.01 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  To this 
end: 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either 
party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program; 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request; and 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, 
the Recipient shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action 
to be taken after the disbursement of the Financing which would have the effect 
of materially reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under 
the Program including any action specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV
—REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that a situation has 
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will be 
carried out. 
ARTICLE V
—TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement. 
 
Page  4
3
ARTICLE VI
—REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. The 
Recipient
’s Representative is its Minister responsible for finance. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Minister for Finance and Economic Planning  
 
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning  
 
P.O. Box MB40 
 
Accra, Ghana  
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
ECONOMICON 
2205 MIFAEP GH 
233-21-667069 
Accra 
 
 
      
 
 
233-21-663854 
 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
Page  5
4
AGREED at Accra, Republic of Ghana, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF GHANA 
 
By /s/ Kwadwo Baah-Wiredu 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By /s/ Mats Karlsson 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 1 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
Section I. 
Actions Taken Under the Program
The actions taken by the Recipient under the Program include the following:
 
The Recipient has: 
1. 
settled the accounts payable to the Electricity Company of Ghana by MDAs and the Ghana 
Water Company Ltd within ninety (90) days from the date of billing, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 51 of the Letter of Development Policy; 
2. 
further reduced the time required to register new businesses in 2005 from 85 days in 2004, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 59 of the Letter of Development Policy; 
3. 
eliminated government and district controlled levies, and extended capitation grants to all 
pupils attending public primary and junior secondary schools, in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 87 of the Letter of Development Policy; 
4. 
ensured that at least 0.5% of the persons registered in the District-Wide Mutual Health 
Insurance Schemes are indigents, and had the National Health Insurance Council transfer the 
premium subsidy to the said district schemes, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
118 of the Letter of Development Policy; 
5. 
ratified the United Nations and the African Union Anti-Corruption Conventions, and completed 
the indexation of all anti-corruption legislation, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
177 of the Letter of Development Policy; 
6. 
included Highly Indebted Poor Countries program funds in the budget formulation process, 
with allocations by MDAs in the budget proposal, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 168 of the Letter of Development Policy; 
7. 
ensured that the provisions of the Public Procurement Act, 2003 (Act 663) are implemented  
and applied to the headquarters and regional offices of key MDAs, including the 
 
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning, the Ministry of Education and Sports, the Ministry 
of Health, the Ministry of Local Government and Rural Development and the Ministry of Road 
Transport, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 144 of the Letter of Development 
Policy; and 
8. ensured
 that the Government’s Budget and Public Expenditure Management System is 
operational in the headquarter offices of the Ministry of Finance and Economic 
Planning/Controller and Accountant General’s Department and the Ministry of Health, with 
core functionalities (general ledger, purchase order and accounts payable) made available 
online for processing and reporting transactions on personnel and administrative expenditures,
 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 153 of the Letter of Development Policy. 
 
Page  7
6
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Association may 
specify by notice to the Recipient. 
B. 
Allocation of Financing Amounts.
 
The Financing shall be withdrawn in a single 
tranche.  The allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set out in the table 
below: 
Allocations 
Amount of the Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR) 
Single Tranche 
97,400,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
97,400,000 
C. 
Deposits of Financing Amounts.
 
Except as the Association may otherwise agree:   
1. 
all withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into an account designated by the Recipient and acceptable to the 
Association; and 
2.  
the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Financing 
into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Recipient
’s budget 
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Association. 
D. Audit.
 
Upon the Association’s request, the Recipient shall: 
1. 
have the account and the recording of amounts of the Financing into the 
Recipient’s budget management system
 
referred to in Part C of this Section 
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Association, in accordance 
with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Association; 
2. 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four 
months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified copy 
of the report of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request; and  
3. 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the said account 
and recording of Credit amounts into the budget management system, and their 
audit, as the Association shall reasonably request. 
 
Page  8
7
E. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Financing 
shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association determines at any time that 
an amount of the Financing was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the 
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment to the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such 
request shall be cancelled.
 
F. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is June 30, 2007. 
Page  9
8
SCHEDULE 2
 
Repayment Schedule 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each May 1 and November 1: 
 
commencing November 1, 2016 to and including  
May 1, 2026 
1% 
commencing November 1, 2026 to and including 
May 1, 2046 
2% 
*The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be repaid, 
except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Page  10
9
APPENDIX 
Section I.  Definitions 
1. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or the 
Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank has 
financed or agreed to finance under another Financing, credit, grant or loan; 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), 
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Association by notice to the Recipient: 
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121 
 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
122 
 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not 
containing tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated, for 
nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43 
Tobacco processing machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum group 
metals (except watches and watch cases) 
and goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ wares 
(including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold ores 
and concentrates) 
Page  11
10 
 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is 
prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international agreements to which 
the Recipient is a party; 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
and 
(f) 
under a contract with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, 
fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of 
the Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds during the procurement 
or execution of such contract, without the Recipient (or other such recipient) 
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to 
remedy the situation. 
2. 
“Letter of Development Policy” means the letter from the Recipient to the Association 
dated April 25, 2006 declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the 
Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in support of the Program 
during its execution. 
3. 
“MDAs” means the Recipient’s Ministries, Departments and Agencies. 
4. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote 
growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or referred to in the 
Letter of Development Policy. 
5. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the category entitled 
“Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
The modifications to the “International Development Association General Conditions for Credits 
and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted in their 
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in 
Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
Page  12
11 
 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above and 
relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Financing 
until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient shall enable the 
Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
6. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to read as 
follows: 
Section 4.07.  
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish 
to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the 
execution of the Program, the performance by the Recipient and the Association 
of their respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Financing. 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as 
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to 
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly: 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as follows:   
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in support 
of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the 
Financing Agreement.” 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the Appendix 
are deleted in their entirety. 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is modified 
to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in support 
of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” throughout these 
General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”.
 
