Report No. 1583-CO
Colombia: Appraisal of an Integrated
Nutrition Improvement Project
August 29, 1977
Agritulture and Rural Development Department
Nutriton Division
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(at the time of appraisal and used in this report)
Currency Unit   =   Colombian Peso (Col$)
Col$ 1           =   US$0.02777
Col$ 1,000       =   US$27.77
Col$ 1,000,000  =   US$27,770
4-
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBIA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
GLOSSARY OF PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS
(see next page)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
COLOMBIA
INTEGRATED NUTRITION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Glossary of Principal Abbreviations
ACPO                    -  People's Cultural Action Program
Caja Agraria            -  Agricultural, Industrial and Mining Credit Bank
CDR                     - Ministry of Education Rural Development Center
CIDA                    -  Canadian International Development Agency
CNAN                    -  National Food and Nutrition Council
CONPES                  -  National Council for Economic and Social Policy
DIGIDEC                 -  National Community Developmentc Program
DNP                     - Department of National Planning
FAO                     -  Food and Agriculture Organization, United Nations
FEDECAFE                -  National Federation of Coffee Growers of Colombia
FONADE                  - National Fund for Economic Delvelopment
ICA                     -  Colombian Agricultural Institute
ICBF                    -  Colombian Institute for Family Welfare
ICFES                   -  Colombian Institute for the Promotion of Higher
Education
IFI                     -  Industrial Development Corporation
IIT                     -  Institute for Technological Research
INAS                    - National Institute of Health
INCORA                  -  Colombian Institute for Agrarian Reform
IRDP                    -  Integrated Rural Development Program
MOH                     - Ministry of Health
PAHO                    -  Pan American Health Organization
PAN                     -  National Food and Nutrition Plan
PINA                    -  Integrated Applied Nutrition Program
PRONENCA                -  National Program of Applied Nutrition Education and
Supplementary Feeding
SENA                    - National Apprenticeship Service
UNDP                    -  United Nations Development Program
UNICEF                  -  United Nations Childrens' Funel
USAID                   -  United States of America Agency for International
Development
WHO                     - World Health Organization, United Nations
This document has a ratricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their omcial duties. It contents may not otherwise be disosed withou t World Bank authorization.






COLOMBIA INTEGRATED NUTRITTON IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONITENTS
Page No.
SUMM,ARY AND CONCLUSIONS ....................................   i - v
I.    INTRODUCTION  ..............................................
II.  BACKGROUND  ................................................                   2
A.    The Nutrition Situation .... .............2 
B.    Earlier Actions to Counter Malnutritioni .........                4
C.   The National Food and Nutrition Plan ...........                   6
D.  Scope of the Proposed Project                   .        .          8
E.  Linkages with Donor Programs                    .       .           8
III. TILE PROJECT .................,.e..............                                9
A.    Goals and Strategy  ..............................                9
B.    Detailed Project Features  ....           ...................    11
-  Health Services  ..............................    11
-  Water Supply and Sanitation ....             ..............    11
-  Nutrition Education ..........................    12
-  Family Gardens ...............................    13
-  Applied Food Technology and Quality Control  ..               14
-  Bolivar Test cf Nutrition System .............    15
-  Monitoring and Evaluation ....................    16
Program Coordination and Administration  ......    17
-  Technical Assistance  .........................               18
IV.  COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMLNT AND DISBURSEM4ENTS  ..........            .    19
A.   Costs  ......                                                     19
B. Financing .19
C. Fiscal Feasibilly.21
D.   Procur*-ment .....................................    22
E.   Disbursement, Accounts and Auditing                .     .        23
F.    Retroactive Financing  ............       ..      .......        24
V.   ORG&NIZATION AND MANAGEAENT ...................                 ............   24
A.  Administration and Coordination                   .       .        24
B.   Programming and Budgeting  .......................   24
C.   Project Execution ..................................   26
VI.  BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS  ...............          ............   27
VII. ASSURANCES . ................................................    29



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
ANNEXES
1. Nutritional Status in Colombia
2. Identification and Selection of Beneficiaries
3. Food Coupon Distribution System
4. Health Services
5. Water Supply and Sanitation
6. Nutrition Education
7. Family Gardens
8. Applied Food Technology and Quality Control
9.  Monitoring and Evaluation
10. Project Organization
11. Calculations of Economic Benefits
12. Consultant Schedule
13. Project Cost Estimates
14. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
MAP  -  Areas for Proposed Nutrition Project



COLOMBIA INTEGRATED NUTRITION IMPROVEMEN' PROJECT
Summary and Conclusions
1.        The Government of Colombia regards widespread malnutrition among
its poorest populations as a major obstacle to improving human productivity.
It is one of the country's most acute development problems. Accordingly, the
Government has incorporated a National Food and Nutrition Plan (PAN) into the
general development strategy which has produced steady and notable economic
growth over the last two decades, accompanied in recent years by steps to
improve income distribution. PAN draws on previous Colombian nutrition
experience to formulate a program which focuses clearly on the needs of target
groups. It recognizes that income, production and emplcyment increases alone
are not sufficient to assure adequate nutrition for the rural and urban poor.
Therefore, it seeks to raise living standards, nutrient intakes and the
productivity of the poorest groups through combined measures in the agricul-
tural, industrial, health, education and social welfare sectors.
2.        Malnutrition in Colombia is caused by a combination of factors.
Despite steady increases over time, low incomes restrict effective food
demand. Limited access to health services, poor environmental sanitation and
unsafe water contribute to diseases which result in significant nutrient
losses, particularly among pre-school children, compounded by inappropriate
food habits such as premature weaning.
3.        The most acute nutrition problem is protein-calorie malnutrition
(PCM), which affects approximately four million or an estimated two-thirds
of all children under seven years of age and at least an estimated 1.5 million
women of child-bearing age. Although Colombia's aggregate availability of
calories per capita appears to be adequate, almost 20% of the population
consumes 60% or less of the recommended amount. Protein availability is 17%
under per capita recommended intakes. Related nutritional problems include
iron-deficiency anemia and other mineral and vitamin deficiencies.
4.        Particularly vulnerable are the poorest, especially infants, pre-
school children and pregnant and lactating women, although older children
and adults also suffer from chronic calorie shortages. The adverse effects
of malnutrition on the physical and mental development of the child, on the
learning ability and school attendance of children and their subsequent
productivity as adult workers have been documented by Colombian nutritionists.
Malnutrition is also a prime cause of Colombia's relatively high rate of
infant and child mortality (70 per 1,000 live births), both directly and as a
contributing factor in disease-related deaths. Among lhe poorest half of
the population, nutrition-related mortality of infants and children under five
is estimated at double that of the general population and would appear to
limit prospects for significantly reducing fertility rates further.
5.        PAN deals with these problems through two major programs:  nutrition
and integrated rural development, the latter already supported by the Bank and



- ii -
other donors. The nutrition program which will be fully implemented nation-
wide by 1985 seeks to increase the productive capacity and well-being of the
poorest 30% of the population through a combination of measures directed
principally at low-income communities and groups within them at highest
nutritional risk. It includes several innovative features. First, it is an
integrated approach, seeking to combat malnutrition through multi-sectoral
programs. Second, it involves a new food distribution system directed speci-
fically at the needs of the nutritionally most vulnerable groups. Third, it
uses the primary level of the new national health care system as a conduit for
nutrition surveillance and delivery of integrated nutrition/health services
including nutrition education, food supplements, environmental sanitation,
promotion of family gardens and family planning services. The primary health
measures rely principally on para-professionals recruited from within the
communities they serve and emphasize preventive rather than curative care
delivered through community health posts.
6.        The Government requires Bank assistance to develop and carry out
the nutrition program in its initial stages; to determine its nutritional and
cost-effectiveness; to refine it through monitoring, evaluation and testing
for expansion to national coverage, and to strengthen the managerial base to
plan and execute it. The Government has requested Bank support to inaugurate
the program in seven of Colombia's 22 departamentos and the Federal district
of Bogota through a four-year project which would consist of a combination of
action programs and supporting activities affecting food demand, supply and
utilization. The action programs would be directed at populations in low-
income target communities identified by economic and social criteria.
Supporting activities would take place nationally.
7.        At the community level, the project would assist the Government
through financing to:
(i) Incorporate delivery of nutrition interventions into the
health system, using strengthened community health
services as a conduit for:
(a) nutrition education to improve food prepara-
tion and consumption habits;
(b) food supplements to reduce the gap between
dietary needs and intake of the nutritionally
most vulnerable groups, through a program of
coupons (representing part of the value of
the supplements) delivered by health personnel; and
(c) improved environmental sanitation through
latrines for waste disposal;
(ii) Install potable water supplies to prevent diarrheal
diseases, as well as water-borne parasitic and other
infections, which cause high infant mortality rates
and produce significant nutrient losses, and



- iil -
(iii) Increase production and consumption of home-grown
nutritious foods through financing of a family gar-
dens program.
8.        At the national level, the project would assist the Government
through:
(i)  Applied Food Technology and Quality Control -- Improve
the use of available food in low-income areas and
stimulate production of new varieties of low-cost
enriched foods while ensuring their conformity to
prescribed quality standards, through financing of
equipment, vehicles, materials, technical assis-
tance and studies;
(ii) Intensive Testing of the Regional Nutrition Delivery System
and Monitoring and Evaluation -- Strengthen the Govern-
ment's capacity to monitor, evaluate and improve the
nutrition program and develop plans for its
cost-effective expansion to full national coverage
through financing of studies and surveys, data pro-
cessing, and related technical assistance; and
(iii) Program Coordination and Administration -- Strengthen
and assure continuity of an effective managerial base
for the national nutrition program through support for
training and for the staff costs of the Government unit
responsible for it during the first phase of the program.
9.        The project would help the Government to inmprove the nutrition
conditions, living standards and productive potential of around 1.8 million
persons living below the poverty line. By the end of the project period, the
Government anticipates around a 25% reduction in mortality rates for children
under four and around a 50% reduction in the incidence of first, second, and
third degree malnutrition in that age group among project beneficiary families.
The project also would increase the effective availability and use of nutri-
tious food by vulnerable groups and indirectly would redistribute income to
the most disadvantaged.
10.       On a national level at the end of four yea:rs, the nutrition program
would have been carefully monitored and evaluated to determine administrative
feasibility and nutritional and cost-effectiveness o.: program components to
refine plans for its subsequent expansion in future years. Government's
capacity to manage the program effectively also would be fully tested by
that time.
11.       Each of the components of the proposed project would be executed
within existing Government organizational structures. The PAN Group in the
Department of National Planning (DNP) would coordinate the project and
would be responsible for project evalution. The Ministry of Health would



- iv -
carry out the health services and latrines programs. The National Institute
of Health (INAS), a semi-independent agency financed through the Ministry of
Health, would execute the water supply program. The Colombian Institute of
Family Welfare (ICBF) would be responsible for development and coordination of
nutrition education and family food production activities. The Institute for
Technological Research (IIT) would carry out food technology activities;
INAS and the Ministry of Health would collaborate on food quality control.
PAN committees representing all executing agencies would monitor and coordi-
nate the project in each project region, assisted by a regional DNP director
who would facilitate their work.
12.       Total costs of the four-year project are estimated at US$68.9
million, including contingencies.   The proposed Bank loan of US$25 million
would finance about 36% of total project costs, consisting of the project's
foreign exchange component of around US$13 million and an estimated US$12
million in local costs. Local cost financing is justified because the
nutrition program involves multi-sectoral investments to which the Govern-
ment has committed substantial resources over and above the project, includ-
ing US$17 million for the food coupon system. Beneficiaries would finance
around US$4.8 million of the costs of project health, water supply and
latrine services. The Government would finance the remaining US$39.1 million.
13.       Of the estimated US$55.1 million in project base costs, US$15.1
million would be for health services, US$18.4 million for water supply and
sanitation, US$6.1 million for nutrition education, US$1.4 million for family
gardens, US$3.8 million for applied food technology and quality control,
and US$4.0 million for program coordination and administration. Intensive
testing of the nutrition system in one region, and overall monitoring and
evaluation would account for US$6.4 million.
14.       Contracts for water pipes and pumping equipment (estimated costs,
US$1.7 million) and orders estimated to cost more than US$100,000 for vehicles
and other equipment would be awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding procedures in accordance with Bank guidelines. Domestic manufacturers
would receive a a preferential margin in bid evaluation equal to the prevail-
ing tariff or 15. of the c.i.f. cost of imports, whichever is lower. Orders
costing less than US$100,000 for vehicles and equipment procured locally and
for all latrine equipment and fixtures, would be made through local competi-
tive bidding procedures which are acceptable to the Bank. Construction of
health posts, latrines and potable water systems (estimated costs US$16.4
million) would be small subprojects widely dispersed geographically and,
therefore, would be carried out by self-help and force account or local
competitive bidding procedures which are acceptable to the Bank. Prudent
local shopping in accordance with Bank procurement guidelines would be used
for service contracts to produce and transmit mass media messages because of
the specialized nature of the required procurement. This is normal practice
in Colombia for similar communications campaigns.
15.       Disbursement would be made on the basis of 100X of the costs of
technical assistance, training and the foreign costs of directly imported



-v -
vehicles, equipment, materials, supplies, water pipes and pumps; 75% of
the ex-factory costs of locally manufactured water pipes and pumps; 55% of
the costs of civil works, monitoring and evaluation costs of the PAi Group
and mass media message production and dissemination, and 50% of the costs of
imported and locally procured or of the ex-factory costs of locally manufac-
tured vehicles, equipment, materials and supplies. Expenditures for baseline
monitoring and evaluation surveys, for nutrition education message production
and dissemination and for initial training programs under the nutrition
education and family gardens components (after February 1, 1977) would be
financed retroactively from the proposed loan up to US';300,000 equivalent.
16.       The proposed project would mesh with PAN nutrition activities
financed by other donors, including the U.S. Agency for International Develop-
ment (USAID), three United Nations agencies and the Netherlands. Bank consul-
tations with the leading donor agencies took place regularly in the field
to assure appropriate linkages, to avoid duplication of effort and to use
the early results of their experiences in project preparation.
17.       The proposed project is suitable for Bank loan of US$25 million
equivalent to the Government of Colombia for a term of 17 years, including
a grace period of four years, at the standard Bank rate.






COLOMBIA
INTEGRATED NUTRITION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
I. Introduction
1.01      Colombia's general development strategy has produced steady and
notable economic growth over the last two decades. In recent years, that
stategy has included actions to improve income distribution through pro-
gressive tax reform, increased public expenditures on rural education and
public health, and steps to reduce unemployment and enlarge credit facilities
to small farmers. Despite these measures, widespread malnutrition persists
among Colombia's poorest populations and is regarded by the Government as
one of the country's most acute development problems. Consequently, Colombia
has incorporated the first phase of a National Food and Nutrition Plan (PAN)
specifically addressing nutrition problems into the 1975-78 national plan
for social, economic and regional development.
1.02      PAN draws on the experience from previous, somewhat diffuse Colombia
nutrition efforts to formulate a program which focuseEs clearly on the needs
of target groups.  It recognizes that income, food production and employment
increases alone are not sufficient to assure an adequate diet for the rural
and urban poor.  Therefore, the Government's nutrition strategy aims at
benefiting the poorest 30% of the population by a combination of action
programs to improve their productive capacity and well-being. A central
feature of the program is use of a strengthened community health system as
a conduit for delivery of other nutrition-improving services which consist
principally of nutrition education, including promotion of increased pro-
duction and consumption of home grown nutritious foods; food supplements for
particularly vulnerable groups (pregnant and nursing women and pre-school
children); potable water supplies, and environmental sanitation. Applied food
technology which will pave the way for better utilization of existing produc-
tion in low-income areas has an important role in the program. Activities to
evaluate and refine the program, test new approaches and strengthen its
managerial base support the operational aspects of the national nutrition
effort.
1.03      The Government has requested the Bank to assist in carrying out
the first phase of the national nutrition program by support to a project in
seven regions and the Federal district of Bogota for:
(i)  strengthening of the primary health care system as the
base for delivery of integrated nutrit:ion and health
services, to include Bank-assisted nutrition educa-
tion and food supplementation;
(ii)  expansion of potable water supplies and environmental sanita-
tion in project areas;
(iii)  promotion of family gardens;
(iv) improvement of food technology and quality control; and



- 2 -
(v) strengthening nutrition program infrastructure through
training, program coordination and monitoring and
evaluation.
1.04      This report is based on the findings of an appraisal Mission which
vis:ited Colombia January 23-February 11, 1977. The Mission consisted of:
Mr. S. Venkitaramanan (Chief of Mission); Messrs. S. Basta, D. Dapice,
S. Futagami, J. Greene and N. Wilkie of the Bank staff, and Messrs. G. Herrera
and C. Schlesinger, consultants. The Mission's work was facilitated by
representatives of the Bank Resident Mission. The project results from a
continuous dialogue between the Bank, the Department of National Planning
(DNP) and associated ministries and institutions in Colombia dating from
January, 1975. It derives from comprehensive multisectoral plans and sectoral
studies prepared by these Government bodies, coordinated by DNP and reflects
sustained effort by the Government and Bank staff. Government and Bank
consultation with external aid agencies in Colombia ensured that the proposed
project would complement investment commitments and assistance to the nutrition
program already made or scheduled by the U.S. Agency for International Develop-
ment (USAID), the United Nations Development Program (UNDP); the United
Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), the Pan American Health Organization (PAHO),
the Netherlands and other donors. Project appraisal was initiated by a
mission in March, 1976, and was completed in February, 1977, after additional
preparation and adjustment of GoVernment programs.
II. BACKGROUND
A. The Nutrition Situation
2.01      Daily availability of calories in Colombia is estimated to be
2,251 per capita, marginally (4%) above the recommended average allowances.
Per capita protein availability at 47 grams per capita is 17% below the recom-
mended daily allowance. These overall averages mask profound variations in
food intake between different age and socio-economic groups, between regions,
and within each of these substrata. Recent surveys show that almost 20% of
the total population consumes 60% or less of its recommended calorie intake.
The deficits in protein, vitamins and minerals at the lowest income levels are
higher still. Both calorie and protein availabilities and consumption
are estimated to be somewhat lower in rural than urban areas.
Nutrition Problems
2.02      Major nutritional problems identified by the Government, based on
the findings of Colombian experts, are:



- 3 -
(i) protein-calorie malnutrition (PCM), afiecting mainly
infants and pre-school children, but also affecting
older children, pregnant women and nursing mothers;
(ii)  iron-deficiency anemia in women, small children and a
significant proportion of adult male laborers in
coastal areas; and
(iii)  other mineral and vitamin deficiencies, particularly of
vitamin A and calcium, affecting both children and
adults, especially those in low-income rural
areas.
2.03      Of these problems, PCM is the most acute and persistent, affecting
approximately four million or an estimated two-thirds of all children under
seven years of age and an estimated 1.5 million women. of child-bearing age.
About 22% of all children under four years of age suffer moderate or severe
malnutrition. A recent study in low-income areas of Bogota showed that PCM
affected 86% of the children surveyed. Statistics on infant and child
mortality also reflect the magnitude of PCM in Colombia: 40% of all
deaths each year are among children under the age of five, and even with
significant under-reporting, one-third are attributable directly or indirectly
to PCM and its effects. The mortality rate among inl-ants, although declining,
remains substantial (70 per 1,000 live births,) and in some poor urban
and rural areas is reported to reach rates of 150-200 per 1,000. Among the
poorest half of the population, nutrition-related mortality of infants and
children under five years of age is estimated at double the rates for the
general population, although reliable data are not available. Chronic calorie
and protein shortages affect older children, adult workers and are especially
critical among pregnant women and nursing mothers, who require an extra
300-600 calories and 20-30 grams of protein per day compared to other women of
similar age to facilitate normal physical and mental development of their
infants.
Causes of Malnutrition
2.04      As in other developing countries, malnutrition in Colombia is
caused by a combination of factors.  Despite steady increases over time,
low incomes continue to limit effective food demand among the poorest.
Insufficient education on nutritional needs and sound feeding practices
severely limit a poor family's opportunities to help itself. Diseases from
lack of safe water supplies and poor sanitation facilities cause nutrient
losses. Insufficient facilities for safe and hygienic storage of food crops,
poor roads, and a domestic food distribution system which tends to favor urban
consumers exacerbate the problem in rural areas.
Consequences of Malnutrition
2.05      The effects of malnutrition on the physical and mental develop-
ment of the child, on the mother's ability to nurse her infant adequately,
on the learning ability and school attendance rate of children, (54% drop



- 4 -
out before the third grade) and on the productive capacity of adult workers,
have all been documented by Colombian nutritionists. Inadequacies in the
diet furthermore expose the individual more readily to infectious diseases,
in the gravest cases increasing the risk of premature mortality, and in
others inducing the familiar cycle of morbidity, loss of energy and apathy.
In economic terms, the effects of malnutrition and associated infections
are equally serious, both for the individual Colombian's work and income-
earning capacity and for national economic development. A recent study
among cane-cutters in the Valle region showed a significant positive cor-
relation between nutritional status and labor productivity. Another study,
undertaken by the Association of Medical Faculties and Ministry of Health,
estimated that the 96 million work days lost each year through illness,
to which malnourishment contributes, have an economic value cf at least
US$55 million per annum.
B. Earlier Actions to Counter Malnutrition
2.06      The Government has sought with mixed results to improve nutritional
standards through both general economic and specific nutritional measures.
Rapid Colombian economic development has resulted in increased employment
and improved living standards for many persons. Nevertheless, problems on
both the demand and supply side have left substantial portions of the popula-
tion with a nutritionally deficient diet. Colombia's agriculture strategy
resulting in a 4.6% average annual growth of output between 1971 and 1975,
concentrated on production of commercial crops to improve the balance of
payments position and reduce foreign exchange constraints. Output of domestic
food crops grew less rapidly than population, restricting supplies. However,
even significant food production increases could not be expected by themselves
to improve conditions among the nutritionally deprived in the face of persis-
tent income distribution and land-ownership inequalities and continuing
high levels of unemployment and underemployment which limit demand.
2.07      Specific programs to improve nutritional levels, some dating back
20 years, have accompanied national development efforts. These have included
an early program to fortify salt with iodine which resulted in the virtual
eradication of goiter as a public health problem. Others involving nutrition
education, supplementary feeding and household food production generally
have had more limited impact.
2.08      The three main nutrition programs carried out in recent years are:
(i) the integrated program of applied nutrition (PINA); (ii) the national
program of applied nutrition education and supplementary feeding (PRONENCA),
and (iii) the production of Bienestarina, a vegetable-protein mixture for use
in institutional feeding programs. All three are implemented by the Colombian
Institute for Family Welfare (ICBF), an autonomous agency under the Ministry
of Health. PINA carries out regional programs of varied scope and size.
These include in-service nutrition training for ICBF staff and personnel of



other agencies; the operation of nutrition rehabilitation centers, and rural
food production programs which frequently have tended to emphasize cash crops
and poultry and livestock production.    Although PINA has not been evaluated
fully, its overall nutrition impact appears to have beer. relatively modest.
2.09      Since 1968, PRONENCA has distributed food supplements from  external
donors to infants, pre-school and primary school children, pregnant women
and nursing mothers through health and welfare facilities and primary schools.
The food aid is used to attract mothers to ICBF nutrition education classes
and demonstrations at 140 community health centers. PRONENGA in 1976 supplied
about 39,000 metric tons of food to about a million beneficiaries throughout
Colombia. While the program has been administered fairLy efficiently, it has
tended to reach middle-class families as well as the poor. These factors,
along with the expected phasing out of donated foods by the end of 1978,
contributed to the Government decision to develop a food coupon system as an
alternative to PRONENCA.
2.10      Other Government agencies have contributed specialized services
to Colombia's nutrition programs. The Institute for Technological Research
(IIT) has carried out effective work since the late 1960's to develop and
introduce nutritious processed foods, including pilot programs incorporating
indigenous raw materials in locally processed foods to improve their nutritive
value. The Institute of Public Health (INAS) of the Ministry of Health has
undertaken modest nutrition-related activities in food quality analysis. The
Colombian Agricultural Institute (ICA) has been associated with PINA schemes
for pig and poultry-raising, smallholder cultivation of fruits and vegetables
and other food production projects.
2.11      International and bilateral donor agencies also have been associated
with Colombian nutrition programs for some years. PAiHO/WHO, FAX and UNICEF
provided joint assistance to PINA from its inception in 1961, and contributed
to national nutrition planning efforts in the early 1910's. Supplementary
feeding programs have been heavily dependent on external assistance. United
States voluntary agencies alone contributed nearly US$147 million over the years
1954-76, while World Food Program assistance in this sector has amounted to
US$42 million since 1964. UNDP has given periodic support through small-scale
projects to finance technical assistance. Bilateral support has included
Netherlands Government contributions of funds and technical assistance to
develop composite flour products through IIT.
2.12      The overall nutrition impact of these diverse programs has been
limited by several major factors including: (i) lack of a clear and sustained
focus on nutritionally deprived groups; (ii) emphasis on short-term, remedial
rather than preventive measures; (iii) inadequate levels of budgetary support,
(iv) absence of meaningful evaluation of the nutrition, impact of the programs
previously undertaken, and (v) absence until recently of a cohesive Government
strategy to deal with the nutrition problem, to mobilize resources and insti-
tutions outside the health sector and to coordinate their activities.



-6-
C. The National Food and Nutrition Plan
2.13      While the country's overall development strategy gradually would
reduce poverty and malnourishment, by the early 1970's the Government recognized
that special measures were required to deal with these problems and speed the
integration of Colombia's lowest-income populations into the mainstream of
national development. Consequently, the Government developed a long-term
National Food and Nutrition Plan (PAN), and incorporated its first phase
into the 1975-78 National Plan for Social and Economic Development. PAN
seeks explicitly to raise incomes, productivity and nutritional levels
among the poorest half of Colombia's population during the current national
development plan period and thereafter. Drawn up by DNP with support from
what is now the interministerial National Food and Nutrition Council (CNAN),
PAN was approved on March 5, 1975, by the National Economic and Social
Policy Council (CONPES), a cabinet-level body chaired by the President
of Colombia.
2.14      PAN's main priorities are to raise productivity and incomes of
the poorest 50% of Colombia's population. This is to be accomplished
through increased food production, improved marketing and processing and
improved nutrition and health conditions through strengthened health
services, water supply systems and environmental sanitation, an expanded
program of nutrition education, and the provision of subsidized processed
food supplements to vulnerable groups among the poorest through a newly
developed food coupon system. The measures which make up PAN would optimize
food consumption by malnourished target groups and other low-income persons
within existing income constraints, increase food supplies and incomes of
small farmers in low-income groups, and would increase food demand among
the poorest.
2.15      The two principal components of PAN are the Integrated Rural Develop-
ment Program (IRDP) already assisted by the Bank and the national nutrition
program, which the proposed project would support. Complementing these two
components is a Bank-aided project to increase production of commercial crops
for export and for the domestic processing sector, while encouraging the
expansion of agro-industry. The food coupon program, while representing only
a modest increase in total demand for domestic food crops, would provide an
assured and growing market for output from the IRDP and agricultural credit
projects.
2.16      The first five-year phase of IRDP covers selected groups of farmers
in eight of Colombia's 22 regions and also is supported by the Canadian
International Development Agency and the Inter-American Development Bank. It
seeks to raise smallholder production and incomes by promoting farm investment
through supervised credit, roads and related measures among the poorest
50% who have suitable agricultural potential.



2.17      The nutrition program is directed at even more disadvantaged rural
and urban populations in the poorest 30%, who live in absolute poverty.
These beneficiaries include landless laborers as well as others whose cir-
cumstances would not qualify them as immediate targets for IRDP credit and
related investments. They were selected for inclusion in the nutrition
program by a process (see Annex 2) which ranks all Colombian communities
by levels of income and access to public services.
2.18      The nutrition program draws on the lessons oi- previous, less
concentrated Colombian efforts to focus attention on and direct resources to
the specific needs of the nutritionally most deprived. Its combined measures
are intended to interrupt the recurrent cycle of low productivity, malnutri-
tion and poverty through actions to reduce malnourishment in the short run
while providing the potential for increased human productivity as further
economic development takes place. The nutrition program provides a way
to bridge the current nutrition gap among the poorest 30% while increasing
their capacity to utilize economic opportunities.
2.19      The nutrition program would improve the well-being of beneficiary
families by integrating into a single package, where feasible, community
health services, provision of potable water and latrines, nutrition educa-
tion, promotion of family gardens and supply of subsidized processed foods
to the nutritionally most vulnerable. Two special features of the nutrition
program are the use of the community health post as a delivery mechanism
for nutrition services and the use of coupons to provide subsidized food
supplements to pregnant and nursing women, infants, and malnourished pre-
school children through commercial channels.
2.20      As part of PAN, the Government began in 1976 to install a regional-
ized national system of primary health services. Designed to ensure accessi-
bility, the system places high priority on preventive care; mother-and-child
health services, including family planning; and environmental sanitation.
The reformed health system would delegate more functions to para-professional
personnel and would promote active community involvement in program develop-
ment and control. The system would operate at three levels. At the community
level, a health worker (promotora), selected locally by her community, would
serve about 180 families. The second level would consist of a community
health post staffed by two auxiliary nurses (auxiliares) who would supervise
about six health workers under the direction of a part:-time physician. Urban
community health posts would be staffed by a half-time physician and a half-
time dentist. The local hospital would form the thirdl tier of the system and
would receive patients from the health posts, in addit:ion to servicing residents
of its immediate, usually urban neighborhood. It wou:Ld link to the regional
hospital which in turn would refer patients to the university hospitals.
Under the new health system, a considerable reduction of earlier costs per
health case is anticipated, since an estimated 85% of health problems will be
handled at the local level by paraprofessional personnel rather than by
physicians.



- 8 -
2.21      The food coupon system would represent an innovative approach
to supplementing the diets of Colombia's poorest pregnant and nursing women,
infants and malnourished pre-school children. It derives from a growing
body of opinion that carefully-targeted food subsidies represent a potentially
effective measure to meet the immediate food needs of groups who cannot
afford adequate diets. The coupons entitle nutritionally most vulnerable
groups to buy fixed quantities of certain types of nutritious processed foods
at subsidized prices through the market place. Subsidy levels (averaging
60X of the retail costs of the foods) and food types and quantities were
determined by complex calculations of average calorie and protein shortfalls
for each kind of beneficiary, taking into account current family income and
food availability (see Annex 3). The entitlement and coupon distribution
process operates through health posts in low-income communities identified for
inclusion in the nutriltion program (see Annex 2). Community health workers
certify women and children for coupons to be issued by auxiliary nurses
at the health post where weight-height measurements are taken regularly
for all infants and malnourished pre-school children.
D. Scope of the Proposed Project
2.22      The Government has requested Bank assistance for the first phase of
the nutrition program specifically: (i) to strengthen Colombia's operational
capacity to carry out the program in seven regions and the Federal district of
Bogota; (ii) to monitor and evaluate it effectively, and (iii) to identify and
test out appropriate variations and additional measures to increase its impact
as the program expands to national coverage. Initially the Government intended
for the nutrition program to achieve full national coverage by 1978. In
consultation with the Bank, the Government decided on a less ambitious imple-
mentation pace, with national coverage to be reached in three stages ending in
1985. The first phase began with a three-year USAID loan signed in September,
1976, providing US$6 million to support selected aspects of the program
including its operation in the three regions of Cauca, Huila and Norte de
Santander. The four-year program of proposed Bank assistance is also part of
the first phase. Bank support would encompass low-income communities in two
different geographic areas besides the Federal District of Bogota. Four are
contiguous regions in the west-central mountain and valley area (Caldas,
Risaralda, Tolima and Valle) and three are contiguous regions in the northern
coastal plains area (Atlantico, Bolivar and Magdalena.) In accordance with a
Government decision to spread development benefits as equitably as possible,
the eight IRDP project zones and regions with their own special development
plans were excluded from the first phase of the nutrition program. However,
by 1985, PAN would cover the whole country.
E. Linkages with Donor Programs
2.23      Several current or planned donor-assisted programs under PAN
would complement the proposed Bank project. PAHO expects to continue advisory



- 9 -
services to help Colombia develop the new community health system and plan
more effective use of health resources.
2.24      The USAID nutrition loan signed last year finances health services,
water supply, environmental sanitation and costs of food coupon administration
in the three regions mentioned above, as well as equipment for a processed
food plant to produce 10,000 tons annually of Bienestarina (a nutritious
processed vegetable-protein mix) for Government programs. About 14% of
the loan is for training, technical assistance, pilot studies and evaluation.
Early experience gained through that project, particularly its pilot studies
on the integrated delivery of nutrition services, the Lood coupon system
and development of an evaluation methodology, paved the way for and influenced
the design of the project proposed for Bank support.
2.25      Two other donor-assisted projects also relatie to the proposed Bank-
supported nutrition effort. The Netherlands government is providing approxi-
mately US$740,000 to finance equipment, materials, technical assistance and
fellowships for research and development of various soy-based products, in-
cluding composite flours, bread, soy milk and cheese. UNICEF is providing
consultant services and training support to the national nutrition education
campaign and to the Ministry of Health for monitoring and evaluation of health
system implementation. It plans limited additional assistance in technical
aspects of nutrition education and further support for health studies and
related consultant services.
2.26      While PAN in general, and the multisectoral nutrition program
in particular, are both ambitious and complex, government agencies concerned
have the capacity to carry them out through existing arrangements.
2.27      The Government also would manage the other donor projects under PAN
through existing arrangements. These appear satisfact:ory and would not
interfere with or duplicate the proposed Bank project, which would include
assistance specifically for management, coordination and evaluation.
III. THE PROJECT
A.   Goals and Strategy
3.01      The proposed nutrition project has three basic goals:  (a) to
improve nutrition, living standards and the productive capacity of 1.8
million Colombians now living in absolute poverty in seven selected regions
and the Federal district of Bogota; (b) through systematic monitoring and
evaluation, to enable the Government to refine PAN and ensure its sustained
effectiveness and financial feasibility as coverage expands during the project
and thereafter, and (c) to strengthen the managerial base for planning and
executing the nutrition program.



- 10 -
3.02      To achieve these objectives, financing would be provided to a
combination of action programs and supporting activities affecting food de-
mand, supply and utilization. The action programs would be directed pri-
marily at populations in the target communities while supporting acti-
vities would take place nationally. The programs would include:
(i) Incorporating delivery of nutrition interventions into
the health system, using strengthened community health ser-
vices as a conduit for:
(a) nutrition education to improve food preparation
and consumption habits;
(b) food supplements to reduce the gap between needs
and intake of the nutritionally most vulnerable
groups, through a program of coupons (represent-
ing part of the value of the supplements) de-
livered by health personnel; and
(c) improved environmental sanitation;
(ii) Installation of potable water supplies to prevent
diarrheal diseases, as well as water-borne parasitic
and other infections which cause high infant mortality
rates and produce significant nutrient losses, and
(iii) Increased production and consumption of home-grown nutri-
tious foods.
3.03      The above programs would be complemented by selective assistance for
national activities, including:
(i)  Applied Food Technology and Quality Control -- Improve
the use of available food in low-income areas and stimu-
late production of new varieties of low-cost enriched
processed foods while ensuring their conformity to
prescribed quality standards, through financing of
equipment, vehicles, materials, technical assistance,
and studies;
(ii)  Monitoring and Evaluation -- Strengthen the Government s
capacity to monitor, evaluate and refine the national
nutrition program through financing of studies and
surveys, data processing, intensive testing and moni-
toring of the food supplement system in one region
and technical assistance; and
(iii) Program Coordination and Administration -- Strengthen the
managerial base for the national nutrition program through
funding for the staff costs of the PAN Group in DNP, which
coordinates it.



- 11 -
B.  Detailed Project Features
Health Services
3.04      The project would finance the strengthening of the primary health
care system as a mechanism for integrated delivery of nutrition/health ser-
vices including nutrition education, family planning services, coupons for
subsidized food supplements, potable water supplies and latrines. The 1.8
million health service beneficiaries (at 90% coverage) would include around
573,000 pregnant and nursing women and pre-school children at particularly
high nutritional risk.
3.05      Project funds would be provided to construct: 56 and renovate 225
community health posts in rural and urban areas. Each of the 213 rural posts
would be staffed by a full-time team of about 6 community health workers, and
2 auxiliary nurses, a part-time physician and a part-time dentist, serving
an average of 6,000 persons. Each of the 68 urban posts would serve around
8,000 persons through a full-time staff averaging 6 health workers, 2 auxil-
iary nurses, a half-time physician and a half-time dentist. An average of
one ambulance would be available to every four health posts.
3.06      The project would finance training for around 2,028 health workers
and 677 auxiliary nurses to staff project health posts (allowing for 25%
attrition over four years), and 2,400 medical kits for health workers. It
would provide medical supplies, vaccines, mules and bicycles for health
workers and communications equipment for rural health posts. To strengthen
the Ministry of Health's capacity to plan and implement the primary health
care system, the project would finance four person-years of consultants to
the programming office in the Ministry's planning wing. It would also fi-
nance four person-years of consultant services to the Ministry's Division of
Community Participation, and four person-years of Colombian supporting staff
services to each of the seven regional chiefs of medical services responsible
for health system programming in project regions. Draft terms of reference
for these consultants are in Annex 4, Appendix 4.
3.07      The new health system represents a major departure from previous
Government health programs which bypassed most of the rural poor and empha-
sized expensive curative services provided by physicians rather than preven-
tive care by paramedical personnel. Training enabling health workers, auxil-
iary nurses and physicians to function effectively as members of community
health teams is essential for its success. While suitable training curricula
have been adopted for paramedical personnel and are beginning to be used,
the Ministry of Health still is revising its program for training rural
physicians. Assurances were received that the Government would implement
specialized health care training, satisfactory to the! Bank, for all staff
working at the primary care level of the health system.
Water Supply and Environmental Sanitation
3.08      Assistance would be provided so that the project area population
with access to potable water would be doubled through around 360 rural water



- 12 -
supply systems serving 231,000 persons in 372 small communities (populations
under 2,500) also served by health posts. It would finance construction and
equipment costs to expand or install 215 gravity systems, including a chlori-
nation plant for the one project community which requires it, as well as for
134 pumping systems, generally from deep wells. Each system would serve an
average of about 100 households through individual connections. Purchase of
vehicles as well as equipment needed to help communities maintain the systems
also is included.
3.09      Installation of the rural water supply systems would be carried
out by the National Institute of Health (INAS). INAS is a decentralized,
semi-autonomous agency funded through the MOH. It has an impressive per-
formance record in rural water supply, partly because INAS requires bene-
fitting communities to contribute at least 10% of the initial investment cost
of rural water supply systems (estimated total investment cost US$65 per
capita) and subsequently to operate, manage and maintain them principally
with local resources. (See Annex 5.) INAS also has the technical and manager-
ial capacity to execute the project-assisted water supply program.
3.10      The component also would provide fixtures, building materials and
vehicles for the Ministry of Health to install 112,000 household latrines
serving 627,000 persons, doubling the number of latrines available in project
areas over the four-year project period. Benefitting families would provide
at least half the estimated US$33 total cost of each installed latrine in
labor, cash or materials. An MOH sanitary promoter attached to each project
health post would be responsible for encouraging beneficiary families to
install latrines, for arranging delivery of the fixtures and related materials
to families from regional MOH storage facilities and for ensuring that the
latrines are installed properly and maintained thereafter.
3.11      Provision of water supply systems and latrines would be synchronized,
where possible, with installation of health posts through coordination mechanisms
described in para. 5.02.
Nutrition Education
3.12      The component would finance a combination of mass media programs and
individual and group discussions to improve nutritional habits of project area
populations. It also would provide similar coverage after 1977 in the three
regions where USAID nutrition education assistance under the 1976 loan was
confined to initial design and introductory activities. The campaigns would
promote better weaning habits and improved preparaton and increased consumption
of foods already available to low-income beneficiaries.
3.13      Mass media financing would support the development, production,
pre-testing and dissemination of radio messages by 127 stations reaching an
estimated 80% of the families who own or have regular access to radios in
project areas. About 250 spot announcements would be financed, each to be
broadcast an average of 10 times daily over a three-month period, and about 20



- 13 -
radio serials to be broadcast daily in five-minute episodes. Themes, content
and timing of these messages would be coordinated with individual and group
nutrition education activities in project areas. Playback equipment for DNP
to monitor and review the broadcasts would be included. Financing also would
be provided to produce six 10-minute nutrition films to be shown in 240
theatres nationwide and in rural project areas by three mobile units which the
project also would finance. Additionally, the component would finance produc-
tion of a 15-minute T.V. program on nutrition, principally for urban viewers.
3.14      Training for health personnel in techniques of conducting individual
and group discussions would also be financed. It would include training
programs of between one day and two weeks for around 2.,028 health workers as
part of their health training, as well as for about 2,400 community leaders,
3,000 shopkeepers who sell coupon-subsidized foods and around 600 personnel
from other agencies involved in the nutrition education campaign. Assurances
were received that such training programs would be sat:isfactory to the Bank.
Around five person-years of local consultant services wqould be provided for
development of rural nutrition education materials and for improvement of
production techniques. Five person-years of fellowships would be provided in
communications techniques, production of nutrition education materials and
training of nutrition education trainers. The project also would finance
educational materials, equipment, monitoring and administrative costs.
3.15      In accordance with national policy, DNP would execute mass media
activities. Overall coordination of mass media with other kinds of nutrition
education under the project, as well as the development and management of the
individual and small group programs, would be done by ICBF. (See Annex 6.)
Family Gardens
3.16      This component would support a pilot effort to increase home produc-
tion and consumption of nutritious vegetables and legumes by 20,000 families
in project areas. Gardens organized through an existing Ministry of Education
program at 100 rural schools would serve as demonstration centers for the
program. The component would finance the costs of developing suitable tech-
nical packages of inputs and practices for the 12x6 meter home garden plot
which each farm family would tend. It also would cover training and training
materials for 100 full-time extension agents and 100 school teachers; seeds,
fertilizer and pesticides for home and school gardens; and salaries of the
extension agents. Assurances were received that such training programs would
be satisfactory to the Bank. Farmers would receive inputs on a grant basis
for demonstration purposes during the first two years of their participation.
They would pay at least 50% of the input costs in the third year and the full
cost of inputs in the fourth year and thereafter. Each plot would be expected
to produce an estimated minimum 100 kilos of vegetables per year based on
current average yields. (The expected annual return rLet of purchased inputs
as a result of the program would be US$26.50 per family at July, 1977 wholesale
prices against a per family annual average program cost of US$17.10.) Based
on the experience gained during the project period, the program would be
expanded during the next phase of PAN.



- 14 -
Applied Food Technology and Quality Control
3.17      This component would pave the way for better utilization of avail-
able food in low-income areas. It also would stimulate production of new var-
ieties of low-cost enriched foods, while providing an efficient mechanism for
ensuring their conformity to prescribed quality standards.
3.18      The Applied Food Technology sub-component would finance equipment,
materials, personnel and foreign and local technical assistance for 26 sub-
projects which would lead to widespread adoption or extension of useful
techniques and products. (See Annex 8.) These activities, which would be
carried out principally by the Institute of Technological Research (IIT),
would concentrate on: (i) technologies for safe storage of local farm produce
and village-level processing, and (ii) accelerated diversification of raw
materials and processes for commercial food use.
3.19      IIT would develop a number of practical measures to improve family
food consumption and to raise the productivity of rural agriculture through
reduction of post-harvest food losses of cereal grains, fruit, cassava,
plantains and potatoes. The project also would finance development of portable
processing units for small-scale production of pre-cooked doughs, enriched
cornbread, soybean flour and pre-cooked soy-based products and prototype units
to produce pre-cooked enriched cereal flour in rural areas based on existing
industrial-scale technology. An extension program to replicate successful
prototype installations in selected nutrition project communities also would
receive project support.
3.20      Fourteen sub-projects would seek to stimulate further investments in
commercial food processing. Of these, five would involve development, testing,
demonstration and utilization of new formulas and processes for vegetable
protein mixes, flour and for enriched pastas, using precooked rice, sorghum
and cassava. Five sub-projects would deal with applied research, development
and industrial trials of enriched food formulas using cottonseed flour, wheat
concentrates, sesame, broad beans, cow peas and other legumes as alternative
protein sources to soybeans in low-cost nutritious foods. Two pilot plant
trials of processed textured vegetable protein foods would be financed, one
adding by-products of fish and meat and the other a simplified technology for
texturization. One technical trial would take place to extend the storage and
shelf life of cereal-based processed foods. A pilot project would also be
undertaken to fortify staple foods like sugar, rice and pasta with micro-
nutrients (e.g. iron, vitamin A), including evaluation of the economic and
technical feasibility of fortification at various levels and trial and demons-
tration of appropriate processes. During the last year of the project, IIT
in consultation with these agencies and the PAN Group would develop a plan
of operations to introduce successful techniques on an operational scale
during the next phase of PAN.
3.21      The Food Quality Control sub-component would finance Government in-
stallation and operation of an effective system to ensure that enriched foods



- 15 -
produced by commercial manufacturers are safe, wholesome and conform to re-
quirements already established by the Ministry of Health through resolutions
and decrees. The project would finance basic laboratory equipment, spare
parts, vehicles, salaries for personnel, packaging and delivery expendi-
tures to collect and analyze processed foods under the Ministry inspection
and control system. INAS would analyze the chemical and physical composition
and micro-biological quality of processed foods while the Ministry's Division
of Environmental Sanitation would carry out the surveillance, collection and
consignment of samples to INAS through regional health service units.
3.22      Included in this component would be six studies dealing with food
quality analysis and improvement, the development of minimum-cost diets using
processed foods in different regions, and the economic effects on producers
and consumers of food standards legislation. Equipment, materials, personnel
costs, local and foreign fellowships (about 4.5 person-years) and 16 person-
months of advisors to carry out these special studies would be provided under
this component. The National Fund for Economic Development (FONADE) of DNP
would contract with appropriate agencies for these studies. The Pan Group, in
consultation with appropriate agencies, including IIT, would utilise these
studies in refining the national nutrition plan.
Bolivar Test of Nutrition Delivery System
3.23      The component would finance the costs of evaluating the effective-
ness of the nutrition delivery system in the region of Bolivar for groups at
highest nutritional risk. Bolivar is representative of poorer parts of
Colombia and thus has been chosen in consultation with the Bank for intensive
monitoring and evaluation with particular emphasis of the food coupon program.
All elements of the nutrition program will operate in Bolivar. Variations
will be introduced in ration amounts and the composition of recipient groups
to determine the most effective use of resources. Variations in the intensity
of nutrition education also would be tested. Financing would be provided for
producing, distribution and accounting for coupons distributed to health posts.
The coupons would account for an average of around 60% cf retail costs of food
supplements reaching around 30,000 pregnant and nursing women and pre-school
children in Bolivar by 1980. The beneficiaries would pay the remaining food
costs at participating retail stores. The Bank would nct disburse against the
subsidy element (see para. 4.09). The Government would meet all food subsidy
and administration costs for the coupon program, estimated at US$17 million
over and above project costs over the four-year period during the initial
phase of PAN.  The evaluation (costs of which are includled under the monitoring
and evaluation component) would be designed to determine:
(a)  the nutritional impact of the system;
(b) the operational problems in the identification and
follow-up of the beneficiaries of the system, the
extent of supervision needed and provided, the food
leakage at different points in the delivery mecha-
nism; and



- 16 -
(c) the relative cost effectiveness of the different
variants of the coupon system and direct distribution
of food through PRONENCA community centers or schools.
Assurances were received that the special Bolivar evaluation would be initia-
ted not later than January 1, 1978 on the basis of terms of reference accep-
table to the Bank, with the results utilized to modify the national nutrition
program, such modifications being carried out in consultation with the Bank.
Monitoring and Evaluation
Progress of Project - Monitoring
3.24      The different components of the project would be monitored to
determine their progress toward goals and implementation schedules. This
would be done at local, regional and national levels. PAN Group personnel at
DNP headquarters and in project regions would review the progress reports
for each locality monthly, with reference to installation of the health posts;
percentage of beneficiaries reached and kinds of service provided; delivery
of coupons to potential beneficiaries; implementation of water supply, sani-
tation and home gardens; training, and procurement of necessary equipment and
vehicles. The regional heads of executing agencies also would review these
reports individually and jointly, analyze the progress and problems of the
project in the region and take appropriate action. They also would submit a
quarterly review to the national PAN director as well as to the concerned
ministries. These reports would be examined at the national level by the
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit at DNP and form the basis of a quarterly report
to CNAN and CONPES. Semi-annual monitoring reports would be furnished to the
Bank and the concerned ministries by DNP.
3.25      Monitoring reports would be designed to highlight the actual and
likely slippages and deviations if any, in respect of each component, and
act as early warning signals to avert further problems.
Evaluation
3.26      Baseline surveys of the nutritional status of target groups would be
carried out by ICBF teams on behalf of DNP and would be repeated semi-annually
in project areas to supplement the simple anthropometric measurements taken by
community health workers and auxiliary nurses. Other information requirements
of on-going project evaluation would be built into the design of the monitoring
system so that separate data gathering (for purposes of evaluation) would be
reduced to a minimum. Evaluation would be continuous and would produce
quarterly reports to project management at different levels so that there
could be early correction, where necessary. In view of the relative newness of
the community health system, two special evaluations of it would take place in
its initial implementation phase. First, the Government would complete its
current intensive evaluation of around 50 health posts selected on a represen-
tative basis from among those initially established in nutrition program



- 17 -
areas.    This evaluation deals primarily with the foLlowing elements:
preventive care; the training, coverage and workload of health workers, with
special reference to distribution of food coupons; the extent to which the
nutrition services are integrated with the health care system; and the ade-
quacy of financial and material provisions. Second, assurances were received
that an interim evaluation of the system would be carried out by the Govern-
ment not later than September, 1978, under terms of reference acceptable to
the Bank. Based on the results of that evaluation, the pace and manner of
implementation of health posts for the remaining project period would be
revised on a basis acceptable to the Bank. The Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
also would carry out the intensive four-year evaluation of the effectiveness
of the nutrition system and its relationship to project effectiveness in
Bolivar.
3.27      The project also would finance, as part of evaluation, studies of:
(a) management effectiveness of the nutrition delivery
system, comparing coupon distribution through health
posts with direct distribution of foodstuffs through
PRONENCA;
(b) intra-family distribution of foods in families as-
sisted by the food distribution program, the ex-
tent of diversion to non-target groups; and the im-
pact on nutritional status; and
(c)  effect of the nutrition project on productivity,
employment and income levels of adult workers in
the project areas.
3.28      The component would finance around three person-years of short-term
foreign consultants to help refine and improve the monitoring and evaluation
data system and assist with the design, execution and analysis of project-
financed evaluation studies.
Program Coordination and Administration
3.29      This component would finance the salary and operating costs of
the PAN Group in DNP, which was set up in 1976 to coordinate, evaluate
and refine the national nutrition program and prepare plans for its further
implementation. Financing would be provided throughout the project for the
salaries of 28 professional staff, including the director of the PAN Group;
the heads of its programming, finance, evaluation and food coupon units; seven
regional PAN directors and seven statistical assistants stationed in the seven
project regions; and six specialists in the evaluation unit. Operational
costs for the PAN Group also would be included along with a project management
fund of $300,000 to support innovative activities consistent with the purpose
of the project. This includes possible development of programs to identify
the nutritional consequences of Government agricultural policy measures and
propose options to them and funds to test special ways of reaching indigenous



- 18 -
population groups. Assurances were received that the list and scope of all
activities proposed for financing by the Fund would be agreed on with the Bank
before their implementation.
3.30      The PAN Group is a strengthened outgrowth of the DNP unit responsible
since 1974 for development, coordination, monitoring and evaluation of the
national nutrition program. Financing for the PAN Group is justified to ensure
its efficient functioning, which is critical both to project implementation--
requiring a good deal of interagency collaboration, particularly at the regional
level--and to refinement of the nutrition program in ways assuring continued
effectiveness during its expansion to national coverage. The quality of PAN
Group staff, and the continuation of the important functions they now perform,
are central to achievement of project objectives. Assurances were
received that:
(a) the director of the PAN Group and the directors of its
programming and evaluation units would have appropriate
qualifications and job descriptions;
(b)  DNP would continue to employ a suitably qualified
core staff in the PAN Group, whose job descriptions
would be furnished to the Bank, to carry out its
nutrition program and project responsibilities, and
(c)  DNP would continue to staff the PAN Group ade-
quately through 1985.
Technical Assistance
3.31      The project would finance a total of about 45 person-years of
consultant services and about 10 person-years of fellowships as follows:
(i) Consultants -- A total of 4 years of foreign (average
cost, U.S.$54,000 per person-year) and 41 years of
local consultants would be provided, principally to the
Ministry of Health, which would receive 36 person-years
of local consultant assistance '(para. 3.06). Around
five years of short-term local consultants would be
provided under nutrition education (para. 3.14). About
three years of foreign consultants for time periods of
up to 6 months would be financed under monitoring and
evaluation (para. 3.28). About one year of foreign
short-term technical assistance would be provided in
applied food technology (para. 3.22). Terms of reference
for all consultants of three months or longer are attached
to the annexes for individual components. (See Annex
12 for consultant schedules.) Assurances were received



- 19 -
that the qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment of project-financed consultants would
be satisfactory to the Bank.
(ii)  Fellowships -- The project would finance about six person-
years of foreign long and short-term fellowships and
about 4 person-years of local fellowships. Nutrition
education would account for about 5 person-years of
foreign fellowships and applied food technology would
account for the rest.
IV. COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS
A.   Costs
4.01      Total project costs are estimated at US$68.9 million over four
years. The foreign exchange component is US$12.9 million, or about 19% of
total project costs. Cost estimates by component are cetailed in Annex 13 and
are summarized in Table I (see page 20). Base costs were calculated as of
July, 1977. All operating costs are incremental. Physical contingencies have
been applied at a uniform rate of 10%. Price contingencies are 15.1% of
baseline costs or 13.7% of combined baseline costs and physical contingencies.
They have been computed separately for local and foreign costs and have
been adjusted for the effects of expected currency changes during the project
period.  Local price contingencies have been computed based on the   projec-
tion of annual inflation rates of 26% in 1978, 18% in 1979 and 15% in 1980 and
1981 adjusted to reflect exchange rate changes expected during the period.
The provision for foreign exchange price contingencies assumes inflation of
7.5% annually in 1978 and 1979 and 7% annually in 1980 and 1981.
B.   Financing
4.02      Project costs would be financed by a Bank loan of US$25 million
covering foreign exchange costs and US$12.1 million in local costs. Project
beneficiaries would provide direct financing totalling around US$4.8 million
including contingencies in health post, water system and latrine installation
and water supply maintenance costs. The Government of Colombia would finance
the remaining US$39.1 million. Local cost financing is justified because the
nutrition program involves multisectoral measures to which the Government has
committed substantial resources outside the project, including an estimated
US$17 million for the food coupon system. The project will be implemented
over a four-year period. The closing date is June 30, 1982. Annex 14 contains
a schedule of estimated disbursements.



- 20 -                                   TABLE 1
COLOMBIA INTEGRATED NUTRITION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates by Component
(in '000)
Col$                         US$            % Foreign   % Base
Local    Foreign    Total      Local  Foreign   Total Exchange    Cost
Hlealth Services            467,478   74,827    542,305  12,986    2,079  15,065    13.8          27.3
Water Supply and
Sanitation                530,667  131,448    662,115  14,741    3,651  18,392    19.9          33.3
Nutrition Education         193,641   25,971    219,612   5,379        721   6,100    11.8        11.1
Family Gardens               49,108       129     49,237   1,364          4   1,368     0.3        2.5
Applied Food Technology
and Quality Control       106,461   29,670    136,131   2,957        824   3,781    21,8         6.9
Monitoring and
Evaluation                105,864    4,832    110,696   2,941        134   3,075      4.4        5.6
Test of Nutrition
Delivery System in
Bolivar                    75,597   45,577    121,174   2,100    1,266   3,366    37.6           6.1
Program Coordination
and Administration        109,305   33,092    142,397   3,036        919   3,955    23.2         7.2
Base Costs                1,638,121  345,546  1,983,667  45,504    9,598  55,102    17.4         100.0
Physical Contingencies      163,812   34,555    198,367   4,550        960   5.510                10.0
SUB-TOTAL                 1,801,933  380,101  2,182,034  50,054   10,558  60,612
Price Contingencies         215,872   83,926    299,798   5,996    2,331   8,327                  15.1
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS       2,017,805  464,027  2,481,832  56,05n   12,889  68,939    18.7



- 21 -
C.   Fiscal Feasibility
4.03      Projected costs of the nutrition program are financially feasible.
They would rise from somewhat less than 1.4% of current. Government expendi-
tures in 1977 to a little less than 3.3% in 1985, when the program would
reach full national coverage. (The per capita cost of the nutrition program
in 1985 is projected at around US$2.25 against an expected GDP per capita of
around US$1,000.) In terms of total national Government: expenditures, the
increase is from about 0.75% in 1977 to 2% in 1985. The table below relates
nutrition program expenditures by component to current and total national
Government expenditure in 1977 and as tentatively projected for 1985.
1977       ------ 1985 --------
% of        % of        % of          % of
Current     Total       Current       Total
Spending    Spending   Spending       Spending
Health posts                         .29          .16          1.50         0.90
Food Coupons                         .18          .10          1.20         0.70
Direct Distribution of food          .23          .13          0.40         0.30
Water/Sewerage                       .27          .15          0.10         0.10
Other                                .42          .23          0.10
Total                               1.39          .77          3.30         2.00
4.04      Health post costs as a percentage of total Ministry of Health
spending would rise from 2% in 1977 to 11% in 1985, at full national coverage
for the estimated 40% of the population now virtually excluded from access
to public health care. At full national coverage, the primary health system
would absorb around 22% of the expected MOH budget growth 1977-85. This is an
affordable level. Project emphasis on preventive rather than curative care,
and the continued use of paraprofessionals rather than physicians, would keep
the primary health care system simple and relatively inexpensive.
4.05      Beneficiary Contributions and Cost Recovery - Under the project
the Government would continue existing arrangements in force for health
services and water supplies. Beneficiary communities would be required to
provide at least 10% of health post investment costs or a total of around
US$0.5 million in labor, materials and cash. Communities would contribute an
initial average of 10% (estimated total, US$1.4 million) of the investment



- 22 -
costs of each water supply sub-project, followed by a further 10-40% of
these costs over time, depending on the community's ability to pay. These
recoveries would amount to US$0.7 million over the project period in accor-
dance with INAS's existing procedures (see Annex 5). Communities themselves
would pay the cost of operating and routinely maintaining the systems, esti-
mated at US$1.0 million during the project period, through uniform monthly
water tariffs at INAS-established rates which averaged US$1 per household
(somewhat less than a minimum daily wage) at the time of appraisal. INAS
would use investment cost recoveries to finance major maintenance of indivi-
dual sub-projects and their possible further expansion.
4.06      The Government would add additional beneficiary contribution ele-
ments under the project to keep down outlays on latrines and primary health
services. Each benefitting family would provide the labor and some of the
basic materials needed to excavate and install each latrine and to construct
its shelter. Estimated at US$17 per latrine, or a total beneficiary contri-
bution of around US$1.9 million, these costs are considered feasible in terms
of beneficiary ability and willingness to pay. Beneficiaries also would pay
the actual costs of drugs and medicines provided at health posts. These
recoveries would average an estimated US$0.58 per capita yearly, or an esti-
mated 15% of yearly primary health care operating costs.
4.07      Assurances were received that the beneficiary contribution and cost
recovery arrangements described in paras 4.05 and 4.06 above for the health
system, potable water supplies and latrines would be maintained and enforced
under the project.
D.   Procurement
4.08      Contracts for water pipes and pumping equipment, estimated costs
around US$1.7 million, and orders for vehicles and other equipment costing
more than US$100,000 would be awarded on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding procedures in accordance with Bank guidelines. Domestic
manufacturers would receive a preferential margin in bid evaluation equal
to the prevailing tariff or 15% of the c.i.f. cost of imports, whichever
is lower. Orders costing less than US$100,000 for vehicles and equipment
procured locally and for all latrine equipment and fixtures would be made
through local competitive bidding procedures which are acceptable to the
Bank. Construction of health posts, latrines and potable water systems
(estimated costs US$16.4 million) would be small sub-projects widely dispersed
geographically and, therefore, would be carried out by self-help and force
account or local competitive bidding procedures which are acceptable to the
Bank. Prudent local shopping in accordance with Bank procurement guidelines
would be used for service contracts to produce and transmit mass media mes-
sages because of the specialized nature of the required procurement, as is
normal practice in Colombia for such communications campaigns.



- 23 -
E.   Disbursement, Accounts and Auditing
4.09      The US$25 million loan would meet 36% of project costs.  Disburse-
ment would be made on the following basis:
(a)  100% of the costs of technical assistance, training and
the foreign costs of directly imported vehicles, equip-
ment, materials, supplies, water pipes and pumps;
(b)  75% of the ex-factory costs of locally manufactured water
pipes and pumps;
(c)  55% of the costs of civil works, monitoring and evalua-
tion costs of the PAN Group (including thes project manage-
ment fund) and mass media message production and dissemi-
nation, and
(d) 50% of the costs of imported and locally procured or of
the ex-factory costs of locally manufactured vehicles,
equipment, materials and supplies.
4.10      Disbursement for all project expenditures would be in accordance
with normal Bank procedures and would be supported by full documentation,
except for expenditures under force account procedures for construction of
health posts and potable water systems. The disbursements against force
account activities would be made against certified statements of expenditure,
the documentation for which would be retained by the executing agencies and
made available for inspection by the Bank during project supervision missions.
4.11      Each ministry and executing agency would keep separate accounts
at the regional and national level for PAN and Bank-financed activities, which
would be available for DNP review. Supplementing existing Government auditing
arrangements, which the Bank considers satisfactory, CNAN can require the
Ministry of Finance to carry out special audits for PAN funds.
F.   Retroactive Financing
4.12      Retroactive financing not exceeding $300,000 is proposed for pay-
ments made after February 1, 1977, for baseline monitoring and evaluation
surveys, for nutrition education message production and dissemination, and for
initial training programs for the nutrition education and family gardens
programs. Such financing is justified both by the long period of project
preparation and the need for these initial activities to proceed if the
project is to move ahead rapidly after the loan becomes effective.



- 24 -
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A.   Administration and Coordination
5.01      The National Council For Economic and Social Policy (CONPES) would
determine overall PAN policy. Oversight of the national nutrition program,
which would include the Bank-assisted project, is the responsibility of the
National Food and Nutrition Council (CNAN), a CONPES subcommittee. CNAN is
chaired by the head of DNP; its members are ministers and national directors,
or their representatives, of ministries and agencies involved in the national
nutrition program. CNAN monitors and reviews development and execution of the
program and advises CONPES on its implementation progress.
5.02      Last year the Government set up a special DNP division--the PAN
Group--to deal exclusively with the national nutrition program. The director
of the PAN Group (the national PAN director) reports directly to the head
of DNP. Members of the PAN Group serve as the executive secretariat for
CNAN. The director of the PAN Group would have overall responsibility for
coordination of the proposed nutrition project. Under his direction, the PAN
Group would carry out all budgeting, programming, coordinating and evaluating
activities required for the nutrition project. It also would have principal
responsibility for project monitoring in collaboration with executing agen-
cies. At the regional level, a PAN committee, chaired by the Governor, would
coordinate and monitor nutrition program activities in each project region.
Because of the importance of effective integration of regional nutrition
activities, the PAN Group would have a permanent representative stationed in
each project region as executive secretary of the regional PAN committee. The
regional PAN director would assist in expediting and coordinating project
activities. Each of the regional directors of health, The Colombian Institute
for Family Welfare (ICBF), the National Institute of Health (INAS), Accion
Cultural Popular (a national voluntary agency specializing in basic educa-
tion), appropriate agricultural entities and the head of the regional planning
office would be members of the regional PAN committee. An organizational
chart of the national nutrition program structure appears on page 25.
B.   Programming and Budgeting
5.03      The PAN Group would review annual project budgets and work pro-
grams prepared by regional PAN committees and national ministries. Follow-
ing CNAN approval, the PAN budget would be transmitted to the Ministry of
Finance for incorporation into the national budget. After approval of the
national budget, the PAN Group would advise ministries and regional PAN
committees of the detailed programs of operation for the following fiscal
year.
5.04      Regional PAN committees also would submit quarterly project invest-
ment budgets and work programs to the PAN Group for review and approval.
Disaggregated by monthly expenditures and targets, these submissions would
be reconciled and refined by the executive secretariat in consultation with



COLOMBIA INTEGRATED NUTRITION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART
DNP - Organization at National and Regional Levels for Project Coordination and Evaluation
National Social and Economic
Planning Council (CONPES)
President of Colombia, Chairman
Chief, DNP    Ministers
Agriculture                                            Chief, Department of
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
HeEalutio                                               Prtonralm Panng andFodCopo
Directors                   /~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dieco
/                          ~~~~~~~~PAN Group
National Food & Nutrition_.
Counicil (CNAN)
| Evaluation   l|Programmning and |C|Fod Coupon|
Unit                    Budgeting Unit         System
Regional PAN Committee
Governor as Chairman         |
|  Regional ICBF  I
Regional          Health     |  Head           j    Regional          Regional
INAS Head         Secretary    r    - - - --        Agriculture       PAN
I Reginnal ACPO Hd. |    Heads          Director
Nutrition           Health, Water Supply,
Education           Sanitation
World Bank - 17824



- 26 -
programming and budgeting offices of executing agencies at the national level.
CNAN and Ministry of Finance approval would be received 60 days before the
start of the following quarter.
5.05      The flow of funds would follow established Government procedures.
The PAN Group would send monthly payment orders to the Ministry of Finance
by region, agency and component, notifying national ministries and executing
agencies and regional PAN committees accordingly. Each ministry then would
request Finance to authorize Treasury release of appropriated project funds,
which ministries would transfer to their regional offices. Any delay in
transmittal of funds to regional offices would be noted by the regional PAN
committee and reported to the PAN Group for investigation.
C.   Project Execution
5.06      Existing ministries and agencies would carry out the project as
shown in the table below:
Responsible Agency                             Project Activity
Ministry of Health (MOH)               - Health services, latrines, food cou-
pon distribution to beneficiaries.
National Institute of Health (INAS)  - Water supply, food quality control.
Colombian Institute of Family          - Nutrition education, family gardens.
Welfare (ICBF)
Institute for Technological            - Applied food technology.
Research (IIT)
National Planning Department (DNP)   - Project coordination, monitoring
and evaluation; mass communica-
cations nutrition education.
5.07      Programming, budgeting, accounting, auditing, procurement and
procedural responsibilities of each executing agency and ministry would be
covered by a four-year agreement with DNP. Basic project work plans subject
to annual revision for each participating entity would be a part of its
agreement with DNP. Assurances were received that agreements acceptable to
the Bank would be signed with each project entity as a condition of dis-
bursement for project activities covered by that agreement and that signed
agreements between DNP and MOH, between the Government and INAS, and between
the Government and ICBF would be a condition of effectiveness.



- 27 -
5.08      The Programming Office of the MOH's Planning D)ivision would be
responsible for programming, coordinating and supervising the development
of the health care delivery system. The head of the regional health admin-
istration (the Seccional de Salud) would execute and be responsible for
implementation and operation of primary health care in the region. The
Planning Division of the MOH would be responsible for monitoring and eval-
uating health system implementation, developing methods to ensure community
participation in the organization of basic health services, and communicating
the information and experience acquired to other units in the MOH as well as
the regional health administrations.
5.09      To strengthen the organization and management of the MOH and the
regional health administration during the initial phase of the national nutri-
tion program, the project over four years would provide for (i) a health sys-
tems management consultant to the Programming Office of the MOH, (ii) a con-
sultant with experience in community organization to the Division of Community
Participation of the 140H, and (iii) a health systems management consultant
to each regional health administration involved in the project. Assurances
were received that the Government would fill the regional positions by January 1,
1978, with persons whose qualifications and terms and conditions of employment
are acceptable to the Bank.
VI. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
6.01      The project would assist the Government in achieving its major
nutrition objectives by improving the nutrition conditions and living
standards of 1.8 million persons living below the poverty line in seven
regions and the Federal district of Bogota. The Government poverty threshold
is defined as a monthly family income of Col. $1150 per month in 1974 prices
or about US$113 per person per year at the time of appraisal. By the end of
the project period, the Government seeks around a 25% reduction in mortality
rates for children under 4 and expects to reduce by half the incidence of
first, second and third degree malnutrition among that age group in project
areas. These goals are ambitious but probably could be met substantially
where the proposed project operates as scheduled.
6.02      An immediate return from the project would be the increased produc-
tivity of economically active persons through reduced numbers of sick days.
Illustrative calculations at the time of appraisal showv that a 20% reduction
in sick days for the average rural family labor force of 2.67 adult workers
(based on Colombian estimates that the poorest workers probably are sick an
average of 36 days per year) would produce an annual family income gain of
US$8.00, even when assuming that only one-fourth of the days saved result in
employment which did not substitute for the work of others. If half the days
saved were worked, the family income gain would be US$16.00. (See Annex 11
for details.) This translates to a total annual increase of US$2.4-$4.8
million in family incomes for project beneficiaries, depending on the assump-
tions used. The higher figure would amount to about two-thirds of the annual
per capita operating costs of health posts in project areas.



- 28 -
6.03      Another short-term benefit should be the increased efficiency of
health spending and reduced beneficiary expenses for curative drugs and health
care due to better preventive medicine. A 1970 Colombia study showed that a
poor rural household spent about US$24 a year on private health care, a figure
which would have risen to over US$33 in January, 1977 if health costs rose as
much as the consumer price index. On that basis, a 5-10% reduction in family
health care expenses would save an additional US$0.5-$1.O million for those
covered by primary health care services.
6.04      An important intermediate term benefit of the nutrition program
would be its contribution to improved utilization of existing food through
better processing, storage and transport. Since present losses amount to over
US$20 million a year in the few crops studied, a potential for substantial
savings each year exists. In addition, switching food demand to more readily
available locally produced foods creates a potential for greater self-suffi-
ciency, with associated employment gains and foreign exchange savings.
6.05      A second intermediate-term benefit is the likelihood that improve-
ments in infant and child mortality will lead to greater acceptance of
family planning efforts. The relationships between assured children's
survival and increased family planning have been demonstrated in a number of
studies and are now well accepted.
6.06      A further intermediate-term benefit is the reduction in the unit
costs of schooling per capita due to fewer dropouts, less grade repetition,
and the more efficient use of existing facilities by a more alert, more
responsive, and attentive student population.
6.07      The major long-term benefit of the project should be found in the
improved quality, vigor, and productivity of the future work force. Reduction
in the rate of malnutrition and serious disease should result in better mental
and physical growth, and consequently a better educated and more able adult
population.
6.08      Although measurement of the above gains, plus those associated
with lower mortality, are difficult, a minimum annual return of US$10-13
million exclusive of lower mortality benefits is indicated in the provisional
calculations in Annex 11 at about 20% of project base costs including physical
contingencies.
6.09      Corollary benefits also would result from the project.  Pilot
programs would increase home production and consumption of nutritious foods
for around 100,000 persons in target areas. The rate of return on these
activities considering all costs and benefits during the project period would
be more than 20%, if 80% of the farmers participate. Some 550,000 project
beneficiary families would receive nutrition education designed to improve
their food behavior and related sanitary and health practices. Operational
techniques developed, applied, evaluated and refined under the project would
permit increased effectiveness of nutrition education as PAN expands to
national coverage. Some 231,000 project beneficiaries would obtain potable



- 29 -
water; around 627,000 would use new latrines for waste disposal. Through
nationally replicable activities, approximately 2,600 health workers and
supervisors would be trained to carry out community programs and 600 community
workers from other agencies would be trained to conduct interpersonal education
activities.
6.10      The project also reflects the importance of women in development,
both as project beneficiaries and as most of the health workers and nutrition
education personnel who will carry out PAN activities.
6.11      Finally, the development of an effective project monitoring and
evaluation system would permit the Government to calibrate its national food
and nutrition program for increased cost-effectiveness during expansion to
nationwide coverage in succeeding years.
Risks
6.12      This project carries the risks inherent in any national program
involving a number of executing agencies.  Two other risk elements also are
present.  First is the uniquely comprehensive and innovative nature of PAN.
Second, no standard formulae yet exist for easy identification of cost-
effective intervention mixes. Consequently, nutrition benefits in later
phases of the project, after its early lessons have been learned and applied,
may be more significant than initial results. Positive factors making these
risks acceptable are the care and thoroughness of the project design, parti-
cularly its monitoring and evaluation system; that the managerial system and
executing agencies are in place and functioning; the flexibility of the
program in terms of its capacity for adjustment and provision for consultation
with the Bank in key areas of critical project concern, as well as the sub-
stantial development benefits associated with the project.
VII. ASSURANCES
7.01      During negotiations, assurances were received on the following
principal points:
(a)  that with respect to health services, (i) the Government would
carry out an evaluation of the primary health care level of
the national health system by September, 1978, under terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank, and would use the results to
revise the pace and manner of community health post imple-
mentation for the remaining project period on a basis accept-
able to the Bank (para. 3.26), (ii) the government would
implement specialized health care training satisfactory to
the Bank for primary health care system staff (para. 3.07)
and, (iii) the Government would fill the project-funded con-
sultant positions in the regional health administrations by



- 30 -
January 1, 1978, with persons whose qualifications and
terms and conditions of employment are acceptable to the
Bank (para. 5.09);
(b) with respect to the nutrition delivery system, (i) the special
evaluation in Bolivar would be initiated not later than
January 1, 1978, on the basis of terms of reference acceptable
to the Bank, and (ii) the results of evaluation would be
utilized to modify the national nutrition program, such modi-
fications being carried out in consultation with the Bank
(para. 3.23).
(c) with respect to program coordination and administration
that (i) the Director of the PAD; Group in DNP and the
heads of its programming and evaluation units would have
appropriate qualifications and job descriptions; (ii) DNP
would continue to employ a suitably qualified core staff
in the PAN Group, whose job descriptions would be furnished
to the Bank, to carry out its nutrition program and project
responsibilities, (iii) DNP would continue to staff its
PAN Group adequately through 1985, (all para. 3.30) and (iv)
that the list and scope of all activities proposed for financing by
the project management fund would be agreed on with the Bank
before their implementation (para. 3.29);
(d) that the qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment of project-financed consultants would be
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.31);
(e) with respect to cost recovery, the Government would (i)
require communities to provide an average of 10% of the health
post investment costs in labor, cash or materials (ii) recover
the cost of drugs and medicines provided at health posts, esti-
mated at 15% of health care operating costs; (iii) would require
recipient families to provide at least 50% of latrine installation
costs through a combination of cash, labor and materials; and
(iv) INAS would recover all water system operating costs including
maintenance and depreciation, and a portioni of installation costs,
from users as determined by its present statutes (paras 4.05-4.07);
(f) that DNP would provide signed copies of agreements with each
executing agency, which would include a basic work plan subject
to annual revision for the project period, as a condition of
disbursement for project activities covered by that agreement and
that the Government and DNP would sign agreements, satisfactory
to the Bank, with the main project entities as a condition of
effectiveness (para. 5.07).



ANNEX 1
COLOMBIA INTEGRATED NUTRITION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Nutritional Status in Colombia
Nature, Causes and Consequences of Malnutrition
Introduction
1.        Recent Colombian food balance sheets 1/ show tnat while overall
average caloric requirements are available, significant and continuing deficits
remain in proteins, calcium, iron and other micro-nutrients (Tables 1 and 2).
In addition, food consumption and health surveys of various population groups
show that the aggregate figures for food availability mask profound distortions
in food intake between different socio-economic segments, between urban and
rural communities and between regions (Tables 3 and 4). Analysis of the
nutritional and health status of the deficit groups has revealed the existence
of a complex of nutritional disorders at the individual level and a national
food distribution problem of considerable magnitude. Thus, it is estimated
(Table 5) that about 20% of the population consumes 60% or less of its recom-
mended caloric intakes while the deficit in proteins, vitamins and minerals is
higher still (Table 5). For instance, nearly 25% of the population is thought
to have close to a 50% deficit in protein intake. Although it is felt by many
that the recommended allowances for Colombia are overestimated by some 10-15%,
the figures still leave a significant number of people well below recommended
or even "required" intakes.
2.        The major nutrition problems are:  (i) proteir,-calorie malnutri-
tion (PCM), affecting mainly infants and young children; (ii) chronic calorie
deficits among older children and adults; (iii) vitamin and mineral deficien-
cies, particularly of vitamin A and calcium, affecting both children and
adults and especially those in low-income and rural areas; and (iv) iron
deficiency anemia in women, small children and a significant proportion of
the adult male working population in coastal areas. Of these disorders, PCM
in children poses the most acute and persistent problem. Nationwide studies
undertaken between 1963 and 1968 showed that 66.6% of surveyed children under
five years of age suffered from PCM, of which approximal:ely 20% was moderate
malnutrition and 2% was very severe third degree malnutrition. In this
period, PCM accounted for between 40% and 70% of hospitalization cases among
children under five.
3.        Evidence of undernutrition, signifying a continuous deficiency of
overall food intake compared with requirements, has been recorded among older
children and adult workers in rural areas, and among urban families. It is
particularly serious among pregnant women and lactating mothers in Colombia,
I/   Hoja de Balance de Alimentos, Colombia, 1972-73-74, ICBF, Bogota 1975.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
who require an extra 300 to 600 calories per day, and from 20 to 30 extra
grams of protein to protect the nutritional status of their infants and
facilitate normal physical development.
4.        Vitamin and mineral deficiencies are widespread, exacerbating
the problem of PCM among infants and young children and the nutritional
status of other vulnerable groups. Deficiencies of vitamin A, which can
cause xerophthalmia and lead to blindness, and of calcium, which is essential
for physical growth and development, vary markedly between urban and rural
populations and between socio-economic classes in Colombia. Among low-in-
come groups in urban areas, average intakes of vitamin A meet only 56% of
requirements and of calcium only 30%. In rural areas, average intakes of
vitamin A and calcium respectively meet only 50% and 40% of requirements.
There is also an overall deficit of nearly 40% of certain B vitamins, most
notably of riboflavin. The problem of iron-deficiency anemia affects between
25% and 40% of the population, particularly rural communities.l/
Causes of Malnutrition
5.        In Colombia, as elsewhere in the developing world, malnutrition is
caused by a number of factors. Income levels are a key constraint. A family
food consumption survey completed in 1972 2/ showed significant variations
in diets between surveyed populations with incomes of more than Col $2,000
per month and those receiving under Col$1,000 per month (Tables 6 and 7).
In the latter group, for example, over half (53.6%) had an average protein
deficit of 30% and 44% had a similar calorie deficit. An earlier survey of
the weight and height of children aged 0-15 in Bogota 3/ reveals persistently
lower averages for children in the lowest socio-economic stratum, while an-
other study of low income areas in Bogota showed that 86% of children surveyed
were malnourished. 4/
6,.       Poverty affects the family's capacity either to produce or to
purchase the foods required for an adequate diet. The poorest segment of
the population also lacks safe water supplies and proper sanitation facil-
ities and is ignorant of nutritional needs and food habits, especially
with regard to the feeding of infants and other vulnerable members of the
1/   The iron availability figures are misleading. Only 10-15% of the iron
in a typical Colombian diet is absorbed. As a result, ICBF estimates
that about 40% of the population suffers from anemia, since about 20 mg.
of iron per day per capita should be available to ensure an absorption
of around 2 mg. iron per day.
2/   Habitos de Consumo de Alimentos en el Pais.  Survey undertaken by the
Instituto Colombiano de Bienestar Familiar (ICBF), 1972. (Report not
published,)
3/   Cited in El Problema Nutricional y Alimentario de Colombia.  ICBF, 1974.
4/ ICBF and Harvard/Giessen University Study, 1976. (Report not published.)



ANNEX 1
Page 3
family. A nationwide survey 1/, undertaken in 1972 of the child-feeding
habits in 1,400 low-income families showed, for example, that when infants
develop diarrhea or other intestinal infections, mothers stop feeding them
such nutritional foods as milk, soups, eggs and meat, although these are best
suited to stave off malnutrition. Food also is often prepared in such a
way that most of its value is lost in the cooking.
7.        Particularly in the rural sector, the food distribution system 2/
is structurally weak. Insufficient facilities for safe and hygienic storage
of staple food crops result in excessive food losses. High transportation
costs and poor roads through Colombia's mountainous areas impede the flow
of food supplies between rural and urban sectors. The cost of transportation
of some staples and processed foods from urban depots to isolated communities
is normally borne by the rural trader and consumer and hinders the growth of
demand for nutritionally beneficial foods. Thus, although a plentiful and
diverse supply of staple food crops exists in Colombia, in rural areas items
are either so expensive or sometimes so scarce that large numbers of the rural
population cannot benefit from them.
Consequences of Malnutrition
8.        Extensive research undertaken by national nut:rition authorities
since 1963 has developed a comprehensive picture of the nutritional situation
in Colombia. They show that deficiencies in dietary intake directly affect
the weight and height of infants and young children and can retard formation
of tissues, cause loss of appetite, fatigue, irritabil:Lty and apathy, and
impair brain development, perhaps irreversibly. In 1971, the infant mortality
rate was 70 per 1,000 live births and the mortality rate for children aged 1-4
was 9.2 per 1,000, compared with rates of 22.4 and 0.8 per 1,000 respectively
in the USA. In some poor urban and rural areas of Colombia, the infant
mortality rates reach 150 to 200 deaths per 1,000 live births.
9.        The nutritional status of the mother during pregnancy affects infant
birth weight, mortality, and morbidity. Among the poorest half of the population,
nutrition-related mortality of those under five years of age is estimated at
double the rate for the general population, although specific data are not
readily available. Maternal malnutrition affects these rates. During lactation,
her capacity to breast-feed her infant adequately may be affected. In addition,
her own health, resistance to infections and stamina will suffer. Nutrient
deficiencies affect also the learning capacity and school attendance rates of
older children and the productive capacity of adult workers. Inadequacies
I/   Habitos Alimentarios de la Poblacion Colombiana en Relacion con la
Alimentacion del Lactante y del Preescolar. ICBF. August, 1975.
2/   See especially 'La Produccion Alimentaria y el proceso de Comercili-
zacion en Colombia', Vol. III. DNP-UDS-DPN-10. National Planning
Department, 1974.



ANNEX I
Page 4
in the diet furthermore expose the individual more readily to infectious
diseases, in the gravest cases increasing the risk of premature mortality
and in others inducing the familiar cycle of morbidity, loss of energy and
apathy. Of the 80,000 deaths (from all causes, including communicable diseases)
of children under the age of five occurring each year in Colombia, one-third
are attributable directly or indirectly to protein-calorie malnutrition
and its effects, and malnutrition is estimated to be a causative factor in
about 80% of the mortality figures in childhood communicable diseases.
10.       In economic terms, malnutrition and associated infections may
restrict the individual's eventual work and income-earning capacity and on
a broader scale may seriously hamper national economic development. Anemia
has been shown in one study in Indonesia to lower the productivity of male
laborers by some 25%. 1/ Another study in Colombia 2/ has estimated the
economic value of 96 million work days lost each year through illness at US$55
million per annum, excluding the financial costs of medical attention and
economic costs of reduced efficiency of the worker and permanent disability or
premature death. It is highly probable that most physical laborers, who tend
to be from the lower income brackets, cannot afford to buy the nutritive foods
they need to undertake heavy work, with the result that their productivity is
low. A recent pilot productivity study in Kenya, 3/ as well as the above
mentioned study in Indonesia, indicates that the adverse affect of malnutrition
on labor productivity may be as high as 20-25%.
1/   "Iron Deficiency Anemia and the Productivity of Adult Males in Indonesia,"
S.S. Basta and A. Churchill, IBRD Working Paper No. 175.
2/   El Problema Nutricional y Alimentario de Colombia.  Instituto Colombiano
de Bienestar Familiar, (ICFB) Bogota, D.E. 1974.
3/   IBRD-financed nutrition/productivity study.  Report pending.



ANNEX 1
Table 1
COLOMBIA INTEGRATED NUTRITION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Recommendations and availability of calories and nutrients for the Col-
ombian population and percentage adequacy of availability, 1972 (1,2)
Percentage
Calories and Nutrients      Recommendations      Availability        Adequacy
Calories                       2,150              2,251                 10
Proteins                       56.3   g.          47.0   g.              83
Calcium                        670    mg.         611   lag.              91
iron                           13.0   mg.         13.1  mng.             100
Vitamin A                      14,150  I.U,       3,0146  I.u.            73
Thiamine                       0.8    mg.         0.8    mg.            100
Riboflavin                     1.3    mg.         1.0    mg.              77
Niacin                         14.3  mg.          11.1  mg.               78
Vitamin C                      145    mg.         96     mg.            213
(1) Average recommendation per capita per day for the population.
(2) Source: ICBF: Colombian Food Balance sheet.



ANNEX A
Table 2
COLOMBIA INTEGRATED NUTRITION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Annual total and per capita requirements of unprocessed foods for
human consumption. Balance with availabilities. Colombia 1972 (1, 2)
Food Gsroups        Rbequirements             Availability      Balance with Availability
Per capita  Total          Thousand Tons    Needed         Excess
Kgs./Year   ('000)         per Year          Total ('000) Total ('000)
Tons                             Ton/Year     Ton/Year
Meat and Eggs         40         900               684            216
Milk and milk
products            131       2,946             2,,641           305
Legumes               11         247               101            146
Cereals               84      1,889             1,977                           88
Tubers                86      1,934             2,072                          138
Vegetables            28        630                393            237
Fruits               115      2,586             2,152            434
Fats                   9        202                128             74
Sugar                 34        765             1,471                          706
(1) Based on a population of 22.490.500
(2) Source: ICBF Colombian Food Balance Sheet



COLOMBIA INTEGRATED NUTRITION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Percentage adequacy of calorie and nutrient consumption in the diet of 1400
families in different regions of the country studied by ICBF in 1972
Region                     Calories    Proteins    Iron    Vitamin A    Calcium    Thiamine   Riboflavin   Niacin  Vitamin C
Region 1 (Atlantico,
Cordoba, Cuajira,
Bolivar)                      97          87          72       49           48           70          54         58       132
Region 2 (Antioquia,
Caldas, Quindio y Ri-
saralda)                      89          76        103        45           57           32          71         68       449
Region 3 (Choco,
Valle del Cauca y
Cauca)                      106           96         82       104           87           86          87         54       166
Region 4 (Bogota,
Boyaca y Cundina-
marca)                        99          98        127        59           69           15           93        84       255
Region 5 (Meta)              106         111         154       87           72           13           98        80        223
Region 6 (Narino)             92          93         102       76           44           96           63        75        219
Region 7 (Norte de
Santander y Santander)        96          914        110       68            70                        l 81     7h        223
Region 8 (Huila, Tolima)      77          75          88       59           45           72           56        63        181
Region 9 (Territorios
Nacionales)                   97          96         185       67            83          76           92        68        198
TOTAL                   94           88        102        64           63          100          75         75        256
g11



COLOMBIA INTEGRATED NUTRITION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Percentage of required calories and nutrients available, daily per capita, by
zones (urban md rural) in ten of eleven localities surveyed in Colombia by
the National Nutrition Institute, 1963-65
Zone and Socio-                                              1/
Economic Class      Calories    Proteins    Calcium    Iron7  Vitamin A   Thiamine    Riboflavin    Niacin    Vitamin C
Urban
Very low                76          67         39         109       56          82           47            77         91
Low                     80          80         43         108       54          67           55            87        101
Middle                  93         106          69        112      107          77           92           102        148
Upper                  114         126          87        165      135         110          110           124        200
All classes             88          87          50        126       86          85           71            93        127
Rural
Very Low                77          64         40         108       50          81           54            89        174
Low                     90          82          54        125       68          77           68            94         192
Middle                  87          82         49         140       56          88           60            93        161
Upper                   98          97          66        124       84          98            74           95         216
All classes             83          72         46         115        56         83           61            90         178
1/  Figures do not represent absorbable iron.  See footnote Annex 1, page 2.                   



ANNEX 1
Table 5
COLOMBIA INTEGRATED NUTRITION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Percentage of Surveyed Population with Deficits
Greater than the Indicated Amount
Greater than      Greater than      Greater thian   Greater than
NIJTRIENT              0%                 20%              40%            60%
Calories              62.4              41.4              18.5            4.6
Proteins              61.6              45.6              27.0           11.2
Calcium               86.5               79.0             67.3           42.5
Iron                  61.6               41.9             20.9            6.5
Vitamin A             87.0               80.8             69.2           51,4
Thiamine              63.7             148.2              30.4           10.6
Riboflavin            78.6               68.7             49.5           2h.9
Niacin                83.2               67.0             46.1           20.4
Vitamin C             14.8               10.1              6.3            3.4
Source: ICBF - 1972



ANNEX 1
Table 6
COLOMBIA INTEGRATED NUTRITION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Deficits of Calories for Levels of Family Income:
Percentage of Surveyed Population with Deficits
Greater than the Indicated Amount
DEFICIT OF          Less than    From $ 1,001    From $ 1 501       More than
CALORIES            $ 1,000       To $ 1,500      To $ 2,000        $ 2,000       TOTAL
.0                  79.3           67.9            57.0             48.o        67.4
10                  66.9            53.9            43.2            36.7         54.6
20                  54.0            41.0            29.4            22.7         41.4
30                  43.8            28.7            18.1            14.2         30.9
40                  29.4            15.2             9.6             4.4         18.5
60                   7.2             3.7             3.5             0.2          4.6
80                   0.4            .0.0            0.0              0.0          0.2
Source: ICBF - 1972
Note: Incomes in Colombian pesos, 1972



ANNEX 1
Table 7
COLOM1BA INTEGRATED NUTRITION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Deficits of Proteins for Levels of Family Income:
Percentage of Surveyed Population with Deficits
Greater than the Indicated Amount
DEFICIT OF    Less than     From $ 1,001    From $ 1,501    More than
PROTEINS      $1,000        To $ 1,500      To $ 2,000     $ 2,000       TOTAL
0              74.1             62.1          48.6          43.7         61.6
10%             67.6             52.5          40.2          36.6         54.0
20%             60.9             41.6           31.8         27.4         45.6
30%             53.6             31.8          19.2          16.5         36.2
40%             42.8             23.1           13.5          7.4         27.0
60%             19.7              8.5            5.3          0.5         11.2
80%              3.5              1.3           0.0           0.0          1.7
Source: ICBF - 1972
Note: Incomes in Colombian pesos, 1972



ANNEX 2
COLOMBIA INTEGRATED NUTRITION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Identification and Selection of Beneficiaries
Introduction
1.        The National Food and Nutrition Plan (PAN) grew out of an intensive
analysis of the nutritional status of Colombia's population which concluded
that a direct correlation exists between malnutrition and poverty. Programs
implemented under PAN would, therefore, assign priority to the poorest 50%
of the population. Two categories of programs are planned: Integrated Rural
Development (IRDP) and the national nutrition program. IRDP is to be directed
at those among the poorest half of the nation who are considered to have
sufficient agricultural potential to justify such inputs as credit, roads and
related measures. The national nutrition program is to be directed specifi-
cally to the poorest 30% of the nation which includes such impoverished groups
as landless laborers, tenant farmers and sharecroppers. Beneficiaries of
the food coupon aspect of the national nutrition program would constitute
even more limited populations -- the most nutritionally vulnerable groups
including nursing mothers and pregnant women, infants and malnourished pre-
school children. The rural poor are to receive special emphasis under
the 1975-78 Plan for Social, Economic and Regional Development, of which PAN
is a part.
2.        Regionalization - The methodology used to identify the poorest
30% of the population has been developed by the Department of National Planning
(DNP) and is referred to as "regionalization". 1/  It is designed to select
specific localities in which nutrition activities should be concentrated. The
analysis was applied at the municipio level 2/ and Colombia's 930 municipios
were ranked according to three primary indicators of living standards:
average family income, educational status, and access to public service
utilities 3/. The poorest 30% of Colombia's municipios were thus identified.
Two further steps were required to target beneficiary areas. A complicated
formula was applied to indicate the appropriate range of the population within
I/   Described in detail in (i) Working Paper B 'Regionalization'.  March-
April, 1976 Appraisal Mission Report and (ii) Plan Nacional de Alimen-
tacion y Nutricion. Regionalizacion del Pais para su Aplicacion. Unidad
de Desarrollo Social, Division Poblacion y Nutricion, DNP, May, 1976.
2/   Colombia is divided politically into 22 regions or departamentos, the
Federal District of Bogota, and national territories, Each region
is divided into municipios, each of which has an urban or semi-urban
center (cabecera) and surrounding rural areas. Each urban municipio
comprises a number of neighborhoods (barrios).
3/   The Government decided against identifying those most in need on an
individual or family basis since (i) income and related tests could not
be administered economically on a national basis, and (2) many of the
Plan's major investments must be implemented on a regional basis.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
a municipio which should be included in the nutrition program, varying from
18% of the urban population of the 4 largest cities to 100% of the populations
of rural municipios. 1/ A further analysis was required to identify which
areas or barrios in non-rural municipios would benefit firom the nutrition
program. Selection was based on locally secured data on income, health
status, etc., taken in conjunction with maximum coverage allowed under the
formula mentioned above.
3.        A major problem arose as a result of using the size of the major
town or cabecera as a key variable in the initial pre-selection process.
Although the larger major towns tend to have wealthier populations than
the smaller, there may be pockets of poverty in the former while the latter
may include some relatively wealthy families. It could be possible on
the one hand that some needy groups would be omitted from the program while
other well-off groups would be included. To reduce such anomalies to a
minimum, during 1976 DNP substantially revised its methDdology for the selec-
tion of food coupon beneficiaries within urban areas, 2/ and initiated a
series of tests in four urban municipios to establish thie relative effec-
tiveness of alternative approaches to beneficiary identification in areas
of high social mobility and greater income dispersion (see Appendix I for
details). While it is necessary to continue to correct any basic inequities
in the community selection procedure deriving from the regionalization exer-
cise, the present selection process offers an acceptable framework for ensur-
ing that communities and beneficiaries reached through the nutrition program
are among those which constitute the poorest 30%.
4.        Regionalization is being applied on a nationwide basis.  In consulta-
tion with the pre-appraisal mission, however, DNP decided it would be wise
administratively to extend the national nutrition program in phases rather
than to implement it nationally all at one time. The first phase would include
10 regions and would be implemented over a four year period. In the first
phase, three regions (Cauca, Huila and Norte de SantancLer) were included in
the USAID nutrition loan while seven others (Atlantico, Bolivar, Caldas,
Magdalena, Risaralda, Tolima and Valle), plus the Federal district of Bogota
would be included in the Bank project.
5.        Identification and Selection of Food Coupon Beneficiaries - The
regionalization process provides information as to the expected population
1/   Municipios are ranked according to the size of their major city or town
(cabecera) in 4 categories: (1) the four major cities with populations
over 100,000; (2) intermediate cities (pop. over 30,000); (3) small
cities (pop. 1,500-30,000); and (4) rural areas, including towns of less
than 1,500.
2/   'Aspectos Productivos y Eficiencia Social del Plan de Alimentacion y
Nutricion, UPG-PAN. DNP, December, 1976.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
coverage within municipios 1/ for delivery of the food coupon segment of the
program. They will include:
(a) infants aged 3-24 months;
(b) pre-school children aged 25-48 months identified as either
suffering from malnutrition or at particularly high nutritional
risk;
(c) pregnant women, for the last six months of pregnancy; 2/ and
(d) lactating mothers, for the first 12 months postpartum. 2/
The selection and enrollment of these individual beneficiaries in
the coupon scheme will be based both on economic and on nutritional criteria
and will be made at the community health post in two stages: first, a
census will be made of each community on the basis of which the health worker
will identify qualifying families; and second, the auxiliary nurse will
measure child weight-and-height-for-age and check family health status with
the mother. It is expected that, in line with the progressive introduction of
health posts, the total number of coupon beneficiaries will grow from 40,000
in 1977 to 183,000 by 1980. (See Annex 3 for details.)
1/   Whereas in rural municipios all individuals in groups (a)-(d) will
qualify for coupon benefits, in urban areas a limit would be placed
on the numbers of beneficiaries in each group in accordance with the
maximum allocation for populations within specific urban municipios.
2/   These reflect the conclusions of Colombian nutritionists that fulfill-
ment of the mother's nutritional requirements during pregnancy and
lactation is critical to normal physical and mental development of the
child through infancy and the entire pre-school period.



ANNEX 2
Appendix 1
COLOMBIA PROPOSED NUTRITION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Pilot Tests of Urban and Rural Food Coupon Beneficiary Selection
I. Methodogy of Beneficiary Selection in Rural Areas:
Pilot Project Tests in Cauca
1.        The methodology for selecting food coupon beneficiaries in rural
communities was tested through a pilot project in Cauca begun in July 1976.
Initial population censuses undertaken by health workers in each of four
community health post areas selected revealed smaller total populations than
those estimated from the regionalization data at regional and municipio level.
Preliminary results also suggested that there were in eEfect no family bene-
ficiaries having incomes above the theoretical poverty ceiling of Col$1,150
per month. (In January, 1977 prices this amount to an annual per capita
income of US$113.) They also revealed a need for attempts to make supplementary
feeding programs more acceptable to indigenous Indian population groups. DNP
will study this problem further. The Government proposes to continue to make
minor local adjustments to the beneficiary selection process where necessary.
II. Methodologies of Beneficiary Selection in Urban Areas: Pilot Project
Tests in Bogota and Other Urban Municipios
2.        DNP initiated in November, 1976 a series of pilot project tests among
poor urban populations in municipios of different size to test whether it would
be more effective to identify potential food coupon beneficiaries through home
visits or through encouraging applications at local health posts. The tests
began in Bogota, to be followed before mid-1977 by similar tests in Cartagena,
in one intermediate-sized city, and in one small town. The two methods will
be tested in separate, but comparably poor zones in each of the selected pilot
project cities. (In Bogota these are: S. Cristobal Nc,rte comprising 14
barrios; and Los Laches, comprising 5 barrios). Cost-effectiveness will be
compared between (i) having urban health workers identify the neediest families
through home visits and assess their eligibility (to be validated by the
auxiliary nurse) according to a set of family poverty indices, and (ii)
encouraging needy families to apply to the nearest health post for enrollment
in the coupon scheme. Both methods will then be compared with the methodology
applied in rural areas. When a decision is reached on the most efficient
method, the coupon programs will then be progressively introduced into other
urban municipios.



ANNEX 3
COLOMBIA INTEGRATED NUTRITION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Food Coupon Distribution System
I_ntroduction
].        The Government's nutrition strategy is directed at families living
below the poverty threshold. 1/ Nutritional deficiencies are especially
marked among pregnant women, nursing mothers, infants and pre-school children.
The Government recognizes the need for special programs to provide food
supplements to those vulnerable groups in the poorest 30% of Colombia's
population.
2.        Through the National Food and Nutrition Plan (PAN), the Government
proposes to administer this food assistance by introducing a unique system of
coupons for individuals in the highest priority groups to use as part-payment
f'or purchases of specific nutritionally-enriched products at commercial
stores. An existing, limited program of direct food distribution to selected
beneficiaries through existing institutional channels, principally schools
and day-care centers, would be phased down as the coupon system progressively
expands during the first phase of PAN (1977-1980).
The food coupon program is expected to be nutritionally  more cost-
effective than direct distribution, which requires an extensive supporting
bureaucracy and facilities to buy, deliver, store, distribute and account
for food. Processed foods under the coupon program would be nutritionally
balanced, providing calories, as well as more usable protein and micro-
nutrients per unit cost than other foods which beneficiaries, particularly
infants, would be likely to consume (see Appendix 1). Additionally, leakages
to other family members are expected to be less with processed weaning and
infant foods than with staples or other traditional varietjies.
Concept
4.        The coupon system represents an imaginative effort, with a combina-
tion of features unique among developing countries, both to attack the special
problem of poverty-related malnutrition among vulnerable groups through a
selective consumer subsidy and to generate agricultural production and proces-
sing. The system is flexible and already has been substantially modified and
simplified as a result of pilot projects undertaken in 1976 to improve cost-
effectiveness and minimize risks (see Annex 2, Appendix 1). Additional
variations would be tested under the proposed project (see para. 3.16).
T'arget Groups
5.        The procedures for selecting target communities and food coupon
beneficiaries in PAN nutrition program regions are described in Annex 2. In
1/   Calculated by DNP as equivalent to Col$1,150 per month in 1974.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
the selected communities, coupon beneficiaries will comprise infants aged 3-24
months, malnourished or nutritionally high-risk pre-school children aged 2-4
years, pregnant women (for the last six months of pregnancy) and lactating
mothers (for the first twelve months postpartum). Enrollment of individual
beneficiaries will be made at community health posts in two stages: first,
through identification of qualifying individuals by the local health worker,
and second, through checking of their health and nutrition status by the
auxiliary nurse.
Coupon Value
6.        All coupons have a fixed value, which has been set for 1976-77
at Col$3.50 but which may be adjusted in succeeding years to compensate
for price increases. Each coupon is valid for exchange against a 250-
gram unit package of one of the enriched foods available through the pro-
gram. At current value this coupon represents for beneficiaries an average 60%
subsidy of the retail price of coupon food items. Beneficiaries pay in cash
the difference between the coupon value and the retail price.
Coupon Types
7.        All coupons are clearly identified as being valid only for purchase
of PAN-approved foods. Each coupon carries a serial number, and is valid for
one purchase only. Two types of coupons are being issued, differentiated by
color. Green coupons are issued for infants aged under two years. Pink
coupons are issued for beneficiaries aged 2-4, and for pregnant and nursing
women. Producers of foods included in the coupon system will display a PAN
symbol on their product packages, thus visually linking the coupons and
foods in the program.
Coupon Foods
8.        Green coupons may be exchanged only for approved infant food mix-
tures, which initially include Duryea 1/ and Colombiharina 2/ brands, already
sold through commercial food stores, and Bienestarina. Production of
1/   Duryea is a dry mixture containing maize and soya flours, and dried skim
milk powder fortified with vitamin-mineral additives. It provides 345
calories and 28 grams of protein per 100 grams.
2/   Colombiharina is a dry mixture of broken rice and. soya flours with
vitamin and mineral additives. It provides 331 calories and 19 grams of
protein per 100 grams.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
Bienestarina, 1/ presently confined to ICBF-operated institutional feeding
programs, is being expanded so that its introduction into commercial outlets
and inclusion in the coupon program can be accelerated. Pink coupons cur-
rently may be exchanged only for enriched pastas and Colombiharina. Other
approved foods for older children and adults, including Carve texturized
vegetable protein, Provesol soy-milk and Bienestarina, will be included for
distribution through coupons during the first phase of PAN as soon as produc-
tion and marketing arrangements can be made final. The government is accele-
rating its program for diversification of the coupon foods through applied
food technology. (Details are given in Annex 8.)
Food Values
9.        All processed products accepted for inclusion as coupon foods in
the program are obliged to meet the standards of nutritive value prescribed
by the Ministry of Health, and the additional criteria (primarily nutrient/
cost ratio) exercised by the government to determine whether they merit
subsidy support. Appendix 1 tabulates the composition of coupon foods and
illustrates the comparative nutritive value of these foods against traditional
Colombian food items and commodities donated under food aid programs.
Coupon Quantities
10.       Government estimates of the quantities of coupons required by each
beneficiary derive from sequential calculation of (i) the average daily
deficit in proteins and calories occurring in each target group, respectively
in urban and rural situations, (ii) the required daily/monthly intake of the
selected foods to bridge this gap, and (iii) the monthly quantities which this
represents (expressed in 250-gram units equivalent to the number of coupons
required). By extrapolation of data at municipio and regional level on the
numbers of qualifying beneficiaries, quarterly estimates have been made of
the quantities of coupons required for issue each year up to 1980 according
to the above criteria. On an average, adult beneficiaries would receive 28
coupons per month, infants up to two years would receive 12, and older pre-
school children 14 per month. These quantities would not necessarily meet the
nutritional needs of each individual beneficiary. However, as community census
data reveal the extent of nutrient gaps at the local level, adjustments could
be made to coupon allocations for each community within the ceilings
set for each region. It is estimated that within nutrition program regions
covered by the Bank project approximately 40,000 beneficiaries would share
a total of 6.4 million coupons in the first year and that by 1980 coupon ben-
eficiaries would number 183,000 and receive a total of 34.6 million coupons.
1/   Bienestarina is the generic name for several product formulae developed
by ICBF. Formula 1124 B, the most widely used, is an admixture of wheat,
maize and soy flour with dry skim milk powder, vitamin-mineral additives
and D.L. Methionine. 100 grams of product provides 340 calories and 25
grams of protein.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
Food Volume
11.       The projected quantities of coupons to be distributed in Bank proj-
ect regions would represent 1,600 metric tons of processed foods in 1977,
rising to an annual volume of 8,650 metric tons by 1980. Additional internal
demand for these foods would arise from coupon distribution in the three
USAID nutrition project areas, from direct distribution programs, 1/ and
from free market demand, contributing to a total projected demand for approxi-
mately 37,000 tons of these foods annually by 1980. The Government has cal-
culated 2/ that raw material supplies and installed and planned processing
capacities for foods included in the system will be adequate to meet projected
annual levels of demand up to and beyond 1980, and therefore to meet the
specific food needs of the coupon system.
Coupon Programming and Printing
12.       The flow system for coupon distribution, delivery and redemption is
shown in Appendix 2. Coupon programming is carried out at the national level
by the PAN Group and is based on community and regional data prepared by
Ministry of Health personnel in conjunction with the regional DNP director.
The Industrial Development Corporation (IFI) is the central authority for
disbursement of funds and printing and delivery of coupons. DNP submits its
annual estimate and quarterly program to IFI, specifying quantities and types
of coupons required for distribution in each community for each quarter.
Coupon printing is carried out for IFI under quarterly' contract with printers
selected by IFI after open bidding.
Coupon and Food Delivery Systems
13.       Under arrangements commencing in 1977 the printed coupons would be
transmitted by IFI to the Agricultural, Industrial and Mining Credit Bank
(Caja Agraria), and through Caja Agraria's internal system to its regional
and community branches. The coupons would be held in trust by Caja Agraria
on behalf of the regional authorities of the Ministry of Health (Seccionales
de Salud). The auditor of each Seccional de Salud would authorize withdrawals
from Caja Agraria community branches and deliveries to the auxiliary nurse
of each health post as required by the monthly distribution schedule. Distribu-
tion of coupons to beneficiaries would take place on fiixed days each month at
the health post. The auxiliary nurse would deliver to each registered mother
those coupons to which she and her family are entitled. Family beneficiaries
would exchange the coupons at retail food stores, paying the additional cash
supplement appropriate for the foods selected. Retailers would transmit the
coupons to their food suppliers, either through wholesalers or directly to
1/   Only Bienestarina would be included in direct distribution.
2/   Aspectos Productivos y Eficiencia Social del Plan de Alimentacion y
Nutricion. UPG-PAN. National Planning Department, Bogota.
December 1976.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
manufacturers' representatives, and would receive their standard trading
margin on the combined value of the coupons plus cash paid to their suppliers.
Manufacturers would transmit the quantity of coupons received to the regional
branch of Caja Agraria at which they have established a separate coupon ac-
count. As the coupons initially deposited by IFI are treated by Caja Agraria
as currency of equivalent value, coupons returned by manufacturers would be
redeemed by effecting a credit transfer to the manufacturer's account. Once
certification of transfer has been confirmed to IFI the coupons would be
removed from circulation and destroyed.
14.       Extensive ground work takes place before the program is undertaken
in a given community. Manufacturers are obliged to see that merchants stock
adequate supplies in scheduled coupon-recipient communities. Distribution
channels and coverage, scheduled coupon allocations and projected food demand
are reviewed by the regional PAN director with participating manufacturers
before introduction of the coupon system in each community. Retailers are
invited to participate in training sessions where prescribed conditions for
coupon handling and exchange are described. Initial stocks of coupon foods
are supplied by the manufacturer to wholesalers and retailers on credit.
Normal price structures and trading margins for distributors are applied,
coupons being accepted at face value by all parties for purposes of invoice
settlement and replenishment of stocks. Product delivery, either through
intermediaries or directly to retailers, is effected according to the usual
practice of each manufacturer. Maintenance of adequate coupon food stocks at
each distribution point is the responsibility of manufacturers and merchants
but will be monitored by DNP through personnel involved in PAN at local
levels. Lists of local participating retailers are displayed in each health
post, and auxiliary nurses notify coupon beneficiaries of local coupon food
retailers who register in the program.
Coupon Control and Accounting
15.       The quantities of coupons printed each quarter for IFI are trans-
ferred in audited batches by IFI to Caja Agraria for onward transmission
to community branches in accordance with programmed allocations. Caja Agraria
audits deliveries made monthly at community level to the health post auxiliary
nurse. The auxiliary nurse is responsible for the security and delivery of
coupons to beneficiaries at the health post. Three forms are completed by the
auxiliary nurse: (i) the registration ticket, which the beneficiary keeps as
the ration card, (ii) a registration card for each beneficiary, retained by
the auxiliary nurse, which beneficiaries sign each month for the quantity
of coupons of each color received, and (iii) a monthly inventory sheet, on
which all daily movements of coupons through the health post are recorded
(quantities received, transferred, held in stock, delivered to beneficiaries)
against monthly allocations. The inventory sheets are checked by regional
auditing staff of the Ministry of Health and reported to the regional PAN
director. Once coupons are exchanged for foods at retail stores by the
beneficiaries, accounting and security procedures adopted by traders and
manufacturers in handling the coupons would be those normally applied in
handling money.



ANNEX 3
Page 6
Coupon System Administration
16.       Overall responsibility for administration and coordination of the
coupon system rests with the PAN Group in DNP, which includes a coupon program
unit. Administrative arrangements at national level with manufacturers, IFI,
Caja Agraria and the Ministry of Health are handled by this Group. Program-
ming and administration of the system at regional level are handled by the
regional PAN director. Coupon administration and resolution of operational
problems of the coupon system at community level rest with local Ministry
of Health personnel in consultation with the regional PAN director.
Coupon System Trials
17.       The design of the coupon system is the result of continuous revi-
sion and refinement of administrative procedures during 1976, including
approximately 6 months of field trials in 4 rural commrunities of the Cauca
region and 2 months of urban beneficiary selection tests in selected poor
communities of Bogota. The latter test will be extended to three other
cities of varying size during the first half of 1977. The government plans
for trial and modification to continue until a fully satisfactory system is
established (see Annex 2).
18.       During the first six months of field trials, various practical
difficulties 1/ were encountered in coordinating the inputs of financial and
technical agencies, food manufacturers, and the administrative staff and
traders associated respectively with coupon and food delivery. By early 1977,
most of these procedural and scheduling problems had been resolved, and the
feasibility of operating the system on a broader geographical basis in Colombia
had been adequately established. The Cauca trials were not accompanied by
other aspects of the nutrition program, however, such as provision of safe
rural water supplies, expansion of the community healt:h infrastructure,
and nutrition education. As a result, there were no f-indings regarding the
combined benefits of all these elements. The Government, therefore, proposes
to carry out special programming, monitoring and evaluation of the coupon
system in Bolivar region as part of an intensive moniitoring, evaluation and
testing of the earlier nutrition delivery system under the proposed project.
Within that region the Government would not only synchronize the coupon
program with other activities but also would test its possible variations.
These could include changes in the quantities and value of coupons to be
distributed, alternative levels of subsidy, and the effects on demand for
coupon foods when a broader range of products is included. (See para. 3.23.)
Costs and Financing
19.       The costs of the food coupon distribution system include food
subsidies, coupon procurement, coupon distribution, administration and moni-
toring. Total program costs for operating the system in the seven regions and
the Federal district of Bogota included under the Bank project were estimated
at the time of appraisal at Col$336 million (at 1977 prices) over four years,
of which Col$273 million is direct food subsidy. The cost estimates to
1/    Evaluation Report, July-December 1976.'  DNP-PAN February, 1977.



ANNEX 3
Page 7
Col$273 million is direct food subsidy. The cost estimates to Govern-
ment are shown for each region in Appendix 3, based on the following assump-
tions:
(a) Coupon beneficiaries include pregnant women, nursing mothers
and infants aged 3-24 months each year through the health posts in
Bank project regions, and a percentage of children aged 2-4
years affected by malnutrition or at particularly high nutri-
tional risk.
(b) Women receive an average of 28 coupons per month beginning after
the third month of pregnancy and extending up to twelve months
post-partum; infants aged 3-24 months receive 12 coupons per
month; beneficiaries aged 2-4 years receive 14 coupons monthly.
(c) The food subsidy is Col$3.50 per coupon at 1977 prices.
(d) The combined cost of coupon procurement and distribution is
Col$0.80 per coupon.
The food subsidy cost would be financed by the Government from its own
budget.  Under the proposed Bank project, operating costs of coupon procure-
ment, distribution, administration and monitoring would be financed by the
Bank in one region (Bolivar) selected for intensive monitoring and evaluation
of the system. The cost of the coupon food subsidy in this region would be
included in total project costs. The costs of the food coupon system would
rise to Col$797 million in 1985, when full national coverage is reached for
an estimated 868,000 beneficiaries. This would represent less than 10% of
the Government's proposed commitments under PAN at that time.
20.       Summary - The food coupon system is designed to be a multi-purpose,
catalytic instrument for achieving nutrition goals.  It will:
(i) enable beneficiaries in poor families to obtain the types and
quantity of food needed to meet their nutritional requirements;
(ii) stimulate industrial food processors to invest in appropriate
products and facilities to meet this increased consumer demand;
(iii) provide an indirect income transfer to the selected beneficiaries;
(iv) expand the industrial market for rural farm output of raw materials,
and thereby help raise producer incomes, especially in areas
identified for the Integrated Rural Development Program (IRDP);
(v) continue to promote progressive substitution of imported raw
materials with local products of equal or superior nutritive
value, thereby simultaneously contributing to nutritional
improvement, agriculture and savings of foreign exchange;
(vi) forge a link between project families and the community health post,
promoting better utilization of health services and nutrition
education.



COLOMBOIA LSTEGOATED NUTREITION IMFROVEMEN PROJECT
Food Coupon Distribution Systen
Conp.rison f the Nuiritioo,al Content Per lEE goo of Traditlonsi Foods,
Sub.idised Foods (Proided by Internotilo..l Agencies and the CoIonbi.n
Gove,,nent) and ProceSed Food. Feed in Colooba..
Processed Foods For-                        Proce...ed Fooda
Troditio...l Foods                                                       CARE, OFP & CARITAS F..odo                   erly u..d ir Colonbi.                       Scheduled for S.bsidi.ation under PAN
Whea                                                    Bienes  Bfenee- Ofcs.                oln
Wheot  Yellow                                                                                    Fortified SoY-                                           . teino  iorino   torin   En-      Ibe-r-a
Lea            Whole  Flout  Mstee                                                                               B`lg'r With Sya Fortified               rc"pariso  Fo-hito-  Fornle F.r-le Foreo1o Ciohed ria-                        TO'S'.r
061R7L0000S              Pleat   Egg.   Mlilk            Flou   P-nel  Pctei    C..a.. VIRice   Beoc.  Fosits  Oats    CSM          WOE  Wheat  ot 127.    Bo1gor         0i1   F.-nui  15A Minture 3 1124A    1124B   1107A   Foote  tore 5   Doya(goys) Pronaso
Calories (Y.)           150     Sf3      60    356    322        312    359    046        359    302    350    348    373    360    354            357        350         EE4      338          335       344      342       346      338    330        345    324       522
Proteins g,sa            21.5   02.8    3.4   10.4    9.1          0.0    9.0    i.E        7.2   20.4   10.7   10         20      20      11.2    lb           11.3       0        27           20.4      27.6    25.3    21.5        18.5   19.2        28.28  311      44
PIXt~   Efficiency        3.2    3.8    3.2    E.g    0.5          -       0.9    -       210       -       -       2.2    2.4      2.4     1         1.95       2.3       E          2,2         -          2.39     2.18    2.5        2.66   2.01       1.8    2.02   2.26
Tot.1 Cechohydrate.    -          0.7    4.6   75.1   70.9    86.0   76.6   35.5    28.8   54.6   73.6   68.3   62                 ES      75.7    70.7         70         E         07           -        565       58       64.1    64.3   64.7         57.15  32       19
Pat gee                   6.5   11.5    3.3    0.5    3.7          0.10E.7    0.1           o.4    1.2    0.4   .6          6       6       1.5      1.25        2        1EE         6.2         -          E.g      0        0.4      0.83   0.8         0.61   1       30
Fibre gee                 -                       E       2        -       0.0    0.9       0.3    3.0    0.3    0.7    1.4    -            -        -           -         0         -            -          0.2      1.2      0        1.48   0.4         2.17   3.4    0,7
Ash gsa                   0.0     1       0.7    0.7      1.3      0.0     1.1    E.g       0.5    b.0    0.5    0.5    2           -        -                   -         0          -            -         5.4      4.7      4.4       2.23   2.6        4.45   3.6    6.0
Moi.t.re gee             70.0   74.0   88.0   12.8   12.0    12.3   11.4   61.8    12.2   14.8   14.5   00.5   00.0                     -                        -                    -            -         8.0      9.8       8.6     12.7   11.4        4.9     5.1    3.4
Vitaefo A IU.             -    0,000  105         -    5EE         -       -      00         -      -       -       -    1.940  0,658    -         882           -          5        4,790      1.650      3,'52   3,198   3,004   2.9- 4.2   -          2,700      -     33
Tbis,i  eg               40       0.10   0.04   0.17   0.30    0.02   8.27   0,04    0.07   0.43   0.13   0.46   0.05   1.49   0.20                   0.64       0.25      0          0.32         0.17      1.3      1.2       1.3   0.12.0.10  1.65      0.5      -      0.91
Riboflavin eg.            0.25   0.29   E.18   8.05   0.13    0,07   0,06   0.03    0.03   0.12   0.04   0.00    0.9   0.59   0.14    0.36                       0.03      0          0.43        0.66       0.76    0.75    0.7         -       0.53      0.6     -       0.26
VEise.inC  ge             -       -       2       -       -        3       0      3E        -        3       -             40      40       -         -          -         0          -            -        30       30        38      L.2-E.4:  -        58.3              -
PtcoEgs              2.8    8.0      0.1    0.8       2.1      0,3    4.8    0.0        1.3    1.9    0.7    0.2    6.3    9.1          5.5      4.63        4.19      0        15.3          -          7.4      7.1      8.5   312 -161  4.06        6.786 -         1.5
n6    5  1.  20        30      08       80      36      27        9    000       25      55    513    685        22.6   211.2         54.3       0          5.5       236        827      81.0     788         3     122       505.3  640      239
iron 060                  2.7    2.7    0.2    2.7    2.7          2.4    1.7    0.6        0.8     7.1    3.7    E.S   18.3   20.8    7.3           4.9         4.7       0         1,085         -        15.7     14.8    05.0   206         08.6       7.0   10.1.6 6
PFh.ph.r.s ego          215    210       95    1.40    276         60    480       35     1040    430      120    320    3128      562    430       062.29    3E5           5        509           -       82        849      788        -    1253        389.4  600      67
[ot ...ioapg            335   1129      140      9j-3044 j  -                       -    192                 -       -    604b   624       229      374.0      424          ij                                -    1-           -         -       ..      996.4     -       -
SOURCE,  'S.bprsgrarea de Di.tribuci.. Sireota de Alinentos'
DNP, pMay, 1976. Table 6. 



ANNEX 3
Appendix 2
COLOMBIA INTEGRATED NUTRITION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Food Coupon System Flow Chart
I F I           W--s"-                   -   ........    " --  . 4 PAN
Director
l         Regional Health                   Regional PAN
l    Administration                   Director
Producer_           Caja Agraria Regional
Producer                 b  ~~~~~Office
Health Post
Wholesaler                                            Auxiliary Nurse
*        .            Flows of:
._________I__  .               b1. Coupons
Health                          *-.---*  2. Information
HealIth
Distributor                                   Worker            *                         3. Products
i i .' ~ _4. Cash
Beneficiary
{   Shopkceeper     .                                   Population
* Acts as a "depository" for the coupons on behalf of the regional health
administration. Health officials withdraw coupons from the regional Caja
Agraria office to meet health post needs.
World Bank - 17825



ANNEX 3
Appendix 3
COLOMBIA INTEGRATED NUTRITION INPROVEMENT PROJECT
Coupon Beneficiaries and Costs
1/               Full National
Project Only                 Coverage
1977           1980                 1985
Health Post         2/
Population     (000)                445          1,995                 7,750
Coupon Beneficiaries
by Province j
Atlantico     H                   1,92            3,670
3-24               1,29            '09
2-4                12397
Bogota        M                   2,280          8,977
3-24               3,180         12,988
2-4                2,075          6,546
Bolivar        M                  1,383          9,340
3-24               2,027         13,514
2-4                1,317          6,811
Caldas         M                    476          2,958
3-24                 689          4,279
2-4                  448          2,157                 Not
Magdalena      M                    852          7,212               Applicable
3-24               1,352         10,436
2-4                  887          5,260
Risaralda      M                    531          2,335
3-24                 729          3,379
2-4                  474          1,703
Tolima        M                     815          7,420
3-24               1,113         10,736
2-4                  715          5,411
Valle          M                  1,575          8,614
3-24               2,173         12,463
2-4                1,421          6,281
Total
M                  9,148         51,889               296,856
3-24              13,237         75,078               429,660
2-4                8,603         37,839               1h1,484
*000
Coupons
M                  3,073         17,435                99,744
3-24               1,906         10,811                61,871
2-4                1.4X5          6,357                23,769
Total                             6,424         34,603               185,384
Costs-million pesos                27.6          148.8                 797.2
Number of persons reached        40,332        182,866               868,000
1/  M - pregnant women and nursing mothers
3-24 - infants aged 3-24 months
2-4 - children aged 2-4 years
Based an annual rates and quarterly phase in of health post implementation
/ End of year population served during year; assumes 1985' coverage is 25% of total
population.
/ In person-year equivalents, not equal to total persons reached.



ANNEX 4
COLOMBIANi INTEGRATED NUTRITION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Health Services
Health Sector Resources
1.         It has been estimated that in 1970 Colombia spent 4.8% of its GDP on
health care, 1/ a percentage which is probably still current. In 1973 this
amounted to Col$11.6 billion divided as follows: national government, 26%;
social security system, 20%; local government, 8%, and private and other, 46%.
Most of these funds were spent on the operation and upkeep of costly inpatient
facilities. In 1976, investment and recurrent expenditures of the Ministry of
Health (MOH) and its decentralized agencies were projected to amount to 12% of
the investment budget and 7.4% of the operating budget of the central government.
2.         Colombia has 12,000 physicians, a ratio of 1/2,000 population. 2/
There is an average of one trained nurse/10,000 population, one auxiliary
nurse/1,000 population, and one community health worker/6,000 population. 2/
These figures, however, do not accurately relect the availability of health
personnel in most of the country. It is estimated by the Government that 40%
of the population or most of the rural and urban poor have practically no
access to health care.
3.         Seventy-five percent of Colombian physicians practice in Bogota
or departmental capitals where the physician to population ratio is 1/800 or
less. In rural areas the ratio is 1/8,000. A similarly unequal distribution
holds for nurses and auxiliary nurses, personnel largely employed in hospital
facilities. However, even in the cities the poor are underserved because
cultural and economic barriers impede access to the health care system.
4.         In 1974 there were about 44,000 hospital beds (2/1,000 population)
with 73% in government hospitals, 13% in hospital/clinics operating under the
social security system, and 14% in the private hospitals and clinics. The
average occupancy rate of hospital beds was 60%, a low figure. Outpatient
facilities included about 2,000 health posts and centers, i.e., about 1/11,000
population. Most lower level facilities are poorly staffed, poorly equipped,
and poorly maintained.
Government Review of National Health Policy
5.         A critical review of the health sector in 1972 by the Colombian
government led to the development of a new health policy which calls for:
(a) coordinating health sector policy with policy in other sectors;
1/   Colombia Health Sector Analysis, USAID, Bogota 1974.
2/   Ministry of Health Figures reviewed by Appraisal Mission.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
(b) developing a regionalized integrated health system giving
priority to increasing coverage;
(c) ensuring equitable access to health services for all, by extending
coverage to the 40% of the population heretofore unprotected,
mainly the rural and urban poor;
(d) according high priority to preventive care, MCH services, and
environmental sanitation;
(e) introducing the medical team approach with delegation of functions
to paraprofessional personnel; and
(f) promoting active community involvement in program development and
control.
The National Health Plan
6.        To implement the new national health policy, a national health
plan was initiated in 1976. A regionalized health care system was designed
which would operate at three levels. Within the commLunity, the key person
is the health worker (promotora), selected locally by her community.
The second level consists of community health posts staffed by 2 auxiliary
nurses (auxiliares) who supervise a team of 4 to 6 he!alth workers. In urban
areas these posts will be based at existing health centers, some already
staffed by one physician and one dentist.
7.        At the third level are the hospitals.  The local hospital, an in-
stitution where internal medicine, surgery, obstetrics and pediatrics are
practiced by general physicians, receives patients from the health posts and
health centers, in addition to servicing residents of its immediate (usually
urban) area. The local hospital is linked administratively and functionally
to the regional hospital, usually located in a large town or city where more
specialized medical resources in surgery, pediatrics, obstetrics, gynecology,
orthopedics, and pathology are available. The regional hospital, in turn,
refers patients to the university hospital located in the capital of the
region, where all medical specialities are practiced.
8.        Reduction of per capita health costs currently estimated at around
US$17.50 per person served 1/ is anticipated under the new system. An expected
95% of health problems will be handled at the local level by health workers
and auxiliary nurses at the health posts or at the local hospital. It is expected
that 4.5% of patients will require attention at regional hospitals and 0.5% at
university hospitals.
1/   Mission calculation, January 1977



ANNEX 4
Page 3
Staffing for the Rural Health Post
9.        The rural health post is intended to serve 6,000 people and is staffed
by a team of six community health workers trained for up to 10 weeks by the
regional health service, two auxiliary nurses who are graduates of an 18-month
training program, and one sanitation worker. Each health worker covers approx-
imately 180 households or 1,000 persons and performs the following tasks:
(a) Maternal and Child Health (MCH): Identifying and screening preg-
nant women for abnormalities and high risk factors; attending
normal deliveries and paying post-natal health education visits to
families; informing couples about family planning and referring them
to the health post for such services.
(b) Nutrition: Identifying and enrolling eligible children under four
and pregnant or lactating mothers for the food coupon program in
target communities; making home visits to supervise food utiliza-
tion and promoting establishment of vegetable gardens and the
maintenance of domestic animals; carrying out nutrition and
health education with groups of mothers and individual families.
(c) Medical Care: Providing curative treatment for children and adults
with the following problems: vomiting, diarrhea, respiratory
infections, cough and fever, dehydration, intestinal parasitism,
malnutrition, skin rashes, fever, malaria, anemia, and accidents
requiring first aid; obtaining blood samples to detect malaria
and sputum samples to detect tuberculosis, and supervising the
treatment of these disorders.
(d) Environmental Sanitation: In coordination with the sanitation
worker, promoting installation and use of latrines; promoting
use of potable water, appropriate waste disposal and improvement of
housing standards.
(e) Reporting: Preparing map of area of work and a census of the target
population; completing necessary data forms and statistical reports.
10.       The auxiliary nurses are based at the health post, and are expected
to carry out the following tasks:
(a) Supervision: Visiting and supervising health workers 2-3 times per
month.
(b) MCH: Identifying and screening pregnant women in immediate areas
of influence of the health post; referring high risk cases to the
physician; attending deliveries, including those referred by the
physician; educating in MCH care and providing family planning
services.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
(c)  Nutrition:  Monitoring growth and development of children under
five; enrolling those with moderate or severe malnutrition in a
rehabilitation program; distributing coupons to beneficiaries
identified and enrolled by the health worker; keeping coupon
delivery records; carrying out nutrition education of mothers
receiving coupons.
(d)  Primary Care:  Providing simple care to children and adults and
referring serious cases to the physician; carrying out epidemiolo-
gical surveillance; administering smallpox, diptheria paratyphoid
typhoid (DPT), tuberculosis (BCG), polio, measles, yellow fever,
and rabies vaccines as indicated.
(e) Information Management: Preparing a map of the health post area, by
compiling program areas of the health worker and a census of the
population by age group; consolidating all information provided by
health workers and reporting on immunizations and diseases that need
to be reported, cases attended, and nutrition activities.
11.       Physicians based at the local hospital and equipped with four-wheel
drive ambulances will supervise up to five health posts. A dentist equipped
with a portable dental unit will service six health posts.
Staffing for the Urban Health Center and the Health MAC Posi:
12.       The urban health post covers 8,000-10,000 people and is staffed by a
team averaging four health workers, two auxiliary nurses, one sanitation
worker, a half-time physician, a half-time dentist, an administrative assistant
and a security guard. The cost of half-time physician and a half-time dentist
at each urban post are justified as long as the posts do not duplicate services
already provided at local and university hospitals.
Progress in Implementing the Plan
13.       The Colombian government had planned to install 200 health posts
throughout the country during 1976. Organizational problems and curtailment
of government spending reduced the number actually developed to 114, still
an impressive accomplishment.
14.       Evaluation of this initial experience has been delayed because of
earlier difficulties encountered but now resolved in implementating a proposed
complex monitoring and evaluation system. In order to utilize experience
gained during the first two years as feed-back to adjust pclicy and influence
future planning, the Government agreed that the MOH would carry out a limited
but intensive evaluation in 1977 of 50 existing health posts in different
regions. The evaluation covers the training, coverage and workload of health
workers and with special reference to food coupon distribution of the degree of
integration between health care and other nutrition services and adequacy of
financing and provision of material goods. In addition, the Colombian govern-
ment with UNICEF assistance has completed an overall health system evaluation
and monitoring methology which should be operational by 1978 (see Annex 9).



ANNEX 4
Page 5
17.       Health post implementation has proceeded faster than development
of appropriate curricula for training of personnel. The role of the health
worker is new while the auxiliary nurse has been reassigned from the role of
providing primary care under the physician to that of teacher and supervisor
herself. The physician at the local hospital or health center hitherto has
been primarily a clinician accustomed to giving individual care; he will now
be expected to add to his responsibilities the leadership, instruction, and
motivation of paraprofessionals. The training, function, and interrelation-
ships of these three members of the new health team are currently under study
by the Human Resources Division of the Ministry of Health. Continued research
by qualified experts, of whom there are many in Colombia, is still essential
for the design of optimal curricula, supervisory schemes, and a system of
quality control.
16.       The new health plan is expected to reduce morbidity and mortality
with resultant long-range benefits to the economy. On the other hand, in-
troducing 40X of the population into the present health care network will
substantially increase recurrent costs of the health sector. Community
participation will be necessary to help meet these costs. Moreover, only
through effective community organization and incorporation of the recipients
into the design and operation of the local health system can the preventive
and educational goals of the program be achieved. The Division of Community
Participation has been established at the Ministry of Health to develop policy
and methodology for enrolling the community in the diagnosis and solution of
their own health problems. The office, along with the Division of Planning
of MOH, is also charged with supervising the organization of health posts
throughout the country.
The National Food and Nutrition Plan (PAN) Health Component
17.       PAN aims at improving the health and nutrition status of the
poorest half of the population through a combination of programs organized
around the new health care system. A major component of PAN is the strengthen-
ing of that system to reach the poorest segments of the population through the
nutrition program, initially in poverty areas of the three USAID-financed
regions and the seven regions and the Federal district of Bogota which con-
stitute the communities under the proposed nutrition project for Bank-support.
Food coupons are to be provided in these areas for infants, pre-school children
and pregnant and lactating mothers by auxiliary health nurses, who also will
identify these beneficiaries, monitor their nutritional status and impart
nutrition education. Safe water supplies and latrines also will be installed
in project communities, and nutrition education will be provided. Primary
health care activities and preventive measures under the new poverty-oriented
health policy are expected to reinforce the impact of the other nutrition
interventions in combating the synergism of malnutrition and disease. Data
obtained by community health workers will be used to monitor and evaluate the
program.



ANNEX 4
Page 6
Health Services Under the Project
18.       The Bank-aided project would implement 213 rural and 68 urban
health posts covering about 90% of the total population of around 2 million in
those areas. The average population reached per project health post would be
b,400. A schedule for health post implementation during the first project
year is in Appendix 1. Implementation schedules for resmaining project years
will be guided by the findings of a study of health system implementation to
be completed by September, 1978. The table below gives aggregate annual
implementation proposals by region for rural and urban health posts.
Proposed Project Health Post Implementation by
Project Year and by Region
Year 1        Year 2          Year 3        Year 4            TOTAL
Region     Rura.I  Urban  Rural  Urban  Rural  Urban  Rural  Urban  Rural Urban Total
Atlantico    3        2      7       -       4      4       1      7       20   13      33
Bolivar       9      -      12       -     15       -      16      -       52    -      52
Caldas        5      -       5       -      5       -       1      -       16    -      16
Hagdalena    9       -       7       -      6       -       4      1       26    1      27
Risaralda    3       -       4       -      4       1       -      -       11    1      12
Tolima        8      -      12       -     14       -      14      -       48    _      48
Valle        12      -      15       -      5       9       6     10       38   19      57
Bogota        -      4       -      10      2      10       -     10        2   34      36
TOTAL        54      6      62      10     55      24      42     28      213   68    281
Construction and Upgrading
19.       Approximtely 56 health posts would be constructed under the project,
along with structural upgrading of the remaining 225 existing posts. The
cost of rural health post construction is around US$].17.93 per square meter,
while in urban areas construction costs are US$89.49 per square meter.
The Rural Health Post
20.       The basic rural health post is a rectangular, one-story structure with
a total area of 79 square meters.  It will have a porch for small meetings and
demonstrations which also will serve as a waiting room. Inside will be an



ANNEX 4
Page 7
examining room equipped with an examination table and chairs, a pharmacy and
storage area, and a room for the auxiliary nurses. In some locations the
structure may be connected by a walkway to a minimal living unit for the
auxiliary nurses, consisting of a living room, dining room, kitchenette, bath
and sleeping quarters.
Urban Health Posts
21.       An urban health post is a 183 square meter building that consists of
two examining rooms, a dental treatment room, a small pharmacy, an office for
the sanitation officer, a waiting room with capacity of 20 persons, warehouse
and file areas and toilets for the public and staff. When two urban health
posts are based in the same health center because of population densities, the
building will encompass 219 square meters and will include two additional
examining rooms.
Equipment
22.       Each rural and urban health post would be provided with essential
equipment and furnishing. The cost of equipment per rural health post is
expected to be around Col$781,000 and per urban health post around Col$528,000
at July 1977 prices. The schedule of equipment and its costs is in Appendix 2.
Recruitment and Training of Personnel
23.       Health Workers.  Health workers will be drawn both from presently
available maternal and child health workers and from the outside. All
applicants must fulfill the following requirements: (i) age 18-40 years,
(ii) minimum of four years of grammar school and a maximum of two years of
high school, (iii) good health, (iv) residents of the village or barrio
where they have been selected to serve, and (v) willingness to work for at
least five years, although no written binding commitment is required. All
candidates must be available for, and willing to attend, a training program
at an assigned location and must have the approval and support of her family.
Because of the socio-economic benefits accruing to the position of health
worker, there is a wide choice of applicants.
24.       The community would be informed of the recruitment program through
the local radio station and/or community leaders such as school teachers,
community action groups, Colombian Agricultural Institute (ICA) extension
agents, auxiliary nurses and sanitation workers. Candidates are asked to
apply through an organization that represents their neighborhood. Selection
consists of two steps: (a) a written examination; and (b) a personal interview.
25.       The training course for the new health workers takes place at the
regional or local hospital and lasts 10 weeks. Each course is for 25 persons.
The teaching team consists of a physician/coordinator, a nurse, an auxiliary
nurse and a teaching aide. Appendix 3 summarizes for both new and retraining
courses the subjects covered and the hours employed in developing each theme.



ANNEX 4
Page 8
26.       The refresher and retraining course to be givan for the health
workers currently working in maternal and child health services will follow
closely the outline of the course for the training of the new health workers.
Subjects new to those personnel will be emphasized, particularly delegation of
health care to community health workers from auxiliary nurses and physicians.
The course would last six weeks and would include 264 hours of theoretical and
practical instruction. A total of 2,026 health workers would be trained;
allowing for a 25% drop-out rate, the average cost of full training per
candidate is estimated at Col$5,453.
27.       Auxiliary Nurses.  The  project would provide for two weeks' re-
training of 315 existing auxiliary nurses. The other 247 auxiliary nurses
would be recruited and would receive 18 months training at a per capita cost
of around Col$64,500. The auxiliary nurse, unlike the health worker, is a
familiar figure in Colombia where she has been the backbone of health projects
and medical services as well as nursing programs in regional and university
hospitals.
28.       A total of 32 schools of auxiliary nurses operate in Colombia:
28 for the National Health Services and four for the National Apprenticeship
Service (SENA). The last curriculum revision took place in 1976 to reflect
the new national health policy. Applicants must be female, 17-30 years of
age, and have completed the equivalent of two years of high school. The
training program consists of theory and practice for a total of 1,880 hours,
followed by six months of supervised practice.  Training is also divided into
medical and surgical nursing and maternal and child care. Training in MCH
consists of 645 hours divided as follows: theory 118, demonstration 117,
practice 410. The medical and surgical program consists of 1,200 hours
divided as follows: theory 187, demonstration 187, practice 826. Practical
training takes place at university hospitals, regional and local hospitals,
heialth centers and health posts. Clinical facilities of the Institute of
Social Security and private clinics are also utilized.
29.       The retraining and refresher course for present auxiliary nurses,
which forms part of the proposed project, would last t:wo weeks (86 hours),
divided as follows: introduction to the new national health system (5
hours), community organization (6 hours each for theory and practice), MCH
(theory 16, practice 25), nutrition (theory 5, practice 10), training and
supervision of health workers (theory 2, practice 4), administration (theory
4, practice 3). As in the case of the health worker curriculum, the function
performed by the auxiliary nurse in handling food coulons is not yet reflected
fully in the curriculum design. Experience gained in 1976 will be used to
design this curriculum component.
30.       An in-depth revision of training programs is nearly completed and
the new curriculum will be available for general use by SENA and schools for
auxiliary nurses at the regional office of the Ministry of Health in 1977.



ANNEX 4
Page 9
31.       Physicians.  Under the proposed project, one physician would be
required for every five rural health posts and for every two urban health
posts. The performance of these physicians as leaders, teachers, and moti-
vators is key to the success of the new system. Colombian medical school
graduates are not yet trained for this role; some of them are expected to be
reluctant to accept the new policy of delegation of functions of auxiliary
personnel.
32.       Since curricular reform in medical schools will take time to imple-
ment, retraining and supervision are necessary. The Human Resources Office
at the Ministry of Health has concluded that a three-month course would be
ideal but not feasible since physicians are assigned to public service only
for one year. As a compromise, a one-month orientation course has been
designed in collaboration with the Association of Colombian Medical Schools
(ASCOFAME) and the regional health office of Cundinamarca, where it is being
tried. The course emphasizes administration, rural service, team work and a
multi-disciplinary approach to medicine and toxicology, all relatively neglec-
ted in most Colombian faculties of medicine. In addition, the Office of
Human Resources has made mandatory a monthly in-service training session for
rural physicians which will be conducted by public health specialists from
each regional health office. The objective is to complement the orientation
course with informal education utilizing group discussions of field prob-
lems. Both the course and in-service training program represent significant
improvements although the outcome will depend on the quality of the instruc-
tors and supervisors.
Organization and Management for the Component
33.       At the national level, the Programming Office of the MOH's Planning
Division would be responsible for programming, coordinating and supervising
the implementation and operation of project health posts in the reformed health
care delivery system.
34.       The Division of Community Participation of the MOH would monitor
and evaluate community health post implementation, develop methods to ensure
community participation in the organization of basic health services, and
communicate the information and experience acquired to the Planning Division
and other units in the MOH as well as to the regional health office.
35.       At the regional level, the regional health office would be the
executing agency and be responsible for implementing and operating this
system. Within regions, the physician directors of regional hospitals are
to be the chief administrators of sub-regional units (unidades regionales).
At the local level, the resident physician at the local hospital/health center
or the visiting rural doctor would be the leader of the health team. At
the village level, the active involvement of the community in the development
and operation of the health post system would be promoted by MOH personnel.



ANNEX 4
Page 10
36.       In order to strengthen the organization and management of the MOH
and the regional health offices, the project over four years would provide
for (i) a health systems management consultant to the Programming Office of
the MOH, (ii) a consultant with experience in community organization and
development work to the Division of Community Participation of the MOH, and
(iii) seven health systems management consultants to the regional health
offices. Terms of reference for those positions appear in Appendix 4. An
organization chart of the national health system and its regional and local
branches is in Appendix 5.
Component Costs
37.       Investment costs for 281 community health pests would amount to
around Col$153 million, of which around 29% would be for construction, 63%
for furniture, equipment, local transport and radios, and 8% for training.
Per capita investment cost would be around Col$82 and Col$67 for rural and
urban health posts, respectively. Annual operating costs per capita would be
around Col$129 in rural areas and Col$156 in urban neighborhoods. Salaries
would represent between 63% and 72% of total recurrent. costs. Appendix 6
gives a break-down of annual operating expenses for typical rural and urban
posts. The Bank would only disburse against operating costs during the
initial 4 years of operation; total operating costs during this period
(1977-80) amount to Col$382 million (US$10.6 million), The estimated base
costs for this component are US$15.1 million. Details appear in Annex 13,
Table 2.
Implementation Schedule
38.       An implementation schedule for this component is included in
Appendix 7.



ANNEX 4
Appendix 1
COLOMBIA INTEGRATED NUTRITION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Health Services
Project Community Health Post Implementation Schedule-First Project Year
(By Region and Municipio)
By Quarter
Region                   1                 2                 3               4
Atlantico (10)                       Baranoa                           Baranoa
Galapa                            Baranguilla (2)
Juande Acosta                     Sto. Tomas
Ponedera                          Tubara
Pto.Colombia
Bolivar (9)         Calamar          Morales          Barrancadeloba
Margarita                         Ma. la Baja
Morales                           Mompos (2)
San Fernando
Caldas (5)                           Aguadas          Pensilvania (2) Pensilvania
Dorada
Magdalena (9)                        Chivolo          El Banco (2)    Pivijay
Cienaga          Guamal
Salamina         San Zenon
Tenerife
Risaralda (3)                                         Balboa-
Tamboras
Dos-
Quebradas
Pueblo Rico
Tolima (8)                                            Alpujarra        Alvarado
Natagaima        Ortega
Purificacion    Prado
Rovira           Rioblanco
Valle (12)          Alcala           Jamundi          Alcala
Palmira                           Bolivar
Sevilla                           Buenaven-
tura (4)
Palmira
Versalles
Bogota (4)                                            Bosa
Meissen (2)
Samaritana



ANNEX 4
Appendix 2
COLOMBIA INTEGRATED NUTRITION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Schedule of Equipment for Rural and Urban Healt:h Post
(Col$ 11)
Number   Unit Cost      Cost Per    Number   Unit Cost   Cost Per
_________________________________  l _______    ___________ Health    Post  _   l      Health   Post
1.  Furnishings and medical      213    151,380        151,380       68       275,964    275,964
equipment sets
2.  Medical instruments for      426      3,696          7,392      136         3,696      7,392
health workers
3.  Medical instruments and    1,278      5,371         21,483      272         3,480     13,920
supplies for health
workers
4.  Mobile dental units           36    152,419         25,403       68       152,419    152,419
5.  Nutrition education kits     213     10,642         10,642       68        10,642     10,642
6.  Two-way radios               213     52,800         52,800     Radios and transport not
required for urban health posts
7.  Bicycles                     426      3,041                    because of telephones and
90,500*          ambulance availability from
8.  Mules                        867      21,027                   urban hospitals.
9.  Ambulance                     53    230,208         57,552
TOTAL                                              417,152                           460,337
1/ At January 1977 prices.
* Average cost



ANNEX 4
Appendix 3
COLOMBIA INTEGRATED NUTRITION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Health Services
Curriculum for Training and Retraining of Health Workers
-                     Hours-- ---- -------
Subject                                  Theory        Practice       Evaluation       Total
(A) New Training (B) Retraining        A       B      A       B        A      B       A      B
1.  The national health policy          8      3       4      0        1       1     13      4
2.  The community                     11       4       9      5        1       1     21    10
3.  Environmental sanitation          15       7      26     15        2       1     43    23
4.  Patient care                      69      25    134      48        4       1    207    74
5.  Food and nutrition                20      10      38     15        1       1     59    26
6.  First aid                         11       5      30      9        1       1     42    15
7. Tuberculosis, malaria and
leprosy                           10       4     26       6        1      1      37    11
8.  Supervision, handling of
information, reports and
supplies                           5       3     12       5        1      1      18     9
TOTAL                            149      61    279    103        12      8    440   172
7%                                34      35     63      60        3      5    100   100



ANNEX 4
Appendix 4
COLOMBIA INTEGRATED NUTRITION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Health Services
Draft Terms of Reference for Consultants
at National and Regional Levels
1.        The Ministry of Health requires the services of three categories of
consultants over four years to assist the Ministry's central Planning Office
and the seven regional health offices in the planning and implementation of
health services. The qualifications and job descriptions for each category
of consultant follow:
2.        The Consultant to the Office of Community Participation would
be a physician or a professional preferably with a doctoral degree in the
social sciences and public health experience, including an advanced degree
in public health. The candidate must have a well defined interest and expe-
rience in the social sciences as they relate to health care delivery. The
specific background could be in .medical sociology, social anthropology or
family sociology. Experience in the organization of ccmmunities in relation
to health issues is desirable. The consultant would assist the head of
the Office of Community Participation to:
1.   assemble a multi-disciplinary team with expertise in community
organization, using already-established positions;
2.   acquire, catalog and analyze information relating to community
participation in the diagnosis of medical problems, the organiza-
tion of health care delivery systems, and the evaluation, admin-
istration, and monitoring thereof in experimental and action pro-
grams in Colombia, Latin America, and elsewhere in the world;
3.   promote and coordinate the development of mei:hods to ensure
community participation in the organization of the health
care delivery system;
4.   evaluate proposals for university-based research or research
to be contracted with other institutions, with particular
emphasis on the intensive evaluation of successful operations
within the national health plan (such as the one in Arimasay
in the Guajira and those in the department of Meta), and to
identify methods and techniques that may be adaptable to the
local situation;
5.   communicate the information and experience so acquired to the
Office of Planning and other units in the Ministry of Health
as well as to the regional health offices throughout the



ANNEX 4
Appendix 4
Page 2
country, collaborating closely with the Programming Office
staff concerned with community health post system imple-
mentation, partly through regional and local workshops,
lectures, presentations, and informal discussion groups, and
6.   participate in the design of curricula for health workers,
auxiliary nurses, and physicians, relating to the appropriate
curriculum committees of regional health offices, SENA and
medical schools.
3.        The Consultant to the Director of Programming in the Planning
Division preferably would be a medical doctor with an advanced degree in
public health. The candidate should have more than four years experience in
health planning and program administration, with established competence as a
manager and group leader. The consultant would assist the Director of Program-
ming to:
1.   plan and program the health post system nationwide;
2.   coordinate MOH participation in the various components
of the national development plan;
3.   coordinate the 40R1 offices concerned with the organization and
implementation of the health post system, i.e. human resources,
finance, health care delivery, maternal and child health,
information and evaluation;
4.   monitor the process of implementation at the ministerial level,
assuming responsibility for supervising the implementation,
programming, and completion of scheduled tasks;
5.   oversee the provision of supplies, solve logistic problems and
ensure appropriate cash flow to facilitate the system's implemen-
tation;
6.   relate to the chiefs of health care delivery in each project
region and their consultants, assisting in the detection of
problems connected with training programs, field operation,
and flow of information for monitoring and evaluation purposes;
and
7.   engage in field supervision of community health posts in the
process of installation in collaboration with the departmental
staff.
4.        The Programming Consultant to the heads of health services in each of
the seven project regions preferably would be medical doctors with advanced
degrees in public health, familiar with the workings of the national health
plan.  They would assist the regional health service heads to ensure timely
and efficient implementation of this system by:



ANNEX 4
Appendix 4
Page 3
1.   advising on the scheduling, flow of supplies, and logistic
aspects of the community health post implementation program,
working with MOH, officers at the regional level to facilitate
and coordinate the implementation of these new Posts;
2.   frequent field visits and personal contact with the field
directors, detecting problems or delays in training programs,
field operations, or difficulties in the acquisition of data
for monitoring or evaluation purposes; and
3.   informing the central offices of the region and also the
Programming Office at the Ministry of Health of issues and
problems to coordinate departmental.programming with the
central level, collaborating closely with the regional PAN
director.



ANNEX 4
Appendix 5
COLOMBIA INTEGRATED NUTRITION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Organization Chart - Ministry of Health
Office of International
l   Minister     }              7      Relations
Planning Ofice               Vice-Minister                                  Legal Office
Semi-Independent        ll                       l_lll
_ Agencies, e.g.ll
INAS                        Programming               S t    General                               Office of Community
Participation
Licensing,   Human        Medical       Research    Sanitation  Administration    Epide-       Hospital       Direct
Drug and    Resources    Attention                                                 miology     Cost &         Cam-
Medicine                                                                                       Mainten-       paigns
Qua ity                                                                                        ance
Control
Regional Health Administratio n |
l  Servicios Seccionales de Saludi 
Urban Health                            Rural Health
Post                                    Post
Health Workers                          Health Workers
Local Communities
World Bank - 17826



ANNEX 4
Appendix 6
COLOMBIA INTEGRATED NUTRITION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Health Services
Annual Operating Cost for an Urban Community Health Post (Col$)
Cost per
Unit Cost      health Post      %
Salary Physician                              $242,726        $121,363       12
Salaries Auxiliary Nurses                       74,852         151,704       15
Salaries Health Workers                         31,799         127,194       13
Salary Sanitation Worker                        74,820          74,820        7
Salary Dentist                                 242,726         121,363       12
Salary Statistical Assistant                    74,820          74,820        7
Salary Guard                                   114,101         114,101       11
Drugs and Supplies                                             197,038       20
Maintenance and Upkeep                                          25,800        3
TOTAL                                                 $1,008,203      100
Annual per capita operating cost based on 8,000 coverage:  Col$123 (US$3.42)
of which 81% represents salaries.
1/
Annual Operating Cost for a Rural Community Healthl Post (Col$)
Cost per
Unit Cost      health Post      %
Salary Physician                              $242,726        $ 48,545        7
Salaries Auxiliary Nurses                       74,852          74,852       11
Salaries Health Workers                         31,799         190,790       27
Salary Ambulance Driver                         16,254          16,254        2
Salary Sanitation Worker                        48,762          48,762        7
Salary Dentist                                 242,726          40,454        6
Ambulance                                      124,453          24,890        4
Mules                                            6,295          50,362        7
Drugs and Supplies                                             169,128       24
General Expenses                                                20,124        3
Maintenance and Upkeep                                          12,900        2
TOTAL                                                    $697,061      100
Annual per capita operating cost based on 6,000 coverage:  Col$102 (US$2.83)
of which 62% represents salaries.
Average operating cost per project health post based on 80% rural; 20% urban;
Col$685,170.
1/ N.B: Costs estimated from data available at time of appraisal.



COLOMBIA INTEGRATED NUTRITION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Health Services
Schedule of Activities
lo_Date_              Year_IY-ar-   Y.Xa  i.__- Ia1 
.__________________                     . 1   2    3    4    1    2     3    4    1    2    3    4     1    2    3    4    1    2     3    4
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
HEALTH PROGRAM;
Programming 1976-80
Annual reprogramming                        I_                 --                                                      -    -    -           -
Construction and upgrading                                                                                                            -
Equipment
Supplies                                                                                -    -    -
Training of personnel      __.
Supervision and evaluation                            -                      =                      _        =
COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION;
Programming 1976-80
Annual re-programming
Information to the community
Design and programming of community
participation                                                                                    ,                =_
Evaluation of com-                                                                                                                                      3X
munity participation                              P.



ANNEX 5
COLOMBIA INTEGRATED NUTRITION IMPROVENENT PROJECT
Water Supply and Sanitation
1.        About 50% of all reported communicable diseases and 14% of total
deaths in Colombia are caused by water-borne infections. 1/ Broken down by
age-specific groups,-about 41% of pre-school (under 5 years) mortality, 57%
of pre-school hospitalization and 30% of school age (5-9 years) deaths are
due to gastroenteritis, with diarrhea as a secondary factor. 2/ These
mortality rates result principally from use of unsafe water and poor
sanitation, including inadequate excreta disposal.
2.        The objective of the water supply and sanitation component would be
to reduce the incidence of water-borne diseases, thereby increasing absorp-
tion and utilization of available food supplies by low-income populations.
3.        The component would provide piped water through house connections
and household latrines for sanitary disposal of excreta in rural project
areas. Installation of both water systems and latrines would be synchro-
nized, where possible, with the phasing in of community health posts under
the project and would be reinforced by a continuing nutrii:ion/health educa-
tion program.
Water Supply
4.        The water supply component would finance 21 vehicles, equipment,
construction and administration costs for the installation of 349 potable
water supply systems in rural communities with populations under 2,500,
including 215 gravity systems, one with a chlorination plant, and 134 sys-
tems requiring pumping, generally from deep wells. Another 23 systems would
be extended. The component would serve around 231,250 persons in 372 low-
income localities. As shown in the Table 1, this accomplishment would
double the number of persons with access to safe supplies of piped water in
rural project areas. A list of the communities to be served and an implemen-
tation schedule for the component are in Appendix 1.
5.        Water supply services in rural areas since 1968 are primarily the
responsibility of the Basic Health Division of the National Institute of
Health (INAS), a decentralized and efficient organization attached to the
Ministry of Health. Its generally autonomous activities are carried out
1/   Colombian Health Sector Analysis, USAID Bogota, 1974.
2/   Ministry of Health Planning Office figures for 1972 (latest
available).



ANNEX 5
Page 2
mainly through regional offices reporting direct to INAS in Bogota. 1/
6.        INAS requires full community participation in construction, oper-
ation and maintenance of water systems. From 4-9 health workers in each
region, depending on its size, motivate and organize communities. Only
those which show an active interest in obtaining a water system are selected.
INAS requires communities to contribute in kind or cash to investments during
construction and to meet the cost of maintenance and operation of the sys-
tems. Beneficiaries initially contribute an average of 10% of investment
costs and then pay a further portion in accordance with established INAS cost
recovery arrangements over periods ranging from 10-15 years at a nominal 6%
interest rate set by INAS.
7.        Per capita investment costs for new systems are Col$2,300 (US$65)
in July, 1977, prices. Operating and maintenance costs are estimated at
Col$20 monthly per connection which includes an administrator's salary,
overhead, INAS supervision and, in a few cases, energy costs for pump sys-
tems. User charges run around Col$35 per month, roughly equal to the daily
minimum wage rate. These are calculated to cover both current costs and
partial recovery of the investment loan. They would be paid by the community
to the regional INAS office which would retain the funds to meet major main-
tenance costs and those for new systems.
8.        INAS would execute the project under its established procedures
(outlined in Appendix 2) which begin with preliminary identification of com-
munities taking into account the following factors: (i) levels of interest
expressed by the community; (ii) available water sources; (iii) present
and projected water service levels; (iv) other ongoing and planned public
investments in the area (nutrition programs in this case); (v) existence
of community organizations such as community actions groups (Juntas de
Accion Comunal); (vi) road access to communities; (vii) degree of popula-
tion dispersion; and (viii) availability of counterpart funds from the
community.
9.        Initial screening of communities is followed by a preliminary
INAS socio-economic study of the community and the design and costing of the
proposed works. The community would be informed of the cost, the financing
terms and investment recovery. If they agree, a contract between INAS and
each community would be signed specifying, among other things, the total cost
of the project and the contribution each family would make.
10.       Construction of the works would be carried out by local workers
supervised by a skilled foreman provided by INAS and under the final
1/   In three regions, INAS manages the rural water supply program executed
through regional offices of the Department of Environmental Sanitation
of the Health Ministry.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
responsibility and adequate overall supervision of a qualified INAS profes-
sional engineer. Excavations and related unskilled work would mostly be done
on a communal basis. Community participation would be coordinated to coincide
with slack periods on farms. The INAS health worker would maintain regular
and frequent contact, keeping a detailed account of the work progress both
technical and financial. INAS regional engineers would visit the work sites
quarterly for overall supervision.
11.       A few months before the works are commissionecl, a community meeting
again would be called at which an administrative board (Junta Administradora)
would be appointed. Two of its members would be selected from the community
and a third would be the INAS health worker. The community also would choose
a salaried administrator and set user charges. The Junta would be empowered
by the community to administer the water system, and its administrator would
be in charge of day-to-day decisions including collecting the monthly user
charges. All operation and maintenance of the systems wqould be the responsi-
bility of the communities themselves, with the aim of lowering operation and
maintenance costs and giving the communities maximum responsibility for their
systems.
12.       Most of the proposed systems would be very simple.  INAS engineers
normally would design them to be used for 20 years, assuming population growth
based on past rates as derived from official Colombian censuses. The bulk of
the investments would be for distribution networks with piped diameters of
around two inches or more, depending on village size in accordance with a
sound engineering design of the distribution network. Daily demand, includ-
ing losses, varies from 120-150 liters per capita depending upon climate and
economic factors. Water storage capacity is set at 30% of the average daily
consumption. Maximum daily consumption is set at 120% of the average daily
consumption and maximum hourly consumption is 180% of the average.
13.       INAS has sufficient managerial and technical personnel to start up
the project water supply program, although it may require additional local
staff to meet installation schedules during the later years of the project.
Sanitation
14.       The project would finance the costs of vehicles, equipment and
construction for installation of a total of 112,000 household latrines
in project communities. These latrines would serve a total of around
627,200 low-income people, doubling the current number served and bringing
the total number of around 23% of the population in project municipios.
15.       The pit latrines would be a new kind of unit developed in Colombia
which looks like a modern fixture and is flushed with a one-gallon bucket of
water. Its prospective suitability and acceptability have been demonstrated
through Ministry of Health rural trials in 1976. The total installed cost
of each unit is Col$940 (US$26.11) at February, 1977 prices. This includes
Col$329 for the bowl, slab and accessories, with the balance in materials



ANNEX 5
Page 4
and labor to excavate the pit, install the latrine and build the shelter.
Beneficiaries would provide labor and materials valued at Col$600 or more.
The Department of Environmental Sanitation of the Mlinistry of Health would
carry out the latrine program in each region in accordance with its estab-
lished procedures. The regional head of that office reports to the regional
health director who has overall responsibility for coordinating all Health
Ministry activities in the region.
16.       A sanitation worker assigned to each project health post, and the
six health workers, would be responsible for making community members aware
of the importance of good sanitation and the availability of latrines. For
demonstration purposes, all health workers would be encouraged to install
such latrines for their own household use. Families wishing latrines would
contribute labor and materials to dig a pit or septic tank and to erect the
surrounding shelter. The regional health office would provide the complete
unit and materials for a water seal along with plans and materials for a
suitable shelter through its local sanitation worker, who would supervise
construction and would pay regular return visits to each household to ensure
that the units are appropriately maintained. Health workers also would con-
tinue to stress the importance of proper latrine use and maintenance during
their household visits.
Costs
17.       The estimated base costs of this component would be US$19.9 million.
Details appear in Annex 13, Table 3A.



COLOMBIA INTEGRATED NUTRITION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Water Supply and Sanitation
Total %
% of                                            Rural Health   of Health
Rural      Project       Project     Number of                   % of        Post Bene-   Post Bene-
Population   Area Rural      Rural      Localities     Number  Rural Healtl'  ficiaries    ficiaries
for Project Population   Population   to receive         of      Post Bene-   wit1h Water   with Water
Health Post with Water  with Water        Water        Bene-      ficiaries    at end of    at end of
Coverage    Supplies     Supplies      Supplies    ficiaries    served        project       project
Atlantico          107,000      21,903        20.4            9         5,769         5.4          27,672       25.9
Bolivar            312,000      25,198         8.0           51        77,753        24.9        102,951        33.0
C ldas              96,000      56,237        58.6           29        10,298        10.7         66,535        69.3
Magdelena          156,000      14,832         9.5           34        48,366        31.0         63,198        40.5
Risaralda           66,000      22,526       34.1            58        19,291        2902         41,817        63.4
Tolima             288,000      39,512       13.7           103        30,162        10.5         69,671        24.2
Valle              228,000       4,824         2.1           88        39,614        17.4         44s,)438      19.5
Totals        1,253,000     185,032       14.8           372       231,253        18.5        416,285        33.2
mI f x
(D PC
2I1



A1qtM 5
COLG21A 25CI  ATEID        II                                                   Ap1OOdOi 1
Wat-r Sototv Imol  utttis  Shedtl. - b4i DMerte_to ct         d M0isl0io
YTor I                                           Yer 2                                              Yer3 3                                                  Yw*
I          2            3          4            1            2           3            4            1            2            3            4            !1             2            3
PAl Picg      Barn.-      Borono     Lur.-aco    Luru. co   R3p.los    C-po d.    Jua d.
Ponder.   Hib.oharo    1. Cr           A..ost.
Plojo       Plojo(2)    Lur...o
SabonolOrao
(2)
Gr-vity       Achi
S-rf.c.                                                                                                                                    calomr        El Y ..l
MOgOOguO
PumpiLg       B co dLoba             Achi         Cl soer    Prg-it.  Morole.          S.. Jostinto Colo r(2)  K.It lr       Ar,o         Kgoangui                    Aohi        Achi         Cordoba      8torganp.
Soc        Crso= noo                             St.l.t.lio  E1 GucJo   El C0.0,.   Pitillba              (2)                   B1 Caorexe    31 Carnas   M.rg rit.   Mor.-..
Pertoodo  .S.  J.s-                             Cordob.      St1  C.t.l-  M .9.go4    M.Coogui                                 Magosgo.    Meogaargi    M.or.I.o       Piil;o,
erpo-oc.n.                           El C r..            to.   Ploillo.    El YucIl                                  Marg rita   Morale.       Pirillo.
*         .. Lhos. St.l'ta                                                             Pinillos
Cold..
Gr-oity       M-1i00loi, | 5rqu- -    Peo.il-    Agod.,    L. D-nd.  M-rquo-           Morq..-      Morqoo       Agoad..      AgSudo.(2)  Ag..d..                     MOdqoto1l   a      ctAli. M.1-tu liq cclJ n0
tli(2)   v-ti.(2)  MPrque-    M niole.s  t.lia(2)    t.li.(2)            tolia     M.rqc.-       Pencil-      P...il-                   Peosilo snia Peooil--ir   Pemoilvnai.
tli                  Noeib.       Petoil-       P-sil-        tCli.        v...i(2)        -.i.
P..il-       v-.i(2)     -ni.(3)   Poosil-
La Dorad.
ExtocL on
pomping      A-c.tcc  Pivijy    G-1               R...e olio              Cerro San   PiviMay       Podra..       ouml        To..rifo    Ci-n g(2)                    Corro Sa.  0ual(2)        Ou           Tenerife
Pivi jOY               oSnt. An-                              Antonio                 S-t S.-      Pivijy       S.. Ze-ot                                Astorio
CR  ooog                    bo.ti..   SCn So-                                                            Ped-rza        Pioijoy    Sent. Mno
G=a.o                                    bastil                                              M..9g    S.0n SeCantti.
Ext n-                                     t  A- onir
Entroosboc~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ..rf
Risarolda
Gr-ctiy                  |ooqco-    Bolbo.        Q.i-chi.   1b01         B.1boo(2)   bbo1b b(5)   B.1b        l(5)      5)1b b (5)   B.1b..(5)   Balbo (4)             Poreipo     Pereira   Qoisohil
|brod-n   Mi-.rotd       (4)     G-otic.    Gutict(2)    -                                                                                 QuinL    Quinhi-.  Poabl  Rico
Gu_tic.(3)       (3)                Puolo     MiotropI
Pueblo                     Rico
Rico                       Quincblo
(3)
TEl Co son                
Groolco      Alp.jor-   AlvaIodo  CCoollo        Atc.        Alpcjorr-  Alvarodo    Ib.g.           Alvarddo    Dolores       Orteg.       Ortega        Ibags.        lbaqceI(2) Thque)2)         Ortega       Ortega
r-(2)    Al.co(2)   Dloc.-       Coyolms    Al,vrodo   Ib.g.4         Planed.-    Drtrgo         Ort.go(2)   Prado                      Ortega        At..         Otegar
At1cc       Choporrl  H.orvoo(2)  1bhoo-       Ib-gue      P1ndas    Prod.           Prado        Prod.                                   Riobl..co                 Porifi..
Dolores(2)       (3)  lIb.g..      orog.(3)  0racg.        Prad          Prtrific.-   Rtoiro       S.. Lti,
Ib.g.6(4)  Coello(2)  P-rifi-    Pcodo         Plndoo    Ioviro             clot                        u
Porific.-  Ib.g-o(2)  ca.i.n    Porifico-                               -ovira
c| ol    Roir (2)                   ciof(3)
CAru-s
Apicoal|                                      
Poopif,                                                       Ce.11                                Coyale       Coy.lm.(2)  Coy.lma(2)  Coy-l-(3)  Coyolmo             Coollo        Ortega   Porifsciols
P-ifci -   Eapitol        Eopiic-   ERpinl          Porifico-
100 P-iflc-    Portflc,-   P-Plf1co-cc*o(2)
o ci6        ci6          cior(2)  Sol do.F
So1 d.s.    Sal d.11o(2)
Goocicy       G.sc..i                 C.icodo..i. Dagoo(2)  |Cli(3)   |P'l,lri(2)  C|icodosi.  C.1i(3)           B-on -    B--    Boliv-r(3) |B. -s.t.-   osCvostorsRc    tu  Qus  ri (2)
Pal.iri(2) |            Svill|                              Rold.sill   DogP (3)   |  go.           To.          Tor.(3)   Rio FriP                       Call       hA1.         (2)  t               (2)
-zaral                                                       Gu-oni       L. Cobro                                               G                        (boson  Lb Cb (   )osodi  ( ol1
Trojillo                                               Psiop      Palcolo  (2 P0J.i-  (2)
F mupCoR     |Pslnlo(l)|             |P.I=iri(3)  Pliir      |            P ir                      G     ri                                                               r-l                  |S-ill
| RIld-illo             |Zr.l         |
Oct csoon c   c1:     



ANNEX 5
Appendix 2
COLOMBIA INTEGRATED NUTRITION IMPROVEMENT 1'ROJECT
Water Supply and Sanitation
Community Involvement in INAS Water Programs
Steps
Water and sanitation                           Contact with
l               1              X         conditions                                      local authorities
Study of the community
Socio-economic conditions                         Review with
l_______________________________________________ _   l   Lorganized     groups
Topographic survey                          Visits to community
____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ___leadersj
Project preparation
Meeting with local
L ->          Design of System                            authorities-Members
of groups and leaders
Community motivation,                                                                              _
promotion and organiza-                                                                         Meeting with school-
tion                                                                                            masters
Contract signing       ]                         Initial contributions                       General community
l_________________________ _  l                   l       to  investment                               assemblies
Construction of system                               Materials control                          Formation of com-
munity action groups
Administration and super-                          Control of community                           Assignment of tasks
vision                    ]                         contributions                                 for group
Signing of contract
for construction and
financing of system
World Bank - 17827



ANNEX 6
COLOMBIA INTEGRATED IMIPROVEMENT PROJECT
Nutrition Education
1i        Colombia has a long history of programs which have included nutri-
tion education efforts. These have been carried out principally by the
Colombian Institute of Family Welfare (ICBF), although the Colombian Agricul-
tural Institute (ICA), the Government Community Development Program (DIGIDEC),
and Actional Cultural Popular (ACPO) also include nutrition education in their
activities. However, earlier attempts concentrated on general themes like the
functions and nutritional value of the four basic food groups and generally
appear to have only limited impact. Relatively little attention was given to
guiding families to a better use of available income for food purchases or to
changing inappropriate food habits.
2.        The proposed nutrition education component would develop and carry
out a greatly expanded nutrition education program designed to improve family
food consumption and feeding practices within existing income limitations.
The themes would include breast-feeding, proper methods of weaning, food
supplementation during childhood illness, information on better ways to
prepare meals, and the proper use of food coupons. Both mass media techniques
and individual and group discussion would be used with the expectation that
they would reinforce each other and have a greater overall effect when com-
bined than when presented independently. The component would be managed
principally by national and regional working groups and carried out mainly by
ICBF and the Department of National Planning (DNP).
Mass Media Component
3.        The general objective would be to make maximum use of the
broadcasting media, particularly through Colombia's local and regional
radio stations, to publicize the desirability of sound eating habits and
ways to achieve them. It is expected that up to 80 percent of the project
area population would be exposed to the mass media campaign. Specific
project activities over the four-year period would be:
(a) the production and transmission of about 250 spot radio
announcements to be broadcast by 127 stations on an average
of ten times daily in all nutrition areas;
(b) the production and transmission of 20 five-minute daily
programs, each to be broadcast 22 week-days a month over a
three-month period;
(c) the production and broadcasting of two short songs for the
PAN campaign to accompany the spot announcements;
(d) the production and transmission of a 15 minute weekly TV
program for urban areas, where TV coverage reaches an
estimated 4 million viewers including low-income groups; and



ANNEX 6
Page 2
(e) the production of six 10-minute films to be shown in two-
thirds of Colombia's 370 movie theaters (estimated total
of 200 million admissions per year), and shown in rural
project areas by three mobile units to be provided
by the project.
4.        In accordance with Government policy, DNP would be directly in
charge of executing the mass media component, principally through contracts
with advertising agencies, broadcasting network companies, film producers and
distributors.
5.        DNP's Mass Media Section, consisting of a chief and two media spe-
cialists, manage the mass media activities. An advisor from the President's
Office and a staff administrative specialist also would work part-time on the
program.
6.        Monitoring of the media campaign would be done principally by
research firms under contract. The data they provicLe would be used by DNP's
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit to determine the long-term effectiveness of
mass media nutrition campaign efforts. Ten percent of all production costs
have been set aside for modifying the program contents as needed on the basis
of these evaluations.
Individual and Group Discussions
7.        Individual and group counseling would be conducted principally
by health workers participating in the PAN program, assisted by personnel
from other agencies and community leaders. In addition to family coun-
seling, health workers would use leaflets, posters, and tape cassettes.
They would direct messages both to the men of the family, who usually make
decisions on all matters relating to food production, purchase and consump-
tion, and to the women and children who would be the prime beneficiaries of
food distribution programs, health services, improved water supplies and
sanitation.
8.         The principal objective would be to improve the eating habits of
the rural and urban poor. This component would reach 550,000 families in
all nutrition program areas during the project period. Among the specific
activities to be undertaken are:
(a) develop the content of nutritional messages, design their form,
and select appropriate transmittal methods to be used;
(b) train about 2,028 health workers as the contact personnel,
3,000 shopkeepers, 2,400 community leaders and some 600 per-
sonnel of ACPO, DIGIDEC, ICA and Rural Development Centers
of the Ministry of Education (CDR), and other agencies
involved in the nutrition education campaign;



ANNEX 6
Page 3
(c) develop and distribute materials for use by health and other
nutrition education workers; and
(d)  carry out the planned program in the selected project areas,
with continuous monitoring, feedback and adaptation, if
required.
i0.       Training would be provided for the following groups:
1.   Seminars for health workers - Two-week seminars in nutrition
education would be organized by ICBF for the 2,028 health
workers involved in the nutrition program. It would be part of
their total three-month training course (see Annex 4).
2.   Short orientation course for shopkeepers - One or two-day
courses for some 3,000 shopkeepers who would sel:L foods under
the coupon system would be organized to instruct them how to
handle the system and how to promote the foods to be sold.
3.   Seminar for community leaders - Two-day seminars for some
2,400 community leaders would be held to orient these volun-
teers in nutrition education.
11.       The remaining training activities are in-service refresher courses
that also would be organized by ICBF:
(a)  Seminar for Regional Directors - A one-week seminar for regional
managing staff of PAN-related agencies for 40 officials would be
held once every year in each nutrition program region.
(b)  Seminar for Trainers - Each regional working group would organize
an annual seminar for about ten intermediate PAN staff to develop
strategies for training health workers and local community Leaders.
(c) Seminar for Working Group Staff - National and regional nutrition
education working groups (about 30 participants) would meet for five
days, twice annually, during the project to review successful
techniques and developments (see para. 14).
(d) Field Staff Training - The Ministry of Health would give a total
189 training courses for its field staff in nutrition program areas
during the project period. ICBF would provide trainers for each
course. Fifty would take place in the first project year. Eighty
one-week refresher courses for 300 health workers, and three-day
courses for 1,200 health workers would be held in the second year.
The Ministry would organize 50 five-day refresher seminars for 500
health auxiliary nurses during the project. Nine regional courses
for 180 auxiliary nurses also would take place during the project
period on special topics like breast-feeding problems and prac-
tices.



ANNEX 6
Page 4
(e)  Seminars for Participating Agencies - Through the regional nutri-
tion education working groups, two-day nutrition education seminars
for some 600 workers with DIGIDEC, ICA, ACPO, CDR and other agencies
would be given.
12.       This sub-component also would finance the production and distribu-
tion of nutrition education materials and provision of audio-visual equipment.
Posters and wall newspapers would be printed by ICBF at: its UNICEF-donated
plant in Bogota, to be posted at health posts and grocery shops by health
workers. Health workers also would distribute leaflets to each of the benefi-
ciary families in nutrition program regions. Each health worker would be
provided with a simple cassette recorder and tapes for small group presenta-
tioin of messages developed by the regional nutrition ecducation working group
and produced in Bogota. Each working group would also be provided with a
slide projector. Three mobile units equipped with a 16 mm film projector and
generator would be provided to ICBF for use in rural nutrition program areas.
13.       ICBF would be in charge of materials production and would produce
slides and sychronized audio materials. The 16 mm films would be produced
by I)NP's contractors. The project would also finance t:he purchase of a
mimeograph machine for each of the regional working groups.
Coordination of the Mass Media with Individual and Group Approach
14.       Coordination of nutritional themes and messages would be required
to assure that they are consistent, timely, and appropriate. These responsi-
bilities would fall to an inter-ministerial working group, set up in 1975
to carry out PAN nutrition education at both national and regional levels.
Members at the national level would include representat:ives from all concerned
agencies and a representative from the Ministry of Education. It would be run
by an executive council that would include ICBF representatives, the Chief of
the DNP Nutrition Education Division and the full-time working group coordi-
nator, an ICBF professional. The working group would have a full-time staff
consisting of the coordinator and eight nutritionists divided into three
groups specializing in training, materials production, and research. In
addition, ICBF would hire consultants during the project period to help with
the development and production of materials at the national and regional
levels. Draft job descriptions for these consultants are in Appendix I.
Implementation schedules appear in Appendix 2.
15.       The national working group would develop a country-wide strategy
to highlight major dietary deficiencies and suitable practices to eliminate
them. Each regional working group, with help from the rural communications
consultants, would adjust these themes to suit the particular circumstances
of the region.
Costs
16.       The estimated total base costs of this component are US$6.1 million.
Details appear in Annex 13, Table 4.



ANNEX 6
Appendix I
NUTRITION EDUCATION
Nutrition Education Consultants
ICBF requires consultants to work with the national nutrition
education campaign on the development and production of themes and messages
for dissemination to individuals and small groups in predominantly rural poor
communities. Consultants would work with ICBF in Bogota and in the seven
regions where the program would take place. Job descriptions and qualifica-
tions for each position is as follows.
Rural Communications Consultant
I.   Job Description:
i)   Work with regional working groups to develop information and edu-
cation activities directed to the public on specific nutritional
problems of the region from definition of content, pretesting of
messages to selecting appropriate media, timing and frequency of
presentation;
ii)   Direct visualization and dramatization of nutrition messages in
forms appropriate to regional, cultural and social characteris-
tics and interests;
iii)   Supervise technical production of material and messages from
initial script, layout, sketch and story states to final prepara-
tion for reproduction and transmission;
(iv)   Coordinate nutrition education program implementation by various
agencies in terms of both content and scheduling; and
(v) Promote the continued integration of interpersonal communications
techniques in the regional training of PAN workers and supervisors.
II. Qualifications:
i)   Experience and training in development of materials for non-
formal education, preferably for rural areas;
ii)   A university degree, preferably in rural communications or one
of the behavioral sciences; and
iii)   Experience in writing, editing and related message production,
preferably for rural audiences, would be desirable.



ANNEX 6
Appendix I
Page 2
Nutrition Education Materials Development and Production Consultant
I.   Job Description:  To assist the head of the national working group in:
i)   Preparation of an operational plan for national production of
nutrition education materials;
ii)   Coordination of the development and production of interpersonal
nutrition materials with mass media materials;
iii)   The use of both existing and innovative techniques and materials
in the development of interpersonal nutrition education messages;
iv)   Optimum use of ICBF facilities through printing, distribution and
production schedules;
v)   Proper integration of these materials in training programs for
the personnel of the agencies involved in the nutrition educa-
tion campaign and for the health workers; and
vi)   Other appropriate tasks as required.
II. Qualifications:
The consultant would be a production special:ist familiar with the
techniques and content of non-formal, preferably nutrition education and
with experience in interpersonal communication. The consultant also would
have the ability to communicate effectively with others at a variety of
educational levels.



COLOMBIA INTEGRATED NUTRITION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Nutrition Education
Schedule of Activities
A.  Maas M1dia
To  Date              Year 1                  Year 2                     Year 3                  Year 4
3     4     1      2     3     4      1     2      3     4      1     2     3      4      1    2     3    4
A. Administration
1.  Organization of Working Group
2.  Definition of functionS  and mechanisms
3.  Definition of Programs at National Level
4.  Definition of Programs at Regional Level
5.  Selection of Human and Institutional Resources
6.  Selection of Human Resources to be contracted          _                               _                                                    - _        - _
7.  Contracting with Advertising Agencies
8.  Media Selection
9.  Contracting with Research Agencies
B. Training
1.  Seminars with Regional Directors
2.  Seminars with Opinion Leaders
C.  Campaign Design
1.  Public Information
2.  Promotion Campaigns--                                                                                                                       -
3.  Annual Experimental Projects
a) Use of media
b) Handling of content
D.  Production of Materials
1. Visual Identification for PAN, Educational
Materials, PAN products
2. National Public Information
Press-                                                                          -      -     -     -    __       ---                                  -
Radio                                                                     -     - _           - _         -      -                   - _
TV-                                                                             -      --                        ---
others--                                                                                                  _      --                                    -
3.  Regional Public Information
4.  Promotional Campaigns
Spots-                                                                   --                  ----
Serials--                                                                              -     -     -      --                        -     --                -
Posters
Others
E. Evaluation
1.  Pre-testing of Materials
2.  Follow-up and control of media                                                   -      -      -     -
3.  Campaign results
F. Research
1.  Sociocultural habits                                                                                                                                                         IG'
2.  Media penetration                                                                                                                          _  
3.  Impact of messages
4.  Combination of techniques                                                                                                                                                        a,



COLOMBIA INTEGRATED NUTRITION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Nutrition Education
Schedule of Activities
B. Interpersonal
Activities                                    To atA          Ypnr.                   Year 2      ___Year 3                 __             er4       ___
Activities_______________                         4     1     2      3     4      1     2     3      4     1      2     3     4      1      2     3     4
A. Organization and Administration
1.  Elaboration of Agreements                                      _     _
2.  Designation of National Coordinator
3.  Integration of Workshop Council
4.  Integration of Workshop Working Group
5. Organization of Regional Coordinators
6.  Installation of Regional Workshops
7.  Elaboration of Regional Programming
B. Training
1. Regional Management Seminars
2.  Teacher Seminars
3.  Seminars and Courses for Education Agents
4.  Ministry of Health Seminar (Basic Training)        _
C. Production of Materials
1.  Content                                                 -            -      -     -
2. Seminars for Health Workers
3.  Audio-Visual
4.  Printed Material                                        -      -     -            -
5.  Inter-media Techniques
D.  Supervision                                        .
E.  Evaluation                                                 .              =                        =            =                l



ANNEX 7
COLOMBIA INTEGRATED NUTRITION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Family Gardens
1.        Increased production and consumption of home-grown nutritious vege-
tables and legumes can help reduce target group malnourishment in project
areas where inadequate supply of nutritious foods is a major constraint.
A family gardens program which integrates production with nutrition educa-
tion would raise intake levels of calories, proteins, essential vitamins
and minerals by those most nutritionally at risk.
2.        Government efforts to increase home production and consumption of
these foods have taken place primarily through the Integrated Applied Nutri-
tion Program (PINA), begun in 1961 and executed principally through the
Colombian Institute for Family Welfare (ICBF). Through an agreement signed in
1969, PINA has involved collaboration between ICBF and the Ministry of Agricul-
ture, Colombian Agricultural Institute (ICA), the Colombian Institute for
Agrarian Reform (INCORA), the National Apprenticeship Service (SENA), the
Institute for Renewable Natural Resources and the Environment (INDERENA), Caja
Agraria and the National Federation of Coffee Growers of Colombia (FEDECAFE).
Results, which have not been fully evaluated, have varied considerably from
place to place. An assessment of results showed that the PINA program de-
veloped in Caldas in 1968 involving almost 1,000 families 1/ in production of
vegetables, food staples and livestock, registered a dropout rate of 40% by
1970. Key factors contributing to the drop-out rate were considered to be:
(i) lack of adequate planning and systematic supervision in such matters as
activity selection, teacher motivation, performance of technical personnel and
site selection; (ii) funding shortages, which reduced the numbers of technical
personnel available to the project and the interest of various agencies in it;
and (iii) failure to involve community organizations, leaders and household
heads in project design and execution.
Component Description
3.        The family gardens program proposed in the project is designed to
correct these inadequacies and increase the production and consumption of
home-grown vegetables and legumes by vulnerable groups in seven regions.
About 20,000 farm families would take part in the program over four years.
If successful, the progam would be expanded to additional regions during
the next phase of the National Food and Nutrition Program (PAN) beginning in
1981.
1/ Gardens at rural schools, developed through the Ministry of Education's
program to encourage students to raise their own food for the school
lunch program, served as dissemination points for seeds and services
provided by a four-person team of agricultural, health, home economics
and adult education extensionists. They organized 95 family coopera-
tives, 42 women's clubs, 14 men's clubs and 11 agricultural groups.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
4.        The component would finance the costs of seeds, fertilizer, pesti-
cides, and services of 100 agricultural extension workers. Costs of initial
studies, teacher training and agricultural inputs for demonstration gardens
at 100 rural primary schools also would be financed.
5.        A PINA team in ICBF, including a rural sociologyist, would develop
an initial sample survey of food habits and customs to be carried out through
the regional PINA technical group in each proposed home gardens region during
the first three months of the project. Members of the regional PINA technical
group, led by an ICA, INCORA or FEDECAFE agronomist, would define nutritious
crop mixes and combinations of seeds, fertilizer, pesticides and practices
best suited to particular soil, climatic and socio-cultural conditions.
6.        Participating teachers and extension agents then would receive
intensive short-term initial training (teachers, 14 days; extension agents,
20 days) relating to these crops. SENA and the Ministry of Education would
collaborate on development of the teacher-training curriculum and its execu-
tion, in accordance with existing practice. ICA, INCORA. or FEDECAFE would de-
velop the curriculum for and train its extension personnel for the component
in each region. The regional PINA committee would review the curriculum and
training to assure its suitability. Regularly scheduled refresher courses
and joint seminars of teachers and extension agents alsc) would take place
during the project.
7.        With help from an extensionist, each school would grow these crops
in a demonstration plot. The extensionists would work :hrough the local PINA
committee with community leaders to set up a schedule oE farmer visits to
the school, where inputs and demonstrations would be provided, and for regular
visits by the extension agent to each participating farm family.
8.        Each family would be expected to cultivate a plot at least 12x6
meters. It is anticipated that participating farm families would be able to
make that plot available without reducing existing production of other crops.
Farm families would receive seeds, fertilizers and pesticides which are avail-
able locally on a grant basis during their first two years of participation
in the project. They would pay 50% of the cost of inputs in the third year
and the full cost from then on. Based on current average yields, each plot
should produce at least 100 kilos of vegetables per yeaLr. This would be
sufficient to produce about half the annual vegetable and legumes needs for
a family of six at current average Colomibian yields. The net value added
of increased production as a result of the project would reach US$529,000
annually at June 1977 prices. Individual and group nutrition education under
the project in these areas would include information relating to the prepara-
tion and consumption of products grown through this component. Health workers
living in those areas also would be encouraged to grow gardens themselves
for demonstration.
Organization and Management
9.        ICBF would organize and coordinate the family gardens pilot program
through its national and regional PINA structure. The National PINA Committee



ANNEX 7
Page 3
is chaired by ICBF, and includes representatives from ICA, INCORA, SENA,
FEDECAFE, the Ministries of Agriculture and Education and the PAN Group in
DNP. The national committee would review and approve plans of operation,
budgets and progress reports for the pilot program. These would be prepared
in each test region by a similar regional comittee chaired by the local ICBF
director. Committee membership at the regional level would be augmented by
representation from the nutrition education regional inter-ministerial working
group. An organization chart appears in Appendix 1.
10.       ICA, INCORA and FEDECAFE would assign a total of 100 extension
agents to the program, divided as follows among regions in which they oper-
ate:
Number of Extension Agents
Region                           Assigned to Family Gardens
ICA             FEDECAFE          INCORA
Caldas                                                16
Cauca                             10
Huila                             16
Magdalena                                                              7 1/
Norte de Santander                18
Tolima                            16
Valle                                                 17
TOTAL                             60                  33               7
ICA has more than 1,000 extension agents in rural areas.  FEDECAFE and INCORA
also have sufficient staff available to allot to this program. Agreements
between ICBF and these agencies would assure continued participation of exten-
sion workers, who would be supervised by their own agencies and monitored
through the regional PINA committee.
Costs
11.       ICBF would be responsible for family gardens funding.  It would
finance the training and personal costs for participating agencies. Regional
ICBF offices would purchase seeds and fertilizer for extenision agents to dis-
tribute. Each regional PINA committee would provide quarterly reports on
training, inputs distributed, person-hours of extension and interpersonal
nutrition education and production results. The estimated base costs of
the component are US$1.4 million and are detailed in Annex 13, Table 5.
Implementation Schedule
12.       A draft implementation schedule appears in Appendix 2.



COLOMBIA INTEGRATED NUTRITION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
PINA Coordination for Family Gardens
Organization Chart
ICBF Management
Sub-Director of Nutrition
National PINA Committee,
ICBF, ICA, INCORA, SENA,
FEDECAFE, Ministriesof
Education and Agriculture, DNP
PINA Regional Coordinator
r      1  (ICBF Employee)
Regional ICBF
Director                                PINA Coordination Committee
ICA, SENA, FEDECAFE, Ministry
of Education, Ministry of Health                                                        Administration
l                 7                        |  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Accounting   PINA Op  t
L                                                                        PINA Tchinical GrouPunds
Storage and WVare-
Housing
Health Programming Group                Education Programming Groups                 Agriculture Programming
(Nutritionists, Health                 'Nutritionists, SENA, Ministry               Group (ICA, FEDECAFE,                      General Services
Personnel)                              of Education)                                SENA)
|              |    ~~~~~Local PNA Committees -                                                  
| Community Groups and Leaders|'tX
NtoaPIACommuitiee,
VWorld Bank - 17828



COLOMBIA INTEGRATED NUTIRITION IMPROVEMENr PROJECT
Family Gardens
schedule of Activities
-~              -            Year                           Year                              Year 3                            Year 4
Activities                                 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 89      10 11 12  1 2 34 56 7                                                    - 8910112    1789  1101112   101112   |
1. Programmsing of financial resources by entities,
regions  and municipalities 
2.  ICBF - Ministry of Education  agrcements for
transfer of resources
3.  Meeting of Nationial Coasittee for Name and
School Gardens
4.  Meeting of Technical Committee for Nome and
Schiool Ga;rdens
5.  Regional meetings of PINA agricultural pro-
grasmming groups
6.  Presentation of projects for promotion of
family food production in PAN areas, from
ICA, INCORA, FEDECAFE, Ministry of Education
7.  Presentation of project for production and
supply of vegetable seeds
I.  Analysis of compatibility and special dis-
tribution of projects (:ICA, INCORA, FEDECAFE,
etc.)
9.  Signature of IC3F agreements with ICA, INCORA,
INDErENA, Ministry of Education, and SENA
for execuition of approved projects
tO.   Selection of area. schools and families for
pilot gardens project.
11.  Development of production packages for areas._
12,  Preparatiot and development of horticultural
courses for teachers                                                                                         HH
13.  P1eparation and develupcect of courses for
extension agents
14.  Regional training of extenoion workers,
teaclhers and pilot project heads,
15,  Preparation and developmenit of hiorticultural
courses for community promioters
16.  Training for coasunity promoters.
17.  Execution:  Supplies, Extension and Supervision              |   |                        -  -                             -  -                                                             i
18.  Evaluation
19.  Research on family production at regional
level
20.  Development of materials for
education on family food production



ANNEX 8
COLOMBIA INTEGRATED NUTRITION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Applied Food Technology and Quality Control
Introduction
1.        The larger food processing industries in Colombia make extensive
use of modern food technology. The National Food and Nutrition Plan (PAN)
proposes to exploit this technological capability to help achieve the gov-
ernment's nutrition goals. It assigns to industry the responsibility for
providing both the quantity and quality of processed foods required by PAN
programs and includes production incentives and quality control measures to
secure their cooperation. To complement and guide industry efforts, the Plan
assigns to two established institutions a major role in supporting and over-
seeing the processed food development program. The Institute for Technologi-
cal Research (IIT) is charged with assisting the develcpment of new enriched
processed foods for inclusion in the PAN coupon scheme and other public
feeding programs like school lunches and nutrition rehaLbilitation. IIT is
also expected further to develop and demonstrate appropriate technologies
for village-level processing, conservation and storage of food and for the
reduction of post-harvest losses. The National Institute of Health (INAS) is
responsible for establishing and operating a comprehensive system of food
quality analysis and control on behalf of the Ministry of Health to ensure
that the foods processed by industry are safe and wholesome and that they
conform to newly prescribed quality standards.
2.        The proposed nutrition project would directly support these ac-
tivities. It would finance a program of product research and development
studies, demonstration plants and pilot projects which IIT would carry out
in collaboration with industry, rural food producers and associated institu-
tions. It would also finance the laboratory equipment and facilities neces-
sary for INAS to carry out regular analysis and quality control of processed
foods associated with PAN programs. A number of special studies on the qual-
ity and composition of foods, to be carried out by INAS and IIT, would also
be financed under the Bank project.
Existing Situation
3.        The Food Processing Sector.  The food processing industry in
Colombia is well established and growing steadily. It: is the third most
important branch of Colombia's manufacturing sector and maintained a real
growth rate of 9 - 10% annually from 1967 to 1974. Food processing absorbs
19% of the labor force employed in small and medium-sLzed industries and
contributes 27% of the total value added. Approximately 55% of food in
Colombia undergoes some form of industrial processing,, and the range of
processed foods is already considerable. Enterprises are fairly evenly
distributed among large cities (Bogota, Medellin, Cali, Barranquilla) and
smaller towns.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
4.        Colombia has been among world leaders in the development and
utilization of nutritional low-cost processed food mixtures. Between 1960
and 1975 several novel, well-formulated products based on local raw mate-
rials (including maize, rice and soy flours) were successfully introduced
through commercial and institutional channels. These products of high
nutritive value (including Colombiharina, Duryea and Bienestarina) 1/ stimu-
lated the growth of a competitive, though limited, market for enriched foods.
Private sector initiative was backed in these instances by a relatively well-
developed supporting infrastructure of Colombian equipment suppliers, market
analysis facilities, nutrition services and research institutions.
5.        Expansion of the enriched foods sector has been restricted by two
factors: heavy government subsidization of the domestic wheat price and the
minimal purchasing power of primary nutrition target groups. The wheat
subsidy was removed in 1974, providing industry the incentive to produce
previously tested foods based on other Colombian cereals and legumes. PAN
has also begun to bring larger amounts of enriched processed foods within
reach of Colombia's poor through the coupon system and direct food distribu-
tion. The resulting additional demand for these foods is estimated by
the Bank to reach 37,000 metric tons annually by 1980. Initially this
demand would be met by a limited range of processed food products including
Colombiharina and Duryea infant foods, enriched pastas, Bienestarina flour
mixtures, and Carve texturized vegetable protein (TVP) products. Installed
and planned expansion of processing capacity would be adequate to satisfy
the projected annual increases in demand during the first phase of PAN.
Nevertheless, further diversification of raw materials and products is needed
to prepare for subsequent phases, to avoid over-dependence on soy-based
ingredients for enrichment and on pastas and Bienestarina as the main food
supplements provided for adults in PAN programs.
6.        Status of Applied Food Technology.  Colombiharina, Bienestarina,
and the enriched pasta brands now manufactured by commercial processors were
all developed domestically respectively by the University of Valle, the
Colombian Institute for Family Welfare (ICBF) and IIT. IIT has had an espe-
cially impressive record over the past decade in successfully developing new
technologies and stimulating their adoption in the commercial sector. Its
Food Technology Division has pioneered the use of diluted wheat flours in
bread and pastas and has been responsible for technological development of
Provesol soy-milk, TVP products based on cottonseed flour, enriched maize
bread, and other products suitable for inclusion in the PAN coupon scheme.
The Netherlands Government is providing approximately US$740,000 for two
projects starting in 1977 to enable IIT to assist commercial introduction of
1/   See Annex 3, Appendix I for composition of these products.



ANNEX 8
Page 3
composite flour bread and to complete trials of soymillc and fermented soya
products. The government also proposes to help financie expansion of IIT's
collaborative program with industry in applied food technology and to acce-
lerate planned feasibility studies on the fortificatiom of selected staples
(e.g., sugar, rice and salt) as a medium for combatting micro-nutrient defi-
ciencies.
7.        Less advanced are the adaptation of successful industrial technolo-
gies to smaller-scale production units, and the application of low-cost tech-
niques for processing, conservation and storage of food at village and farm
level. IIT nevertheless has completed a series of successful institutional
trials demonstrating that food availability and rural farm incomes can be
increased through the use of simple low-cost pre-treatment and processing
techniques. The government proposes to support IIT field demonstrations of
these technologies in PAN regions.
8.        The problems of post-harvest losses of staple foods have also not
yet been adequately explored in Colombia, although such losses are estimated
at approximately 10% for roots and tubers, 20% for fruit, and 20% for cereal
grains. 1/ IIT would undertake a related research program to analyze the
causes of these losses and develop appropriate technological solutions to
reduce this food waste.
9.        Status of Food Quality Control.  Although the leading manufacturers
of processed foods have their own laboratory facilities and systems to per-
form regular quality control checks, until recently there has been no compre-
hensive set of standards to protect consumers against unsafe, unwholesome or
mislabelled foods. A recent survey of the processing industry showed that
of the 22 factories manufacturing the categories of foods included in PAN
distribution schemes, 14 had either inadequate control procedures or none at
all. As part of PAN, the government intends to establish and maintain appro-
priate food standards and to implement a system for continuous monitoring of
the quality of processed foods in these categories. Presidential Decree No.
281, issued in 1975, provides that such processed foods will be registered
with the Ministry of Health, and that approval of the food and all labels and
advertising must be obtained from the Ministry before licenses are issued
for manufacture and sale of the products. Separate resolutions governing
processed food for infants and pre-school children (No. 4135, issued in May
1976), enriched pastas and TVP products (scheduled for issue by mid-1977)
establish quality standards for these specific food groups. Additional
standards will be elaborated and issued later.
10.       To back these standards, the Ministry of Health proposes to estab-
lish a central reference laboratory in INAS for quality control and a system
1/   IIT Nutrition-Food Technology Study:  Northern Latin American Countries
Final Report, edited by T. Salazar de Buckle. Bogota, October 1976.



ANNEX 8
Page 4
permitting regular collection and analysis by INAS of processed food samples
from factories and stores throughout Colombia. In cases where manufacturers'
products do not comply with legal provisions, become contaminated or deteri-
orate during distribution, appropriate action would be taken.
Component Objectives and Description
II.       The proposed project component would strengthen Colombia's capa-
bility to manufacture from local resources the quantities and varieties of
low-cost foods required to improve consumption among low-income families
and ensure that these foods conform to prescribed quality standards. The
component includes applied food technology and food quality control sub-
components.
12.       The Applied Food Technology sub-component would finance the addi-
tional resources required for IIT to carry out a four-year program of product
research and development, technology demonstration and extension, and fea-
sibility studies, in collaboration with other government-designated institu-
tions (ICBF, INAS, ICA) industry and rural food producers. This program
would include 26 sub-projects (listed in Appendix 1):
(i) 12 focused at the village and farm level on conserva-
tion and storage and on processing technologies; and
(ii) 14 focused on industrial-scale processing of raw materials,
enriched and fortified food products.
13.       Among the 12 sub-projects included in the village and farm-level
program, priority would be given to:
(a) the design, construction, installation and operation
of proto-type demonstration plants for small-scale
processing and packing of cassava, plantains, potatoes
and pulped fruit, based on proven low-cost technologies
developed by IIT;
(b) the identification and field-testing of practical low-
cost methods to reduce post-harvest losses of cereal
grains, root crops and fruit;
(c) the development, installation and demonstration of
portable processing units for small-scale production
of pre-cooked doughs, enriched maizebread, whole-
soybean flour, and pre-cooked soy-based products suited
to village-level production;
(d) the adaptation of existing industrial-scale technology
and development of prototype units for localized pro-
duction of pre-cooked, enriched cereal flours in PAN
areas; and



ANNEX 8
Page 5
(e) an extension program to install successful prototypes
in selected nutrition program communities.
14.       Among the additional 14 sub-projects included in the industrial-
scale processing program, activities would include:
(a) attempts to develop new forms of Bienestarina vegetable
protein flour, and to enrich pastas using pre-cooked
rice, sorghum and cassava. The activities would include
development, testing, demonstration and utilization of
new formulas and processes;
(b) attempts to develop alternatives to soyabeans as a
protein source, particularly cottonseed flour, wheat
concentrates, sesame, fava beans, cowpeas and other
legumes. The activities would include applied research,
development, and industrial trials of enriched food
formulae;
(c) pilot trials of adding fish and meat by-products to
processed TVP foods using simplified texturization
technology;
(d) technological trials to improve the shelf-life of
cereal-based processed foods; and
(e) an integrated pilot project for fortification of
staple foods (e.g. sugar, panela, 1/ rice, pasta)
with micro-nutrients (e.g. iron, vitamin A), in-
cluding evaluation of the economic and technological
feasibility of various levels of fortification, and
trial and demonstration of appropriate processes.
15.       The proposed component would finance additional equipment, mate-
rials, personnel and foreign and local technical assistance required by IIT.
All research and development studies, demonstration units and pilot plants
included within the component would focus exclusively on commodities cur-
rently available in Colombia which are either part of the normal dietary
pattern or capable of transformation into popular food items. Particular
emphasis would be placed on technologies which are practical, economic and
likely to be adopted quickly by industry. Provision would also be made
for monitoring and evaluation of product acceptability and the feasibility
of expanded production.
16.       The Food Quality Control sub-component would provide the resources
required for the government to establish and operate an effective system
1/   Unrefined sugar.



ANNEX 8
Page 6
for controlling the quality of enriched foods produced by commercial manu-
facturers and ensuring that their products conform to Ministry of Health
standards. It would consist of two elements:
(i) equipment and maintenance of a central reference labora-
tory for food analysis within INAS; and
(ii) additional staff and facilities for regular collection
of food samples from factories and stores throughout
Colombia, and for carrying out routine chemical,
physical and microbiological analysis of these samples.
17.       The Bank project would finance:
(a) basic laboratory equipment to be installed in an
existing wing of the INAS central laboratories in
Bogota, forming a separate unit for analysis of
the chemical and physical composition and microbio-
logical quality of processed foods for special
dietary uses, and supplies of spare parts, chemi-
cals and supplementary materials for four years;
(b) eight vehicles, for continuous collection by Ministry
of Health food inspectors of up to 4,200 food samples
annually from factories and stores, plus packaging and
delivery expenditures for consignment of samples to
INAS;
(c) support for additional INAS personnel (14 professionals
and assistants) to carry out the food quality analyses,
and for Ministry of Health personnel (15 food inspectors,
auxiliaries and assistants) to administer the food in-
spection and control system, for a period of four years.
18.       INAS would be responsible to the Ministry of Health for labora-
tory analyses and maintenance. The surveillance system would involve the
annual, random collection of approximately 2,700 samples from 22 different
factories and 1,500 samples from representative stores throughout the country.
An average of 350 samples per month would be analyzed by INAS. Analyses
would include composition (moisture, ash, protein, fat, fiber, carbohydrate,
vitamins and minerals), micro-organisms including pathogens, potential toxic
substances such as pesticide residues and heavy metals, and organoleptic proper-
ties. If sample analysis reveals that a product does not comply with the
Ministry's standards, action would be taken to ensure future compliance, the
ultimate recourse being to withdraw the licence to manufacture.
19.       The component would include financing a series of six special
studies on aspects of food quality dealing with methodologies of food and
nutrient analysis, determination of minimum-cost diets in different regions



ANNEX 8
Page 7
and the economic effects of food standards legislation on producers and
consumers. Financing would cover supplementary equipment, materials, per-
sonnel costs, fellowships and technical assistance. The studies would be
carried out on government contracts by IIT and INAS in association with
other concerned institutions.
Organization and Management
20.       IIT would be in charge of the 26 applied technology sub-projects
and six special studies outlined above. It would prepa,re detailed proposals
for each, including budgets and implementation schedules, in collaboration
with participating agencies. Proposals would be given technical approval by
The National Food Technology and Nutrition Committee 1/ before being submitted
to the PAN Director for financing. Funds would be chalnelled from DNP through
the National Fund for Economic Development (FONADE) as grants. FONADE would
contract with the designated agency for execution of the sub-project. Within
IIT execution and coordination of this program would be the responsibility of
IIT's food technology division, which would report to the PAN Group.
21.       The food quality control sub-component would be coordinated by the
Ministry of Health and executed.by subsidiary bodies of the Ministry. INAS
would be responsible for laboratory equipment installation and maintenance
and for the continuous program of food quality analyses. The Ministry's
Division of Environmental Sanitation would carry out the surveillance, col-
lection and consignment of samples to INAS through its regional health ser-
vice units. Links with other food quality control activities implemented
under PAN (food standards legislation, endorsement of foods for inclusion
in the PAN coupon program, applied food technology etc.) would be maintained
through the National Food Technology and Nutrition Comimittee on technical
matters, and through the quality control group of the Ministry of Health's
Drug, Cosmetics, and Food Commission on legal and administrative aspects.
Technical Assistance
22.       The component would finance sixteen and one-half person-months of
foreign consultants for advisory assistance on eight sub-projects within the
applied food technology program. Eleven short-term consultancy missions
would be required on aspects of cereal, post-harvest, and meat and fish
technologies, mechanical and packaging engineering, starch chemistry, food
fortification and protein evaluation. Terms of reference for these special-
ists are given in Appendix 2. Eleven person-months of foreign and 45 person-
months of local fellowships would also be financed by the component.
1/   Established in 1972, chaired by Colciencias, wit:h membership including
DNP, IFI, ICBF, IIT, ICA, INDERENA, ICTA, ANDI (Assoc. of Industries),
National University, Universities of Antioquia and Valle.



ANNEX 8
Page 8
Costs
23.       The estimated base costs of the component are US$3.8 million.
Details appear in Annex 13, Table 6A.
Implementation Schedule
24.       A schedule of key implementation actions for the component appears
in Appendix 3.



ANNEX 8
Appendix 1
COLOMlBIA INTEGRATED NUTRITION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Applied Food Technology
Research and Development Studies Program
The project would finance a four-year program of applied research
and technological development provisionally comprising the following sub-
projects within three program sectors:
1.   Program:  Raw Material Processing, Conservation and Storage at
Village Level
Objective: to reduce food waste at farm and village level and
increase production of processed foods in PAN regions.
Sub-projects:  12
Sub-project                        Objective                                 Duration
1.1. Pre-Installation Research       To determine appropriate sites and sizes   6 months
on Commodity Storage Units    for prototype pre-treatment and storage    (2 months
in Integrated Rural            units for (i) cassava and plantains,          per product
Development Program (IRDP)    (ii) potatoes, and (iii) fruit, in             unit)
areas.                          selected production localities within
IRDP regions.
1.2. Design, Construction,           To establish a model demonstration plant   3 months to
Installation and Operation    for processing cassava adjacent to village start-up of
of Demonstration Plant         storage facilities, to demonstrate 30-day  operations.
for Village-level Cassava       conservation of fresh cassava without
Processing.                     refrigeration in IRDP producer areas
(process based on existing IIT tech-
nology and capable of replication).
1.3. Design, Construction,           To establish a model demonstration plant   3 months to
Installation and Operation    adjacent to village storage units,             start-up of
for Selection, Treatment       using proven IIT technology for pre-          operations.
and Storage of Potatoes.        treatment and conservation of fresh
potatoes without refrigeration for
eight months in semi-subterranean silos.



ANNEX 8
Appendix 1
Page 2
1.4. Design, Construction and        To establish a small-scale pilot plant            8 months
Operation of Demonstration    adjacent to a storage depot in one
Plant for Fruit Pulp Con-       selected fruit-growing area, for demon-
servation.                      stration of fruit-pulping technology
which permits indefinite conservation
of fruit produce otherwise not of
marketable standard.
1.5. Design, Construction and        To establish a field demonstration plant,         8 months
Operation of a Prototype        capable of replication, for village-level
Small-Scale Packing Unit       packing of agricultural produce, based
for Farm Produce.               on IIT technology demonstrating a re-
duction in food losses during transporta-
tion from 30% to 2%,
1.6. Applied Technology Research   To identify and field-test practical low-
on Reduction of Post-           cost methods for reduction of post-
Harvest Food Losses in IRDP   harvest food losses at farm and village-
areas.                          level in IRDP areas.
1.6.1  Solutions to             (Including analysis of scale and character    10 months
Fruit losses.           of damage to fruit, identification of
causal agents, and testing of low-cost
technological solutions in a selected
area.)
1.6.2  Solutions to             (Including analysis and technology tests         10 months
grain losses.           with emphasis on losses in quality,
problems of infestation, and conditions
of storage in smallholder areas.)
1.6.3  Solutions to             (Including analysis of causes and tech-          10 months
losses of cassava       nology tests in a selected area, with
and plantain.           emphasis on problems at subsistence and
smallholding cultivation level.)
1.6.4  Solutions to             (Including identification and analysis           10 months
potato losses.          of causes, and field tests in one area
on solutions complementary to semi-
subterranean silos (1.3.).)
1.7. Small-Scale Processing          To develop, install and demonstrate              12 months
of Enriched Foods.              (4) prototype portable processing units
for small-scale production of (i) pre-
cooked doughs for enriched maize bread
(ii) maize bread, (iii) whole-soybean
flour, (iv) pre-cooked toasted soy
products, soy milk and other products
developed by IIT which are suited to
village-level production within IRDP
areas.



ANNEX 8
Appendix 1
Page 3
1.8. Methodology for Small-          To apply and adapt existing cereal pre-    2 years.
Scale Processing of Pre-        cooking technology (using hydrothermic
Cooked Cereals.                 or mechanical methods) to requirements
for small-scale village-level processing
and utilization near harvest sites, to
reduce the transportation and operational
costs of industrial pre-cooking, and to
demonstrate, by installation of proto-
type units, the feasibility of localized
production of pre-cooked enriched cereal
flours in PAN areas.
1.9. Extension Program               To replicate successful prototype in-         12 months
stallations, based on sub-projects            (first phase)
1.1. - 1.8., in selected nutrition           plus pro-
project communities.                          vision for
12 months
extension.
The preceding sectoral program (1) would be executed under the
leadership of IIT, with the participation as appropriate of other government-
designated agencies and using established DNP mechanisms for coordination
with IRDP.
2.   Program:  Industrial-Scale Procepsing of Raw Materials, Enriched
and Fortified Food Products.
Objective: to expand the range of raw materia:Ls and low cost
finished products available for inclusion in PAN distribution
programs through commercial and institutional channels.
Sub-Projects: 14
Sub-project                        Objective                                  Duration
2.1. Diversification of              To design and test alternative forms          12 months
Bienestarina.                   of Bienestarina vegetable protein flour    (first
mixture, including flavour and end-           phase); plus
product diversification, (e.g. usage in    24 months
snacks, bread and baked goods), thereby    extension
facilitating new product marketing and        phase.
greater variation in the diets of low-
income consumers.



ANNEX 8
Appendix 1
Page 4
.2. Diversification of             To test alternatives to the pre-cooked
Enriched Pasta                  maize flour ingredient in enriched pasta
Formulations.                   formulations and to design appropriate
technologies for their utilization in
commercial products.
2.2.1.  Processes for                (Including pilot plant experiments            6 months
Pre-cooking Rice.           and industrial trials of pre-cooked            (first phase);
rice flour and wheat/rice formulae for       plus pro-
pasta products.)                             vision for
6 months
extension.
2.2.2.  Research on Technology       (Including pilot plant tests of' method-    6 months
for Decortication of        ologies for decorticating and decolor-
Sorghum.                    izing sorghum to establish their
application to Colombian varieties.)
2.2.3.  Processes for Pre-           (Including pilot plant experiments            4 months
cooking Sorghum.            and industrial trials to determine            (following
appropriate technology, engineering           2.2.2)
and economic feasibility of pre-cooking
sorghum flour for use in enriched pastas.)
2.2.4.  Conditions for Pre-          (Including analysis of appropriate form    6 months
cooking Cassava.            and size of cassava roots for pre-cooking
through existing industrial installations,
and pilot plant trials of suitability
for use in pre-cooked form in pasta
products.)
2.3  Alternatives to Soya as         To develop technologically and economi-
Protein Sources in Low-Cost   cally viable formulae for enriched pro-
Processed Foods.                ducts using other high-protein raw
materials, thereby reducing the supply/
cost risks to PAN deriving from total
dependence on soybeans as the protein
base for low-cost foods.
2.3.1.  Usage of Cotton-             (Including pilot plant trials, sensory        12 months
seed Flour as Soy           panel tests, consumer acceptance               (first phase);
Flour Substitute.           studies and (where appropriate) industrial plus provision
trials, based on proven IIT technology,    for 12 months
to establish appropriate levels for re-    extension.
placement of soy flour by lower-cost
cottonseed flour in Bienestarina, pastas,
TVP and other PAN food products.)



ANNEX 8
Appendix 1
Page 5
2.3.2.  Research on milling       (Including further development of IIT            18 months
technology and pro-      technology recovering 20% of whole-
duct application of      wheat fractions as protein concentrates
wheat concentrates.      and related economic, nutritional and
production studies to establish viability
of wheat concentrates as PAN food ingre-
dients.)
2.3.3.  Research on charac-       (Including analysis of chemical and              18 months
teristics and usage      nutritional properties of local vari-            (first phase);
of Colombian fava        eties, and suitability of industrially-          plus provision
beans in processed       processed fava beans as proteir, in-             for 12 months
foods for human con-    gredients in Colombian food prcducts.)           extension.
sumption.
2.3.4.  Usage of sesame pro-    (Including research on technology for              12 months
tein in industrially-   decorticating and de-fatting sesame
processed foods.         seed, functional and other properties
of local sesame varieties, as potential
source of methionine enrichmeni: in soy-
based and other processed foods.)
2.3.5.  Usage of other            (Including analysis of physical, nutri-          18 months
legume protein           tional, chemical and functionaL proper-          (first phase);
sources.                 ties of cowpeas and other indigenous             plus provision
legumes, and subsequent experimental pro-        for 12 months
cessing in alternative food formulations.)    extension.
2.4. Usage of Bi-Products of    To conduct pilot plant trials incor-               12 months
Fish and Meat Industries.  porating the use of presently wasted
bi-products of national fish and meat
industries with TVP in new product
formulations for such foods as fish
cakes, fish sausages, hamburgers.
2.5. Extension of Shelf-Life    To identify technologies, appropriate              2 years
of Cereal-Based Processed  composition and packaging for cereal-              (first phase);
Foods.                      based processed foods to prolong their            plus provision
in-home conservation and storage                 for 12 months
properties, especially in humid                  extension.
tropical environments, thereby re-
ducing food waste and improvin,g the
consumer acceptability of foodis for
PAN distribution programs.



ANNEX 8
Appendix I
Page 6
2.6. Development of Simplified  To adapt and simplify present extrusion           2 years
Methods of Texturization.  technology for TVP products, designing            (first phase);
and testing simpler and lower-cost              plus provision
installations based on Colombian small-         for 12 months
scale plastic extruders in order to             extension.
accelerate localized production and
popularization of TVP foods.
2.7  Fortification of Staple    To carry out an integrated pilot project          18 months
Foods.                      for fortification of staple foods (e.g.          (first phase);
sugar, panela, rice, pasta) with micro-         plus provision
nutrients (e.g. iron, vitamin A) to coun-       for 12 months
teract identified deficiencies among            extension!
Colombian population groups; to evaluate
the nutritional benefits and the economic
and industrial feasibility of specific
fortification options at various levels
(large-scale industry, small-scale in-
dustry, village, home); to define appro-
priate-technologies, demonstrate to pro-
cessors and agents the modalities of se-
lected fortification processes and verify
maintenance of recommended standards.
The preceding sectoral program (2) would be executed by IIT, in
cooperation with ICBF (sub-projects 2.1, 2.3.1., 2.3.3., 2.3.5., 2.7) and
other government-designated agencies, Colombian industries and equipment
manufacturers where appropriate, as may be recommended by the National Food
Technology and Nutrition Committee.
3.   Program:  Food Quality Analysis and Improvements
Objective: To refine methodologies for analysis of the
quality of Colombian foods, and assess the economic and
technological feasibility of further measures to improve
the quality of diets through PAN programs.
Sub-Projects: 6
Sub-project                       Objective                                  Duration
3.1  Methods of Food Quality    To improve, and where possible,
Evaluation.                 simplify existing methodologies for
evaluation of food composition and
quality.



ANNEX 8
Appendix I
Page 7
3.1.1.  Design or adaptation   (Including identification of optimal             2 years
of instrumental         methods for analysis of vegetable
methods for quality    protein mixtures, triple mixtures for
control of PAN          pasta products, composite flours
foods.                  for bread etc., and subsequent training
of PAN food analysts in these methods.)
3.1.2.   Design of simple,       (Including mechanisms for rapid veri-            2 years
low-cost methods        fication of product compliance with
for effective           official minimum standards, particularly
quality control in      for pre-cooked cereals, and formulated
factories.              protein foods.)
3.2  Adaptation of Microbio-    To evaluate the applicability of micro-           12 months
logical Methods for         biological methods of protein quality
Evaluation of Protein       analysis to PAN program needs, including
Quality.                    a series of comparative tests of these
theoretically faster methods against
standard Protein Efficiency Ratio analysis
procedures.
3.3  Analysis of Minimum Cost   To develop and maintain a program for             12 months
Diets at Regional and       regular analysis of minimum-cost                (first phase);
Community Levels.           diets in PAN areas, supplementing               plus provision
studies already undertaken by IIT               for 2 years
and other agencies at national level            extension
for PAN programming and facilitating            phase.
adjustmentg to commodity and processed
food marketing at regional level in
line with nutritional needs and pre-
vailing income levels.
3.4  Research on Cost            To investigate and analyze the effects          12 months
Inflation Effects of        of newly prescribed standards for
Food Standards.             specific PAN foods on production costs
and consumer prices for these items,
giving special attention to the
effects of any cost inflation on
small-scale industry and low-income
consumers.
3.5  Technical Research on       By a series of technical studies and            14 months
Soybean Standardization.   analyses, to establish revised norms
for the quality and varieties of
Colombian soybeans supplied to pro-
cessors of soy-based foods, as a basis
for reduction of rejection rates.



ANNEX 8
Appendix 1
Page 8
The preceding sectoral program (3) would be executed by govern-
ment-designated agencies as appropriate, including INAS (3.1.1., 3.2.), and
IIT (3.1.2., 3.3.), and would be subject to the technical recommendations on
implementation made by the National Food Technology and Nutrition Committee.
Separate provision is made within the Applied Food Technology sub-
component for external technical assistance to specified sub-projects, and
for supervision of the overall program package by IIT as the lead agency
responsible to DNP for sub-component execution.



ANNEX 8
Appendix 2
COLOMBIA INTEGRATED NUTRITION IMPROVEMENT E'ROJECT
Applied Food Technology
Consultant Job Descriptions
Specialists in Post-Harvest Food Technology 1/
1.        Four consultant food technologists are required, having speciali-
zation in the evaluation and reduction of post-harvest food losses in devel-
oping countries, respectively for: (i) tropical fruits, (ii) grains (maize,
sorghum, rice, soybeans etc.), (iii) cassava and plantains, and (iv) pota-
toes. Needed qualifications for each consultant are a Ph.D. degree or equiv-
alent background in food technology, a minimum of five years' experience and
current involvement in the field of post-harvest food losses. In the con-
text of sub-project no. 1.6., Applied Technology Research on Reduction of
Post-Harvest Losses in IRDP Areas, each consultant would, work in close asso-
ciation with the Food Technology Division of IIT, and would assist specifi-
cally in:
(a) assessing the suitability of alternative sites for
field-testing practical low-cost methods of reducing
post-harvest food losses at farm and village-level;
(b) establishing the test methodology to be used, includ-
ing definition of sampling procedures, analys:Ls to
be performed, time schedules, manpower requirements,
and loss reduction methods to be tested;
(c) training of responsible local personnel;
(d) advising on appropriate action to follow-up planned
activities.
Cereal Technologist
2.        The consultant technologist should have at least five years' expe-
rience in methods for pre-cooking cereal flours. In the context of sub-proj-
ect no. 1.8., Methodology for Small-Scale Processing of Pre-Cooked Cereals,
1/   Food Technologist (Tropical Fruit);
Food Technologist (Grains);
Food Technologist (Cassava and Plantains);
Food Technologist (Potatoes).



ANNEX 8
Appendix 2
Page 2
the consultant would work in close association with the Food Technology Divi-
sion of IIT in evaluating cereal pre-cooking processes that are actually
being used in Colombia for the production of corn cakes (arepas), pastas and
related products. The consultant technologist would also analyze the results
of adapted or improved pre-cooking methods that may be developed for textur-
ized food products.
Food Technologist (Meat and Fish)
3.        The required specialist should have a Ph.D. degree or equivalent
background in food technology, not less than five years of experience in meat
and fish low-cost technology and should be actively working in this field.
In the context of sub-project no. 2.4., Usage of By-Products of Fish and
Meat Industries, the consultant would work in close association with the
Food Technology Division of IIT. Specifically the consultant would:
(a) undertake field visits to fish and meat processing
centers in order to establish volumes and character-
istics of the by-products usable for the sub-project;
(b) advise on technologies to be tested and pilot-plant
equipment to be purchased;
(c) assist in elaboration of activity plans and time
schedules, taking account of both economic and
technological aspects;
(d) provide training for local responsible personnel in
the installation and use of pilot-plant equipment;
(e) advise on the follow-up and evaluation of planned
activities.
Mechanical Engineer
4.        The required consultant should be a qualified mechanical engineer,
with a University degree or equivalent experience, and should have industrial
experience in pre-cooking systems for cereal-based products. In the context
of sub-project nos. 2.6. and 1.8., the consultant would work in close asso-
ciation with the Food Technology Division of IIT in designing or modifying
existing equipment for producing pre-cooked flours for typical Colombian
food items, with special emphasis on installations for small-scale produc-
tion.
Packaging Specialist
5.        The consultant packaging specialist should have at least five years'
experience in the field of flexible packaging material, systems and dynamics.
It is preferable that the consultant should have some industrial experience.



ANNEX 8
Appendix 2
Page 3
In the context of sub-project no. 2.5., Extension of Shelf-Life of Cereal-
Based Food Products, the consultant would work in close association with
the Food Technology Division of IIT, and would be required to advise on up-
to-date usage of flexible packaging materials for products such as corn
cakes, bread and snacks. The packaging materials concerned would be man-
ufactured in Colombia, and packaging systems recommended should require
minimal mechanization. The consultant would further assist in designing
suitable packages for specified products, and for assessing their efficiency
under tropical weather conditions in different regions of Colombia.
Starch Chemist
6.        The required consultant in starch chemistry would be specialized
in the theory and mechanism of staling of bread and baked goods. The ideal
candidate should have a Ph.D. degree, five years plus related experience,
and should have made significant scientific contributions to the field.
In the context of sub-project no. 2.5., Extension of Shelf-Life of Cereal-
Based Processed Foods, the consultant would work in close association with
the Food Technology Division of IIT, and would have responsibility for train-
ing of personnel and initiating-a program to study the characteristics and
interactions of starches, proteins and lipids in some typical Colombian
baked products. The consultant would also advise on the possibility of
modifying these food components or introducing preservatives to improve
shelf-life.
Food Technologist (Fortification)
7.        Needed qualifications are a minimum of five years experience in
the fortification of foods with vitamins and minerals, and familiarity with
both the technological and economic implications of fortification. In the
context of sub-project no. 2.7., Fortification of Staple Foods, the consul-
tant would work in close association with the Food Technology Division of
LIT and with other Colombian institutions concerned in undertaking the fol-
lowing tasks:
(a) Assessment of widely consumed, traditional Colombian
foods suitable for fortification with iron and/or
Vitamin A, and the feasibility of food fortification
to improve nutrition among target populations;
(b) Comparison of the costs and benefits of foocd fortifi-
cation with minerals and vitamins versus individual
medical treatment within the target population;
(c) Provision of assistance in establishing appropriate
dosage levels for target populations, according to
previous experience and to local nutrition surveys;



ANNEX 8
Appendix 2
Page 4
(d) Recommendation of foods to be fortified, keeping in
mind the concept of wide consumption;
(e) Selection of active ingredients according to price
and bioavailability;
(f)  Identification of appropriate technology for fortifi-
cation including equipment, procedure and quality
control of the end product.
Biochemist (Protein Evaluation)
8.        Needed qualifications are a University degree in biochemistry,
microbiology or equivalent background, with a minimum of five years' expe-
rience in protein evaluation by conventional and unconventional methods.
In the context of sub-project 3.2., Adaptation of Microbiological Methods
for Evaluation of Protein Quality, the consultant would work in close asso-
ciation with IIT and INAS and would advise these institutions specifically
on the physiology and biochemistry of current microbiological (T. pyriformis)
methodologies for evaluation of protein quality, optimum growth and storage
conditions for T. pyriformis, nutritional requirements and nutrient balance.
The consultant would assist the Colombian institutions concerned in estab-
lishing the method in local laboratories and provide appropriate training
to local personnel.



ANNEX 8
Appendix 3
COLOMBIA INTEGRATED NUTRITION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Applied Food Technology
Schedule of Activities
APRIL '78                  APRIL '79                PPRIL '80                APRIL. '81
1.1.   Pro-Installation Research on Cococodty
Storage Units in IRDP Areas.                           _     _
1.2    Design, Construction, Installation and
:)peration of Demonstration Plant for
Village-Level Cassava Processing.
1.3.   Design, Construction, Installation and
Operation of Demonstration Plant for Selection,
Treatment and Storage of Potatoes.
1. L:.  Design, Construction and Operation of
Demonstraticn Plant for Fruit Pulp Conservation.
1.5.   Design, Construction and Operation of a
Prototype Small-Scale Packaging Unit for
Farm Produce.
].6,z. Solutions to Fruit Losses.
1,6,2. Solutions to Grain Losses.
1.6c3, Solutions to Cassava and Plantain Losses.
108.. Solutions to Potato Losses.
107.   S-S1-Scale Processing of Enriched Foods.
I.e.   Methodology for  malsl-Scale Processing of
Preo-Cooked Cereals.
19.   Extension Program.
2.1.   Diversification of Bienestarira.
2.2.1. Processes for Pre-Cooking Rice
2.2.2. Research on Technology for
Decortication of Sorghum.
2.2.3. Processes for Pre-Cooking Sorghum.
?.2.4. Conditions for Pre-Cooking Cassava.
2.3.1. Usage of Cottonseed Flour as Soy Substitute.
2.3.2D Research on Milling Technology and Product
Application of Wheat Corncentrates.                                                                      * _ _
2.3.3. ?:esearch on Characteristics and Usage of
Colombian Fava Beans in Processed Foods for
Human Consumption.                                                                                      *                              -
2,3.4. Usage of Sesame Protein in Industrially-
Processed Foods.
2.3.5. Usage of Other Legume Protein Sources.                                                                  *
2.1.   Usage of Bi-Products of Fish and yeat
Industries.
2.5.  Extension of Shelf-Life of Cereal-
Based Processed Foods.
2.6.   Development of Simplified Methods
of Texturization.                                                                      :        1          *
2.7.   Fortification of Staple Foods,
3.1.1. Design or Adaptation of Instrumental
Methods for Quality Control of PAN Foods.
3.1.2. Design of Simple, Low-Cost Methods for
Effectivo Quality Control in Factories.
3.2.  Adaptation of Microbiological Methods for
Evaluation of Protein Quality.
3.3,   Analysis of Minimum Cost Diets at
Regional Levels.
3.4.   Research on Cost Inflation Effects
of Food Standards.
3.5.   Technical Research on Standardization of
Soybean.                                                         -



ANNEX 9
Page 1
COLOMBIA INTEGRATED NUTRITION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Monitoring and Evaluation
Monitoring
Objectives
1.        The objectives of the monitoring system are:  (a) to determine
whether various project activities are progressing according to planned goals
and implementation schedules; (b) to ascertain the impact of the various
project activities on the nutritional status, the morbidity and mortality of
the general population of the project area; (c) to provide a basis for on-
going evaluation of the cost-effectiveness of the project component by local,
regional and national level managements; and (d) to permit the continuous
re-appraisal and calibration of program design.
Information Needs and Flows
2.        The information required for project monitoring is designed to make
optimum use of relevant information already available through executing
agencies' existing reporting procedures. The amount of additional detail
required for monitoring would depend on the level of management reviewing the
information. The flow of information is shown in Appendix 1.
Local Monitoring
3.        Information would be collected for each community health post
at the local level as indicated in Appendix 2. There would be two kinds of
data collected: (i) on general nutrition and health of the population, (ii)
on progress of project components. To develop the former, baseline surveys
would be carried out on the basis of sample sizes drawn up by the Department
of National Planning (DNP) in consultation with the Colombian Institute of
Family Welfare (ICBF) and the Ministry of Health. Community health workers
would be in charge of collecting the census data which would include: data on
number of households; the number of children under five in each household,
specifying children below the age of two and between two and four; the number
of pregnant and lactating women per household; and the state of environmental
sanitation. The auxiliary nurse and community health worker would survey the
health and morbidity/mortality status of the families in their areas. The
community health worker would help the auxiliary nurse to determine the
weight, height and other anthropometric measurements of all under-five children.
The frequency of data collection is indicated in Appendix 2.
4.        The physician in charge of the community health post would review
various aspects of the data collected on a monthly basis, as follows:



ANNEX 9
Page 2
(a) morbidity/mortality;
(b) health services rendered, in particular, visits by community
health workers and services by auxiliary nurses;
(c) individual and group nutrition education; and
(d) delivery and utilization of food coupons.
He would take such corrective steps as needed and feasible and report
actions and unresolved problems to the regional heali:h officer.
Regional Monitoring
5.        Participating agencies and the regional PANI Director would utilize
the basic information furnished by the health posts t:o monitor the project. In
addition, there would be separate reports on certain activities such as
training, undertaken at the regional level.  The format for all reports
would be developed or approved by the DNP monitoring staff to assure that the
information can be readily compared and utilized for national level compila-
tion and comparative analysis. Participating agencies 11 would review the
reports concerning their activities to assess progress and initiate corrective
action. The PAN regional committee also would review relevant sections of
these reports to improve the efficiency of regional level implementation.
The committee also would detect basic flaws in the project/program design
which they would report to the national level. One particularly important
aspect of regional level monitoring would be the physical and financial
progress of construction of the community health posts, procurement of equip-
ment, provisioning of drugs, and installation of water supply facilities and
latrines. The PAN regional committee would utilize local consultants including
universities, where necessary, to help in the ongoing analyses of data emerging
from the system and to carry out studies of special problems which might be
identified by the analysis.
National Monitoring
6.        Information on activities undertaken at three levels - the community,
the regional and the national - would all go to the DlNP Monitoring and Evalua-
tion Unit for review. Reports on community and regional level activities
would be forwarded through the regional level review committees while reports
on such activities as mass media, food quality controL and applied food
1l/  The major ones are the regional Health Office, IGBF and the National
Institute of Health (INAS).



ANNEX 9
Page 3
technology which originate at the national level would be provided directly
from executing agencies. Copies of reports on community and regional level
activities would also be furnished to concerned ministries and agencies. The
DNP Monitoring and Evaluation Unit would in turn provide a monitoring and
evaluation report to the National Food and Nutrition Council (CNAN) and
to the National Social and Economic Planning Council (CONPES). It would
also provide semi-annual monitoring and evaluation reports to the Bank and
to concerned ministries.
The flow of information at the national level will be as follows:
_ I~~~~~~~~~~~~NO
,CONPES  |
CNAN    ;N
t I- _MO
DNP Coordinator
Director of PAN_
f   I                                    INAS
Monitoring and                             ICBF/National Level
Evaluation Unit CFNtoaLee
in DNP t
PAN Director        Regional    -      g   Regioral Executing
Regional            Committee PAN          Aecs
Worid Bank - 17829
Evaluation
7.        The evaluation process would be designed both to measure the
effectiveness of the integrated approach through the health post system and to
derive information on a variety of broader questions related to nutrition.
The information needed for the evaluation would in large part be the same
as that required for monitoring, though some additional data-gathering is
anticipated. A variety of reports would be produced as a result of the
evaluation studies on the basis of which management would institute remedial
action as appropriate.
Information Needs
8.        Different approaches are planned to assess whether the health post
system as designed is functioning in a way to improve the nutritional and
health status of target groups. Data would be assessed to determine whether
the system is having a positive effect on the target population; whether it is
functioning as planned; and whether variations in the project elements would
produce improved results. Four different evaluations are planned:



ANNEX 9
Page 4
(i) Measurement of improvement of nutritional status
of target population. The baseline data on target
population gathered through initial baselinie and
semi-annual sample surveys (average sample size,
10X) carried out by ICBF teams in project areas. The
findings would be computerized at the national level
to provide a picture of changes in the target groups
traceable to improvements in their nutritional intakes
or utilization of available foods.
(ii)  Short-term study of 50 selected health posts during their
first year of operation as described in Annex 4, para. 14.
The aim would be to detect any maior flaw in the system
so that early corrections could be made. Che posts would
be selected on a representative basis from those first
established.
(iii)  An interim evaluation of the health post system to be
completed by September, 1978. This evaluation would
use a wider sample of the posts than in the evaluation
described above and would probe various aspects of
their operations in more depth. The aim would be to
see whether the posts were effectively managing the
wide range of responsibilities they had assumed, with
a view to making adjustments in the pace of project
implementation in subsequent years, if necessary. The
evaluation would focus primarily on:  preventive care;
the training, coverage and workload of health workers
with special reference to food distribution; the extent
to which the nutrition services are integrated into the
health care system; and the adequacy of financial and
material provisions. Assurances were received that
this evaluation would be completed by the government
not later than September, 1978, under terns of reference
acceptable to the Bank.
(iv)  A four-year study of the nutrition delivery system in
Bolivar region. This component would attempt to
determine the relative effectiveness of the various
interventions, including whether the current food
coupon system is optimally designed or whether varying
target ages or food supplement amounts would prove
nutritionally more effective. It would begin by
January, 1978, on the basis of terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank. (See para. 3.23 of main
report).



ANNEX 9
Page 5
9.        The evaluation on broader questions related to nutrition would
include four separate studies including:
(a) management effectiveness of the nutrition delivery
system, comparing health posts with direct food
distribution under the phasing down program of nutrition
education and essentially free supplementary feeding;
(b) intra-family distribution of food supplements; and
(c) effect of the nutrition project on incomes, productivity
and employment of adult workers in the project areas.
Organization and Management
10.       The Monitoring and Evaluation Unit in DNP would consist of a chief
and six professionals, and would include specialists in public health, nutri-
tion, economics and education. The unit would work closely with the ICBF
nutrition group in evolving sample design, survey questionnaire and reporting
formats. The chief of the Unit would be responsible for drawing up the
program of implementation of the monitoring system in different regions, as
well as for the studies proposed as part of the evaluation process. Where
necessary, he or she would contract out studies to local or foreign consultants
who would be funded under the project.
11.       A total of three person-years of short-term consultants has been
provided under the component (draft Terms of Reference in Appendix 3).
Costs
12.       The estimated base costs of this component are US$3.1 million.
Details appear in Annex 13, Table 8.
Implementation Schedule
13.       An implementation schedule appears in Appendix 4.



ANNEX 9
Appendix 1
COLOMBIA INTEGRATED NUTRITION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Monitoring and Evaluation Information Flows
A. LOCAL TO REGION
Regional PAN Committee           -  -     - - ---            ---
Executing Agencies
ICBF        MOH         INAS
Regional PAN Director
StatisticEil Assistant
into          Specialist from CBF, MOH, INAS
Regional Planning
(Health Workers)                                              Technical
Assistance
Local Universities
or
Outside Consultants
B. LOCAL TO NATIONAL
Health               R~~~Eecuivea                          Regional
Level Agencies                      Lel Committee
Local Level                                                                     11111
National                           DNI - Monitoring
Executive                          and Evaluation
Level Agencies                     Unit
L  CNAN
UC = local areas - verada or neighborhood of each health worker.
WVorld Bank -17830



ANNEX 9
Appendix 2
COLOMBIA INTEGRATED NUTRITION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Information Requirements at the Local Level
for the Monitoring System
Frequency        Person            Person          Methods
of               Responsible       Responsible    of
Type of Data          Collection        for Collection   for Review      Collection
I. General
(i)   Census           Annual          Health Worker    Auxiliary Nurse  Visits
(ii)  Health Status    Annual          Health Worker    Auxiliary Nurse/ Sample
Physician         survey
(iii) Nutritional Status               Health Worker/   Auxiliary Nurse/ All children
of Children below                Auxiliary Nurse  Physician          below five
five years.      Annual
(iv)  Environmental
and Sanitary
Conditions       Semi-Annually  Health Worker    Auxiliary Nurse  Survey
(v)   Infant Mortality Monthly         Health Worker    Physician        )
)
(vi)  Morbidity        Monthly         Health Worker    Physician        ) During the
) Course of
) Work
)
(vii) Food Coupon                                                        )
Delivery         Monthly         Auxiliary Nurse  Physician        )
II. Progress of Components
(i)   Interpersonal                                      Auxiliary Nurse/ Sample Review
Education        Monthly         Health Worker    Health Post
Physician
(ii)  Family Gardens   Monthly         ICBF Coordinator Regional PINA    Records,
Committee       visits
Chairman
(iii) Construction
and Renovation                                     MOH at regional
of Health posts  Monthly         Physician         level             Records
(iv)  Water Supply
Systems          Monthly         INAS                                Records
(v)   Latrines          Monthly         Sanitation       MOH as above       Records
worker
(vi) Health Services   Monthly         Physician         MOH as above      Records



ANNEX 9
Appendix 3
COLOMBIA INTEGRATED NUTRITION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Monitoring and Evaluation
Draft Terms of Reference for Consultants
Long-Term Consultants
The Department of National Planning requires three long-term con-
sultants to work with its Evaluation Unit on refinement and execution of
the project evaluation system. Qualifications and job descriptions for each
consultant follow:
Nutrition Information Systems Consultant
Qualifications:  The candidate would be a Colombian experienced in method-
ologies and their application for national compilation and analysis of
nutrition/health data collected at local levels. The candidate would have
post-graduate training in statistics with a further educational background
in public health, nutrition or a related field.
Job Description: The consultant would assist the head of the PAN evalua-
tion unit to refine and improve the nutrition information system by:
1.   analysing and seeking to reduce the kinds and volume of data
to be collected;
2.   developing a faster data collection and dissemination process
from local to national levels;
3.   developing consistency checks for data so collected;
4.   developing the format for a central nutrition data bank; and
5.   developing an internal monitoring system to flag weaknesses or
prospective breakdowns in the data collection and transmission
system before they become serious.
Evaluation Design and Analysis Consultants (2)
Qualifications: The candidates would be professionals with substantial
experience in social sector program and project evaluation and training



ANNEX 9
Appendix 3
Page 2
in systems analysis or a related field. The candidates probably would
be foreign and should have worked in Latin America, preferably on the design
and execution of evaluation systems in health or nutrition. Master's degrees
in public health would be an asset.
Job Description: The consultants would assist the head of the PAN eval-
uation unit to revise and adapt the evaluation program to produce rapid
results required for management decision-making. The consultants would:
1.   develop formats for detailed nutrition impact analysis of PAN
and the project;
2.   work with technical personnel in DNP and executing agencies to
review and strengthen evaluation analysis capabilities;
3.   identify and organize special evaluation studies needed for PAN
management decision-making;
4.   review results of regular evaluations and special studies to assure
their consistency, reliability, timeliness and usefulness; and
5.   recommend changes in the DNP evaluation system to assure its con-
tinuing effectiveness.
Other Consultancies
Colombian consultants would be required to work with DNP on the
development and review of the following four evaluation studies which would be
carried out by local institutions through contract:
(a) Relationships between nutritional change and productivity in
benefitting farm, landless rural workers and urban project
populations: Two comparative studies to be carried out during the
project period in a total of four regions to determine short-term
productivity impact of improved nutrition on benefitting families.
(b) Comparative effects of nutrition and integrated rural development
programs on nutritional improvement of low-income beneficiaries:
Study to be carried out at end of third project year in two areas
selected in first project year for compatible characteristics, with
regular monitoring of both areas thereafter.
(c) Nutritional Impact of Agriculture and Economic Policy Changes:
Assessment of nutrition consequences of shifts in agricultural and
economic policy for low-income PAN consumers.
(d) Social and Cultural Habits of PAN families: Identification of family
food habits in selected PAN areas which promote or inhibit full use
of subsidized processed foods by target groups.



COLOMBIA INTEGRATED NUTRITION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Monitoring and Evaluation
Schedule of Activities
ear                      year 2                   Year 3                    Year 4
Activities                                J F _     A    A S _ N D   F M   M J J A S O N D I F MA   J J A S O|N D J F M A   J J A S OIND
1.  Design of Evaluation
1.1.  Definition ofevaluap on objectives of the Plan
and of each sub-program
1.2.  Classification of indicators or instruments
for each program and sub-program
1.3.  Elaboration of evaluation system design
2.  Evaluation of Impact (Monitoring)
2.1.  Course on harmonization of methodologies for
evaluation of nutrition
2.2.  Basic information compilation and analysis
2.3.  Impact measurement survey.  Compilation and
analysis                                                                     I         L        I  L II            AI                         JI
2.4. Reports to CNAN
3.  Research
3.1. Design of Bolivar Test
34.  Supervision of pilot projects
4. Quarterly Reports on Nutritional Status Changes
4.1.  Collection and analysis of information and
research data
4.2. Elaboration of Quarterly Report
5. Annual Report
5.1.  Consolidation of the three  quarterly reports
5.2.  Elaboration of Annual Report and annual overall   
5.3.  Presentation to CNA~N                                                                                                                                                   0



ANNEX 10
COLOMBIA INTEGRATED NUTRITION INPROVEMENT PROJECT
Project Organization
National Organization for Nutrition
1.        Overall policy for the National Food and Nutrition Plan (PAN),
which includes the nutrition project, is determined by the National
Council for Economic and Social Policy (CONPES). Chaired by the President
of the Republic, CONPES membership includes all ministers responsible for
the entities participating in PAN, as well as the Chief of the National
Planning Department (DNP). A National Food and Nutrition Council (CNAN),
consisting of ministers and national heads of agencies involved in the
national nutrition program or their representatives, oversees development
and execution of the nutrition program and advises CONPES on the progress
of implementation. The Chief of DNP is the President of CNAN and the head of
the PAN Group (Direccion Nacional de PAN) in DNP is the CNAN Secretary.
2.        CNAN reviews and approves annual budgets and implementation targets
for the national nutrition program. It also recommends appropriate policy
changes or adjustments in the pace and scale of implementation based on
reports, studies and other documentation provided through a technical staff
of professionals in the PAN Group, which functions as Executive Secretariat
to CNAN.
Project Organization - National Level
3.        At the national level, the PAN Group would be responsible for
budgeting, programming and coordination of the project as a whole, as well
as for its overall monitoring and evaluation. In accordance with national
policy, it also would execute mass media activities under the nutrition
education component. Existing ministries and agencies would implement all
other project components through their national and regional offices, as
appropriate.
4.        The PAN Group consists of a staff of about 28 professionals led by a
director who reports directly to the head of DNP. It includes a budgeting and
programming unit, an education unit, a food coupon program unit and an inter-
disciplinary evaluation unit. The DNP Social Development Unit, which is
responsible for links with the Ministry of Health, functions as part of the
PAN Group on health matters concerning the nutrition program. A regional PAN
director stationed in each project region also is part of the PAN Group. An
organization chart of the Group listing key staff positions is in Appendix 1.
Job descriptions for key personnel are in Appendix 2.
5.        The PAN Group has a central role in PAN coordination and
administration. It reviews annual budget proposals and implementation
targets for project component activities as prepared by the national head-
quarters of appropriate ministries and agencies on the basis of submissions
from their regional offices. The PAN Group would approve both annual invest-
ment budgets for each project component and the monthly release of those
funds to project entities by the Ministry of Finance. It also would monitor



ANNEX 10
Page 2
progress against monthly project implementation targets prepared for each
component and would carry out regular liaison with miaistries and other
project agencies at the national level to assure that implementation sched-
ules are met and that operating funds are provided on time. Additionally,
it would provide quarterly project monitoring and evaluation reports (see
Annex 9 for details) to CNAN.
Project OrRanization - Regional Level
6.        The regional PAN director serves as executive secretary of a regional
PAN coordinating committee. Chaired by the Governor of the region, the com-
mittee meets every two weeks. Committee membership includes the regional
heads of the Ministry of Health, the National Institute of Health (INAS), the
Colombian Institute for Family Welfare (ICBF), Acciorn Popular, the National
Apprenticeship Service (SENA) and the regional planning office and regional
heads of various national agricultural agencies.
7.        In line with the Government's established decentralization policy,
the regional heads of participating entities would be responsible for execut-
ing approved project activities within the region ancd would prepare annual
budgets and work programs for their respective project activities in the
region. The timing would accord with the Colombian budget cycle. The
regional PAN committee would review these proposals to ensure appropriate
coordination at the planning stage among various components and agencies.
Members would forward proposals as endorsed by the committee to their re-
spective agencies for review, approval and inclusion in the next national
budget and work program. The PAN Group would scruti:aize these proposals
to assure consistency with project goals.
8.        The Committee also would monitor the progress of project imple-
mentation in its region. It would review and endorse proposals to adjust
monthly implementation schedules for individual components as necessary.
Members would forward monthly accomplishment reports and proposed imple-
mentation targets to their respective headquarters after review by the
Committee.
Costs of Program Coordination and Administration
9.        The estimated base costs of coordination and administration are
US$4.0 million over four years. Details appear in Annex 13, Table 10. These
include the salaries of 28 professionals and eight statistical assistants in
the PAN group (whose salary costs appear in Appendix 3), purchase and opera-
tion of one four-wheel drive vehicle for a PAN director in each of the seven
project regions and Bogota, and the paper, printing and handling costs for
food coupons to be provided in project areas. (Annex 3 describes the opera-
tion of the coupon system.) Except for the test program in Bolivar, which the
project would finance, the national budget would bear all subsidy costs of
food under the coupon program.
Implementation Schedules
10.       Schedules of activities in project organization and management
appear in Appendix 4.



COLOMBIA INTEGRATED NUTRITION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Organization of DNP PAN Group
Chief, DNP
Consultants                                     National PAN Director     ---------
Social Development
Unit
FCoupons, Enrice            Nutrition                  Prduct Fion                Regional PAN              Programming           Health and Community             Monitoring
Foocds and Quality          Edutrtion UnitProduction                              DiretorsPA                and Budgeting         Participation                    and Eval-
Control Unit                Education Unt              Coordinator                Directors                 Unit                  Unit                             uation Unit
Professional                 Mass                   Interpersonal             Socio-Cultural
Training                     Media                  Education                  Habits
World Bank - 17831
F-



ANNEX 10
Appendix 2
COLOMBIA INTEGRATED NUTRITION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Proiect Organization and Management
Job Descriptions for Key Personnel, PAN Group
National PAN Director
The national PAN Director reports to the ehief of DNP and coordinates
PAN as a whole. The national PAN director:
-   represents PAN before public and private executing agencies;
all national, regional and local authorities; inter-institutional
coordinating bodies, and international lencting institutions;
-   interprets, on behalf of PAN employees and the executing agencies,
the policy guidelines formulated by the Nal:ional Food and Nutrition
Council (CNAN) as set down in the national development plan;
-   is responsible for keeping the executing agenices properly
informed and coordinating their individual participation in PAN:
-   ensures the smooth operation of PAN administration at the national
and regional levels;
-   assumes ultimace responsibility for the food coupon and mass media
programs; ensures evaluation and efficient monitoring of all aspects
of PAN, ascercaining that the main strategies, operational decisions,
etc., adopted are in accord with program objectives;
-   negotiates external credits (amounts, terms/conditions) with inter-
national lending institutions and ensures compliance with obliga-
tions thus contracted.
The National PAN Director is also empowered to review the most im-
portant decisions taken in the first or second instance by other PAN personnel.
Qualifications for the position of national director-/
Academic qualifications in economics, business admi.nistration or public
administration (at least a Master's degree).
Work experience: High-level administrative positions in Government or the
private sector, including exposure to various sectors, preferably technical/
economic as well as social (at least 3 years).
1/   Qualifications are guides rather than absolute standards and must leave
room for sound judgment in assessing candidates' personal qualities.



ANNEX 10
Appendix 2
Page 2
Director, Food Coupons, Enriched Foods and Quality Control Unit
The director of this unit reports directly to the National PAN
Director and:
-   is responsible for the issue, distribution, allocation, delivery
and redemption of food coupons, for any program changes and for
maintenance of sufficient stocks at the various levels of the
national-regional-local chain;
-   coordinates and supervises implementation of the above activities
by IFI, Caja Agraria and the National Health System;
-   ensures on-time supply, in satisfactory conditions as to quality
and price, in each community included in the program of all foods
distributed there;
-   coordinates and supervises supply and price aspects of implementa-
tion of the above activity by the private sector (mainly producers
and suppliers), with assistance from the community and the National
Health System; coordinates and supervises quality control measures
implemented by the Ministry of Public Health and other members
of the Food Quality Control Group, particularly INAS and ICBF,
with advisory assistance from IIT, COLCIENCIAS and other
members of the Food and Nutrition Technology Committee;
-   ensures that proper information and training regarding the
food coupon scheme are provided for outreach workers on
the program, for executing agency staff - aides and promoters
(health post personnel) mostly, and for shopkeepers;
-   coordinates and supervises execution of the forego:ing function
by the national and regional committees responsible for out-
reach nutrition education and, in particular, by SENA, ICBF
and the regional health service, which are in this instance
the main executing agencies at regional level;
-   is responsible for:  (a) establishing an integrated and
effective programming, information and monitoring system
for both the food coupon scheme and the distribution and sale
of enriched foods, with special emphasis on identifying
serious anomalies and their minimization through built-in
control mechanisms; (b) the design and final selection of
printed office forms and the formulation and introduction
of procedures and standards to be observed nationally,
regionally and lcoally; (c) drawing up and introducing an
annual timetable and method of programming; and (d) system-
atizing the processing and analysis of data compiled;



ANNEX 10
Appendix 2
Page 3
-   cooperates with ICBF, as necessary, in the production of
Bienestarina; decides on the inclusion of new foods in the
program, upon advice from the Food and Nutrition Technology
Committee; 1/ reviews with that Committee the need for
research and development in food technology and explores
the needs of Colombia's agricultural and food industries
as they affect the food coupon program.
Qualifications for the position of unit director
Academic qualifications in business administration, public administration
or other disciplines connected with program activities, (e.g. economics,
agronomy, public health), in addition to sufficient firsthand administra-
tive experience. Work experience: At least 3 years in a high-level
position, including not less than 1 year in the privaLte sector.
Director, Nutrition Education Unit
The director of the nutrition education unit: reports directly to
the NationaL PAN Director and:
-   coordinates the programming of nutrition education
projects for all entities participating in the program;
- ensures necessary cooperation among the var:ious education
program components and compliance with basic policy guide-
lines at both the national and regional levels;
- acts as secretary of the Nutrition Education Programs Com-
mittee (CEN), which oversees the developmenl: of nutrition
education policies and the programs pursuan: to them;
-   identifies problems in the development of nutrition education
programs; studies resource needs for project development in
conjunction with the entities concerned;
-   approves agreements and contracts to be signed with the
entities participating in the program;
-   takes the necessary steps to obtain external credit for program
financing, in conjunction with the PAN financial director,
the Ministries of Finance and Health and the entities involved
in the program;
-   ensures program execution.
1/   And subject to the standards laid down by the Food Quality Control
Group.



ANNEX 10
Appendix 2
Page 4
Qualifications for the position of unit director
Academic qualifications include a university degree. Also required is at
least 1 year's experinece in designing, programming or administering public
health, nutrition and, if possible, nutrition education programs.
Work experience: At least 2 years of experience in a high-level private-
sector or government position, preferably including 1 year's work related to
community needs.
Family Food Production Coordinator
The coordinator reports directly to the National PAN Director and:
-   negotiates on behalf of PAN with the Ministry of National Education,
ICBF, ICA, SENA and other entities concerning their general and
specific participation within each region in project organization
and execution and in the provision of technical assistance;
-   is responsible for assuring efficient project organization in
the areas identified within PAN, in accordance with the basic
project guidelines;
-   coordinates project execution in PAN areas on behalf of DNP;
-  works with the DNP Monitoring and Evaluation Unit in monitoring
and evaluating the project and ensures that the Unit's needs
are included in the design and organization of the project;
-   prepares the activities program and corresponding draft budget
for submission to the Directorate of PAN and to CNAN.
Requirements
Academic qualifications in agronomy or another discipline related to agri-
culture.
Work experience: At least 3 years in a high-level government or private-
sector position involving agricultural projects or programs, preferably
with exposure to the problems and needs of the traditional small farming
sector.
Other: Very good understanding of environmental problems, dynamism,
pleasant manner, maturity.
Regional PAN Directors
The regional PAN directors report directly to the National PAN
Director and:



ANNEX 10
Appendix 2
Page 5
represent PAN before regional offices and regional executing
entities;
coordinate PAN regional programs, ensuring t:hey are executed
and that such execution follows a single time schedule which
integrates any matching or shared objectives -- always in
compliance with basic PAN guidelines;
act as secretaries of the regional PAN Committees and in that
capacity mobilize resources and efforts among the participating
entities to achieve a threefold objective; assure coordination in the
execution of sectoral components, inter-inst.itutional coopera-
tion and agreement in programming budget, ac.tivities and
disbursements, and institutional collection and processing of data
needed for evaluation and supervision;
collect and analyze such data with a view tc its quarterly and
annual submission in summarized form to the regional PAN Committee
and PAN Group;
provide the PAN Group with the programming and budgetary informa-
tion needed for preparation of the annual draft PAN budget and
monthly draft expenditure agreements (respectively the province
of CNAN and the PAN budget unit in DNP) and when approved, keep
the regional PAN Committees abreast of appropriations obtained
and disbursements authorized;
furnish the DNP Monitoring and Evaluation Unit with the data
required for drafting of the quarterly and annual expenditure
agreements, and, once these documents are drafted, bring them
to the attention of the regional PAN Committee.
ensure that the food coupon program is executed as programmed in
the region and that information, education and supervision acti-
vities are implemented before the program is introduced and are
permanently tied to its operation;
execute the mass media component in coordination with the
regional Nutrition Education Committee;
act as observers at the regional Nutrition Education Committees
and transmit to them the policy decisions taken with regard
to outreach nutrition education by the regional PAN Committees;
propose areas of research and specific regional pilot projects
for consideration by the PAN Group and ident:Lfy new needs
that could suitably be met by PAN:



ANNEX 10
Appendix 2
Page 6
- carry out other activities originating at the regional level,
which fall within the administrative jurisdiction of PAN.
Qualifications for the position of regional PAN director
Sound academic training in addition to administrative skills and
experience, dynamism, maturity, broad outlook and the capacity to work with
regional heads of executing agencies.
Director, Programming and Budgeting Unit (PAN Financial Director)
The PAN Financial Director reports directly to the National PAN
Director and:
-   internally, participates jointly with the DNP General Secretariat
and Controller's Office in the programming, re-programming and
allocation of PAN funds to executing agencies and regional PAN
directors, and in the necessary disbursement and accounting
procedures;
-   prepares an annual plan of sources and uses of funds and formu-
lates an annually revised program of the financing needed for each
sectoral component in the Plan and its administration during the
first phase (1977-80);
-   externally, acts as PAN representative to ministerial planning
offices, the Budget Directorate and the Development Plan Budget
Committee 1/ on all budgetary matters and expenditure agree-
ments;
-   receives, reviews and evaluates all physical, budgetary and
financial programs written by PAN regional directors by the
entities administering national-level programs and by the
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit after consulting with the
ministerial planning offices in PAN. The PAN financial
director then uses the above review and evaluation process
as the basis for a draft PAN annual budget submitted each
year to CNAN for consideration, and for a draft statement of
expenditures submitted to the Development Plan Budget Committee;
-   on behalf of the PAN Group, negotiates the terms and conditions
of financing for the various PAN components and projects with
international credit institutions.
1/   Composed of delegates from the Ministry of Finance (Directorate of the
Budget) and DNP; on a monthly basis, approves disbursements to these
social programs under the national development plan.



ANNEX 10
Appendix 2
Page 7
Qualifications for the position of financial director
Academic qualifications in administration, accounting, or other quantitative
and empirical discipline (e.g. engineering).
Work experience: At least 2 years in a high-level budgeting and programming
position, preferably including 1 year in the public sector.
Director, Health and Community Participation Unit
The director of the Health and Community Participation Unit also
is chief of the Health Division, DNP Social Development Unit, and reports
formally to the head of the Social development Unit while maintaining a
close working relationship with the National PAN Director. For the national
nutrition program, the Health Division Chief:
-   assumes the same responsibilities and carries out the same
activities in the administration of the health component
in PAN areas as are generally incumbent upon him in his
duties as chief of the Health Division for all areas covered
by the National Health System;
-   gives priority attention to proper health program execution
in PAN areas and to obtaining necessary budgetary resources;
-   also handles information/communications and analysis of all
health matters of interest to PAN areas, on behalf of the
National PAN Director;
-   is responsible, with the assistance of appropriate groups
in other agencies for the formulation, organiization and
joint evaluation (in conjunction with the Ministry of
Public Health) of community participation mechanisms and
projects.
Qualifications for the position are as stipulated by the Social Develop-
ment Unit.
Director, Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
The director of the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit reports
directly to the National PAN Director and:
-   represents the PAN Group before evaluation officials of the
entities and Ministries participating in PAN;



ANNEX 10
Appendix 2
Page 8
is responsible for the supervision and evaluation of the
execution of sectoral components (in cooperation with persons
and groups in charge of health evaluation and the PAN Adminis-
tration) and for the organization and implementation of the
mechanisms and processes required for that purpose;
is responsible for impact evaluation of program objectives
in the areas of nutrition, health and nutrition education,
and for organization and implementation of the necessary
mechanisms and processes; also responsible for evaluating
environmental impact;
in consultation and agreement with the regional executing
entities, formulates basic guidelines and operational
mechanisms for PAN's integrated evaluation and supervision
system, assuming ultimate responsibility for defining its
organization, information system, indicators, methodology,
technical assistance and project selection;
carries out evaluations in conjunction with the Monitoring
and Evaluation Unit and regional PAN staff, with support
from the PAN regional committees, regional planning offices
and staff assigned by the Ministry of Health, ICBF and other
participating entities;
negotiates with said entities the extent and mode of their
participation;
programs activities, and attends to the corresponding financial
programming, for budgetary and disbursement purposes;
promotes the organization, codification and processing of
pertinent data with assistance from systems analysts;
reviews PAN's objectives, strategies, ways and means and
targets with a view to translating evaluation results into
constructive actions and making the necessary adjustments
in the focus and operation of PAN:
in responsible for proper formulation and submission of annual
and quarterly evaluation reports, which must have the form
and content stipulated by CNAN and agreed upon with interna-
tional and credit institutions;
negotiates with those institutions on behalf of PAN and is
responsible for on-time compliance with contractual obliga-
tions in matters of evaluation and supervision;
provides feedback and support for other PAN programs and projects.



ANNEX 10
Appendix 2
Page 9
Qualifications for the position of unit director
Academic qualifications in economics, business administration or other dis-
ciplines that include training in administrative and fEinancial supervision
and project evaluation.
Work experience: At least 3 years in the field in a high-level position
involving evaluation and supervision of social projects.



ANNEX 10
Appendix 3
COLOMBIA INTEGRATED NUTRITION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Project Organization
Details of Salary Support    for DNP Nutrition Group
(Col$ '000)
Position              Number  Annual Rate    Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Total
National PAN
Coordinator            1        432           432        432       432        432      1,728
Unit Heads               5         240        1,200      1,200      1,200     1,200      4,800
Regional Coordinator    8          288        2,304      2,304     2,304      2,304      9,216
Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit Head    1          276          276        276        276       276      1,104
Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit Staff
(2 Economists, 1
Nutritionist, 1
Behavioral Scientist,
2 Systems Specialists)  6          192        1,152      1,152      1,152     1,152      4,608
Other Professionals
and Support Staff       15                    1,920      1,920      1,920     1,920      7,680
Totals                                   7,284      7,284     7,284      7,284    29,136
1/ Salaries as at time of appraisal



COLONBIA INTEGRATED NUTRITION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Project Organization
Schedule of Activities
A. Administration and Coordination
To Date               Year 1                    Year 2                        year 3                     year 4
Activities                                  3      4      1      2      3      4      1      2      3      4      1      2      3      4      1      2      3      4
1.  Formation of PAN National Administration
2.  Assignment of duties
3.  Nomination of Regional Directors                                   .
4.  Induction seminars on PAN_
5.  Establishment of Regional Committees                                     __.                                               __
6. Preparation of agreemente with project entities
7.  Signing of Agreements
8.  CNAN meetings
9.  CONPES meetings
10.  Administration and coordination
=4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-  In.
0 x lo
m0



COLOMBIA INTEGRATED NUTRITION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Project Organization
Schedule of Activities
B.  Programming and Financial Execution
Vpnr 1             Year 2___                 Year 3   __               Year 4    __
Activities                                _        2      3     4     1      2     3     4      1      2     3     4      1     2      3     4
A.  Systematization of Programming and Financial
Execution of PAN
1. Definition and Standardization of PAN System
2.  Design of Income and Expenditure Formats
3. Development of Programming
4.  Test and Adjustment of System
5.  Introduction
B.  Programming
1.  Definition of Physical and Financial Goals
2.  Instructions
3.  Preparation of Requests
4.  Approval by Regional Committees
5.  Analysis, Evaluation and Consolidation at
Central Level
6.  Approval by CNAN
7.  Incorporation in Draft Budget
8.  Approval of Annual Budget
C.  Execution
1.    Distribution of overallAllocations
2.1.  Programming of Quarterly Disbursements              _      _     e       _          _   _     _         - _    _     _       _
2.2.  Approval by Regional Committees                     _      _      _       _   _      _     _       _   _       _     _        _   _     _      _       -
2.3.  Analysis, Evaluation and Adjustment at              _      _      _                 _      _          _    _  .      _
Central Level
2.4.  Approval by Budget Committee
2.5.  Approval by the Ministry of Finance-- ---                              --                           --        ----
2.6. Report to Entities                                  _  _   _   _     _     _  _                                                    - _   _
3.    Quarterly Execution
3.1.  Request and Compilation of Information                                                               __
3.2.  Analysis and Evaluation                                    _____ _-
3.3.  Preparation of Consolidated Project Report           _                  - _  _  _    _     _      _     _      _     _      _
41



ANNEX 11
COLONBIA INTEGRATED NUTRITION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Calculations of Economic Benefits
1.        This analysis describes and attempts to estimate some of the
economic benefits of the project on the assumption that even an approximation
of their level has potential merit.
2.        Major benefits expected from the project include:
(a) higher incomes earned by workers due to fewer sick days
and higher productivity;
(b) increased efficiency of medical spending as emphasis shifts
from expensive curative to cheaper preventive services;
(c) reduced losses and better utilization of domestic food
supplies due to improved food technology;
(d)  higher efficiency of the school system, through fewer grade
repetitions and more alert students;
(e) lower mortality rates in project families, particularly for
children and mothers, resulting in improved. acceptance
of family planning;
(f) higher productivity of future workers resulting from improved
health during childhood; and
(g) any economic value placed on lives saved as a result of a
reduction in infant mortality.
Income Gains From Reduced Sick Days
3.        An estimate of income gains from reduced sick days should take
into account the reduction in sick days, the number of those days in which
employment is found which does not displace other workers, and the wage
rate. The table below reflects best available estimates regarding the
magnitudes involved in project areas.
(a)  workers per family                  2.67
(b)  sick days/per person/per year    36
(c)  sick days/per family/per year    96
(d)  assumed reduction in sick days   19 (a 20% reduction)



ANNEX 11
Page 2
(e)  number of days work found           4.8-9.6 (25%-50% of reduced
sick days)
(f)  wage rate per day                  Col$60 (US$1.65/day)
(g) increased annual income
per family                         Col$288-576 (US$8-16 per family)
(h) increased annual income for
300,000 project families           US$2.4-4.8 million
4.        Because conservative assumptions were used, the above estimates
may understate the likely range of benefits. In malarial areas, for example,
sick days per year probably exceed 36, and anticipated disease reduction
could exceed 20%. There is some doubt about the degree of current or future
labor surplus in the Colombian rural economy, but most observers agree that
reasonably full employment takes place for at least three months a year.
Where other opportunities in urban, rural non-farm, or diversified farm
employment exist, the fraction of free days utilized could go up to 50%. The
estimates also ignore the possibility that illnesses may be concentrated
in the wet season when seasonal tasks are near their peak; if so, an even
higher fraction of time properly may be assigned to productive employment.
5.        In summary, a value of about US$2.4 to US$4.8 million per year
may be assigned to expected economic benefits from reduced sick days.  This
does not include any estimate for changes due to higher productivity result-
ing from better health, which could approach the benefits associated with
reduced sick days.
Increased Efficiency of Medical Spending
6.        A 1970 survey, 1/ updated to adjust for inflation, indicates annual
spending of US$5 per capita (or a total of US$10 million) on private health
care for the entire project area. Since the new health system aims to prevent
rather than cure many diseases, it is likely that at least some of the private
spending will not merely by transferred to public health care system, but
actually will decrease. On the other hand, it is also possible that more
existing disease will be identified through better health care and spending at
first will not decrease. In that case, however, the productivity of health
spending is still likely to rise. Under either circumstance, it seems likely
that people in the health post areas will be closer to health care, and will
spend less in travel and time getting attention. A savings of even 5-10% of
present private health spending, which seems reasonable, would amount to
US$0.5 million to US$1.0 million per year in project areas.
1/   Referred to in USAID Health Sector Analysis, Bogota, 1974.



ANNEX 11
Page 3
Benefits from Food Technology
7.        The food technology component would develop processes to increase
the use of existing but underutilized foods, such as cottonseed; to store,
transport, and better preserve existing food supplies; and to use crops
whose domestic supply can more easily be expanded. These efforts would
reduce waste, increase food available for human consumaption, and have a
potentially favorable impact on employment, income, and foreign exchange.
Evaluation of the probable magnitude of benefits flow:Lng from these activ-
ities poses difficulties. Since baseline data are weak, the tasks involve
innovation, which is not always easy to predict, and the final utilization
of the processes will in part depend on extension efforts outside the
project. However, a few examples where progress is h:Lghly likely suggest
the potential outcomes. Currently the equivalent of 30,000 tons of cotton-
seed meal is being wasted each year at a present value of over US$4 million. 1/
Significant reduction in that loss could be expected as new processes are
developed. The same is true for 40,000 tons of fish waste, worth over
US$10 million. 1/ Losses in cassava, potato, and ban.ma of over US$6
million a year could be reduced significantly by the use of new transporta-
tion and storage methods. 1/
School Benefits
8.        Nutrition improvement is expected to increase the efficiency of the
school system for two reasons. First, fewer aggregate resources will be
spent on reduced numbers of those who have to repeat grades. Second, the
generally more alert and vigorous student body will learn more easily and
quickly, thus improving the quality of education. Production of those with
a given level of education will become less costly.
Lower Mortality Rates and Family Planning
9.        It is quite likely that the nutrition program significantly will
reduce mortality, perhaps by 2000-3000 lives per year, primarily young
children. Since such reductions in mortality are associated with increased
demand for family planning and eventual fertility dec:Lines in excess of
the mortality decline, such progress will promote a more moderate rate of
population growth.
Direct Economic Value Placed on Lives Saved
10.       The reduction in infant mortality described above can be given an
economic valuation, although economists disagree on the best method. In
general, the uncertainty revolves around the value of a life to society.
Some argue that the production and consumption of a saved life is a benefit
since society has an interest in seeing its members survive; others look
1/   IIT estimates, 1977.



ANNEX I1
Page 4
at those remaining as the relevant group, or consider only production in
excess of consumption as a benefit. 1/  The Colombian Government has stated
that one of the goals of the project is a reduction in mortality. Valuing
that outcome at the discounted (at 10%) value of the minimum wage in years
15-55 2/ amounts to US$3600 per life or US$9 million per year in project
areas. While the Government projects low unemployment in the relevant years,
a lower estimate allowing for unemployment of 20% also appears in the summary
table which follows. No claim is made that this measure is the correct
or final measure of the lives saved, since some would argue that it is too
modest, while others would subtract discounted future costs from the produc-
tion.
Higher Productivity of Future Workers
11.       The Department of National Planning of Colombia has estimated
that mildly malnourished children when they become workers will have
productivities only 80% of the national average. This is a rough esti-
mate; therefore, the calculations below use discounted benefits per 10%
productivity differential from the minimum wage. As the table below
indicates, of the 60,000 children born each year in project areas, 40,000
would be malnourished without the project and 20,000 would be malnourished
with the project. If project objectives were met, the discounted present
value of one year's cohort of children who have 10% higher productivity
in years 15-55 is about US$7 million. 3/
1/   These issues are discussed in Village Water Supply by Saunders and
Warford on pp. 49-51 and 67-68. It may be of interest to note that
historically in slave markets infants and children did have a
positive value, suggesting that even a "free-market" approach puts
a positive value on human life.
2/   Minimum wages have been increased in line with annual increases in
per capita income. It is assumed that those not in the labor force
also contribute to output, i.e., housewives.
3/   The discount rate is 10% as in the previous calculation.



ANNEX 11
Page 5
Illustrative Calculations of Higher Produc:tivity Benefits
(a) Number of children born in community health post
project areas per year                                      60,000
(b)  Number of malnourished under present rates'                 40,000
(c)  Number expected to have reduced malnutrition                20,000
(d)  Adjustment for mortality (assume 10% die before
joining workforce)                                          -2,000
(e)  Remaining adults with reduced childhood malnutrition        18,000
(f) Present value of assumed minimum wage (productivity)
differential of 10% by years 15-55 with wage increasing
in line with GDP per capita                                 US$396
(g) Present Value of Incremental Output = (e) x (f)
per 10% productivity differential.                          US$7.1 million
Summary
12.       A listing of the estimated annual benefits is as follows:
US$ Million
Reduced sick days present adult population              2.4-4.8
Higher productivity by present adult population.        unquantified but perhaps
nearly as much
Lower mortality (see below)                             family planning
Higher productivity of future workers per
10% productivity differential                           7.1
Increased efficiency of medical spending                0.5-1.0
Increased efficiency of school expenditures             unquantified
Benefits from food technology                           unquantified
Sub-Total                                               10-13.5 + unquantified
In addition, estimated benefits of lower
mortality-discounted wage value                         7-9
Despite the extremely speculative nature of these calculations,
the probable range of benefits, valued at January 1977 prices compares favorably
with the US$52 million representing project base costs plus physical contingencies
at January 1977 prices.



ANNEX 12
COLOMBIA INTEGRATED NUTRITION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Technical Assistance
Consultant Schedule
CONSULTANTS                                  YEAR 1           YEAR 2          YEAR 3    YEAR 4
1. Health Services
(a) Health Systems Management    l          _   _   -   -                             _  _ _
Consultant, MOH
(b) Community Participation
Consultant, MOH                 _         _   _   -
(c) Seven Departamento
Programming Consultants
2.  Nutrition Education
(a) Materials Production               _  _                         _       _   _  _  _  _ _
Consultant
(b) Two Rural Communications
Consultants                     _  _  _  _   _              _  _            _  _  _  _ _
3.  Food Quality Control
Consultants (Short-term)                               - _
4.  Monitoring and Evaluation
(a) Local
(1) Nutrition Information   !   I  I   -                                       _ -
Systems Consultant
(2) Evaluation
Design and Analysis
Consultants
(3) Other Short-term Con-
sultants                      _  _                 _                   _  _         _
Total by Year
Year 1: 145 person-months
Year 2: 137 person-months
Year 3: 129 person-months
Year 4: 133 person-months
Total: 544 person-months,
of which 497 are
expected to be local.



ANNEX 13
COLOMBIA INTEGRATED NUTRITION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Cost Tables
Table of Contents
Table 1                               Project Cost Est:Lmates by Category
Tables 2 - 10            -            Component Cost Tables
Table Number
Health Services                            2
Water Supply and Sanitation                3A
Water Supply                          3:B
Sanitation                            3C
Nutrition Education                        4
Family Gardens                             5
Applied Food Technology and
Quality Control                          6A
Applied Food Technology               6B
Quality Control                       6C
Bolivar Test of Nutrition System           7
Monitoring and Evaluation                  8
Coordination and Administration            9



ANNEX 13
Table 1
COLOMBIA INTEGRATED NUTRITION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates by Categories
(in'000)
j_Col $                               US                    % _  x Foreign  % Base
Local     Foreign       Total      Local      Foreign       Total    Exchange   Cost
A.  Civil Works                        464,160      56,791    520,951    12,893         1,578      14,471         11       26.3
B.  Vehicles and Equipment             121,876    143,734    265,610        3,385       3,993       7,378         54       13.4
C.  Technical Assistance
1.  Consultants                    10,584       7,200      17,784        294         200         494
2.  Fellowships                     1,268       5,739       7,007         35       _ 159          194
Sub-Total C                    11,852      12,939      24,791        329        -            6           52        1.2
D.  Incremental Operating Costs
1.  Salaries                      355,803            -    355,803      9,883            -      9,883          -       17.9
2.  Administrative Overhead       165,138            -    165,138      4,587            -      4,587          -        8.3
3.  Medical Supplies               43,118      34,348      77,466      1,198         954       2,152         44        3.9
4.  Maintenance                     7,898       1,080       8,978        219           30        249          12       0.5
5. Food Coupons: printing,
handling, distribution         55,005      23,653      78,658      1,528         657       2,185         30        4.0
6.  Other                          60,090       82         68,342      1,670         229       1,899          12       3.5
Sub-Total D                   6874052      67,333    754,385    19,085         i,870      20,955          9       38.1
E.  Training                            34,504           -      34,504        958           _         958          -        1.7
F.  Mass Media Messages - Pro-
duction and Dissemination          95,518      13,459    108,977       2,653          374      3,027          12       5.5
G.  Nutrition Education Materials    40,635          3,605      44,240      1,129         100       1,229          8        2.2
H.  Monitoring and Evaluation          128,529       4,572    133,101       3,572         126       3,698          3        6.7
I.  Other Costs (Food Supplements    53,995         43,113      97,108      1,500       1,198       2,698         44        4.9
Total Base Costs by Category  1,638,121    345,546   ,983,667    45,504            9,598      55,102         17.4    100
Physical Contingencies            163,812      34,555    198,367       4,550          960      5,510                  10
Sub-Total                       1,801,933    380,101  2,182,034    50,054         10,558      60,612                 110
Price Contingencies               215,872 _ 83,926    299 798          5,996       2,331       8,327                  15
TOTAL PROJECT COST              2,017,805    464,027  2,481,832    56,050         12,889      68,939         18.7    125



ANNEX 13
Table 2
COLOMBIA INTEGRATED NUTRITION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates
Health Services
(Col$ tOQQ>
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Local   Foreign   Total
A. Investment Costs:
Construction            8,781   10,968   13,295   11,2.74  38,844       5,474  44,318
Furniture & Equipment 15,272   14,509   13,807   22,465  43,108    22,945  66,053
Training                2,642    3,256    3,528    2,758  12,184             -  12,184
Local Transport         4,677    5,685    5,410    3,759  18,424         1,107  19,531
Radios                  2,693    3,274    3,116    2,164   1,374        9,873  11,247
Sub-Total A            34,065   37,692   39,156   42,420 113,934    39,399 153,333
B. Incremental Operating
Costs:
Salaries               16,162   44,576   80,717  117,754 259,209             - 259,209
Drugs & Supplies        5,130   13,809   24,335   34,192  43,118    34,348  77,466
Maintenance & Upkeep      402    1,111    2,028    2,949   5,410         1,080   6,490
Other Costs             2,763    7,504   12,380   16,200  38,847             -  38,847
Sub-Total B            24,457   67,000  119,460  171,095 346,584    35,428 382,012
C. Consultants               1,740    1,740    1,740    1,740   6,960             -   6,960
Total Base Costs (A - C)60,262  106,432  160,356  215,255 467,478    74,827 542,305



ANNEX 13
Table 3A
COLOMBIA INTEGRATED NUTRITION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates
Water Supply and Sanitation
(Col$ '000)
Year 1   Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Local        Foreign  Total
A. Construction
Water Supply          58,377   77,835    116,753   136,211   341,112    48,064  389,176
Sanitation            13,119   17,491       26,238    30,609    84,204       3,253   87,457
Sub-Total A           21,496   95,326    142,991   166,820   425,316    51,317  476,633
B. Vehicles & Equipment
Vehicles               4,362    2,181        2,181          -     2,080      6,644    8,724
Equipment             14,474   19,300       28,949    33,773    23,009    73,487   96,496
Sub-Total B           18,836   21,481       31,130    33,773    25,089    80,131  105,220
C.  Studies & Administration 12,040   16,053        24,078    28,091    80,262            -   80,262
Total Base Costs (A - C)102,372  132,860    198,199   228,684   530,667   131,448  662,115



ANNEX 13
Table 3B
COLOMBIA INTEGRATED NUTRITION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates
Water Supply
(Col$ '000)
Year 1   Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Local    Foreign  Total
A.  Construction                 58,377    77,835   116,753   136,211   341,112  48,064   389,176
B. Vehicles & Equipment
Equipment                8,493    11,325    16,989    19,819    13,502  43,124    56,626
Vehicles                 2,181      2,181      2,181                1,560   4,983       6,543
Sub-Total               10,674    13,506    19,170    19,819    15,062  48,107    63,169
C.  Studies & Administration   12,040    16,053    24,078    28,091    80,262             -    80,262
Total Base Costs (A - C)   81,091   107,394   160,001   184,121   436,436   96,171  532,607



ANNEX 13
Table 3C
COLOMBIA INTEGRATED NUTRITION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates
Sanitation
(Col$ '000)
Year  1  Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Local    Foreign  Total
A. Construction
Shelter Materials         3,950    5,268       7,903      9,220    23,088    3,253   26,341
Labor (Excavation
and shelter)      9,169   12,223    18,335    21,389    61,116              -   61,116
Sub-Total A              13,119   17,491    26,238    30,609    84,204    3,253   87,457
B. Vehicles & Equipment
Vehicles                  2,181         -          -          -        520    1,661    2,181
Equipment                 5,981    7,975    11,960    13,954         9,507   30,363   39,870
Sub-Total B               8,162    7,975    11,960    13,954    10,027   32,024   42,051
Total Base Costs (A & B)   21,281   25,466    38,198    44,563    94,231   35,277  129,508



ANNEX 13
Table 4
COLOMBIA INTEGRATED NUTRITION IMPROV'EMENT PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates
Nutrition Education
(Col$ '000)
Year 1  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4   Local Foreign        Total
A. Vehicles and Equipment            4,167   3,339   3,339         -   6,944   3,901    10,845
B. Training                          5,769   4,818   5,320   1,812  17,719          -    17,719
C. Technical Assistance:
Consultants                       702      702     702      353   2,459        -      2,459
Fellowships                     2,060   1,648   1,298         -        -   5,006      5,006
Sub-Total C                     2,762   2,350   2,000       353   2,459   5,006       7,465
D. Incremental Operating Costs:
Salaries                        5,960   6,090   6,090   6,090  24,230          -    24,230
Production and Transmission
of messages                 23,677  27,358  28,971  28,971  95,518  13,459   108,977
Educational Materials          12,640  12,640  12,640   6,320  40,635   3,605    44,240
Local Travel                      323      323     387      387   1,420        -      1,420
Maintenance                       622      622     622      622   2,488        -      2,488
Media Studies and Surveys         557      557     557      557   2,228        -      2,228
Sub-Total D                    43,779  47,590  49,267  42,947 166,519  17,064   183,583
Total Base Costs (A - D)            56,477  58,097  59,926  45,112 193,641  25,971   219,612



ANNEX 13
Table 5
COLOMBIA INTEGRATED NUTRITION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates
Family Gardens
(ColS '000)
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4  Local    Foreign   Total
A. Training:
Local Travel                   1,040      702        544      544    2,830               2,830
Course Development and
Materials                        343      139         41       41      564                 564
Trainer Fees                     562      261         52       52      927                 927
Other Costs                       70       70         70       70      280                 280
Sub-Total A                    2,015   1,172         707     707    4,601                4,601
B.  Agricultural Inputs                1,025   1,784      1,784   1,784    6,248        129     6,377
C. Incremental Operating Costs:
Salaries                       8,011  10,704    10,704   5,361   34,780                 34,780
Local Travel                     801   1,071       1,071      536    3,479               3,479
Sub-Total  C                   8,812  11,775    11,775   5,897   38,259                 38,259
Total Base Costs (A - C)             11,852  14,731    14,266   8,388   49,108          129    49,237



ANNEX 13
Table 6A
COLOMBIA INTEGRATED NUTRITION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates
Applied Food Technology and Qualit:y Control
(Col$ '000)
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4    Local  Foreign    Total
A. Equipment and Vehicles    14,550   11,410    6,768    5,304   13,571   24,461   38,032
B. Materials                     1,415    2,264    1,628    1,439    6,746              -    6,746
C. Personnel and Overhead:
Personnel                 11,294   21,048   14,347   12,1:31   58,820              -   58,820
Overhead                    2,708   13,250    6,148    3,950   26,056              -   26,056
Sub-Total C                  14,002   34,298   20,495   16,081   84,876              -   84,876
D. Technical Assistance:
Consultants                   476    2,393    1,036         571          -    4,476    4,476
Fellowships                   218    1,012        473       298    1,268         733    2,001
Sub-Total D                     694    3,405    1,509         869    1,268    5,209    6,477
Total Base Costs (A - D)        30,661   51,377   30,400   23,693  106,461   29,670  136,131



ANNEX 13
Table 6B
COLOMBIA INTEGRATED NUTRITION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates
Applied Food Technology
(Col$ '000)
Year 1   Year 2  Year 3   Year 4    Local   Foreign    Total
A.  Machinery and Equipment    1,763    8,601    3,957    2,495    8,511       8,305   16,816
B.  Materials                    315    1,316       680      491    2,802        -      2,802
C.  Technical Assistance:
Consultants                476    2,393    1,036       571    4,476        -      4,476
Fellowships                218    1,012       473      298    1,268        733    2,001
Sub-Total C                  694    3,405    1,509       869    5,744        733    6,477
D.  Operating Expenses:
Salaries                 2,514   11,635    5,256    3,040   22,445         -     22,445
Overhead                 2,708   13,250    6,148    3,950   26,056         -     26,0576
Evaluation                 645    1,290       968      968    3,871        -      3,871
Supervision              2,064    2,064    2,064    2,064    8,256         -      8,256
Sub-Total D                7,931   28,239   14,436   10,022   60,628         -     60,628
Total Base Costs (A - D)      10,703   41,561   20,582   13,877   77,685       9,038   86,723



ANNEX 13
Table 6C
COLOMBIA INTEGRATED NUTRITION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates
Food Quality Control
(Col$ '000)
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4        Local   Foreign    Total
A.  Equipment and Vehicles       12,787    2,809    2,809    2,809         5,059    16,155   21,214
B.  Materials                     1,100       948       948       948      3,944        -      3,944
C.  Personnel                     6,071    6,059    6,059    6,059    24,248            -     24,248
Total Base Costs (A - C)   19,958    9,816    9,816    9,816    33,251    16,155 __49,406



ANNEX 13
Table 7
COLOMBIA INTEGRATED NUTRITION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates
Bolivar Test of Nutrition System
(Col$ '000)
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4    Local   Foreign           Total
A.  Paper and Printing                 190       846    1,767    2,747    3,086         2,464      5,550
B.  Handling and Administration        636    2,821    5,894    9,164   18,515           -        18,515
D.  Food Subsidy                     3,334   14,800   30,913   48,062   53,996    43,113    97,109
Total                           4,160   18,467   38,574   59,973   75,597    45,577   121,174



ANNEX 13
Table 8
COLOMBIA INTEGRATED NUTRITION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates
Monitoring and Evaluation
(Col$ '000)
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4    Local   Foreign    Total
A.  Consultants                1,166       972       778       972     1,116   2,772        3,888
B. Costs of Studies
and Surveys:
Baseline                7,740    7,740        -         -       15,480      -       15,480
Monitoring               2,580    2,580    2,580    2,580    10,320         -       10,320
Evaluation              3,715    5,573   15,480   15,480    40,248         -        40,248
Special Studies         9,040    9,280   15,480    2,320    36,120         -        36,120
Data Processing         1,160    1,160    1,160    1,160         2,580   2,060       4,640
Sub-Total B            24,235   26,333   34,700   21,540   104,748   2,060    106,808
Total Base Costs (A&B)  25,401   27,305   35,478   22,512   105,864   4,832    110,696



ANNEX 13
Table 9
COLOMBIA INTEGRATED NUTRITION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates
Coordination and Administration
(Col$ '000)
Year 1  Year 2   Year 3   Year 4        Local  Foreign   Total
A.  Vehicles                      1,559      -         -         -          372    1,187   1,559
B. Operating Costs:
Salaries                    9,396   9,396    9,396    9,396    37,584         -     37,584
Travel                      2,924   2,924    2,924    2,924        3,444    8,252  11,696
Sub-Total B                  12,320  12,320   12,320   12,320    41,028    8,252  49,280
C.  Coupon Costs:
Paper and Printing          2,302   5,683    9,065   12,447    20,627    8,870  29,497
Handling                    3,837   9,472   15,108   20,744    34,378   14,783  49,161
Sub-Total C                   6,139  15,155   24,173   33,191    55,005   23,653  78,658
D.  Project Management Fund       1,290   2,580    4,515    4,515    12,900         -      12,900
Total Base Costs (A - D)   21,308  30,055   41,008   50,026   109,305   33,092 142,397



ANNEX 14
COLOMBIA INTEGRATED NUTRITION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
US$'000
Disbursements During                 Cumulative
Quarter Ending                           Quarter                     Disbursements
1978 - March 31                           150                              150
June 30                           370                              520
September 30                      410                          --  930
December 31                        990                           1,920
1979 - March 31                         1,140                            3,060
June 30                         1,250                            4,310
September 30                    1,120                            5,430
December 31                      1,420                           6,850
1980 - March 31                         1,640                            8,490
June 30                         1,810                           10,300
September 30                    1,460                           11,760
December 31                      1,840                          13,600
1981 - March 31                         2,125                           15,725
June 30                         2,335                           18,060
September 30                    1,650                           19,710
December 31                     2,100                           21,810
1982 - March 31                         1,900                          23,710
June 30                         1,290                           25,000






78-                                                     74'                                                       )0.
COLOMBIA
12'                                                                                                                                                12'-
GLJ AJ I RA
Z- ,
ATLANTICO
cc,a.ge
o
N  WMll AG DAL E N A
vv- NWI.W.a *d_,
(CESAR                                                                                             9"
Q
n W
V-
SUCRE
NORTE
,-M                        /C()RDOA-                                 'I    D                      V      E  -N, 1:
%
c
20
0
A"N'4','I 6   'U, t -A                                                      A--
NTA,N D
A R A U C A
C H   C
LI
P
LD CAL)DAS,,                                             SANARE
m    I          C' U N E)
O                                                                                                                           V I C H A D
VA L-L, V/"        OLIM
-,M     E    T    A
'N
I N I A
C , A"-,(Y  C  A
z
V  A    U  P  E  s
N -A P-,('
CA Q U E T A
U M A
N
CoLom-
-*TfMION IMM
NI-FTRITrQN FRQG
A M A Z 0
L          De""t,
A,.ge`empqe.T,,,esrC)  C-4-ofe
B  R- A  I
Abe 4,000        W,- p               Alp,ie
get.. i2-
E  R  U
2,00G - Z,000      N. -l ifdr, 12'    cWd
1,,-,Cf)  2,COO    Nt 1 *. 1,7 5'
!,',10      O.r 2               Ha
Qep.,"em
bx,



