Document of                r   R1E   U>r  I U
The World Bank                   REPORTS -
PILE COp yOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2 122-CO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR AN INTEGRATED NUTRITION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
August 30. 1977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
P4-                    (As of February 1977, and used in this report)
En UQCurrency Unit - Colombian Peso (Col$)
E-' \Col$1                               - US$0.0277
Col$1,000     - US$27.77
0)  ...                    Col$1,000,000 - US$27,770
{ 4.mp  .              US$1          - Col$36.01
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
P: I P: LJGLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AID          -  Agency for International Development
CARE         -  Cooperative American Relief for Everywhere
CARITAS      -  Charity (an organization of Catholic charities)
CNAN         -  Consejo Nacional de Alimentacion y Nutricion
(National Food and Nutrition Council)
CONPES       -  Consejo Nacional de Politica Economica y Social (National
Council for Economic and Social Policy)
CRS          -  Catholic Relief Services
DNP          -  Departamento Nacional de Planeacion (National Planning
Department)
DRC          -  Development Research Center
FAO          -  Food and Agriculture Organization (United Nations)
FONADE       -  Fondo Nacional de Desarrollo Economico (National Fund for
Economic Development)
GDP          -  Gross Domestic Product
IBRD         -  International Bank for Reconstruction and'Development
ICA          -  Instituto Colombiano Agropecuario (Colombian Agricultural
Institute)
ICBF         -  Instituto Colombiano para el Bienestar Familiar (Colombian
Institute for Family Welfare)
IDA          -  International Development Association
IDB          -  Inter-American Development Bank
IIT          -  Instituto de Investigacion Tecnol6gica (Institute for
Technological Research)
INAS         -  Instituto Nacional de Salud (National Institute of Health)
IRDP         -  Integrated Rural Development Program
MOH          -  Ministry of Health
PAHO         -  Pan-American Health Organization
PAN          -  Plan Nacional de Alimentacion y Nutricion (National Food and
Nutrition Plan)
PCM          -  Protein-calorie-malnutrition
UNICEF       -  United Nations Children's Fund
UNDP         -  United Nations Development Programme
UJSAID       -  United States Agency for International Development
WFP          -  World Food Program
WHO          -  World Health Organization (United Nations)
GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBIA FISCAL YEAR
January i to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Page 1 of 2
COLOMBIA
NUTRITION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:        The Republic of Colombia.
Amount:          US$25 million equivalent.
Terms:           Repayment in 17 years including 4 years of grace and
interest of 8% per annum.
Project
Description:     The project seeks to improve nutritional levels of the
poorest parts of the populations in seven departments and
Bogota and to strengthen the Government's nutrition program.
Within project areas, a community based health service system
would be established and nutrition education would be pro-
vided for 1.8 million people mostly among the poorest 30% of
the population. Potable water supply systems and latrines
would be installed for a portion of beneficiaries, while
20,000 families would receive technical and material assis-
tance for home garden production of nutritious foods. At the
national level, the project would develop new food technology,
improve quality control of processed foods, strengthen
project management and monitor and evaluate the overall
program. The project would result in increased work and
schooling efficiency, reduced infant mortality, increased
vegetable production and improved efficiency in the processing
and preservation of food. Achievement of the project's
benefits would be dependent upon effective coordination of
the activities of the various agencies charged with carrying
out the project. The Government's strong commitment to
the nutrition program and the monitoring and evaluation
systems being proposed in the project should help ensure
that coordination will indeed be effective.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by rocipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page 2 of 2
Estimated
Cost:
Local       Foreign        Total
---------(US$ Million)---------
Health Services              13.0          2.1          15.1
Water Supply and
Sanitation                 14.7          3.7          18.4
Nutrition Education           5.4           .7           6.1
Family Gardens                1.4            -           1.4
Applied Food
Technology and
Quality Control             3.0           .8           3.8
Monitoring and
Evaluation                  2.9           .1           3.0
Test of Nutrition System      2.1          1.3           3.4
Program Coordination          3.0           .9           3.9
Base Costs                   45.5          9.6          55.1
Physical Contingencies        4.5          1.0           5.5
Price Contingencies           6.0          2.3           8.3
Total Project Costs          56.0         12.9          68.9
Financing                                     Local      Foreign         Total
Plan:                                             ---- US$ Million ----------
Bank                         12.1         12.9          25.0
Government                   39.1           -           39.1
Beneficiaries                 4.8           -            4.8
Total Project Cost           56.0         12.9          68.9
Estimated
Disbursements:   Bank FY              1978     1979     1980      1981     1982
-------------(US$ Million)--------------
Annual                 .5      3.8      6.0      7.8       6.9
Cumulative             .5      4.3     10.3     18.1      25.0
Appraisal
Report:          Report No. 1583a-CO, dated August 26, 1977.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR AN INTEGRATED NUTRITION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Colombia for the equivalent of US$25 million to help
finance a nutrition improvement project. The loan would have a term of 17
years, including 4 years of grace with interest at 8% per annum.
PART I: THE ECONOMY
2.        The latest economic report on Colombia (1548-CO) was distributed
to the Executive Directors in May 1977. It assesses current developments and
provides a medium-term perspective of the Colombian economy. Country data
sheets are provided in Annex 1.
Background
3.        During the past two decades substantial structural transformation
has taken place in the Colombian economy. The country has made impressive
progress in the transition from a predominantly rural and agricultural economy
made up of largely self-contained regions to an urban industrial economy, more
oriented toward international trade. Broadening of the country's productive
base has been accompanied by rapid growth of nontraditional exports (those
other than coffee) and development of a modern sector which relies to a
considerable extent on imported inputs. From 1967 to 1975 GDP rose by an
average 6.4% per annum in real terms, well above the historical average of
less than 5% (1950-67). The accelerated economic growth coupled with a decline
in population growth (2.7% in recent years compared with 3.2% during the
1951-64 period) brought about a rapid increase in per capita incomes. Two
mutually dependent phenomena, increased investment and relaxation of the
foreign exchange constraint, have been the major factors in bringing about
this acceleration. Merchandise exports have expanded more than three-fold
since 1967 and, most significantly, nontraditional exports have become an
increasingly important source of foreign exchange earnings, growing from 27%
of merchandise exports to about 50% at present. Much of this increase
was the result of both product and market diversification but also of the
Government's implementation of a comprehensive set of programs designed to
increase and diversify exports. Despite the substantial progress, Colombia
still remains essentially an underdeveloped country with a limited modern
sector superimposed on a large, traditional, and-poor base.



- 2 -
4.        When the present Government took off,ice in August 1974, the country
was faced with several adverse developments -- weakening balance of payments
situation, impending loss of self-sufficiency in petroleum production, infla-
tion, deterioration of public finances, and reduction in public investment --
which threatened to interrupt the high growth rate achieved by Colombia in
recent years. The new administration embarked upon an economic stabilization
program with the aim of restoring the basis for sustained economic growth.
In line with this, it implemented basic reforms of the fiscal, monetary
and price systems.
5.        To help strengthen public finances, the new Government undertook
a tax reform which covered almost every important component of the tax system
and represented a significant improvement in terms of progressivity and elas-
ticity. The Government also made certain changes in the financial system with
the purpose of stimulating private savings and improving the system's alloca-
tional efficiency. The action included a restructuring of interest rates,
simplification of the complex reserve system, and elimination of many of the
more rigid and cumbersome controls.
6.        The Government also took steps to correct major distortions which
existed in the price system. Price controls on a number of important agri-
cultural products were removed. In May 1976, the Government introduced
far-reaching modifications in its petroleum pricing policy which aim at
regaining self-sufficiency in production of crude petroleum by improving
incentives for exploration and exploitation. Under the new policy, foreign
oil companies are now paid the international price of crude CIF Cartagena
for new petroleum produced in association with the government petroleum cor-
poration.   (Previously the foreign oil companies received less than US$7 per
barrel for new crude.) The Government is also encouraging incremental produc-
tion from existing fields and, in this connection, eliminated the special
petroleum exchange rate, effectively increasing the price of crude oil
by about 20%. Furthermore, retail prices of gasoline have been raised in
successive steps from US$0.11/gallon in August 1975 to US$0.27/gallon in
January 1977, or by almost 150%. The Government proposes to continue this
policy until the prices of gasoline and other petroleum derivatives approach
international levels.
7.        Economic growth slowed in 1975 (from 6% in 1974 to about 5%) and
unemployment increased, reflecting both the impact of the stabilization
measures adopted at the end of 1974 and the effects of the world recession.
Towards the end of the year the economy began to recover, stimulated by
increased exports, larger agricultural output and heightened industrial
activity. The recovery continued in 1976 with real GDP growing by about 6%.
During 1974-76 National Government savings increased substantially; due to
the 1974 Tax Reform, tax revenues increased by over 40% a year while nominal
GDP grew at an annual rate of about 30%. Private savings mobilized through
the financial system also increased rapidly, growing by almost 50% a year
during 1974-76. Moreover, the balance of payments turned favorable in 1975
as a result of the sharp increase in world coffee prices and expansion of



- 3 -
non-coffee agricultural exports. The improved balance of payments perfor-
mance continued in 1976 with foreign exchange reserves reaching almost
US$1,150 million, sufficient to cover over 5 months' imports. With increased
export earnings, the public debt-service ratio declined from 17.0% in 1974 to
about 11.A% in 1976. However, despite strengthening of the Government's
monetary and fiscal policies (which had reduced inflation from 27% in 1974 to
18% in 1975), the rate of inflation increased to 26% in 1976. Colombia,
through a combination of domestic policies and fortuitous external develop-
ments, has come through the period of world recession and economic adjustment
with a strong foreign exchange reserve position and a rapidly recovering
domestic economy.
Recent Economic Performance
8.        The economic forces have continued to be favorable.    Coffee prices
are high and the balance of paymepnts remains strong; foreign exchange reserves
stood at about US$1,700 million at the end of the first half of 1977, the
highest level in Colombia's history. The increased demand generated by
the higher incomes of the coffee producers has been a powerful stimulus to
the economy. Real GDP growth in 1977 is projected at 7%. As a result, urban
unemployment, down from about -13% in 1974 to about 9% by end-1976, is expected
to decline further. -
9.        The inflow of foreign exchange from coffee sales has, however, led
to a resurgence of inflation and this has prompted the Government to continue
to give priority to short-term management of demand. Several measures have
been taken. Legal reserve requirements have been increased and limitations
on private external borrowing have been established. Import duties have been
drastically reduced to shift part of the inflationary pressures to the exter-
nal sector. Fiscal management was quite restrictive in 1976; the Treasury
accounts had a surplus, which was used for repayment of the Government's
short-term domestic debt. Almost two-thirds of coffee earnings are being
kept from increasing the monetary base by measures adopted recently. /1 The
Government's liberalized import policy will (although with a lag) increase the
supply of goods, thus dampening pressure on domestic prices. Nevertheless,
inflationary pressures are likely to persist. Even after the sterilization
measures taken, the record coffee export receipts will add to the monetary
expansion. Furthermore, current price and cost trends as well as "corrective"
adjustments in public-service prices make substantial deceleration of price
/L   The measures are:   15% of payments to coffee producers to be made in
three-year compulsory savings certificates; an increase in the coffee
retention tax from 23% to 46%, and investment of a substantial portion
of this tax, including the four percentage points received by the Coffee
Federation, in Government bonds. Also foreign exchange receipts from
coffee exports are to be surrendered to the monetary authorities in
exchange for 90 day foreign exchange certificates. The certificates
are freely tradeable but carry a penalty charge of 15% if converted into
pesos before the 90 days are up.



- 4 -
increases unlikely during 1977 (the Government is attempting to hold wage
increases in the public sector to 18%, but private sector wages will probably
increase substantially more). Nevertheless, the rate of inflation is expected
to decline over the medium term as the Government remains strongly committed
to reducing inflation and its monetary, fiscal and trade measures begin to
take effect. Although the reserves being built up during the "coffee boom"
strengthen Colombia's longer-term prospects, the rapid increases in liquidity
add to the difficulties of short-term economic management and illustrate the
special problems facing economies with a heavy reliance on a single export
commodity. Although inflation needs to be brought under control, the economy
seems now poised for a period of rapid growth.
Development Strategy and Prospects
10.       The Government's development strategy is embodied in the 1975-78
development plan. The plan aims at creating the conditions necessary for sub-
stantially reducing unemployment through increased capital accumulation in the
private sector, improvement in the efficiency of the price system in order to
encourage more labor-intensive production techniques and expansion of public
investment. The plan places increased emphasis on the strengthening of
public sector institutions to help carry out effectively the economic develop-
ment program. Public investment is to be concentrated on expanding and
improving infrastructure to stimulate rapid growth and employment in industry
and agriculture, as well as on socially oriented projects to help eradicate
rural and urban poverty. Within infrastructure, special priority has been
assigned to the development of domestic energy sources to help reduce the
country's impending dependence on imported energy. Also, the Government
continues to stress small farmer agriculture because it is in the rural areas
where the greatest concentration of poverty exists and in agricultural activi-
ties where increases in employment can be most quickly achieved. Commercial
agriculture is to receive support due to its strong contribution to export as
well as employment growth. A substantial portion of public expenditures have
been reoriented toward nutrition and primary education programs which affect
the poorest 50% of the population. The Government is also starting projects
to help eradicate urban poverty, placing emphasis on integrated projects which
are likely to contribute to increased productivity and employment. This effort
is being complemented by policies and programs to encourage decentralization
of industry away from the largest cities to accelerate integration of more
backward areas into the modern sector of the economy.
11.       Looking back over the last two years, it is clear that the Govern-
ment's development activities have concentrated principally on increasing the
access of the poorest 50% of the population to education, health and other
public services. A direct reflection of this is the fact that in 1976 37%
of total Central Government outlays went to support programs in education,
health and water supply. Over the last fifteen months, the Government also
started ambitious programs in nutrition, urban and rural development, which
when fully implemented would benefit more than one-half of the country. While
these activities proceed to an advanced stage of implementation, the Govern-
ment now proposes to concentrate on the development of the country's energy
resources (hydro-electricity, gas and coal) and on further expanding the
productive sectors to provide for a higher level of income and employment.



- 5 -
12.       Colombia's strong balance-of-payments prospects for the immediate
future should make it possible in 1977 for the country to resume the hiigh rate
of growth of GDP (6-7%) achieved in the early 1970s. Export prospects for the
next several years are excellent, as world coffee prices remain strong and
economic growth is resuming in the industrialized countries. With the contin-
uation of appropriate incentives, minor exports should grow very rapidly once
again. Manufactured exports--textiles, chemicals, pharmaceuticals, mechanical
and electrical equipment, and paper products--are over the long-term expected
to lead this recuperation, along with non-coffee agricultural exports. Given
the improved outlook for coffee, Colombia is likely to maintain a favorable
trade balance throughout the late 1970s. Under these circumstances an annual
growth rate of GDP of 7.4% during 1977-82 is feasible and would be accompanied
by a 10% annual increase of import in real terms. In light of favorable
external economic conditions and domestic policies the marginal savings rate
over this period is projected to be about 30% and public sector savings are
projected to be about 8% of GDP. However, to achieve both economic and social
objectives, capital expenditures would need to be maintained at about 10% of
GDP. Consequently, Colombia will continue to require substantial capital
inflows to bridge the savings/ investment gap of the public sector. Further-
more, since the projected foreign exchange requirements associated with the
public investment program would be greater than the foreign exchange component
of the "projectizable" portion of it, external lenders would need to provide
some local currency financing in their loans. In view of Colombia's progressive
development policies and domestic resource mobilization efforts, local-cost
financing by external financing agencies is considered justified in those
cases where such financing is required to give the agencies a meaningful role
in high priority social projects.
13.       Colombia is expected to require gross capital inflows of US$4.2
billion during the five-year period 1977-82, of which almost US$350 million
will be disbursed from commitments made through the end of 1976. To attain
this level, annual gross capital inflow will have to increase from US$421
million in 1976 to US$990 million in 1982. Direct foreign investment is
expected to provide only a small part (8%) of the required capital inflow,
with approximately 50% being provided by official multilateral and bilateral
sources and the remainder by suppliers', financial and other credits from
private sources.
14.       Colombia's public externai aeDt repayable in foreign currency
amounted to US$3.3 billion at the end of 1976, or about US$2.6 billion
excluding undisbursed commitments. The Bank Group's share of this external
debt (disbursed only) as of the end of 1976 was about 28% and is expected
to decline to about 25% by 1982. Service on this debt was about 11.4% of
exports of goods and non-factor services in 1976, and is projected to remain
at that level, assuming recovery of minor exports and the favorable outlook
for coffee over the next few years. Balance-of-payments prospects beyond 1980
will depend to a significant extent on the timely development of domestic
energy sources and on progress made in implementation of several resource-
based export projects currently under preparation. The Bank's share of public
debt service in 1976 was about 26% and is expected to decline marginally to



- 6 -
25% by 1982. With the maintenance of sound economic and financial policies,
Colombia should have no difficulty securing or servicing the external capital
it needs.
PART II:   BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
15.       The proposed loan, the 69th to be made to Colombia, would bring the
total amount of Bank loans to Colombia to US$1,548.6 million (net of cancel-
lations). Of this amount, US$1,022.7 million is now held by the Bank; IDA
made one credit of US$19.5 million for highways in Colombia in 1961. Dis-
bursements have been completed on 43 loans and the IDA credit. IFC has made
effective investments and underwriting commitments of US$53.7 million in 24
enterprises and now holds US$28.1 million. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans and the IDA credit as of June 30, 1977, and IFC
investments as of July 31, 1977. The Annex also contains summaries on the
execution of the 22 on-going projects.
16.       Since FY68, Bank lending in Colombia has become more diversified
and has been concentrated on production-oriented programs and activities
which carried social as well as economic benefits. Eight of the eleven
agricultural loans have been made since then, seven of the ten loans for
industry, all three loans in the education sector and all six loans for
water supply and sewerage. This compares with only seven loans since FY68
in the power and transport sectors.
17.       Bank lending to Colombia in FY77 consisted of loans for rural
development, agricultural credit, telecommunications, highways and small-
scale industry, totalling US$281 million equivalent. In addition to the
proposed nutrition improvement project, the FY78 program includes proposed
loans for water supply and sewerage, power, and urban development. Work is
also under way in development finance companies, slum improvement, transporta-
tion, power, mining and small farm development for possible consideration by
the Executive Directors during the next two years.
18.       The proposed Bank lending conforms closely with the Government's
revised development strategy. To help Colombia develop domestic sources of
energy, a substantial part of the proposed lending would be for hydro-power.
The Bank would also assist the development of small coal mines, which hold
potential in helping Colombia meet part of its energy requirements. Bank
involvement in the energy sector would help mobilize additional external
financing as some of the projects would require co-financing. Other future
loans would finance agriculture and industry to assist the Government in its
efforts to raise overall productivity, income and employment and to strengthen
and diversify exports. Closely related to these objectives would be the
proposed Bank lending for transport infrastructure in more backward areas of
the country to integrate them into the modern economy. In this context, we
are proceeding with a project to improve domestic airports. Finally, we are
preparing a relatively large number of loans in support of the Government's



- 7 -
efforts to help the lowest 50% of the Colombian population. The proposed
integrated nutrition project, and urban development, slum improvement and
water supply and sewerage projects are to improve the poor's standard of
living, while providing some additional employment and raising labor produc-
tivity.
19.       The operations of external lenders in Colombia are shown in Annex I.
While IBRD, IDB, and AID provided about 75% of total external financing to
Colombia in the 1961-72 period, their share has decreased since then to
approximately 40%. Like the Bank, IDB and AID have given increased emphasis
to social projects. For instance, the IDB has assisted projects in low cost
housing, rural development, agrarian reform, university education, water
supply, and land erosion; in the future IDB proposes to assist Colombia in its
plans to develop sources of domestic energy and to expand the activity of the
productive sectors to help generate increased employment. AID has supported
programs in education, urban development and small farm development. More
recently, it has moved to small project loans aimed chiefly at improving the
distribution of income. It is expected to phase out its aid program in
Colombia in 1979 with the commitment of a US$6 million nutrition loan.
PART III - NUTRITION CONDITIONS AND PROGRAMS
Background
20.       Over the last two decades, Government strategy and policies have
focused on diversifying and expanding exports while increasing employment, and
simultaneously on improving living standards and opportunities for the popula-
tion as a whole. Between 1960 and 1976 GNP per capita in current dollars rose
from US$210 to US$640, while employment increased by nearly one-half in that
period. Significant progress was also made in a variety of social service
areas including the expansion and consolidation of the education sector and
the spread of potable water supply and health services. Primary school
enrollment of 4 million in 1975 was double that of 1963 while the 1.3 million
enrollment at the secondary level in 1975 was nearly four times that of 1963.
Potable water supply services were spread such that they reached over 70% of
the households in medium and large urban areas and to almost 15% (from vir-
tually no facilities in the 1950s) in rural areas in 1974. The spread of
health services and water supply and sewerage was one of the factors behind
the fall in infant mortality from 88 per 1,000 live births in 1963 to about
70 in 1970. Improvement in the standard of living of a large number of
Colombians is also evidenced by reduced population growth rates (see paragraph
3 above).
21.       As part of the development strategy, the Government has implemented
programs and policies directed at the poor and at improving their employment
possibilities. In the rural areas, for example, land reform efforts begun in
1961 have thus far benefitted nearly 200,000 families. Additionally, the
principal source of agriculture credit, Caja Agraria, has lent a signifi-
cant share of its portfolio (in 1975 about 50%) to hundreds of thousands



- 8 -
of small farmers. In the urban areas the Government has encouraged the
expansion of small-scale labor-intensive manufacturing and industry through
increased credit and technical assistance. In order to increase employment
and opportunities where most of the poverty exists, the Government has more
recently been expanding infrastructure and productive investments in regions
outside the major metropolitan centers.
22.       Though these efforts have benefitted and are continuing to benefit
a large number of the poor, they cannot in the short run eradicate the signifi-
cant levels of poverty which persist. According to a recent study, /1 per
capita incomes in rural areas in 1974 averaged US$173 per annum, with 60% of
the rural population living below the poverty level which is estimated to be
an annual US$150 per capita. Approximately two-thirds of the 900,000 rural
families below the poverty level are either landless or own less than 1 hectare
of land. The poorest quarter of the population as a whole and 37% of the
rural population had per capita incomes of below US$100 per annum. Towns
with populations below 30,000 have income distribution patterns similar to
those in rural areas. Unemployment remains high especially in provincial
areas where it was estimated at about 15% in 1973.
23.       The persistence of poverty in the face of rapid economic development
is in large part due to the inability of large numbers of the poor to avail
themselves of the new opportunities created. The poorest are at times too
malnourished and sick to be fully employed and productive, while malnourish-
ment amongst children in poor families affects their ability to learn effec-
tively and to better their lots as adults. So the recurrent cycle of low
productivity, poverty, malnutrition, low productivity continues regardless of
the increased opportunities available.
Nature and Extent of Malnutrition
24.       Major malnutrition problems fall into three classes:    (a) protein-
calorie malnutrition (PCM), (b) iron-deficiency anemia, and (c) other vitamin
and mineral deficiencies, particularly vitamin A and calcium. An estimated
4 million, or about two-thirds of the population under five years of age, and
about 1.5 million women of child-bearing age suffer from PCM. About 880,000
or 22% of these children suffer from serious malnutrition. A recent study
showed that 86% of the children surveyed in low-income areas of Bogota suffered
from PCM.  For the population of Colombia as a whole, it is estimated that
deficiencies of greater than 40% of minimum recommended amounts of calories
and proteins occur in one-fifth and one-fourth of the population, respectively.
For calcium, vitamin A and some other minerals and vitamins, particularly
those whose primary sources are vegetables, the deficits are even greater.
Intakes of calcium and vitamin A average in rural areas 40% and 50%, respec-
tively, of minimum recommended levels. The incidence and degree of mal-
nutrition are even more striking than suggested above, if considerations of
nutritional loss due to disease and to wastage in food preparation and storage
are taken into account.
/1   The Distribution of Public Services by Income Groups:    A Case Study of
Colombia (RPO-296) by Marcelo Selowsky, DRC, World Bank. Data given
use 1974 official exchange rates.



-9-
Causes of Malnutrition
25.       Malnutrition in Colombia as in other developing countries is caused
by a combination of factors. Despite increases over time, low incomes conti-
nue to limit effective food demand among the poorest. Additionally, insuffi-
cient education on nutritional needs and sound feeding practices severely
limit a poor family's opportunities to improve its nutritional status within
existing income constraints. Lack of safe water supplies and poor sanitation
facilities often result in diseases which go uncured because of inadequate
health facilities preventing individuals from deriving maximum nutrition from
their diets. Insufficient facilities for safe and hygienic storage of food
crops, poor roads, and a domestic food distribution system which tends to
favor urban consumers exacerbate the problem in rural areas.
Effects of Malnutrition
26.       Research in Colombia and other parts of the world has demonstrated
the relationship between malnutrition and, inter-alia, infant mortality, the
physical and mental development of children and the productive capacity of
adults. Studies have concluded that infant birth weight and health are
directly related to the nutritional intake of the mother. About one-third
of the yearly 80,000 deaths of children under five in Colombia are attributed
directly or indirectly to PCM. Malnutrition is also considered an important
concomitant cause in almost 80% of the childhood deaths in Colombia due to
communicable diseases. Furthermore, malnutrition-is an important contributor
to illness which results in the loss to individual workers of an estimated
96 million work days each year in Colombia. Malnutrition also results in
low labor productivity. The preliminary conclusion of a Bank financed study
in Kenya is that undernourished road construction workers were 15% less
productive than those well nourished. Similar studies carried out with
sugarcane cutters in Colombia point to a possibly even greater difference
in productivity between undernourished and well nourished workers. Though not
specifically documented in Colombia, children's learning capacity is hampered
by impaired brain development, fatigue, and apathy which result from malnutri-
tion. The net impact of malnutrition on the economy in terms of the quality
of the labor force, the agricultural products not harvested in time because of
illness and lack of energy, the high medical costs, the resources spent on
children who never become fully productive, and the educational inefficiency,
though unmeasured, are clearly large. The resulting human suffering and
misery are enormous and need no elaboration.
Previous Actions to Reduce Malnutrition
27.       Recognizing that direct action to reduce malnutrition was essential
if the poor were to make better use of economic opportunities and contribute
to the country's economic development, the Government introduced various
programs to increase nutrient intake and improve consumption habits. The
major programs have focused on food distribution, the development of enriched
processed foods and processing facilities and the education of the population
as a whole regarding better eating habits. An early nutrition program,



- 10 -
fortifying salt with iodine, was responsible for eradicating goiter in
Colombia. Another successful effort was the development of a vegetable
protein mixture for children and the construction of a processing plant to
supply a portion of an infant and school feeding program. The rapid spread of
water supply and sewerage facilities as well as costly curative health faci-
lities, principally in urban areas, has also had an impact on nutritional
status. The spread of such services to rural areas where a large portion of
the malnourished live, however, has not been as notable. The Government has
also attempted, although with less success, a program combining education of
families in schools and clinics regarding nutrition with health services,
training and minor agricultural and home gardens assistance. The program was
hampered by insufficient cooperation from agencies whose assistance was
essential, but who were not responsible for the program, and by inadequate
budgetary and manpower support for the program.
28.       Free food distribution to vulnerable groups in the population has
been an important part of Government efforts to reduce malnutrition. The
major program, begun in 1968, relies on food aid donated principally by
foreign private and bilateral sources, and distributes foods along with
nutrition education at schools and health clinics to children and pregnant/
nursing mothers. The program reached about one million beneficiaries nation-
wide in 1976. However, many of the beneficiaries came from middle income
groups and from the urban areas. The limitations and expensiveness of the
program were fully recognized when the decision was made to phase out food aid
by 1978. This decision also helped stimulate Government's formulation of a
national strategy to reduce malnutrition.
National Food and Nutrition Plan
29.       By the early 1970's, a large body of opinion in Colombia perceived
the importance of mobilizing adequate and coordinated resources to improve
the nutritional status of the poorest half of the population. While permanent
improvements in nutritional standards would result from increases in employment
and income, it was recognized that the process would be slow and take some
time before reaching the poor. At the same time, the malnourished were often
prevented from taking advantage of the opportunities offered by the expanding
economy. With these considerations in mind, in March 1975 the Government
approved the National Food and Nutrition Plan (PAN). PAN was premised on the
importance of complementing the Government's more general efforts to provide
the economic and social base for development in communities of high poverty
concentrations with a set of coordinated policies and programs to reduce
malnutrition. Drawing on the experience of programs in agriculture and
nutrition, PAN proposes measures to increase the supply, demand and utiliza-
tion of nutrients, to phase out food aid by 1978 and to reduce future depen-
dence on food imports. PAN also seeks to link efforts to increase food
production with measures to ensure better nutrition utilization of existing
foods as well as efficient distribution of foods to the malnourished. Programs
for accomplishing the goals of PAN include the Integrated Rural Development
Program (IRDP), the Nutrition Program and expanded credit facilities to the
commercial agriculture sector, primarily for food crops. The latter aims to
expand the supply of food nationally, while IRDP aims simultaneously to



- 11 -
increase food production and to raise the incomes and consequently nutritional
levels of small and generally poor landholders. IRDP concentrates initially
on regions with large numbers of small farmers, providing a spectrum of agri-
cultural services, along with social service investments. Although IRDP would
increase employment primarily for benefitting small farmers, the nutritional
impact on the poorest 40% of the rural population, the landless and the
virtually landless, is likely to be limited to the results of health and water
supply investments.
30.       While IRDP's nutritional impact is expected to be principally on
the upper end of the poorest 50 percent of the population, the Nutrition
Program seeks to improve nutritional status among the poorest 30% of the
population. The nutrition program includes activities aimed at (a) reducing
nutrient losses by reducing illness; (b) improving nutrient consumption
patterns within existing income constraints; (c) providing for limited food
production increases; and (d) increasing food consumption by improving purchas-
ing power. The program, which is already under way with AID's support in
three departments, involves a range of nutrition activities integrated at the
department level. The program is to be expanded country-wide by 1985.
31.       The nutrition program consists of the elements described in Part IV
and a subsidized food distribution system, financed by the Colombian Govern-
ment. Under the distribution system, families with children 3-24 months,
malnourished children 2-4 years and/or pregnant and nursing mothers, who
satisfy income criteria, receive coupons to be exchanged in the local market
for a specific range of nutritious processed foods produced domestically,
with the purchaser paying only about 40% of the normal price. The program
marks a significant shift away from public sector free distribution to sub-
sidized purchase in the market place in order to reduce wastage and encourage
proper use. While as yet tested only on a limited scale, the coupon system
has been developed and refined to the point where it is expected to be a
relatively efficient system for achieving its goals. The private sector is
the primary producer of nutritious processed foods and is expected to expand
its output significantly as the nutrition program expands. Credit lines are
already available for the purpose. A small amount of free distribution of
nutritious food through primary schools and day care centers will be continued
until the coupon system reaches full national coverage. By providing an
increased and reliable market for domestically processed foods, the food
distribution system also aims to provide a boost to the food processing
industry and the agriculture sector.
Bank and Other Donor's Role in Nutrition
32.       Over the past two decades, various international and bilateral
agencies /1 have assisted Colombia's nutrition improvement efforts. These
efforts have provided Colombia with the foundation for its present national
program. A number of agencies (UNICEF, UNDP, the Netherlands Government and
USAID) are continuing to support this program and the Bank has coordinated its
/1   UNICEF, UNDP, PAHO/WHO, FAO, USAID, CRS/CARITAS, WFP, CARE.   Complete
names are listed on the inside cover of the report.



- 12 -
efforts with theirs. At Government request, the Bank has played an active
role, since the launching of PAN, in the refinement and development of the
various PAli programs. Both IRDP and the proposed nutrition project provide
mechanisms for bringing the poor closer to the economic development process,
and complement ongoing programs financed by the Bank and other external
lenders aimed at increasing productivity, employment and income of the poor in
Colombia. Furthermore, the proposed nutrition project would help improve the
poor's ability to contribute to and benefit from expanded output, while
supporting the Government's other objectives of strengthening social sector
management and eliminating the country's dependence on food aid.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background and Objectives
33.       The proposed nutrition project aims to break the recurrent cycle of
malnutrition, low productivity and poverty among the poorest 30% of the popula-
tioii in seven departamentos and Bogota. By reducing malnutrition the project
would thereby increase the ability of the poor to benefit from and contri-
bute to economic development and growth. The proposed project would provide
a bridge for the poorest and most severely malnourished until economic devel-
opment reaches them while simultaneously developing the infrastructure to help
ensure that increased incomes lead to permanent improvement in nutritional
levels.
34.       The proposed project is designed to improve the nutritional status
of about 1.8 million primarily low-income people and improve and refine the
national nutrition program. The first objective would be accomplished
through a set of investments directed at the beneficiary population. Im-
provement of the national program would be brought about through intensive
monitoring and evaluation and through strengthening of its managerial base.
35.       The project was conceived and prepared by the Government of Colombia.
Mr. Gabriel Turbay Marulanda, Director General of Public Credit, led the
Colombia delegation in negotiations which were held in Bogota in July, 1977.
A project Appraisal Report entitled "Colombia: Appraisal of an Integrated
llutrition Improvement Project" (Report No. 1583a-CO dated August 26, 1977) is
being circulated separately to the Executive Directors. The main features of
the loan and project are summarized in the Loan and Project Summary and in
Annex III.
Project Description
36.       The project consists of an integrated set of action programs at the
community level, pilot programs and research and development and activities
to support the development and improvement of the national program. The
action programs would utilize community health posts as the agent for the
delivery of nutrition education, food coupons, improved environmental sani-
tation as well as improved health services. The project consists of the
following components:



- 13 -
Investments at the CoLmunity Level
(i) Health Services - the construction of 56 and reconstruction of
225 health posts and the equipping and operation of those posts.
(ii)  Water Supply - The construction of potable water supply systems for
about 372 rural communities.
(iii) Sanitation - The installation of about 112,000 household latrines.
(iv)  Nutrition Education - The production and dissemination of nutrition
messages through the mass media and through village level workers and
the training of the village workers.
Pilot Programs, Research and Development
(v) Family Gardens - Provision of inputs and technical assistance for
about 20,000 family gardens and 100 school demonstration gardens.
(vi)  Applied Food Technology - The support of 26 research, development
and feasibility studies related to the manufacturing, processing,
storage and marketing of nutritious foods.
Program Development
(vii) Monitoring and Evaluation - Support for regular monitoring of
each component, and for evaluation of the nutritional impact
and other important aspects of the program including an intensive
evaluation of the program's effectiveness in one department.
(viii) Quality Control - The equipping and operation of a food
quality control laboratory.
(ix)  Program Coordination - Support for the operating unit which
is responsible for coordinating and refining the project and
the nutrition program.
Project Area and Beneficiaries
37.       The proposed project would be implemented in seven of Colombia's 22
departments and the Federal District of Bogota. Four departments form a
contiguous block in the west-central region, and three form a similar block in
the Northern Coastal region, thus representing the two major heavily populated
regions of the country. The departments were selected to avoid overlap
between IRDP and the Nutrition Program in their initial stages. The Govern-
ment decided to implement the two programs independently at first in order to
spread the benefits of the two programs to as many regions as possible and to
avoid overburdening regional administrations by initiating two such complex
programs simultaneously.



- 14 -
38.       Within departments where the Nutrition project would be executed
areas were chosen on a relative standard of living basis. Communities were
assigned a composite index based on levels of per-capita income and access to
public services including education. Communities in the selected departments
which were ranked in the bottom 30% of all communities in the nation were
selected for nutrition project implementation. The procedure ensures that
project communities would have high concentrations of Colombia's poorest. The
study determined that in the departments selected project implementation
would range from 25% of the rural communities in Valle to 60% in Bolivar.
39.       Communities selected would automatically benefit from the health
and nutrition education components of the project. Total beneficiaries of
those components would be 1.8 million of which about 70% are in rural areas
of the seven departments. Around 372 communities, or 231,000 people, would
benefit from access to potable water, bringing the total population with
access to potable water supplies to about 416,000 of the project areas'
1.25 million rural population. Latrines would be installed in about 112,000
homes or for roughly one-third of project beneficiaries. Communities with
high incidence of intestinal diseases would have priority access. Twenty
thousand rural families in communities selected for availability of support
manpower and ecological diversity would benefit from the family gardens
component. Beneficiaries of the food coupon system in Bolivar, estimated to
average about 20,000 per year, would be limited to pregnant and nursing
mothers and small children in families whose income per capita falls below
US$6 per month.
40.       The long run aim of the nutrition program is to spread potable water
supply and latrine facilities as well as the home gardens programs to all
project beneficiaries. The project expands access to such services to the
extent that is organizationally and manageably feasible at the present time.
Detailed Project Features
Direct Nutrition Investments
41.       The project would accelerate and strengthen the development of the
community level health care portion of a recently introduced national health
system. At the community level the new system emphasizes preventive rather
than primary curative care nutrition education, family planning along with
maternal and child health services and environmental sanitation. Community
level health workers (promotoras) selected by the community maintain contact
and provide education and basic nutrition, health and family planning services.
Six promotoras, each serving 180 families, would be supervised by two auxiliary
nurses who, along with a part-time doctor and part-time dentist, would staff a
community health post in rural areas. Urban community health posts would have
attached a half-time physician and half-time dentist. The health posts would
be linked to regional and university hospitals which would handle serious
medical cases. It is estimated, however, that about 85% of health problems
would be handled at the local level. The project includes the construction of
56 and renovation of 225 health posts which would serve 1.8 million people.



- 15 -
It also provides equipment and medical supplies, staff training, along with
the operation of the posts until project completion.
42.       The health component of the proposed project is both novel and
ambitious in scope. In order to ensure that the health post system functions
as a community based system providing health and nutrition education and
preventive care, all community level health workers would receive intensive
training in community health, family services and nutrition. Assurances were
obtained that revised curricula and programs, satisfactory to the Bank, would
be prepared by January 1, 1978 (Section 3.07 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Additionally, because the system is new and initially will increase workloads,
health administrators at both the national and regional levels will require
management and technical assistance to implement the program. Assurances
were, therefore, obtained that the Government would fill local consultant
positions in the regions by January 1, 1978 with persons whose qualifications
and terms and conditions are acceptable to the Bank (Section 3.03 (b) of the
draft Loan Agreement).
43.       Potable water supply systems would be constructed to serve about
231,000 people in 372 rural communities covered by health posts. About 15% of
the rural population in project areas currently have potable water supplies.
By completion of the project, one-third, or over 400,000 rural project bene-
ficiaries would be supplied with potable water supplies. The systems would
serve an average of 100 households, each through individual house connections.
Installation would be carried out by the National Institute of Health (INAS),
a semiautonomous agency under the Ministry of Health, which has in the past
worked efficiently and closely with local communities.
44.       Under the sanitation component, about 112,000 household latrines
would be installed, which would about double-the number of latrines in project
areas. An MOH sanitary promoter attached to each health post would encourage
families to install latrines and would coordinate their installation and mainte-
nance.
45.       The nutrition education component uses techniques of group discus-
sions and mass media to guide families in better use of their incomes in food
purchase and in more nutritional food preparation. Radio messages, short
nutrition films and television programs would complement the efforts of health
and community development workers, community leaders and shopkeepers in the
project areas. The themes of the various forms of communication would include
breast feeding, weaning, food supplementation during illness, food preparation
and the use of food coupons. The project would provide training to the proj-
ect area educators, would develop educational materials and mass media messages,
and disseminate the messages. Five man-years of technical assistance would be
provided for developing and improving production techniques of educational
materials. The Colombian Institute of Family Welfare (ICBF), which has
extensive experience with nutrition education, would coordinate this effort,
while the National Planning Department (DNP) would execute mass media efforts.



- 16 -
Pilot Programs, Research and Development
46.       The fLamly gardens component would be a pilot effort to increase
home production and consumption of vegetables and legumes by 20,000 families.
Existing gardens at 100 schools would serve as demonstration centers for
the program. ICBF with the assistance of the Colombian Agricultural Institute
(ICA) and other agriculture agencies would develop suitable technical and
nutritional packages for small home plots. Inputs would be supplied during
the first year, while farmers would gradually pay full costs by the fourth
year. Preliminary estimates suggest that almost one-half the vegetable require-
ments which a family of six requires for a balanced diet can be produced in
most project areas from a 12 by 6 meter plot. ICBF in coordination with
agriculture agencies and the schools would carry out the initial program and
would expand the program to the entire project area in the next phase of the
nutrition program.
47.       The applied food technology component would support about 26 research
and development subprojects on small-scale storage, preservation and process-
ing of farm produce, on diversifying raw materials and processes for commer-
cial food manufacture and on improving systems of quality control. The sub-
projects would concentrate on technologies that can produce potentially large
economic and individual savings. Included in the list of subprojects is the
substitution of cotton seed waste for soy in processed foods and village level
preparation of nutritious pre-cooked doughs and flours. The Institute of
Technological Research (IIT), the principal implementing agency, has a history
of success in developing food processing technology. Short-term international
technical assistance estimated to average US$4,500 per month and fellowships
would be provided in specialized areas, where local expertise does not currently
exist. The National Fund for Economic Development (FONADE), an autonomous
intermediary financed by the National Planning Department (DNP), would contract
the studies with the implementing agencies after a DNP technical committee
approved the technical proposal.
48.       A small Project Management Fund would be established to carry out
pilot programs, feasibility studies and other such activities that are unfore-
seen now and presumed to result from studies and monitoring and evaluation.
The list and scope of subprojects eligible for financing under the fund would
be agreed upon by the Borrower and the Bank (Section 3.11 and Part G(b) of
Schedule 2 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Program Development
49.       Monitoring and evaluation plays a key role in this project.     The
outcomes of this component would serve as a basis for further revision and
refinement of the project and program. All aspects of the nutrition project
and the national program would be monitored on a regular basis and would be
reviewed quarterly at the policymaking level. In addition, changes in nutri-
tional status would be regularly measured. Studies also would be undertaken
on the economic effects of the nutrition project and on the effectiveness of
the nutrition delivery system. A four-year intensive evaluation of the
nutrition system, including food coupons, would be carried out in one depart-
ment to test out variations in the system, to identify shortcomings and to



- 17 -
refine the system. A detailed evaluation of the community health system
would take place to determine the pace of future health system improvements.
Because of this study's importance for project implementation in the latter
years, assurances were obtained that the evaluation of the community health
system, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, would be completed
by September 30, 1978. The pace and scope of health post development would be
revised on a basis acceptable to the Bank (Section 3.08 of the draft Loan
Agreement). Local and foreign consultants would assist in the design, exe-
cution and analysis of results of the monitoring and evaluation system. A
monitoring and evaluation unit in DNP would implement this component.
50.       A quality control laboratory would be constructed to ensure that
processed foods meet prescribed standards established by the MOH. INAS would
run the laboratory and perform the analyses, while the MOH's division of
environmental sanitation would collect samples to be tested.
51.       Program Coordination would be carried out by the PAN Group within
DNP. The PAN Group also would be responsible for mass media and monitoring
and evaluation. It plays a central role in the project as the agency respon-
sible for coordinating, developing and refining the program. Assurances were
obtained that key persons in the PAN Group would have adequate qualifications
and job descriptions and that the PAN Group would be adequately staffed
through 1985 (Section 3.10 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
52.       The cost of the project is estimated at about US$68.9 million
(Col$ 2,481 million). Foreign exchange expenditures are estimated at US$12.9
million, or 19% of the total project cost. Cost estimates are based on
July 1977 prices. A 10% physical contingency was applied to all project
costs. Price contingencies amount to 14% of base costs and physical contin-
gencies and are based on estimates of yearly domestic and international price
increases.
53.       The proposed Bank loan of US$25 million equivalent or about 36% of
total project costs would cover all foreign exchange costs and US$12.1 million
of local costs. With the exception of US$4.8 million to be contributed by
beneficiaries for the health, water supply and sanitation components (see
paragraph 57 below), the remaining US$39.1 million (57%) would be financed by
the Government. A breakdown of project costs by component is presented in the
Project Summary.
54.       On the basis of the justifications presented in paragraph 12, local
cost financing is recommended in order to ensure that the Bank maintains a
meaningful role in a project with low foreign exchange costs. Low foreign
exchange costs are characteristic of social projects in Colombia, where equip-
ment requirements are few and civil works are for small local structures which
can be built most inexpensively at the local level with indigenous materials.
In addition, the Bank share of 36% of project costs represents a much smaller
share of the costs of the entire nutrition program, to which the Government
has committed substantial resources over and above the project, including
US$17 million for the food coupon system.



- 18 -
Procurement and Disbursement
55.       International competitive bidding, in accordance with Bank guide-
lines, would be required for the procurement of water pipes and pumps, esti-
mated to total about US$1.7 million and for vehicles and other equipment,
when orders are estimated to cost more than US$100,000. Domestic manufac-
turers would receive a preferential margin in bid evaluation equal to the
prevailing tariff, or 15% of the c.i.f. cost of imports, whichever is lower.
Purchases of vehicles and equipment which cost less than US$100,000 and of
latrine equipment and fixtures would be made in accordance with local competi-
tive procedures which are acceptable to the Bank. Construction of health
posts and potable water systems are small and widely disbursed geographically
and, therefore, would be carried out by self-help and force account or local
competitive procedures acceptable to the Bank. Service contracts for the
production and dissemination of mass media messages would be procured through
local shopping.
56.       The Bank would disburse at the rates of:    (a) 100% for consultants,
fellowships and training and the foreign costs of imported vehicles, water
pipes, equipment and supplies; (b) 75% for locally manufactured water pipes
and pumping equipment; (c) 55% for civil works, monitoring and evaluation,
project management fund and mass media production and dissemination; and (d)
50% for vehicles and equipment assembled in Colombia, and vehicles, equipment,
water pipes and pumps imported and procured locally. Retroactive financing
not exceeding US$300,000 is proposed for expenditures incurred from February
1, 1977 for baseline surveys and for initial development and training costs of
the nutrition education and family gardens components.
Cost Recovery and Fiscal Feasibility
57.       Beneficiary communities would provide US$4.8 million in project
financing and US$2.7 in repayments for portions of investment and operating
costs of the two largest components of the project, health and water supply,
and a portion of the installation costs of latrines. In accordance with
present Government policy, communities would contribute initially an average
of at least 10% of health investment costs through labor, materials or
cash. Additionally, community contributions would total an estimated 10-60%
of total project investments in water supply, though the contributions of
individual communities will vary according to an established formula deter-
mining the community's capacity to pay. The balance of investment costs will
be borne by the Central Government and/or other Government agencies. Communi-
ties would also pay for all operating, maintenance and administration costs of
their respective water supply systems. Total water charges currently average
about US$1 per household per month which is considered reasonable in light of
the low average incomes in the communities to be covered. Assurances were
obtained that the Government will maintain the above arrangements for the
recovery of costs for beneficiaries (Section 4.06(a) and (b) of the draft Loan
Agreement).



- 19 -
58.       The Government has also agreed to add two additional cost recovery
elements to the project. In order to reduce possible excessive use of medi-
cines and simultaneously to reduce the Government's burden of recurrent ex-
penditures on health, assurances were obtained that a system of charges of would
be applied to obtain from beneficiaries at least the cost of medicines provided
at the health posts (Section 4.06(d) of the draft Loan Agreement). Assurances
were also obtained that families would contribute in materials or cash a
percentage of not less than 50% of the costs of installing each latrine and
shelter (Section 4.06(c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
59.       Recurrent expenditures associated with the nutrition program are
not expected to become a substantial burden on the Government budget. Total
program costs including the food coupon system would rise from less than 1.4%
of current expenditures to about 3.3% in 1985, when the program would reach
complete national coverage. In absolute terms, the per capita cost of the
nutrition program is estimated to be about US$2.25 in 1985 compared to a
projected GDP per capita of about US$1,000. After 1985, as the percentage of
poor falls and as the economy continues to grow substantially faster than the
population, expenditures on the program are expected to fall as a percentage
of current expenditures.
Project Management and Execution
60.       Nutrition policy is set by the National Council for Economic and
Social Policy (CONPES), a cabinet level council chaired by the President. The
chief of DNP chairs a subcommittee of CONPES, the National Food and Nutrition
Council (CNAN) which oversees the development and execution of the Nutriiton
program and reports to CONPES on its progress. The PAN Group, a division of
DNP, is responsible for overall coordination, including budgeting, programming
and evaluating the activities of the nutrition project and program and serves
as secretariat to CNAN. At the regional level, project and program activities
are coordinated by a regional PAN committee. The committee is chaired by the
Governor of the region and consists of the regional directors of the ministries
and agencies implementing the program together with representatives of
regional agricultural institutions and the regional planning office. The
regional PAN director, assigned by the PAN group of DNP, serves as executive
secretary of the committee. The regional PAN committees coordinate and
monitor regional activities of the various implementing agencies and arrange
for prompt submission of yearly and quarterly work programs and investment
budgets to the PAN Group.
61.       Project execution of the various components would be the responsi-
bility of the following institutions:



- 20 -
Responsible Agency                      Project Activity
Ministry of Health (MOH)               -  Health services, latrines, food
coupon distribution to benefi-
ciaries.
National Institute of Health (INAS)    - Water supply, food quality
control laboratory and
studies.
Colombian Institute of Family          - Nutrition education, family
Welfare (ICBF)                          gardens.
Institute for Technological            - Applied food technology.
Investigation (IIT) and
The National Fund for Economic
Development (FONADE)
National Planning Department (DNP)     - Project coordination, monitor-
ing and evaluation; mass media.
Each of the institution's responsibilities under the project would be covered
by an agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, with the Borrower.   Because
of the importance of the activities of DNP, IMOH, INAS and ICBF, signed subsi-
diary agreements of INAS and ICBF with the Borrower and an agreement of DNP
with the MOH would be made a condition of effectiveness (Section 6.01 of the
draft Loan Agreement) while the remaining agreements would be conditions for
disbursement of funds pertaining to each of their activities (Paragraph 4(b),
Schedule 1 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Benefits, Justification and Risks
62.       The project is justified as an effective and relatively inexpen-
sive method of improving the nutrition conditions, well-being and productive
capacity of a large portion of the 1.8 million beneficiaries. By reducing
the incidence of disease through investments in health, potable water supply
and sanitation, and by providing nutrition education, the project would
facilitate more efficient consumption of nutrients and thereby increase the
potential of the beneficiaries to be more productive members of society. In
addition, a portion of the beneficiaries would also benefit from increased
production and consumption of home grown foods, while pregnant and nursing
mothers and small children in one department would increase their nutritious
food consumption. Without the project, a large percentage of the 1.8 million
beneficiaries would remain limited in their ability to avail themselves of the
long-run opportunities presented by overall economic development. The project
would thereby provide a bridge for the malnourished to the employment oppor-
tunities and increased production potential of the 1980s and 1990s.



- 21 -
63.       Increased nutrition and better health would result in increased
immediate productive potential for adults and in future productive potential
of children. Reduction of malnutrition and disease would result in better
physical and mental growth and consequently in a better educated and more
able and productive adult population.   Apart from the eventual benefits
resulting from reduced costs associated with producing educated and skilled
manpower, immediate economic benefits would result during periods or in regions
where labor shortages exist. In quantitative terms, it is estimated that the
health and nutrition education components (the components that apply to all
project beneficiaries) would reduce the number of sick days of the benefi-
ciary population by 20% and the infant mortality rate by 25%. If only one-
fourth of adult sick days saved by project beneficiaries are translated into
employment, which does not substitute for the work of others, the increased
income to the society would be US$2.4 million annually or about one-third the
annual operating costs of the community health posts in project areas. Where
beneficiaries receive access to water supply and/or sanitation, the reduction
in sick-days is expected to be even greater and would result in further income
and production increases. An additional US$0.5-1.0 million is expected to be
saved as the new health system substitutes for present unnessary expenditures
by beneficiaries for medical expenses.
64.       Various smaller components are expected to yield additional economic
benefits. The family gardens component is estimated to provide each family
an annual net return of about US$20.50. Without including benefits that would
accrue to families where the component is expanded beyond its pilot phase,
this component would achieve an economic rate of return of 20%, even if only
16,000 families, rather than the projected 20,000 families participate. The
potential economic returns of the food technology component are quite large.
Present agricultural losses due to lack of storage and preservation techniques
at the local level are estimated at US$20 million annually. Even if those
losses were reduced by only a small percentage as a result of the outcomes of
studies in this component, the component would pay for itself many times over.
Given IIT's impressive past record, achievement of such returns are considered
reasonable.
65.       The overall nutrition program, of which this project forms a part,
is expected to achieve additional benefits for the economy. By increasing the
demand for domestically produced and processed foods, the program would estab-
lish a firm market for investments in agriculture production.   Likewise, the
spurt in the food processing industry resulting from the increased demand, as
well as improved technology, would provide the basis for increasing Colombia's
comparative advantage in the sector and thus augmenting exports. The program
itself contributes to the Government policy of phasing out food aid and
reducing dependence on food imports.'
66.       The project would also improve and refine the national nutrition
program and increase the capacity of the various agencies to implement it on
a national scale. The project would develop and execute training programs
and prepare additional personnel needed for future program expansion. A tech-
nical package for small house gardens would be developed and an implementation
process refined after pilot testing of the package. Intensive monitoring



- 22 -
and evaluation would provide the basis for refining the program, stream-
lining the implementation procedures, and increasing the cost-effectiveness
of the package. The project would thus benefit future program beneficiaries
and increase the efficiency and reduce the costs of future nutrition program
interventions.
67.       The proposed pr9ject has inherent risks in that it requires
effective implementation on the part of a number of agencies and is a project
wi'th few precedents. The Government, however, is deeply committed to the
national nutrition program and has formulated and developed the project over
the past two years. FurtharfErj, the Government recognizes the need to
strengthen interagency coordination and has developed a management system for
the project which is already in place, With a monitoring and evaluation
system which allows for changes in program design as the project proceeds and
with extensive Bank supervision, the risks would be minimized and are acceptable
in view of the substanttal benefits expe,t1d of the project.
FART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
68.       The draft Logn Agreement between the Republic of Colombia and the
Bank, the report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii)
of the Articles of Agreement, and the text of the draft resolution approving
the proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
69.       Special conditions of the loan are listed in Section III of Annex
III. A special condition of effectiveness would be that subsidiary agreements
have been entered into with the Government by ICBF and INAS and between DNP
and the MOH (Section 6.01 of the draft Loan Agreement). In addition, a condi-
tion of disbursement for activities carried out by IIT and FONADE would be
that the relevant subsidiary agreement has been entered into between the
Government and the implementing agency (Paragraph 4(b) of Schedule 1 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
70.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMM1ENDATIONS
71.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by I. P. M. Cargill
Attachments
August 30, 1977



ANNEXI
Page 1 of 4 paiLes
COLOMBIA             - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND  AREA  ITHOU  KMZI                -- - --  - - --  - -- - -   - - - -     --  - -- 
---------------                      ~~~~~COLOMBIA                          REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      1138.9                                        MOST RECENT
AGR IC.     227.8'                       1960       1970    ESTIMATE          TURKEY          BRAZIL         MEXICO '
GNP PER CAPITA IUSBI                      210.0*     350.0*      640.0*/a            500. 0      550.0*      69.0.0'
POPULATION AND VITAL SIATIS71CS
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)             15.4       20.6       24. 2 /a            35~6        9 2. 8      50.4
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                         14.0       18.0       21.0 /a             46.0        11.0        26.0
PER SO. KM. AGRICULTURAL LANO            .        92.0      106.OLB              67.0        66.0        52.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BlIRTH RATE I/THOU. AV)          46.1~      44,.3w     40.6~               40.6        38.4        43.8
CRUDE OEATH RATE (/THOU.'AV)           14.7       11.0        6.8                14.4         9.9        10.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE I/THOU)         lOO.0/.     7O.0/a       .               145.0        110.0        68.5
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRSI         54.7-      568. 5     60.9                54.4        59.7        61.0
GROSS REPRODIUCTION RATE                3.2        3.2        3.1                 2.6 /a.b    2.6         3.1
POPULATION GROWTH RATE IS)
TOTAL                                   3.2        2. 9       2.7                 2.5         2.9         3.4
tJRBAN                                  6.0/b      5.5/b      4.9                 4.9/c       5 .0        4.8
URBAN POPULATION It OF TOTAL)            53.0/C     60.0       63 .0               36.5        56.0        58.7
AGE STRUCTURE (PEPCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                         46.6/a     46.6       44.1                41.6        42.0        46.2
15 TO 64 YEARS                         50. 47w    5 0.4      5 2.17              53.9        5 5.0       50.1
65 YEARS AND) DYER                      3.07       3 .0       3 .2                4. 3        3. 0        3.7
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                      10a         .0        0.9                 0.9         0.8         1.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.6w         .6       16 11I:1/6                      1.5         2.0
FAMILY PLANNINIG
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)            0.5      306.9      955.1                  .        250.0        55.5
USERS cz OF MARR lEO WOMEN)              ...                 31.0                 6.2         1.6
E MPLOYMFNT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)           5100.0/c   6 2 0 0 .  6BCO.O             14500. 0/e  296 03.0    13000.0
LABOR FOCOE   TN AGRICULTURE IS)         47.0/-c    39.0          .                67.0        44.0        40.0
UNEMPLOIYED IT9 OF LABOR FORCE)           B . 0d_e    7.C      14.3                 4.0/f
INCOME DISTPTIJUTIDN
3 OF PRIVATE 1I'1CDME PEC*C eY-
HIGHIEST  ST OF HOUSEHCOLS             41 21c f   31 .9/d      .                 32.8 B      35. 0/a     3 7.68
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUJSEHOLDS             67.l/c.    60.1/ iTd                      60.'6       62.0/a      63.2
LOWEST   20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              2.1/c      3. 5/d      .                  2. 9        3.o/a.      4. 2
LOWEST   403 OF HOUSEHOLDS              6.6/c.f  I10.1/ ld                        9.4j       10.o7/a      10.2
D I STR IBUT ION O F L AND OwNE RSHI P
3 OWNED BY TOP 103t OF OWNEPS               ..                 83).0 Ia            53.0        45.0         37.1
3 OWNEO By SMALLEST 103 OW1NERS            ..          .         .2 LB0.9                        1. 5        0.3
HEALTH AND NUTPITICN
POPULATION PRE   PHYSIC IAN            2400       2110.0     2100. 01            22 50.0     1910.0      .1480.0
POPULATION PEP NURSING PERSON          3520.0Th       .      1450. 0?d           1770.o,4i   322 0. 0/b   .1620.0
POPULAT I ON PER HOSPTITAL eED          580.0      430.0o     460.0/a             903. 0      260.U,       960.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES; IT OF RFOQUIREMENTS)         94.0       97.0       95.0/e              1.         109.3       110.0
PROTEIN I(GRAMS PER DAY)               50.0       5 1. 0     51.0/ae             BR.         6 4.0       65.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          28.0/h     29.0/e        .                22.0/i      39.0         28.0/a
DEATH RATE I/TH1OU1 AGES 1-4             16. 3       6. 4                          15.0/b'        .          9.6
BEDUC ATICON
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                         117.0     10 2.0     1 14.0Q/d           1 11. 0      617.0      106.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                       12 .0      /3 .0      28.o/d              26S.3       260.0       23.0
YEARS OP SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LPVFLI               15.0       11.0       11.0                11.3        13.0         12.0
VOCATIONAL EN4ROLLMENT
13 OF SECONDARY)                       31.0/i     20.0/f     21. 0 Id f          14.30       1 7.0       24.0
ACULT LITERACY RATE 151                    .        73.0       74.0                55.0 /j     66.0         76.0
HOUS INO
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                    ..                    ..                 1.9         1.0         2. 2
OCCIJPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER 11RI                       59.OLW1      ..         .                 64. 0       13. 0/c      61. 0/b
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
I3 OF ALL DWELLINGS)                   47.0 /C       ..                          41. 1       48. 0       59.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (11                      6.0 /C       ..                          16.0          6.0        26 .0
CCNSUMPTI ON
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)          139. 0     10 5.0     120. 0               89. 0       6J3.0       276.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)             7.0/e     11.0       14.0                  4.0       25.0         24.0
ELECTRICITY IKWH/YR PER CAP)            2A4.0      4 14. 0    499.0               247.0       49 1.0       567.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                 2 .4        2 .6       1.68                0.17        2. 7        3.2
--   - - - -  - - - -  - - - - -  - - - -  - - - -  - - - - - - - - - -  - - - -  - - - - -  - - - - -  - - -  - - - - -
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ONl PEVERSE



NOTrES                                                              Page 2 Of 4 pages
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to sty year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 be tween 1968 and 1970, sod for Mont Recen.t Estimate between
1973 and 1975.
* GIP per oaplia are haae.d On the World Sank Atlaa methodology (1974-76).
oxOfficial estimates based on registrations, show crude birch rtet for 1960 as 39, average crude birth rare for 1961-70 so 36 and for 1971-74 as 31.
a-sMexico has been s.eleted as an objective contry becaus.e Colombia is nmg fn the stags Of ecnoic developmet that Memico was in ten years ago.                         Roth
contries aim at a GOP growth rate Of about 7 percent and at a s.obtantial reduction of onemployment.
COLOMBIA      1960     /a  Registered only;       /b   1951-64;     /c   1964;     /d   Bogota only;      /e   1963;     /f  Ermoolicaily active population;          _&  1965;
/h   1961-63;     /i   Total secondary includes teache_r training at the third level;           /J,  Water piped inside.
1970     /a   Sass based on burial persita;        /b   1964-70;      /c  Ratio Of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;
/d Econoically active population; /e 1964-66; 0f Total secondary includes teacher training at the third Iavel.
MOST RECENT EST I24ATE:      /a  1976;      /b  patio of population under 15 sod 65 and over to total labor force;              /c   1971;     /d   1972;
/e 1969-71 average: /f Total secondary includes teacher training at the third l-eve.1
TUPRKEY       1970     /   E isludes  17 Eastern provioces;       /b   1965-67;      /c  1965-70;      /d  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 sod over to labor force
age 15 years and over;        Le  15 years and over, excludes unemployed;           /f  Registerad only;       Lg  Diaposable Income;
/h   locluding ass istst nurses and midwives;          /i  1964-66;      /i   Persons sin years old and over who tell the cenaus        tabers that
They coo read sod write..
BRAZIL        1970     /   Econoniclly action population;          /b   Hospital personnel-       /c   Inside only.
MEXICO        1970  0       1964-66;     /b   Inside only.
R1lO. July 25, 1977
DEFINITIONSI OP SOCIAL IoiICATORS
Land Arsa (thou be2)                                                                          PopuIati- per saraing pnrsun - Population divided by sober Ofpatcn
Total  T-Ttal surface area c-priuieg land area and inlan.d watara.                              male and female gradus te are,"troi-ed         Or 'certified'   --an, and
SSAgrit - Moat recet estimate Of agrioulcorsI area      asd temporarily Or Porno-               aaMilar    personnel with training Or nep-rience.
-etly for crops, posturs, -akor 4 kitchen gardena or to lie fallow.                         fpoclation por hossital hod - Ppopulaion divdod by number Of hospital beds
available is p,blic -sd prioste geosral and specialised hospital and
IMP  .r canita   115$) - IMP per capita saia         t or crcnntma.rk   prices,                 rehabilltarfon centers; exclu.de a sra ing bones and estobllnhaests for
ca.lculted by soone c--oalo, - thod as World Bank Atlas (1977-75 basis);                      oustodia1 sod pr-evetive care.
1960; i970 aed 1975 data.                                                                   Per .aPita aupeiy Of calories    (7 of rssoir-mets) - Computed Iron snergy
eqioerOf net food supplie -s vilable in country per oapita per day;
rupslatiun and via-ttsi                                                                          vilable suPplies    -aPrise d-entic prod-tio. imPorts less -op-rt          ..ad
Fpoolatfon  (mid-yer nl1lio_)      A isOf July ficut:  if not avilable, averge                  changes in stck; net supplie.s-enlude anmlfeed, seeds, quantitIes used
Of two end-poo    esimts;      60, 1970 and 1973 data,                                        in food proceouiog and lassin distribution; requiremets were eti-at.d
by PAl based sOn physiological needs for norma ac.tivity and health conid-
.peclation density    p-r squar    I.. - Mid-year population per   qoare kilometer              sting enviromoeto1 temperature, body weights, age and sex distribstions Of
(...ind.i,pr                                                                                        p      .'         I.I1 r1110 hctares) uf tal rs.populattion,and allown  1  frwar  at household level.
ponolriondensty -nor  nunr   in  f sonic, land - Computed as above for                Peroissol           fooei       sasprdy             rtencneto           e   opt
agiutr l.lad Only.                                                                     net supply Of food pot day; net sapply Of food is defiind an above; require-
ments far all cmoutries establiahed by EISDA Econoic Research Services
Vital statistics                                                                                 provide for a miimm     llwac     of 60 grams Of total protein per day, and
Crudo birth ros     e  thousand,.,eroon - A-s..a lion births per thousand Of                     20 gras  Of utimal and pulse protein, of which SI gram      shosid be anWIma
old-po    pplain       tnyeraithmetic susrage          ending in 1960 sad 1970,                protein; these standards are lowr than those Of 75 grone Of total proesin
ad five-year averog    ndin     a 1975 formo       eet estimate,                             and 27 grass Of animal protain asa       verage fur the wold, proposed by FAO
Cruds death rate pnr thous.and, average - Annual deaths per thousand Of mid-year                 in the Third World rood ISr-y.
population ; ten-year arithOe tic averagos ending in 1960 asd 1970 and fiv-                 Per capita protein sapoly from animal sad ps1se - Protein sopply Of food
pear averge ending in 1975 for sont r.eet sa tiaste.                                         derived from -oima1a and pulses in gramn per day.
Infant aorraliry rate    1/thos) - Annual deaths of infa.st snder one year of age             Death rate f/thou) ages 1-4 - be-oa     deaths per thousand is age grasp 1-4
per thousand live bitiha.                                                                     ysre, to ohildren in this age greop; suggested so on indicator Of
Life ..,ecta.c    at birth  (y-i) - Average somber Of years Of life    ~ rmining at              us1-trliti.
birth; asually five-year -averges ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
ing conre.Education
Grous  -eord-ctian rate- Averag      nuber of lion doghters a uonan will hear                  Adjunted.enrollment rato- orinay school - Enrollment Of all age a a          per-
in her nomlrprodocIve perIod ioh 5            npriesespreset age-specific                      onstage Of primary school-age population; includes children aged 6-li years
fer tility rat'ea; asoolly fie-peraergsenigi               1960, 1970 and 1975                but adjunted for different lengths Of primary education; for        -ntries with
for developin    -owtries                                                                     u-iv-r-al edc-i-, enoletmy exceed 1007 since som                 puplIs ore hbow
Fopul.tion growth'ratn    (2) - teto1 - Compound snaIgrowth rates Of old-yearor                     above_the ofiilsho           ge
population for 195f-60    16-70 and 1970-75.                                                 adjusted  enrllen    ratIoc-secondary    school - tumputed as shov; secondary
lpoolation   growth rate (7.) - urban - Compted lube growth rate Of total                        edu-tion require     at least four years Of approved primary ius t-ution;
POPu lation; different defimitiosa of orb snare asmy affect comparability Of                   pravidna geasral, voctional Or teacher training i-truotiona for pupils
data amog    outries,                                                                          of12to 17 ye.ar    o f age;.crreaponden...e course   are_generally secluded.
Urhan posltio      C7. Of ctota) - istlo Of urban to total population ; different              Years Of schooltmg provided    (firs  an   -sod levels)      Total years Of
definitions Of urban areas nay affect -oporsbility, of data among sete.schooling; at .e.omdary level, vocational. isatrutin nay be partially Or
Age  u~trucre    oecnt      Children (0-14 year), working-age (15-hi year),                   locaiona     enrollmet (7. Of secodary) - Vocational iselist.ion. include
sod rtired (45pers-od over) an po-rcetgee of mid-year population.                              teohoical, iedustrfsl or Other profraa which operte independently ora
Age deocod-nr    ratio - Ratio of popolotias under 15 snd 65 and Over to those                   deparuaets of secodary i-tsituti-s.
oaps II through 64                                                                       Adult literac    rate (P.) - Literate adc1ts (able to red and wirit) 55 per-
tcEonic donende..cy rati J,    Patio Of pepclotiou s-der 15 sod 65 -ed ovr to                    cetage of total adult population aged 15 years and over
the labor forc   inaegop of 15-64 yearn
Funily   ooig-       _auceecora  (cumulative, thou) - Cumulative.. nuber Of as..eprors         Housing
of birth-control device acder auspices Of national family plansiog program                   Person   pr room (urban) - Average -unhr Of peron        per roo   in occupied
sinceinception,Z conenionalI dwell ings in srbao areas ; dwellings ecrlude non-peemnna-t
family placaini- sers      (7 Of usred woen) -hPercentages Of macnod cone of                     structures sod unccpied parts.
child-bearing age (15-44 years) wh      s    ir th-control devices to all maried             Icc...opid dwellnu    ithout pined water (7) - Occupied covninldwellings
womn 1    sne age   group.                                                                     in  rba   and -rura  area without inside Or outside piped water facilities
aspercentage ofalocpe          dwellings.
Epeloy,set rAcs                                                                                        toecItrity       (71f  l   doellinus) - Conv-ntial..I dwellings with
Total   labor foroe  (thousand) - Ef-onomicly acti-e person, iaclding armed                      electricity in living quarters as percent Of total dunllogs in urban esd
forces so   s-eplopd hut eacluding bs.newives, students, etc.; defiiti-n                       -rwr 1  es
in varou      _cunries are st comparable.Sra                                                        dwlig     tonnected to e1ltcirioty    (7.)  -coputed as above for -rura
Labor force in   orisultors1.) - Agricultura      labor force (in farming, forestry,             dwellings only.
bunting and fishin)specnisage Of total labor force.
Imemploynd (7oflabor (sne        - U-omplyd are us aly defined as p-ro-s who                   ConaunPrio
are able and willing to tale a Job,-at Of ajab On a given day, ro.naind oat                  Radio receivers   fontr thou aPO) - All types Of receivers for radio broadcasts
of ajb,     nd seebtoig w-k for a specifid minimum period not enoending one                    to generlpbi        e    huade        ouain        nldsalrne             eevr
week; ma    .st he comparale between     -oatries dse to different definitions                 incutriesad is yern when registration Of radio seta was Is effect;
of u-oplaped and aasrce Of data, e.g. , omploym       t  ffre statistins, sample               data fore recent years may not he soporoble sioo      mast ....rries abolished
..r_.Y. copulsory uaomploptset inourn-e                                                        licasa cnn
Passenger   cars  (per thatap      Pass. eager cars comprise motor oars seating
ln-      discribotion - Percentage of private incom     (both in cash sad bind)                  less than eight pe rsons; ealudes ambulances, hearses and military
received by richest 5%, richest 207., pooret 207., and poorer ,40/. of honse-                  vehicles.
holds.                                                                                       Electricity   fbkh/yr  ner cap) - Annual cosuption Of industrial. -om        -rial
public and private electricity in kilowatt hosrn per capita, g-meroIly
Di'listri-ao   Of land _wnrshi~- Peroe .    age t8   Of land owned by wealthiest 10%             based'on production da ta, wirhoat allowace far losses in grids but allo--
and poorest 10% of land owers.                                                                 ing for imports and saports Of electricity.
Newprint (kg/yt per cap) -Per capita s...a. consumption in bilagran
geal1th  and Natrition                                                                           estimated from domestic produ-ti- Plus net imparts Of aewsprint.
Popula:tion  per pshysician -  opltion divided by s,obse Of practicing
physician   qualiied from        d medca  school at_on-vrsIty level.



~~..ac  1~~~~YE.0WDJT~~~ ~                                  roo  ~3  f 4    gG
(t. Millian. of US DDIr-)
A,.taaL                   ti"td              "Jt               A-g. n ~ .~ A -1 V.-th4,Rti               A. Pet-t of GDP
1967-69
AvOrapo      1974         1975        1976         1977         1982      (1967-695-74 1974-76      1976-82      1974       1976        1982
1976 Nlit.. .od Rach.nx. gt..
KatLIol Accou..t.
Geon   OneT1it Product.                  9,785      14,405       15,061      15.900       17,063       24.459          6.7         5.2        7.4       100.0       100.0      100.0
Gan ri. T_e,     fTrde     +             -751         -9          -48715                                -141            -          -           -          2.7        -0.6
Co.D-metic T                            Tno.90-34   14.015       14,603       15.900      17,778       24. 3-18        7.6         6.7        7.3        97.3       100.0       99.
lefrt  loo. gpO)                        1,491        2.323       2,229        2,436        2,806       4.325          7.7        12.5       10.0        16.1        15.3        17.7
=ortt.    "     (boont Capacity)            1.1           ,1         2.249        271          3,665       4.360          6.9        14.7         7.8       14.7        17.5        17.8
Re.ooroe Gop                       ~~~         ~~~~        ~~72  209  -20           .9            -3         194           --                     1.5        2.2         0.1
Connupti.. Eoponditor..                     7 ,44)      11,429      12.389       12,513       13,451       18.012          7.4        4.6         6.3        79.3       78.7        73.6
In_ontoont      .    (to-l. Stock.)         2.101        3,268       2,326        3,145        3,383       6.291           7.6       -3.3        12.3       22.7        19.8        25.7
Il-otic SavIgs                               ,5689       2,566       2,214        3,4.41       4,327       6,306          85         15.4        106        20.0        211.6       25.8
NotIonal SavIn.9                            1865         2.8853       2.353       3.37         3.986        6.187          7.         6.1        10.6       1.          21.3        25.3
Merchandine Trade                                              Annual Dota    t Coroal Nrit..                                                                   A. Portet of Tot.l
loportt
C-pi tol Goodn                              290          525         540          655          834       1.753         10.4        11.7       17.8        34.8        36.1       32.3
So.,,o-di.to Good. (Rot1. FonIn)            254         811          758          872       1.087        2.437         21.4         3.7       18.7        53.7        48.1       45.0
Fool, nod ,R.latod Mat.rilal                  3            6          14           73          153         716         12.3      500.0        46.3         0.4         4.0        13.2
of WIch:    Forolon()                                 (-           (14)        (73)        (133)        (716)         -           -       (46.3)        (-2        (4.0)      (13.2)
Cononptilon Good.                            61          167         "48          214          267          515        18.3        13.2        15.8       11.1        11.8         9.5
Too  Int .  pere  (FOSS              608       1.509        1.480       1.814        2,341        5,421         16.4        96         2.          0.         0.          0.
Pr00ry Prod-tcn (tool. Foni.)               418       1,001        1,179        1.683       2.716        4,137         15.7        29.7       16.2        67.0        74.6        72.8
Fool .1 no  Re.1od Mtberi.ln                 71           95          67           87          102          214         5.0        -.  7      16.2         6.4         3.8         3.8
of Which:    Pottroloc                    (56)          (4)        (5            -)           -           -1       (-35.5)         -           -        (0.3)        (-(-
Monofa-t-rd Good,                           117          398         428          488          569       1.333         22.5        10.7        16.2       26.6        21.6        23.4
Totol,Mooch. KEporton (FOB)                 606       1,494        1,694        2.258        3,387       5,684         16.2        23.0        16.6      100.0       100.0       100.0
To-in    nod Bord- Trnde                    -            -           -            -            -            -                                    -         ---
Merchondino Trade tedi-e
Enport Price ttd..                         21.2        72.4         74.5        100.0       141.5        1)1.1
Soport Price 1ode-                         34.0        90.0         93.0        100.0        108.9       157.4
T0.-0 of T'ade l,d:n                      62.3        80.4         80.1        100.0        129.9        96.0
ap-rto Volonelde                          126.6        92.2        100.7        100.0        106.0       166.6
Vo1oc Added by S-ctr                              Anno..l Oat.   t 1976 - Price. and Ech-ooe Rote,                     A-erge Ann...l Growth Rate.            A. Per-ec    of Totl1
Ag,lcolior n                              2.951       3.828        4,8         4.239      .4,451         5:,745         4.4         5.2        5.2        28.6        26.5        23.3
Sodontry and Miniog                      2,:444       3,811        3,:8717     4.518        4,925        7759           7.7        8.9         9.4        28.5        28.3       31.5
Serice                                   4.3          5.746       TM05         7.228        7.734       11.112          44        12.2         7.4        42.9       45.2        45.2
Total                                    9,834       13,38)5       4,1        15.985       17,110       24.616          1.3       9T. 3        73           -0      100.0       100.0
P.blic Financee
(Cztr:,1tG-r-.nt)                          ~  ~~Annoa  Onto at C--net Pri...                                                                  A. Peroeor   of GDP
GretRecipt,                             413        1,194       1,402        1.551        1.924       2,944         19.4        13.9        11.3          9.5        9.9         9.6
Corroot   opooditore-                    262          640          702          734         933       1.428          16.0        7.1        11.7          5.1        4.7         4.6
ludgetnoy    Saving-                     1)5          554          700         817          991        1,'514,       24.2       21.)        10.9          4.4         5. 2       5.0
Other Public SectorSaving,               434          150          394          334         390          810       .16.2        49.0        15.9          1.2         2.1        2.6
Poblic Sector Inv-t-t                    612        1,189       1,382        1,496        1.5         2,9           11.7        12.2        12.3          9.4        9.5         9.7
5electd lodicators                                      1945-70      1970-73      1973-76      1976-82                   DetaI1 .n Public S ctor
S.toe  ...et frocrnn and Finaning             A. II of Total
(C.1colat.d from 3-year     -t.rg.d data)                                                                                                                          1975-76     1977-82
A-enge lCOR                                          3.17         3.02         3.22        2.93                      Social Secto-                                 33.5        38 2
Ioport Elneticity                                    1.16        0.28         0.32         1.42                     Ageiclt,r,                                     10.2        12.0
Mar'gina I  ooontIc Saig       oe0.20                             0.12        0.23         0.33                      Sdot5adHen                                       .          .
Marginal Sationnl Savinge Rote         ~0.14        0.17         0.24         0.33                      Po-r                                           4.5         95
____________________________________________________________________________________TTononport nnd Coo            iniottio.o220.2                     114.
L.b.r F.-  ..d Ot~~~t P- W.tk.,  Ttal Lb-      F.r.e ~~~other                                                                             20.1       15.8
Labor Forte and Output per Worker  Total lAhor FoOte                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Toto1 E.pendtt.re,              100.0      100.0
Sn Millio..              % of Total          Growth Rat.
1964         1973        1964         1973        1964-73
Agriculture                            2.427        2.057        47.3         30.2         -1.9
tod,otry                               0.9)8        1.212         18.7        17.8          2.7                      Public Snotor Savibg.                         42.7        68.5
Servic                                 1.749        3.542         34.0        52.0          8.2                      Poreigo Prt.ect Aid                           13.4        24.6
Total                                  5.134        6.812       100.0        100.0          -3.2                    Other                                           23.9         6.9
V,1oe AddedJ per Wrker (1976 Prices and E..cha:nge Rat,)                        T___________T__-___g_____              o__________         0____0
to 01  1olar              . ef Averag.        Gr,th Rto
Agriculture                              903        1,017         66.4         88.4          5.9
tndu.try                               1,837        2.552       135.2        148.6          3.7
Servic                                 1.730        1.4          127.3         90.0        -1.2
Total                                  1,319        1,717        100.8       100.0           2.6



BIIASI OF PAIICI9. RZTESAI. ASSISTAN! AND DEBT
Ltei Millen. of US Dollar, at 0Out rati rig)
Actua                               Eatianted                                  ret
191   1972        1973         1974        1975         Jr          17                1978    97         1960         1981        1942
feporto (mcI. tiP)                  974       1,207       1,548       1,958        2.100       2. 781      3.988        4. 547      4 649       5SOS7        5,863        6.828
J520-L1-1A~.                    Lil28        1.236       1.424        2_072       2.882       2.436       3. 053       3_I 611      .27         5.0401      5 932        677
-311                 -29          124                      isl  1      345         935    ~   ~   I           s          Ii 7        Z
ector Service,                     -178)       -187)       -215)       -192         -241        -238         -275        -292        -327         -371        -389         -430
Profit.                          (-70)       (-73)       (-74)        (-60)       (-66)       (-82)       IloO I0)    (-1175      (-137)       (-1645      (.172)       (-1I80)
Other,                          (-106)      (-124)      (-1415       (-532)      (-175)      (-174)       (-175)      (-175)      (-190)       (-207)      (-227)       (-250)
Current Tcaot.r. (fet)4                          35          33           351         4 7        10            12         123          138         1 52         147         184
Balance on CurrentAcon             -455        -191         -16        -351         -176         187          773         767         223         -202        -272         -191
Prite- DIrec   Itn-tune              40          17          23           36          43          45           32          39          57           65          74           72
Diebroct                          22 2        3)1         417         364          383         376         412          518         583          435         799          91 7
-gRanoeno                         -92          -96        -132       _..11        -13          -,jl       z173          -215        -250        -298         -386         -471
Nrc Dtebore-ete130                            255         285         153          249         195          239         10          333          337~        413          "OT
Och-r MALT Lon
ilnorere.145                                  139          60           so          76         -            -           -           -            ---
-oopuyoeot                        -79          -04         -58         -so         -87          -------
ttDiobure6nc6                                55           2           -8          !-. I 
Capitl1 Trune-loo     no....d.      135          28         -41         -2)9          13          157         --                      -            -            -           -
Chang  i.N: Met  e.erve..            82        .164        -213          389        -118        -584       -1,043      -1.109        -412         -200         -215        -321
Oc-ot cod Loan Coatt--t
crent- libe  -      -            -           -           -            -     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Debt ond Debt         Act-a                             E.cinacd
SerIce                 1971       1972        1973       1974        195         97
Public   L 94 ...un                                                                                       Public Babc
Icon                              153          74         142            8          08          80        Oncetendln8 und
IDA-                                          -           -                                               Di Ot.bored          1,38.4.     5,630.0    1,934.0     2,117.4    2,340.8     2,542.0
Incur..ti Pub.
Othe  t9ttiletnr-I                 42          41          29           644                     24         Debt                   49.2        579Y        78.5      103.7       112.3      134.9
CorrnoceI10                                   114          67           55          65         131         iaPuynec   on
Oupplier-                          35          37           31          45          7)           32        Public Debt             92.0       95 9       151.9      211.4       134.4       180.9
Prmntt cock,                       38          04         190           58         162         142        Total Public
conde .                                                    45          -           -           -           Debt S.teel           141.2       153.8      2)0.4       315.1       246.7      317.8
P.bico2L-       -,,ni&            -             0            0           4           1          -        Other Debt
Tote  Public MALT Leant             378         358         52)          234         391         431       Sernlce (Nac)            133.1      1)5.1       126.4      118.4       108.0      160.0
Tota Debt
te.nt.e (Bec)            274.3      308.9       337.0      453.7       354.7       477.8
1oe0do2.(L23176.                                                      Burden .c lEpr
Otabut'icA                                              Earn~~~~~~Uing. (i)l
E Irto  P,,blic Debt          Bait         Percent                                                     PublicDebt -Seric-        14.5       12.7        13.4        14.9       11.7        11.4
(Rcubl.  nPrltCr.                                                                                       Total 1 Dbtl ternice      28.2        25.4       21.8        23,3       54.0        17.2
W-rld Buob                        70b.B        27.6                                                      Tote IDebt Seic
IDA                       ~~~~~        ~~~~~                                                      ~~23 .3  0.8  Plot  Forign Inc
OLhor tMliara                      60.3        '6.4I6o                                                                             35.3       31.4        26.5       24.6        20.0        20.1
Goctrtecce               ~~~~~~977.3   30.2
Supplicr.                         169 .4        4.4                                                      AneueTr-o
Pr iat  BanUk.                    435.7        17.0                                                      Publi   Debt   f
ooodn                     ~~~~~        ~~~~~~~48.4  1.9                                         IntreteD    1 Pio
Public Debt.n..                    31.4         0.2                                                      Yea D040                   3.9        4.2         4.8        5.3         5. 3        3.9
Tota  Public M9bLT Lo.n.        2,4.Y000Ta                                                                    5)4D                  7.4        6.9         8.0        00.9        6 3         7 .7
e5nd  uure               5908       453.4       504.5       561.7      43.         70 
18. a -.Public
Deb  041                  28.2        2   7  .5  24.1        24.5       24.         27.1
lBogD co7.Pblfc
Debt Snreic               29.4       30.9        28.9        23.4        32. 3      2)5 8
end Iliboe                19.4       20.5        23 0        22.8        22.5       22.3
IDA a 7. Pubdlic Debt
0411                       1.4         1.3        1.2         1.1         1.0        0.9
104De 7. Public Debt
Scenic                     0.2         0.3        0.2         -           0.2        0.1



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 7
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
A.  STATEIENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (As of June 30, 1977)
(US$ million)
Loan                                                          Amount (less Cancellation)
Number  Year  Borrower                        Purpose            Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
Fully disbursed loans and credits                              667.3    23.5 /1  --
575     1968  Interconexion Electrica, S.A.   Power             18.0             .2
680     1970  Colombia                        Roads             32.0            3.9
681     1970  Interconexion Electrica, S.A.   Power             52.3             .3
682     1970  Empresas Municipales de Cali    Water Supply      18.5             .1
738     1971  Empresas Municipales de
Palmira                       Water Supply      2.0              .3
740     1971  Empresa Nacional de
Telecomunicaciones            Communications   15.0              .1
741     1971  Empresa de Acueducto y
Alcantarillado de Bogota      Water Supply     88.0            28.9
849     1972  Instituto Colombiano de
la Reforma Agraria            Irrigation        2.2            1.6
860     1972  Instituto de Fomento
Municipal                     Water Supply       9.1            4.2
874     1973  Empresas Publicas de Medellin   Power            56.0            21.5
903     1973  Banco de la Republica           Industry         60.0             7.8
920     1973  Colombia                        Education        21.2            13.2
926     1973  Ferrocarriles Nacionales        Railways         25.0             1.8
971     1974  Colombia                        Pre-Investment
Studies         8.0             6.6
1071    1975  Banco de la Republica           Industry          5.5             1.1
1072    1975  Instituto Nacional de Fomento
Municipal                     Water Supply     27.0            23.2
1073    1975  Empresa Nacional de
Telecomunicaciones            Communications   15.0            6.1
1118    1975  Colombia                        Rural Settlement 19.5            16.4
1163    1975  Colombia                        Agriculture      21.0            20.7
1223    1976  Banco de la Republica           DFC              80.0            69.7
1352    1977  Colombia                        Rural
Development    52.0            52.0 /2
1357    1977  Banco de la Republica           Agricultural
Credit         64.0      _     64.0 /2
Total /3                                      1,358.6    23.5  343.2
Of which has been repaid                        323.0     1.3     --
Total now outstanding                         1,035.6    22.2  343.2
Amount sold                     31.3
Of which has been repaid        18.4             12.9
Total now held by Bank and IDA                1,022.7    22.2
TOTAL UNDISBURSED                                              343.2
/L   Includes exchange adjustment of US$4.0 million.
/2   Not yet effective.
/3   The figures do not include US$60 million Fourth Telecommunications Loan,
US$90 million Seventh Highways Loan and US$15 million Second Small-Scale
Industries Loan which were signed in July and August of 1977.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 7
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of July 31, 1977)
Type of         Amount in US$ million
Year              Obligor                   Business        Loan   Equity    Total
1959       Laminas del Caribe, S.A.         Fiber-board     0.50      -       0.50
1960-1965  Industrias Alimenticias
Noel, S.A.                     Food products   1.98   0.08       2.06
1961       Envases Colombianos, S.A.        Metal cans      0.70      -       0.70
1961-1968  Morfeo-Productos para el
Hogar, S.A.                    Home furniture  0.08   0.09       0.17
1961       Electromanufacturas, S.A.        Electrical
equipment     0.50       -      0.50
1962       Corporacion Financiera           Development
Colombiana                       financing        -   2.02       2.02
1962-1963  Corporacion Financiera           Development        -   2.04       2.04
Nacional                         financing
1963-1967  Compania Colombiana de           Textiles        1.98   0.15       2.13
1968-1969 Tejidos, S.A.
1964-1970  Corporacion Financiera de        Development
Caldas                           financing        -   0.81      0.81
1964-1968  Forjas de Colombia, S.A.         Steel forging      -   1.27       1.27
1966       Almacenes Generales de           Warehousing     1.00      -       1.00
Deposito Santa Fe, S.A.
1966       Industria Ganadera               Livestock       1.00   0.58       1.58
Colombiana, S.A.
1967-70-74 ENKA de Colombia, S.A.           Textiles        5.00   2.61       7.61
1969       Compania de Desarrollo de        Tourism            -   0.01       0.01
Hoteles y Turismo, Ltda.
(HOTURISMO)
1969-1973  Corporacion Financiera del       Development        -   0.45       0.45
Norte                            financing
1969       Corporacion Financiera del       Development        -   0.43       0.43
Valle                            financing
1970       Promotora de Hoteles de          Tourism         0.23   0.11       0.34
Turismo Medellin, S.A.
1970-1977  Pro-Hoteles, S.A.                Tourism         0.80   0.25       1.05
1973-1975  Corporacion Colombiana de        Housing            -   0.46       0.46
Ahorro y Vivienda
1974       Cementos Boyaca, S.A.            Cement          1.50      -       1.50
1975       Cementos del Caribe, S.A.        Cement          3.60      -       3.60
1976       Las Brisas                       Mining          6.00      -       6.00
1977       Promotora de la Interconexion
de los Gasoductos de la
Costa Atlantica S.A.           Utilities      13.00   2.00      15.00
1977       Compania Colombiana de Clinker, Cement and
S.A.                               Construction
Material       2.43      -      2.43
Total Gross Commitments                         40.30  13.36      53.66
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                          19.89   5.63     25.52
Total commitments now held by IFC               20.41    7.73     28.14
Total undisbursed                               21.33   0.74      22.07



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 7
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
1.   Ln No. 575 Electric Power (Interconnection); US$18 million, December 1968.
Effective date; February 25, 1969
Closing Date:     original - February 29, 1972
current - July 31, 1977
The original project was completed and commercially operational
in 1971. The Bank agreed that an undisbursed balance could be used to finance
a 220 kv transmission line, Guatape - Barrancabermeja. The cost of the line
is estimated at US$7.2 million of which about US$4.1 million represents the
foreign component. Work on the line is almost fully completed.
2.   Ln No. 680 Highways VI; US$32 million, June 1970.
Effective date: March 29, 1971
Closing date:     original - November 30, 1974
current - November 30, 1978
The largest component of the project, the paving program, has
experienced considerable cost increases and delays. As of this writing, seven
sections in the program are still under construction and about 200 km still to
be paved. Project completion is now expected for 1979. The other components
of the project were completed with much less delay. The Ministry of Public
Works has taken several steps to hasten project execution and strengthen the
performance of contractors.
3.   Ln No. 681 Chivor Hydroelectric Power; US$52.3 million, June 1970.
Effective date: September 1, 1970
Closing date:    Original - June 30, 1977
Current - December 31, 1977
The project has experienced considerable delay and project costs
are expected to be 35% higher than originally estimated. Work is now proceed-
ing satisfactorily and the first generating units are expected to be put into
service in the next few weeks.
4.   Ln No. 682 Cali Water Supply and Sewerage; US$18.5 million, June 1970.
Effective date: September 2, 1970
Closing date:     original - June 30, 1974
current - June 30, 1977
The loan is almost fully disbursed.
/1   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understand-
ing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 7
5.   Ln No. 738 Palmira Water Supply and Sewerage; US$2 million, May 1971.
Effective date: December 29, 1971
Closing Date:     original - March 1, 1975
current - March 1, 1977
As of June 30, 1977, about 85% of the loan amount was disbursed.
The Bank is now awaiting detailed proposals from the company as to the
use of about US$300,000 still undisbursed.
6.   Ln No. 740 Telecommunications II; US$15 million, May 1971.
Effective date: August 16, 1971
Closing Date:     June 30, 1977
Contracts for all Bank-financed goods have been signed and technical
and financial consultants have been retained. Due to initial delays in the
procurement of project equipment, some of the project's works will be completed
18 months behind original schedule. The loan is almost fully disbursement.
7.   Ln No. 741 Water Supply (Bogota II); US$88 million, May 1971.
Effective date: August 16, 1971
Closing Date:     June 30, 1978
Disbursements up to June 30, 1977 amounted to 67% of this loan.
Slow progress in the construction of the vital Palacio - Rio Blanco Tunnel is
the main reason for the project's delay; the original contractor was replaced
by another firm which is performing satisfactorily.
8.   Ln No. 849 Irrigation (Atlantico II); US$5 million, June 1972.
Effective date: November 14, 1972
Closing Date:    March 31, 1978
The project is the second and final phase of a scheme to develop
about 17,000 ha of seasonally inundated land for agricultural production.
Work is continuing satisfactorily on project roads and a main drainage canal;
the final two main drainage canals are scheduled to be completed during 1977.
Land clearing, tertiary drainage works and allocation to farmers are behind
schedule, but improved in 1976. The organization and settlement of farmers
within the project areas and the technical assistance and farm credit oper-
ations are not yet satisfactory. At Government request, the Bank has agreed
to cancel US$2.8 million of the original amount of the loan.
9.   Ln No. 860 Medium-Size Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$9.1
million, October 1972.
Effective date: March 7, 1973
Closing Date:    original - September 30, 1976
current - September 30, 1978



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 7
As of June 30, 1977, about 50% of the loan amount was disbursed.
Disbursements were delayed due to initial project management problems, but
progress of works has since accelerated.
10. Ln No. 874 Guatape II lHydroelectric Power Project; US$56 million,
January 1973.
Effective date: March 13, 1973
Closing Date:    December 31, 1978
The progress of the work is generally satisfactory except for
delays in the resettlement of El Penol and Guatape villages, which means
that filling the Santa Rita reservoir cannot be started before mid-1978,
three years behind schedule. This would be likely to lead to an energy
deficit in the interconnected system from 1978 to 1981. The revised project
cost estimate is substantially above appraisal estimates, mainly due to higher
costs of the works at El Penol and Guatape. The Borrower experienced serious
financial problems but as a result of a series of tariff increases, the
company is projected to achieve the covenanted rate of return in 1977. Finan-
cial gaps, however, remain to be met if the investment program is to be com-
pleted on schedule.
11. Ln No. 903 Development Finance Companies V; US$60 million, May 1973.
Effective date: November 9, 1973
Closing Date:    December 31, 1977
The loan is fully committed. Disbursements are expected to be
completed by the Closing Date.
12. Ln No. 920 Education III; US$21.2 million, July 1973.
Effective date: January 10, 1974
Closing Date:     original - June 30, 1977
current - December 30, 1979
Project implementation had been suspended in mid-1975 pending rede-
finition of sector priorities.by the Government. Implementation has resumed
recently after the Bank agreed to reallocate part of the loan to finance rural
primary schools instead of rural secondary schools as originally proposed. As
the number of primary school graduates increase, the primary schools will
gradually become secondary school centers.
13. Ln No. 926 Sixth Railway Project; US$25 million, August 1973.
Effective date: December 6, 1973
Closing Date:     original - June 30, 1976
current - December 31, 1977
The operation of the railway has improved and for the first time
since 1974 the 1976 traffic approximately equalled the previous year's level
(in terms of ton-kms it was slightly higher). The financial condition of the



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 7
railway, however, continued to deteriorate as tariff increases have not kept
pace with cost increases. In 1976, the operating ratio of 137 did not meet
the appraisal target of 104.   As a result, the railway has requested financial
support from the Government.   Track rehabilitation work and procurement have
improved, but derailments and availability of rolling stock continue to be
poor.
14.  Ln No. 971 Preinvestment Studies Project; US$8 million, March 1974.
Effective date: June 27, 1974
Closing Date:    December 31, 1978
The Bank has approved 26 sub-projects. Commitments under the Bank
loan are proceeding at a satisfactory rate.
15. Ln No. 1071 Small-Scale Industry; US$5.5 million, January 1975.
Effective date: May 20, 1975
Closing Date:     June 30, 1978
After a slow start due to a change of management in Corporacion
Financiera Popular, the beneficiary institution, commitments are moving well
and progress is satisfactory. The second tranche was released by the Bank in
view of the satisfactory performance of CFP. It is expected that the loan
will be fully committed by December 31, 1977.
16. Ln No. 1072 Second Multi-City Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$27
million, January 1975.
Effective date: April 14, 1975
Closing Date:     June 30, 1980
There were substantial delays in making the eight subloans effective.
The last subloan (Barranquilla) was made effective on September 9, 1976.
After a slow start, project implementation has progressed steadily in most
cities.
17. Ln No. 1073 Telecommunications III; US$15 million, January 1975.
Effective date: April 14, 1975
Closing Date:     December 31, 1978
Thus far, US$8.9 million has been disbursed. Contracts for all
Bank-financed goods have been awarded, and work is proceeding satisfactorily.
18. Ln No. 1118 Caqueta Rural Settlement Project; US$19.5 million, June 1975.
Effective date:   April 1, 1976
Closing Date:     October 31, 1979
This loan became effective on April 1, 1976 after a six-month delay.
Since then, implementation has proceeded rapidly and some of the lost time
regained.  Road and bridge construction is well ahead of schedule (79 km have
been completed). School construction, however, is behind schedule, while the
credit program is proceeding well.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 7
19. Ln No. 1163 Cordoba 2 Agricultural Development Project; US$21 million,
September 1975.
Effective date: March 30, 1976
Closing Date:    December 31, 1980
A few months after effectiveness, the Government decided to give
responsibility for project civil works to another agency. This decision
delayed the initiation of the project. Implementation is now proceeding
satisfactorily, but still behind schedule.
20. Ln No. 1223 Sixth Development Finance Companies Project; US$80.0 million,
March 1976.
Effective date: September 1, 1976
Closing Date:    June 30, 1980
This loan is proceeding satisfactorily and according to schedule.
21. Ln No. 1352 Integrated Rural Development Project; US$52.0 million,
January 1977.
This loan was signed on January 7, 1977 and has not yet become
effective. Works, however, are proceeding as scheduled.
22. Ln No. 1357 Second Agricultural Credit Project; US$64.0 million, February
1977.
This loan was signed on February 4, 1977 and has not yet become
effective.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
COLOMBIA
NUTRITION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:                   2 years
(b)  Agency which prepared project:                  DNP
(c)  First presentation to Bank:                     October 1975
(d)  First mission to review project:                January 1976
(e)  Departure of appraisal mission:                 January 1977
(f)  Completion of negotiations:                     July 1977
(g)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:                  January 1978
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
Intensive supervision of the health, family gardens and monitoring
and evaluation components would be scheduled in the first year of project
implementation to assist in the initial stages of implementation of those
components.
Section III: Special Conditions
1.        Assurances were obtained that:
(a)  By January 1, 1978, the Borrower would prepare a health care
training program satisfactory to the Bank (paragraph 42).
(b)  By January 1, 1978, the Borrower would hire local consultants,
whose qualifications and terms and conditions are satisfactory
to the Bank, for positions in the MOH and the regional health
offices (paragraph 42).
(c)  The list and scope of activities to be financed under the
Project Management Fund would be agreed upon by the Borrower
and the Bank (paragraph 48).
(d)  The Borrower would complete an evaluation, under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank, of the community health
care system by September 30, 1978 and revise the pace and
scope for the system's development on a basis satisfactory
to the Bank (paragraph 49).



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(e) The PAN Group would be adequately staffed through 1985 with
key staff having adequate qualifications and job descriptions
(paragraph 51).
(f) The Borrower would maintain existing arrangements for the
recovery from beneficiaries of (i) a portion of investment costs
of the health posts and the water supply system and (ii) the entire
operating and maintenance costs of the water supply system
(paragraph 57).
(g) The Borrower would recover at least the costs of drugs and
medicines from beneficiaries of the community health system
(paragraph 58).
(h) Beneficiaries would contribute at least 50% of the costs of
installing latrines and their shelters (paragraph 58).
2.        A condition of effectiveness would be that INAS and ICBF each sign
subsidiary agreements with the Borrower and MOH sign a subsidiary agreement
with DNP (paragraph 61).
3.        Disbursements for activities undertaken by each of the remaining
agencies would be made only after its subsidiary agreement with the Borrower
had been signed (paragraph 61).



7i3-          -     ~~~~~~~                        ~   ~ ~~~~~74-  7'0-  
Rik alhov  \   \ 50 U  T        H 
A ICO}b      +;'    '     }R                       i   gOe 
12,                                      -    23MAGDALi- I r
t  '   l   {      \ M7r0~~~~~~~~~codmbo 
b_        >  o  \ <  Li   \&~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~~~                      ~~CESAR/   lo  .i/   .dtP7t1 ... ... ptl  bys e/h
'S~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~~~~~~~OT
/I                   )SU C REl                                     Vl/ll*as  za-1ae
\  X  , "'s  "  ' i t <   ?       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~          ~    ~~V E N E Z  U E L A
-   c
t i - - ~~Brranf ,   _  -  - '.                             Ocean      A//anco_ 
ATLANTICO  '~~~rI~ T.:.                                 OcIar
C, rgn ,  I   -  /_   _ r a r  | | ~ 'F F- ! | ~; ' 2_ A  R A  U  C  A \
-- ~  0                                                            tir tr,v,tah' sl,rr rl-,  -It rta brettl  ,  ,f - _ ,X   *
P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ aIESR crrryrro re                                          poo Or rOe l 1a';  ''i i/1 1-i4 l''~a  'i  ~''-v
\ ,, 1^!'- -MorZ, , )SU,CRE1 .& -      ANARE
O c  e a  n                 401 ,  --'tt  ,i:..r,,,,.  -  ,  V  I C  H  A  D A 
oi   1`r1 H  I  I  -1
K%t  '--';.tgs 1%   /                rnV A U P E S
o. E C  ADO  4                                    -
COLOMBIA                                c 
NUTRITION IMPROVEMENT PROJEC 
NUTRITION PROGRAM REGIONS          A  M  A  Z O  N  ASi
D.ppuI.men, F-non-d by USAID P-oj.c }I 
O c Altn 4/I.t  !ISq *,n lwt.tLC  Ci-te    ~I 
____de(meers Arsl-Cimote _                                   B  R  A   Z   I  l
\- 1 Above 4,000  below 7-  Alpan -1
_  _!  000 - 4,000  below  12-  Mooln .. I-d
; 2,000 - 3,000  Not less thon 12-  Cold  E  R  U     , 
.1000 - 2p000  Not la. rt- 175- Te.pet .
_Up f. 1,000  Oe, 24  Hot  
*~~  iRNers                                             o      jl  /                4--R_
=   Lw-oitwraool bou.do-ie,  KOkETERS 20-cr
7,8-                        7MIl;ES       _-            0-    ..              . iD 



