CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1487 CO
Loan Agreement
(Integrated Nutrition Improvement Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated November 10, 1977


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1487 CO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 10, 1977, between REPUBLIC OF
COLOMBIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the following modification thereof (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions):
Section 11.03 is amended to read as follows:
Section 11.03. Action on Behalf of the Borrower or
Guarantor. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed,
pursuant to the Loan Agreement or the Guarantee Agreement,
on behalf of the Borrower or the Guarantor, may be taken
or executed by the representative of the Borrower or the
Guarantor designated in the Loan Agreement or the Guarantee
Agreement for the purposes of this Section or any person
thereunto authorized in writing by him. Any modification
or amplification of the provisions of the Loan Agreement
or the Guarantee Agreement may be agreed to on behalf of
the Borrower or the Guarantor by written instrument
executed on behalf of the Borrower or the Guarantor by
the representative so designated or any person thereunto
authorized in writing by him; provided that such modification
or amplification is reasonable in the circumstances and
will not substantially increase the obligations of the
Borrower under the Loan Agreement or of the Guarantor under
the Guarantee Agreement.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:


﻿-2-
(a) "PAN" means the Plan Nacional de Alimentaci6n y
Nutrici6n of the Borrower for the years 1977 through 1985;
(b) "DNP" means Departamento Nacional de Planeaci6n of
the Borrower;
(c) "Ministerio Salud" means the Ministerio de Salud PGblica
of the Borrower;
(d) "Project Entities" means collectively the entities
listed in Part 2 of the Annex to Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as
such Annex may be amended by agreement between the Borrower and
the Bank;
(e) "Project Area" means the area within the administrative
limits of the Distrito Especial of bogotA and the area covered
by the departamentos of Caldas, Risaralda, Tolima, Valle,
Atldntico, Bolivar and Magdalena;
(f) "Community Health Posts" means the health posts, in-
cluding the services provided therefrom, set up by the Borrower in
rural and urban areas within the primary health care level of the
Borrower's National Health System;
(g) "PAN Group" means the Administraci6n of PAN estab-
lished within DNP; and
(h) "pesos" and "Col.$" mean the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
twenty-five million dollars ($25,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿-3-
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods, for civil works or for
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be
procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1982 or
such later date as the Bank shall otherwise establish. The Bank
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of eight per cent (8%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other .charges shall be payable
semi-annually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through DNP, with the participation of Ministerio Salud and the
Project Entities, with due diligence and efficiency and in confor-
mty with appropriate nutritional, agricultural, administrative,
economic, engineering and financial practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose (the funds to be provided by
the Borrower, in addition to the proceeds of the Loan, being on
the date hereof estimated to aggregate the equivalent of not less
than thirty-nine million dollars ($39,000,000). Ministerio Salud
and the Project Entities shall participate in the carrying out of
the Project to the extent indicated in the Annex to Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, as such Annex may be amended by agreement between
the Borrower and the Bank.


﻿-4-
(b) The Borrower shall enter into agreements, satisfactory
to the Bank, with each of the Project Entities for: (i) defining
in detail the responsibilities, functions and administrative
procedures of the Borrower and each of such Project Entities,
respectively, in respect of the carrying out of the Project, and
(ii) making available to each of such Project Entities such
portions of the proceeds of the Loan and such other contributions
of the Borrower as shall be necessary to cover the expenses of
each of such Project Entities in respect of the Project.
(c) The Borrower shall cause DNP and Ministerio Salud to
enter into an agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, for defining in
detail the responsibilities (including financial responsibili-
ties), functions and administrative procedures of DNP and Minis-
terio Salud, respectively, in respect of the carrying out of
the Project.
(d) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each of the
agreements referred to in paragraph (b) above in such manner as to
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accom-
plish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abro-
gate or waive such agreements or any provision thereof.
(e) The Borrower shall cause DNP and Ministerio Salud to
exercise their rights under the agreement referred to in paragraph
(c) above in such manner as to protect the interests of the Bank,
DNP and Ministerio Salud and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause DNP and Ministerio Salud not to assign, amend, abro-
gate or waive such agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall take and shall cause its
agencies and entities to take all action which shall be necessary
on their part to enable the Project Entities to carry out the
activities required from them, and shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which might interfere with the carrying out of
such activities.
Section 3.03. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in the
carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall employ, or cause
to be employed, consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank.


﻿-5-
(b) By January 1, 1978, the Borrower shall employ, or cause
to be employed, the seven full-time consultants required for the
carrying out of Part A (iii) of the Project with respect to the
health administrations in each of the departamentos in the Project
Area.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or cause
to be insured, or make adequate provision for the insurance of,
the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for 6uch
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish, or cause
to be furnished, to the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the
plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and work and
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifica-
tions thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain, or cause to be main-
tained, records adequate to record the progress of the Project
(including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose
the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable, or cause to be
enabled, the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any
relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish, or cause
to be furnished, to the Bank, all such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take, or cause to be taken,
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for the construction and operation of the facilities
included in the Project.


﻿-6-
Section 3.07. For the carrying out of Part A (ii) of the
Project, the Borrower shall prepare, by January 1, 1978, and carry
out thereafter a training program, satisfactory to the Bank, for
the primary health care level of the Borrower's National Health
System.
Section 3.08. Under Part F of the Project, the Borrower
shall: (i) by September 30, 1978, carry out an evaluation of the
primary health care level of the Borrower's National Health
System, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
on the basis of the conclusions of the evaluation in (i) hereof,
in agreement with the Bank, revise the program and implementation
schedule for the carrying out of Part A of the Project; and (iii)
carry out the program referred to in (ii) hereof.
Section 3.09. Under Part F of the Project, the Borrower
shall: (i) by January 1, 1978, initiate the special evaluation of
the nutrition delivery systems in the departamento of Bolivar or
such other departamento as the Bank shall agree, included in Part
F (b) (ii) of the Project, under terms of reference acceptable to
the Bank; and (ii) on the basis of the conclusions of the evalua-
tion in (i) hereof, modify, in consultation with the Bank, the
national nutrition program of the Borrower.
Section 3.10. For the carrying out of Part G of the Project,
the Borrower shall employ in DNP, until December 31, 1985, in
the PAN Group, the following staff:
(i) one director of the PAN Group, and two chiefs
for the financing and programming unit and the
evaluation unit of the PAN Group, respectively, all
of whom shall have appropriate qualifications,
experience and job descriptions, as defined by the
Borrower in its letter to the Bank of even date
herewith;
(ii) such qualified and experienced technical staff,
whose job descriptions shall be furnished to the
B,nk, as shall be required for the carrying out of
n/AN, including the Project; and
(iii) such qualified and experienced supporting staff as
shall be required for the efficient operation of
the PAN Group.


﻿-7-
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall: (i) by March 1, 1978,
establish the Project management fund included in Part G (b) of
the Project; and (ii) through December 31, 1980, deposit in such
fund an amount aggregating the equivalent of $300,000.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of thc Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its member. iot to seek,
in normal circumstances, special security from the member con-
cerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distri-
bution of foreign exchange held under the control or for the
benefit of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created
on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for
any external debt, which will or might result in a priority for
the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allo-
cation, realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien
shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no
cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower,
in creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any o.f
its political or administrative subdivisions, which will or might
result in a priority for the benefit of the creditor of such
external debt in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange, the Borrower shall promptly and at no cost
to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other assets,
satisfactory to the Bank, of the Borrower or of any entity owned
or controlled by, or operating for the account or benefit of, the
Borrower, including gold and other foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the Bor-
rower.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after its date.


﻿-8-
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any
such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange
assets held by any institution performing the functions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions,
for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take all action, including
the granting of all necessary authorizations, import licenses,
foreign exchange permits and all other approvals required under
the laws of the Borrower, to ensure the timely procurement of the
goods and services required for the Project.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall establish and maintain
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained sound accounting practices the operations, resources
and expenditures, in respect of the Project.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall include in the agreements to
be entered into pursuant to paragraph (b) of Section 3.01 of this
Agreement such provisions as shall be necessary to ensure that
each Projec.: Entity shall:
(a) establish and maintain separate accounts on its records
to be used exclusively for the Project and to register in such
accounts all its receipts and payments for or in connection with
the Project, in accordance with sound accounting principles and
procedures consistently applied; and
(b) (i) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a)
above and related statements for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with sound auditing prin-
ciples consistently applied, by independent audi-
tors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii) furnish to the Borrower and the Bank, as soon as
available, but in any case not later than four
months after the end of such entity's fiscal year,
(A) certified copies of such accounts and related
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested; and


﻿-9-
(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information con-
cerning such accounts and related statements of
such entity and the audit thereof as the Bank shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.05. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the
Borrower shall take and cause to be taken all action, including
the provision of funds and resources, to ensure that the facili-
ties constructed under the Project are adequately operated,
maintained, renewed and repaired.
Section 4.06. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall put into effect and maintain, or cause to be put
into effect and maintained:
(a) with respect to the works completed under Part A of the
Project, a system of contributions by the communities benefited by
such works consisting of an average of .ten per cent (10%) of all
investment costs;
(b) with respect to the works completed under Part B (a) of
the Project, a system of charges for the recovery from the users
of such works of all operating and maintenance costs, including
depreciation, and for the contribution by such users of an average
initial amount of not less than ten per cent (10%) of all invest-
ment costs followed by a further contribution by the users within
each community of a percentage ranging between ten per cent (10%)
and forty per cent (40%) of the investment costs of the works
completed for each such community, determined in accordance with
the cost recovery provisions established in Paragraph (e) of Part
3, Chapter III (C) of the Manual de Procedimientos en Promoci6n
Comunitaria para el Programa Nacional de Saneamiento Bdsico
Rural of Instituto Nacional de Salud of January, 1975;
(c) with respect to the works completed under Part B (b) of
the Project, a system of charges for the recovery from the bene-
ficiaries of such works of not less than an average of fifty per
cent (50%) of all investment costs; and
(d) with respect to health services provided under Part A of
the Project, a system of charges for the recovery, on the average,
from the beneficiaries of such services of at least the cost of
drugs and medicines provided at Community Health Posts.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) The Borrower, DNP, Ministerio Salud or any of the
Project Entities shall have failed to perform any of its respec-
tive obligations under any agreement entered into pursuant to
paragraphs (b) and (c) of Section 3.01 of this Agreement.
(b) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that the Borrower, DNP, Ministerio Salud or any
of the Project Entities will be able to perform any of its respec-
tive obligations under any agreement entered into pursuant to
paragraphs (b) and (c) of Section 3.01 o', this Agreement.
(c) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of DNP, Ministerio Salud or any of the Project Entities or
for the suspension of their operations related to the execution of
the Project.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have divested DNP, Ministerio Salud or any of the Project
Entities of any of the functions or powers vested in any of them
as of the date of this Agreement so as to affect adversely the
efficient carrying out of the Project.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, any of the events specified in
paragraphs (a) and (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall
occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice
thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events -are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:


﻿- 11 -
(a) the execution and delivery of the agreements referred
to in paragraph (b) of Section 3.01 of this Agreement on behalf of
the Borrower and Instituto Nacional de Salud and Instituto
Colombiano de Bienestar Familiar, respectively, have been duly
authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental
action.
(b) the execution and delivery of the agreement referred to
in paragraph (c) of Section 3.01 of this Agreement on behalf of
DNP and Ministerio Salud, respectively, have been duly authorized
or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action.
Section 6.02. The date March 9, 1978, is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Ministro de Hacienda y Cr6dito Pfiblico of
the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Hacienda
y Cr&dio Pfiblico
Palacio de los Ministerios
Plaza San Agustin
Bogotf, Colombia
Cable address:
MINHACIENDA
Bogoti
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 12 -
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
By /s/ Virgilio Barco Vargas
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Enrique Lerdau
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category             Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Civil works for           9,000,000            55%
Parts A and B
of the Project
(2) (a) Equipment,            6,600,000
materials
and sup-
plies (ex-
cluding
food), and
vehicles
for Parts
A, B, C, D
E and G (a)
of the Project
(i) directly                             100% of foreign
imported                            expenditures
(ii) imported                             50%
and pro-
cured lo-
cally
(iii) locally                              50% of the ex-
manufac-                             factory costs
tured
(b) Water pipes          1,700,000
and pumps
for Part B
of the Proj-
ect


﻿-14-
Amount of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category             Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(i) directly                             100% of foreign
imported                            expenditures
(ii) imported                             50%
and pro-
cured lo-
cally
(iii) locally                              75% of the ex-
manufac-                            factory costs
tured
(3) Technical                   700,000            100%
Assistance
(Consultant
services;
fellowships
under Parts C
and E of the
Project)
(4) Training
(Parts A, C and D        1,200,000            100%
of the Project)
(5) (a) PAN Group (Part       2,150,000            55%
G (a) of the
Project) Salaries
and other opera-
tional expenses,
office furniture
and equipment
for monitoring
and evaluation
(b) Project Manage-        150,000            55%
ment Fund (Part
G (b) of the
Project)


﻿- 15 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category             Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(6) Costs of produc-          1,700,000           55%
ing and trans-
mitting mass
media communica-
tions (Part C
(a) (i) of the
Project)
(7) Unallocated               1,800,000
TOTAL    25,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on
the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan de-
creases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for:
(a) expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement,
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of $300,000 may be made in respect of Categories (2),
(4), (5) (a) and (6) on account of payments made for expenditures
before that date but after February 1, 1977 included in Parts C, D
and F of the Project; and


﻿- 16 -
(b) expenditures of any Project Entity (other than Instituto
Nacional de Salud and Instituto Colombiano de Bienestar Familiar)
until evidence satisfactory to the Bank has been furnished to the
Bank that the agreement between the Borrower and such Project
Entity, provided for in paragraph (b) of Section 3.01 of this
Agreement, has been duly executed and delivered.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insuffi-
cient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in
that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such realloca-
tion cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the dis-
bursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order
that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until
all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of PAN and consists of the following
Parts to be carried out in the Project Area:
Part A:   Health Services
Strengthening of the primary health care system as a mechan-
ism for integrated delivery of nutrition/health services including
nutrition education, family welfare services, coupons for subsi-
dized food supplements, potable water supplies and latrines. To
this end, this Part of the Project shall include: (i) construc-
tion, equipping, staffing and operation of about 56 new Community
Health Posts, and renovation, equipping, staffing and operation of
about 225 existing Community Health Posts; (ii) training of staff
for the Community Health Posts referred to in (i) above; and (iii)
strengthening of the organization and management of Ministerio
Salud and the Seccionales de Salud of the Borrower.
Part B:   Water Supply and Sanitation
(a) Installation or expansion of about 215 gravity systems,
including a chlorination plant for one of them, and about 134
pumping systems, generally from deep wells; and
(b) Installation of about 112,000 household latrines.
Part C:   Nutrition Education
(a) Production, dissemination and evaluation of (i) mass
media communications, and (ii) interpersonal communications,
both designed to improve family food consumption and feeding
practices within existing income limitations; and
(b) Training of personnel, including fellowships, for the
carrying out of the activities referred to in paragraph (a)
above, in accordance with programs satisfactory to the Bank.
Part D:   Family Gardens
(a) Carrying out a program to increase production and
consumption of home-grown vegetables and legumes by approxi-
mately 20,000 families; and


﻿- 18 -
(b) Training of personnel responsible for the carrying out
of the program referred to in paragraph (a) above, in accordance
with programs satisfactory to the Bank.
Part E:   Applied Food Technology and Quality Control
(a) Carrying out of a program, which will include about
26 sub-projects and fellowships, of product research and develop-
ment, technology demonstration and extension, and feasibility
studies, designed to improve the use by low-income families of
available food and stimulate production of new varieties of
low-cost enriched foods; and
(b) (i) Establishment, equipping, staffing and operation of
a central food quality control laboratory and food
analysis system; and
(ii) Carrying out of about 6 studies regarding food
quality analysis and improvement, development of
minimum-cost diets using processed foods in differ-
ent regions and economic effects on producers
and consumers of food standards legislation.
Part F:   Monitoring and Evaluation
(a) Establishment and operation of a monitoring system: (i)
to determine the physical progress of the Project; (ii) to ascer-
tain the impact of the Project on the nutritional status, the
morbidity and mortality of the general population in the Project
Area; (iii) to enable an ongoing evaluation of the cost-effective-
ness of the Project by local, departmental and national level
managements; and (iv) to permit the continuous re-appraisal
and calibration of PAN design, based on the above; and
(b) Carrying out of: (i) an intensive evaluation of the
primary health care level of the Borrower's National Health
System; (ii) a special evaluation of the nutritional delivery
systems in the departamento of Bolivar or such other departa-
mento as the Bank shall agree; and (iii) studies of (1) management
effectiveness of the nutrition delivery system, utilizing the
Community Health Posts in comparison to direct commercial distri-
bution, (2) intra-family distribution of foods in families
assisted by the food distribution program, the extent of diversion
to non-target groups and the impact on nutritional status and (3)
effect of the Project on macro-economic variables, including


﻿- 19 -
income, productivity and employment of adult workers in the
Project Area.
Part G:   Coordination and Administration
(a) Operation of the PAN Group to coordinate, evaluate and
refine PAN, including the Project, and to prepare plans for
subsequent implementation.
(b) Establishment and operation of a Project management fund
in DNP for the financing of innovative activities consistent with
the purpose of the Project, the list and scope of such activities
to be agreed upon between the Borrower and the Bank from time to
time.
The Project will be carried out with the participation of the
entities listed in the Annex to this Schedule.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1981.


﻿- 20 -
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
Participation in the Project
1.   Ministerio Salud                  Parts A, B (b), E (b) (i)
and F (b) (i)
2.   Project Entities:
Instituto Colombiano de           Parts C and D
Bienestar Familiar
Instituto Nacional de Salud       Parts B (a), and E (b) (i)
and (ii)
Instituto de Investigaciones      Part E (a) and (b) (ii)
Tecnol6gicas
Fondo Nacional de Proyectos de    Parts C and E (a) and (b)
Desarrollo                       (ii)


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 1 and November 1
beginning May 1, 1982
through   May 1, 1994                        960,000
On November 1, 1994                             1,000,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for p.rposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 22 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                              1.40%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                              2.80%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                              5.20%
More than eleven years but not
more than fifteen years
before maturity                              7.05%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                              8.00%


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   General Procedures
1.   Except as provided in paragraphs 2 and 3 below, contracts
for the purchase of goods or for civil works shall be procured
in accordance with the Borrower's competitive bidding procedures.
2.   Contracts for the purchase of (i) water pumps and piping;
and (ii) audio-visual nutrition education equipment, vehicles
and other items, estimated to cost the equivalent of more than
$100,000, shall be procured in accordance with procedures consis-
tent with those set forth in Part A of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines)
including the pertinent provisions of the General Introduction
thereto, on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions in paragraph 1 above, civil
works may be carried out by force account or through self-help
labor.
4.   For bidding purposes, contracts referred to in paragraphs
1 and 2 above shall be grouped, to the extent practicable, in
such manner as to permit bulk procurement.
5.   Contracts for services shall be procured at a reasonable
price, account being taken also of their quality and the com-
petence of the parties rendering them.
B.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance
with local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿- 24 -
2.   Goods manufactured in Colombia may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Colombia if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Colombia equal to at least 20%
of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Colombia.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
(c) above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C
bids shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid
from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it


﻿- 25 -
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is
the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   With respect to all contracts referred to in paragraph 2 of
Part A of this Schedule estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to delivery
to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 2 of
Part A of this Schedule to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execution and prior
to delivery to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of


﻿- 26 -
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract, two
conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of
the respective bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall,
if it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.


