Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23154
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(PPFB-P1 671; IDA-26840)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 29.5 MILLION
TO THE
CAMEROON
FOR A
HEALTH, FERTILITY AND NUTRITION PROJECT
December 20, 2001
Human Development II
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official luties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 2001)
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
CFAF 730 = US$ I
US$ I = CFAF .0014
FISCAL YEAR
January I to   December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIDS          Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
CAPP          Centrale d'approvisionments pharmaceutiques provinciale
CHU           Centre hospitalier universitaire
CFA           Communaute financiere africaine
CHS           Catholic Health Services
CHW           Community Health Worker
CIM           Centre d'instruction medicale de Maroua
CPR           Contraceptive Revalence Rate
CSD           Centre de sante developpe
CSE           Centre de sante elementaire
CUSS          Centre universitaire des sciences de la sante
CY            Calendar Year
DAG           Direction des affaires generales
DCF           District Clinical Facility
DEPS          Direction des etudes de la planification et de la statistique
DHS           Demographic Health Survey
DMH           Direction de la medecine hospitaliere
DMPR          Direction de la medecine preventive et rurale
DP            Directorate of Planning of the Ministry of Economy and Finance
DPH           Direction of la pharmacie
DPS           Delegue provincial de la sant6
DSFM          Direction de la sante familiale et mentale
ED            Essential generic drugs
EU            European Union
ERC           Economic Recovery Credit
FF            French Francs
FP            Family Planning
FY            Fiscal Year
GOC           Government of Cameroon
GTZ           German Technical Cooperation Agency
HD            Health Districts
HEU           Health Education Unit of the Ministry of Public Health
HFNP          Health, Fertitily and Nutrition Project
HMIS          Health Management Information System
Vice President:    Callisto E. Madavo (AFR)
Country Manager/Director:    Robert Calderisi (AFC07)
Sector Manager/Director:    Alexandre V. Abrantes (AFTH2)
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Tonia Marek



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CAMEROON
HEALTH, FERTILITY AND NUTRITION
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                         I
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                         l
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry              2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                   9
6. Sustainability                                                                       11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                       I I
8. Lessons Learned                                                                     14
9. Partner Comments                                                                    15
10. Additional Information                                                             15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                   17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                   19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                   22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                   23
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                   24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                      25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                  26
Map IBRD 26348R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IProjec ID: P000411                                         | Project Name: HLTH/FERT/NUTRITION
Team leader: Tonia Marek                                     TL Unit: AFTH2
iCR Tpe: Core ICR                                           |Report Date: December 20, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: HLTH/FERT/NUTRITION                              L/C/TF Number: PPFB-P 1671;
IDA-26840
Country/Department: CAMEROON                                                Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: HC - Primary Health, Including Reproductive
Health, Chi; HT - Targeted Health
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  06/19/90                                  Effective: 06/07/95            01/31/96
Appraisal.  04/29/94                                    MTR. 06/10/98               10/01/99
Approval:  03/07/95                                  Closing: 06/30/2001           06/30/2001
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT/UCP
Other Partners:
STAFF                 Current                                     At Appraisal
Vice President:       Callisto Madavo                             Edward Kim Jaycox
Country Manager:      Robert Calderisi                            Francisco Aguirre-Sacasa
Sector Manager:       Alexandre Abrantes                          David Berk
Team Leader at ICR:   Tonia Marek                                 Loso Boya
ICR Priimar Author:   Tonia Marek; Barbara Machado;
Jerome F. Chevallier
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sutstainability: UN
Institutional Development Impact: N
Bank Performance: U
Borrower Perjbrmance. HU
QAG (if available)         ICR
Quality at Entry:
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Original objective. The aim of the project was to help the Government of Cameroon implement key
components of its population and health policies. More specifically, the objectives of the project were to
(a) provide institutional support for continued development of the national population policy and rapid
implementation of a national strategy for information education and communication (IEC) on family
planning (FP); (b) promote complementary organizational and administrative reforms needed to strengthen
the management of health sector resources and advance the decentralization of health services; and (c)
expand the coverage and improve the quality of primary health care coverage to under-served, low-income
populations.
The objectives of the project were highly ambitious, particularly in view of the poor experience in
implementing the health component of the Social Dimensions of Adjustment project approved in FY90.
This component was the first free-standing involvement of the Bank in Cameroon's health sector. It was
highly unrealistic to expect that the project under review would be able to expand quality primary health
care coverage to about 3 million people - about one quarter of Cameroon's total population - following the
steep deterioration of the health sector during the 1985/94 period.
Cameroon's economic performance from independence in 1960 up to 1985 had been among the best in
sub-Saharan Africa, with an average real growth of 7 percent per year. Economic growth generated the
resources required for improving the social conditions of the population. In 1985, Cameroon's health
indicators were among the best in Africa. Extemal shocks, however, combined with poor management of
the economy, led to a dramatic decline in per capita incomes and social indicators. In 1993, per capita
incomes were on average one half the level reached in 1986. The economic crisis forced deep budget
reductions in the social sectors, including health. In 1993, however, confronted with growing deficits, the
Govemment took the unprecedented action of cutting wages in the civil service by about one half. Morale
among public servants plummeted and the efficiency of goverment services shrank. The context, which
prevailed during the preparation of the project, was clearly not conducive to a major expansion and
improvement of health services.
The third objective of the project was clear, but the first two were vague and more concemed with
processes than outcomes. The broad objectives of the project were in line with the Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS), which was reviewed by the Board in June 1994, following the devaluation of the CFA
franc in January 1994. The CAS emphasized broad-based economic reforms to sustain the benefits of the
devaluation, and poverty alleviation, including improvement in the delivery of basic social services to
low-income groups. The devaluation raised expectations and the CAS provided the frame work for
ambitious programs intended to reverse the deterioration of the previous decade.
The project's scope was well beyond the Govenmment's implementation capacity. At the time of project
appraisal, the Ministry of Health was a weak and unwieldy institution. It was unable to implement a
project of the magnitude envisaged. The project was overly complex, and it was a highly risky endeavor in
view of the circumstances prevailing in Cameroon at the time. The need to address deep-seated problems in
the health sector and to alleviate the impact of the devaluation on social indicators was clearly a factor in
the Bank's decision to go ahead with the project, in spite of the high risks involved.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Project implementation was considerably delayed. A weak Ministry of Health was further debilitated by
rapid turnover of top officials; the permanent secretariat, which had the responsibility of coordinating
- 2 -



project activities, lacked experience with Bank-financed projects; and counterpart funding was not made
available. It took some time, however, for the project team to recognize the severe problems that hampered
physical progress of the project and achievement of its development objectives. A new project coordinator
was named by the Govermment in March 1998 and the project was eventually restructured in 1999. The
objectives of the restructured project were similar to those of the original project but more limited in scope,
and the: project was significantly scaled down. The restructured project was to focus on health sector
reforms, the operationalization of health districts, and the improvement of the coverage, quality and
utilization of basic health services in six instead of the initial 18 districts. The revised objectives remained
ambitious, however. The Executive Directors approved the revised credit agreement on a no-objection
basis on December 20, 1999.
3.3 O;iginal Comtponents:
The project included three components, population policy (US$1.8 million), reform of the Ministry of
Health (US$1.5 million), and expansion of health care coverage and improvement in the quality of health
services (US$34.7 million).
The first component, population policy, was designed to help develop and implement the National
Population Policy and the FP/IEC strategy. It was to support the activities of the National Population
Commission (US$820,000) and improve demographic data collection and dissemination for population
policy-making and operations (US$1,010,000).
The second component was designed to help the Ministry of Health implement organizational and
administrative reforms to strengthen the management of sector resources (US$1,240,000) and promote
decentralization of health services (US$310,000). The project was to support a reorganization of the
Ministiy of Health, introduce the management systems and tools needed to improve operations and
decentralize health service delivery by increasing local control of operations.
The third component was designed to support a major expansion of health services in five of Cameroon's
ten provinces and in its two largest cities (Yaounde, the capital city, and Douala, the main port and
economic center). During the five-year project implementation period it was expected that 18 health
districts would become fully functional with active participation of the local communities. A total of 150
integrated health centers and 18 first-referral clinic facilities were to be built or upgraded under the project
(US$22,860,000). The project was to support the integration of the full range of matemal and child care
(MCH'i and family planning (FP) services (US$2,320,000), improve nutrition interventions
(US$4,770,000), strengthen the training and retraining of health personnel at all levels (US$1,440,000),
ensure the supply of essential generic drugs, vaccines and contraceptives (US$2,530,000), and expand
communication programs (US$880,000).
The three components of the project were closely inter-related. A clearly articulated population policy,
with broad support in the country, was important for improving matemal and child health services. The
strengthening of the Ministry of Health was a pre-condition for a successful expansion of health services in
the country. The Ministry was indeed far too weak to implement even a modest project. Its administrative
and financial management capacity had been seriously undermined during the decade prior to project
appraisal.
3.4 Revised Components:
The restructured project was to provide support to the Government at the national level (develop a
regulatory framework for operationalizing health districts, regulate the pharmaceutical sector, improve
population, health and nutrition services and train managers in the Ministry of Health); and at the regional
- 3 -



level (expansion of quality primary health care to about one million people through the establishment of six
fully operational health districts and closer links with the private sector and non governmental
organizations (NGO).
The revised project included three components. The first component, implementation of the population
policy (US$ 0.2 million), was limited to activities for the collection of demographic data and to training and
awareness seminars.
The second component, organizational and administrative reforms of the Ministry of Public Health
(US$0.97 million), comprised (a) the strengthening of resource management, including the development of
a health map and the provision of data on the financing of the sector, the imnplementation of the national
pharmaceutical policy, and the planning and development of human resources; (b) the reinforcement of
community participation in the management of the health sector and the provision of primary health
services; and (c) the promotion of decentralization of health service delivery, including the acquisition of
office equipment, training and rehabilitation and upgrading of services in selected central and provincial
offices of the Ministry of Health.
The third component, expansion of health care coverage and improvement in the quality of health service
delivery (US$ 16 million), included five sub-components: ('a) support to primary health care services (PHC)
through (i) the operationalization of decentralized health districts; (ii) the reorganization of care delivery to
include maternal and child health/family planning (MCH/FP) in integrated health centers and hospitals in
selected districts; (iii) the improvement of family planning, matemal and child health services; (iv) the
control of infectious diseases, in particular malaria and AIDS/STD; and (v) the strengthening of nutrition
interventions, including surveys; (b) rehabilitation, construction and equipping of integrated health centers
and hospitals in selected districts; (c) strengthening training and retraining health personnel at all levels of
the system, including community workers and equipping the training site in the district of Maroua; (d)
provision of essential generic drugs, vaccines and contraceptives to public and private non-profit health
facilities in the selected districts; and (e) establishing contractual arrangements with NGOs and the private
sector for the delivery of health services.
The restructured project remained a highly complex undertaking. The major change made was to reduce
the size of the major component, the provision of health services, by about two thirds. The population
component was considerably reduced and limited to activities already started as well as training and
awareness seminars. The demographic and nutrition surveys were cancelled because it would have been a
duplication of the Demographic and Health Survey that was financed by USAID and UNFPA in 1998.
The nutrition sub-component was limited to studies in progress. The institutional strengthening component
was kept, but became more focused. The credit amount was reduced from SDR 29,5 million to SDR 14,74
million. Detailed action plans were prepared and it was estimated that the reduced work program was
within the capacity of the implementing agency to complete before end-2000. The initial closing date of
June 30, 2001 was not changed.
3.5 Quality at Entrv:
The quality at entry is rated as highly unsatisfactory. The project was far too complex and ambitious for a
weak institution to implement. There was no assessment of the institutions that would have responsibility
for project implementation. This was the case in particular of provincial health authorities, which were
expected to plan and monitor the establishment of the decentralized health districts. These authorities were
poorly funded, but no attempt was made to assess the extent of the problem, or to design corrective actions.
Lengthy administrative procedures hampered budget implementation, resulting in actual expenditures in the
Ministry of Health for non-wage items of about 50 percent of the amount budgeted, which was, in any
-4 -



event. far too low for meeting basic requirements.
Detailed arrangements for project implementation were not made prior to Board approval of the credit. Bid
docurments were not prepared and key staff was not hired. An action plan matrix and an implementation
schedule were annexed to the Staff Appraisal Report, but their usefulness was most limited, as they were
extrernely vague. No implementation manual was available and no adequate financial management and
accounting system was in place until after two years after credit effectiveness. For all these reasons, it took
an extended period of time for project activities to be initiated after the credit was approved. As a
consequence, disbursements were particularly slow during the first three years of project implementation.
Low budget allocations to the health sector were seen as a major constraint for an adequate operation and
maintenance of existing facilities. To remedy the problem, the project team recommended that the
Government increase gradually the share of its health budget from about 5 percent in FY1 993-94 to 10
percent in FY 1999-2000. Assurances to that effect were given during negotiations. The recommendation
made by the project team was not supported by a detailed review of public expenditures, however. It was
made, even though the team member in charge of the analysis of government budget cautioned that
possibilities for increasing either or both investment and non-salary operating budgets, even in the
medium-term, were so remote that the project should probably focus only on insisting that budgeted
amounts be spend and budget procedures be eased (Annex 10 of the SAR). Yet, no attempt was made to
achieve these more reasonable objectives.
One ihird of health facilities existing in Cameroon during project preparation was managed by the private
sector, mostly religious organizations. In view of the severe problems in the delivery of health services by
the public system, it would have been desirable to explore the possibilities of developing partnerships
between the public and the private sector. The project objective of improving the delivery of basic health
services might have been achieved in a more efficient manner than through the rebuilding of a severely
deteriorated public system, as proposed by the project team.
The lessons leamed from experience were that project implementation should be integrated into existing
departments and technical services of the Ministry of Health, and that the timely availability of counterpart
funding should be closely monitored. Basic lessons from Bank experience, such as avoiding complex
operations, particularly in sectors with little previous involvement, or ensuring that detailed implementation
arrangements are in place before project approval, were ignored, however.
Although a list of performance indicators was mentioned in Annex 22 of the SAR, no attempt was made at
quantifying any of them, and no baseline was established. A set of indicators was provided as an
attachment to the second supervision report. They were overly ambitious. A review of these indicators is
in Amnex I of the ICR.
The benefits expected from the proposed operation were to reduce the matemal mortality rate by 30
percent, increase vaccination coverage from under 40 percent to between 60 and 80 percent, decrease
malnutrition rate from 14 to 8 percent, and increase the modem contraceptive prevalence rate from less
than 5 percent to between 10 to 20 percent in the 18 health districts to be supported by the project in 2000.
These benefits were far beyond what could have been reasonably expected. The project was a highly risky
operation in view of the circumstances prevailing in Cameroon. The risk section in the SAR mentioned
several risks, including delays in translating recently adopted population and health policies into
implementable programs, weak coordination capacity in the Ministry of Health, and lack of continued
government support to new policies in the sector. Mitigation measures for these risks were not appropriate.
The obvious risk of inadequate funding of project activities was not mentioned.
-5 -



4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Ouitcome/achievement of objective:
The project failed to achieve most of its objectives. The benefits expected from the project failed to
materialize, even in the much reduced project area following the restructuring. The population policy has
not been further developed, the management of resources in the health sector has not been significantly
strengthened, and the coverage and quality of health services have not improved. In the absence of baseline
and end-of-project evaluation data, it is difficult to make an adequate assessment of project outcomes. The
following is based on the 1998 Demographic and Health Survey (DHS) and 1999 data from 17 out of 18
project health districts. More recent data not being available, it is not possible to assess the final impact of
the project, however it is unlikely that the situation has substantially improved since 1999.
In terms of health impact: the districts covered by the project fare no better than those not chosen on all
indicators except for prenatal visits where they fare about the same (see table below, based on 1998 data).
This could have been due to targeting of the worse districts by the project. However, project assistance
was directed at the 18 districts which did not receive any major external financial support, thus targeting is
not a factor which can explain the difference between the two types of districts.
Districts      Coverage by measles   Coverage with first  Coverage by       Rate of use of
vaccinations       prenatal visit     health centers    health centers
17 project districts for    24%                 16%                 69%               9%
which data was found
59 districts not touched    33%                 17%                 86%               16%
by project by in same
provinces
Health indicators have deteriorated in Cameroon during the 1990s, as shown in the table below, in addition
HIV/AIDs has become a major threat, with the sero-prevalence rate increasing from and estimated 0.5
percent in 1987 to II percent now. The data were extracted from data from the Demographic and Health
Surveys of 1991 and 1998.
1991 DHS        1998 DHS
Infant mortality                    65%              77%
Maternal mortality rate            430 per 10,000    430 per 10,000
Vaccination rate                _ 31.5%              29.4%
Birth attended by health staff     63.8%             58.2%
Malnutrition in infants less than 6  3.2%            5.5%
months oldI
In terms of access to health services: construction of 13 new rural health centers and of a new district
hospital increased access to health services for some rural populations concerned, but did not make a
significant difference. The table below shows the population per health center with and without the project.
- 6 -



Province     # of new health       Population per              Population per
centers built        health center               health center
by the project       with project                without project
Center       7                     6772                        6911
East          3                    6407                        6582
Littoral      1                    9789                        9838
West          1                    7338                        7368
South         1                   4850                         4896
In terms of utilization of health services, data collected during the ICR mission in a few health facilities
which had been rehabilitated with project assistance, show that they were collecting three to four times
more revenues than before the rehabilitation took place. This large increase in utilization of health services,
however, was not expected to last, as services remained poor.
In ternms of quality of care, the project did not make any significant contribution. The ICR mission noted
that medicines were not available in many of the health centers visited and that equipment procured under
the project was far from adequate. The outcome of the project is rated unsatisfactory.
4.2 Ouiputs by components:
Project outputs are limited:
Population policy.
(a) collection of demographic data: a demographic and health survey was carried out in 1998 with other
donors, making the collection of demographic data envisaged in the project no longer needed.
(b) training and awareness seminars: no specific training on this topic was conducted but norms on
reproductive health were elaborated and published.
This component is rated unsatisfactory
Institutional strengthening of the Ministry of Health and health sector reforms
(a) resource management:
a Health Map was completed in 2001 with project assistance. The data collected for the map were
reviewed during seminars at the provincial and national levels. The map is a powerful instrument for
improving the use of resources by the Ministry of Health.
provision of data on the financing of the sector: a study was initiated, but not completed, because
of the poor quality of work done by the consultant. The expected increase in the share of health in public
expenditures did not materialize. On the contrary, the share of the health sector in actual budget
expenditures has declined from 5 percent in 1989/90 to 3 percent in 1997/98 and is at 3.7% now.
implementation of the national pharmaceutical policy: the project helped prepare a therapeutic
guide for medical doctors as well as a treatment guide for sexually transmitted diseases, both guides were
co-financed by WHO; training on management of drugs at the district level for 164 people was financed by
the preject.
planning and development of human resources: the project unit helped prepare a census of health
- 7 -



personnel, the project helped elaborate national norms for allocating human resources by level of district
health infrastructures; a training policy was published in June 2001.
(b) provision of essential generic drugs, vaccines and contraceptives to public and private non-profit health
facilities in the districts supported by the project; this was done in five districts, but the last supervision
mission noted that some of the drugs provided were beyond their expiration date.
(c) establishing contractual arrangements with NGOs and the private sector for the deliverv of health
services. The project helped health NGOs get organized in an association called ROSACAM.
(d) reinforcement of community participation in the management of the health sector and the provision of
primary health services: a Guide for community dialogue was designed and published, and training of 492
people on local dialog structures was financed by the project.
(e) promotion of decentralization of health service delivery:
acquisition of office and medical equipment: equipment was bought and installed, but it was too
often of poor quality.
*     rehabilitation and upgrading of services in selected central and provincial offices of the Ministry
of Health: this included mainly rehabilitations and some new constructions.
A guide on a decentralized accounting system for health structures was designed and disseminated.
This component is rated as unsatisfactory
Expansion of health care coverage and improvement in the quality of health service delivery
A number of health facilities was rehabilitated or built with project assistance, but most of them have not
yet received the equipment needed for adequate operation. Allocation of staff to the new facilities was not
completed before the closing date of the credit.
(a) support to primary health care services
operationalization of decentralized health districts: in the second half of 2001 the Minister of
Health appointed the staff of the health districts supported by the project; 25 people were trained in
management of health districts and applied epidemiology; a guide for local committees was published in
february 2001, as well as a manual on health district infrastructures. A standard list of equipment by
category of district health infrastructures was also published.
reorganization of care delivery to include maternal and child health/family planning (MCH/FP) in
integrated health centers and hospitals in selected districts: nothing specific was done on this issue except
for training of 149 people on the extended vaccination program.
improvement of family planning, maternal and child health services: 693,000 doses of meningitis
vaccines were bought and distributed in 1998 and 2000 to the CENAME, the government's central drug
procurement institution; training on impregnated mosquito nets was provided to 55 people;
control of infectious diseases, in particular malaria and AIDS/STD; training was undertaken on
management of AIDS cases for 39 people, on management of malaria cases for 158 people; training of 39
laboratory technicians on HIV/STD/TB diagnosis, and of 77 people on diagnosis of malaria, was also
carried out;
strengthening of nutrition interventions, including surveys: because of delays in project
implementation, the survey was no longer deemed necessary as the 1998 Demographic and Health Survey
collected nutrition data.
-8 -



(b) rehabilitation, construction and equipping of integrated health centers and hospitals in selected districts
a manual to help design health infrastructures in Cameroon was designed with project financing and
published in December 1998;
in the first phase of the project, 10 health centers and 4 district hospitals were built or rehabilitated, and
equipped; during the second phase of the project another 21 rural health centers (of which 13 new
constructions), 4 urban health centers, 3 district hospitals (of which I is a new construction, 4 district
health services, 2 provincial health offices and I provincial drug depot were built or rehabilitated),and;
motorcycles were bought for health centers.
(c) strengthening training and retraining health personnel at all levels of the system, including community
workers and equipping the training site in the district of Maroua; following project restructuring, the
objective was to train 724 people in a variety of subjects; 753 were actually trained, slightly surpassing the
objective.
Despite the physical completion of infrastructures, the component is rated unsatisfactory, because several
facililies are less than adequate and most of them have not received the equipment needed.
4.3 Aet Present Value/lEconomic rate of rethrn:
N/A
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project has contributed to establishing a framework for the operationalization of health districts. It has
defined norms and guidelines, which are critical for will be used to improving the efficiency of the Ministry
of Health. Staff have been trained. The institutional development impact of the project is negligible,
however, as the implementation of the new framework and of the new guidelines remains to be carried out.
Supervision of health facilities is not adequate and is a deficiency in the system.
5. M;ajor Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The economic crisis of the late 1980s early 1990s severely undermined the social fabric in Cameroon. It
also devastated the construction industry. When the project was approved in 1995, the capacity of
architectural firms and contractors was extremely weak. Local architects recruited by the project to
prepare plans for the construction and rehabilitation of health facilities proved unable to deliver on their
cont-acts. This contributed to serious delays in project implementation.
Responsibility for developing a training strategy was initially entrusted to WHO. Conflicts developed,
however, between the Govemment and WHO, and little was done under this component for the first three
year3.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Frequent cabinet reshuffles were highly detrimental to project implementation and to the dialogue on sector
policies. During the life of the project five ministers were in charge of the sector. A new minister would
typically make staff changes, which would delay critical decisions for project implementation. This did not
improve an already low staff morale.
During the project implementation period, little progress was made by Cameroon on govemance issues.
-9-



The country has been widely perceived as one of the world's most corrupt countries. Corruption is
widespread and deeply rooted in the country's political and economic system. Procurement under the
project suffered from this poor environment, which contributed to serious delays in project implementation
and, in several cases to poor value for money spent.
Achieving the project's objectives would have required goverrnental decentralization and community
development and a more participatory approach to civil society. Little progress was made during the
project implementation period on these crucial issues. The decision making process has remained strongly
centralized. Provincial and local authorities, which had a key role to play for making health districts work,
were not given additional resources or authority.
The lack of counterpart funding has been a major issue throughout the project's life. Severe problems were
also encountered in the reimbursement of taxes paid by contractors.
Appointment of key personnel for the Technical Secretariat in charge of the project coordination, was not
done through a competitive process. People were appointed for their loyalty to the Minister not for their
competence. The Government strongly resisted request for staff replacement, which delayed project
restructuring.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The relevant departments and technical services of the Ministry of Health and of the Ministry of Economy
and Finance were responsible for project implementation. The technical committee for the coordination and
follow-up of health projects (TCC), including representatives of ministries concerned with health,
population and nutrition issues, was responsible for coordinating implementation of the project. A TCC
secretariat was established to carry out the work load. It included a project coordinator, who was
appointed before credit negotiations.
Implementing agencies were weak and the secretariat did not provide the leadership required for
coordinating their activities. It took a long time for the project coordinator to hire the key project
management staff. The staff, who was eventually hired, was not up to the task, however. The supervision
mission, which visited Cameroon in May/June 1997, recommended that the project management unit be
restructured. Weaknesses persisted, however, and a condition for project restructuring was the hiring of
competent staff in the project management unit. Serious procurement problems were encountered during
project implementation. Most bidding documents were returned several times, and in a few instances the
bidding process had to be canceled. This was the case for the recruitment of consultants for preparing the
training strategy after the decision made not to seek any longer the services of WHO, and for the
recruitment of auditors.
5.4 Costs and.financing:
The restructuring of the project led to the cancellation of about US$20 million out of a US$43 million
credit. An amount of US$ 3.84 million was not disbursed in early November 2001, more than four months
after the closing date. About 36 percent of the credit was disbursed. The table below shows actual
disbursements compared to initial allocations in millions of US$. The relative importance of each category
in actual disbursement was by and large in line with initial allocations, except for consultant services,
which was much higher and drugs, contraceptives and vaccines, which was much lower. The poor work
done by a number of consultants has been a factor, as new consultant had to be hired to deliver the
expected results.
- 10-



Category                   Initial allocation     Actual disbursements       |_%_l
Civil works                16.70                  6.19                        37
Equipment                  7.50                   2.29                        31
Drugs contraceptives etc    3.60                  0.37                         10
Consultants                1.40                   2.15                         154
Training                   4.70                   1.82                         39
Operating costs            3.50                   1.55                        44
Maintenance                2.00                   0.55                         28
PPF                        0.60                   0.71                         118
Total.                     43.00                  15.65                        36
6. Sustainability
6.1 I'ationale for sustainability rating:
None of the ingredients needed for ensuring the sustainability of the project is at work at present in
Cameroon. Health facilities built or rehabilitated under the project have not received the equipment needed
for nornal operation. Actual budget expenditures in the health sector (in terms of percentage of the
national budget allocated to health) are much less than initial allocations, raising serious doubts as to the
sustainability in the delivery of services. Staff assigned to district facilities are not willing to stay under
what they consider as hardship conditions, and generally find ways to delay moving to their new
assignments or accelerate the return to a more comfortable environment. Provincial and local authorities
are weak and not in a position to play the leadership role required for an effective operation of the health
district system. The sustainability of the project is unlikely.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The Ministry of Health has prepared a sector strategy through a consensus building process. The strategy
is expected to be approved by the government before end-2001. The draft strategy recognizes the serious
issues in the sector and makes proposals, which should, if approved and acted upon, go a long way in
reversing the deterioration of the sector in the past fifteen years. The Bank has approved a multi-sectoral
HIV/AIDS project in FY00. A capacity building project in the heath sector may be considered.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
In the late 1980s/early 1990s, the Bank was concerned with the social dimensions of adjustment in
sub-Saharan Africa. In FY90, a project was approved for Cameroon, which had initiated a reform
program in 1988. As a member of the CFA franc zone, however, Cameroon was not able to devalue its
currency, and the program failed to bring about expected results. Under the social dimensions of
adjustment project, a small health component was included, but is was clear that a larger operation was
needed to stem the serious deterioration in health services across the country. The project under review
was identified in early 1993. Following the devaluation of January 1994, the project was considered an
essential element in the Bank strategy, which aimed at sustaining the benefits of the devaluation and
reducing poverty. In that context, it was important to help the Government prepare a program to start
reversing the earlier deterioration in health services and indicators. The project as identified was overly
ambitious, however, in view of the weak capacity in the Ministry of Health. A more modest approach
focusing on creating the conditions for improving service delivery at a later stage would have been more
appropriate. The performance of the Bank in project identification is rated as unsatisfactory.
- 11 -



Preparation of the project took about two years, but significant gaps remained when the project was
appraised in 1994. Little was known on actual expenditures in the sector or on the qualifications of the
staff expected to deliver services in the health districts. Preparation of the project did not include an
assessment of the health services provided by the private sector or religious groups. The quality of such
services was on average better than those provided by the public sector, yet no attempt was made to
establish cooperative arrangements between the two sectors. Similarly, community-driven approaches,
which had shown success in improving the delivery of health and nutrition services, were not considered.
The capacity of the local construction industry to implement a large project in several regions of the
country was not assessed. It was common knowledge, however, that the industry had been devastated by
the economic crisis of the late 1980s/early 1990s. A procurement plan was not available at the time of
appraisal. Accordingly, the performance of the Bank during project preparation is rated as unsatisfactory.
In view of the poor record of Bank-financed projects in Cameroon in the late 1980s and early 1990s, it was
not reasonable to expect that the project would be implemented according to schedule. As already
indicated, the project was overly ambitious and implementation mechanisms were not in place at the time of
Board approval. It was not reasonable to expect that the project would provide quality health care
coverage to an additional 3 million people or that maternal mortality would be reduced by 30 to 50 percent
in the districts receiving assistance. In approving the project the Bank raised expectations that could not be
met.
The commitment of the government to the reform of its health sector was not adequately assessed. The
Ministry of Health did not have the capacity to implement the project as prepared, but this issue was not
discussed in the appraisal report. Provincial authorities were not in position to provide the leadership
required for operationalizing the health district policy. Incentives were not adequate for implementing that
policy. The SAR noted high imbalances in the allocation of health personnel due in particular to difficult
working conditions in rural areas, but did not make any concrete proposal to address the problem, except
for building staff housing with each health center. It also noted the low productivity of the staff, but failed
to propose remedies. Incentives for sustaining the expected benefits of the project were not present at the
time of its appraisal.
As already indicated in the quality at entry section above, the implementation plan was not adequate.
Performance indicators were missing and the high risks of the proposed project were not adequately
recognized. Basic lessons from Bank experience were ignored. A pre-appraisal mission visited Cameroon
in June-July 1993. It was composed of eight people, of which six were consultants. An appraisal mission
composed of seven people visited Cameroon in May-June 1994. Only two members of the mission were
part of the previous mission, however. The cost of appraisal was high, but the work delivered was not
adequate. The performance of the Bank during project appraisal is rated as highly unsatisfactory.
7.2 Supervision:
During the first three years of project implementation, supervision was highly ineffective. In 1995, only
one mission visited Cameroon. It simply observed that effectiveness conditions had not been met. Two
missions visited Cameroon in 1996. They continued to rate the project as satisfactory for both
implementation progress and achievement of development objective, in spite of the severe problems, which
hampered project execution. The extent of these problems was not fully recognized by the missions, and
follow-up letters were not focused on how to address them. The supervision mission, which visited
Cameroon in May/June 1997, rated implementation progress as unsatisfactory, but kept the satisfactory
rating for the achievement of development objectives. A year later, more than three years after Board
approval, the new sector manager visited Cameroon and realized the long list of serious issues to be
- 12 -



add.essed for getting results under the project. The mission suggested a number of drastic measures to be
taken by Government before end-June 1998 to justify the restructuring of the project. The first task
manager was replaced.
The restructuring of the project took more than a year and a half. Some members of the team were of the
opinion that the credit should be simply canceled. Others were encouraged by positive signals, including
the appointment of the former WHO Director General for Africa as the new Minister of Health. Progress
was made on key actions required, and the project was eventually restructured. Project implementation
improved, but not to the point where a satisfactory rating would have been warranted. The ratings for both
implementation progress and achievement of development objectives remained unsatisfactory until the last
supervision mission in May 2001. The change to satisfactory ratings at that time was not adequately
justified, however.
In spite of the inappropriate rating of project performance by the last supervision mission, supervision was
fully adequate in the last three years of project implementation. Bank missions visited Cameroon at least
twice a year. Their aide-memoires were focused on key issues. The missions tried their best to help the
project management unit and the departments in the Ministry of Health implement the scaled down project.
Follow-up letters were sent shortly after the return of the missions and drew the attention of the
Government to the actions needed for completing the project on time, and improving sector policies.
Field supervision was made difficult due to the geographical dispersion of districts where the project was
active. As can be seen on the map, each district was literally at each cardinal point of the country.
The performance of the Bank during project supervision is rated as unsatisfactory. It was highly
unsatisfactory during the first three years of project implementation. It became satisfactory during the last
three years.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall Bank's performance is rated as unsatisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
With help from a Japanese grant extended in 1991, the Government has reviewed its policy in the health
and population sectors, developed action plans for their implementation, and strengthened the institutional
capacity of the Ministry of Health. Two PPF advances were extended in 1991 and 1992 to finance studies
in the areas of urban primary health care delivery, nutrition, pharmaceutical policy and health sector
resource management and to support the establishment of the technical committee for the coordination and
follow-up of health sector projects. Additional preparatory work would have been required to ensure a
smooth implementation of the project, but this was not suggested by the Bank team. The performance of
the Borrower during project preparation is rated as satisfactory.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The basic conditions for moving ahead with project implementation were not met in substance during the
lifs of the project. The staff initially recruited for the project management unit was not up to the task.
Following the restructuring of the project, new staff was recruited, but this was not done through a
competitive process, and serious deficiencies remained. Counterpart funding remained a major issue
throughout project implementation. The failure of the Government to provide the required amount of
counterpart funding in mid-2001 before the closing date of the credit has been a key factor in the failure to
deliver expected equipment to the health facilities built or renovated with project support. The Bank was
- 13 -



prepared to extend the closing date of the credit by six months to allow for the financing of this equipment.
The conditions for such an extension were, however, that counterpart financing had to be paid, and the
audit report or the Julyl999-June 2000 accounts submitted. None of these conditions was met.
The Government was not committed to the objectives of the project, in particular to improving the delivery
of basic health services to the population. It did not increase allocations to the health sector and continued
to favor the central level in sector allocations. About one half of non personnel operating expenses was still
earmarked for the central level in the 2000/01 budget. The Government failed to redeploy health staff to
disadvantaged areas and in particular to the health facilities built or rehabilitated with project support. It
also consistently delayed taking action to make the changes to its health policies, which were required for
implementing the project. This was particularly the case in the areas of drugs and health districts. The
performance of the Government during project implementation is rated as highly unsatisfactory.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
All implementation agencies were deficient in carrying out their part of the project. The project
management was highly deficient throughout most of the project implementation period. Serious problems
kept surfacing in procurement and financial management. Audit reports, when available, uncovered all
sorts of irregularities. The performance of the implementing agency is rated as highly unsatisfactory.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall perfornance of the Borrower is rated as highly unsatisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
As indicated above, basic lessons from Bank experience were ignored during project preparation, appraisal
and supervision, particularly in the following areas:
e      Be realistic conceming expectations and establish systems for measuring performance. The
benefits expected from the proposed operation were highly exagerated and no system was in place to assess
progress.
-     Simplify project design, particular in sectors without prior experience in Bank-financed projects.
The project was far too complex. Past experience in the sector was poor. The sector had been devastated
by the economic crisis of the late 1980s -early 1990s. The environment was not conducive to a large
investment program in the sector. Given the country's political situation, conflicting economic priorities
and weak institutions, project design should have been kept simple and focused on areas in which the
political environment and institutional capacity could have ensured some sustainability.
*     Carry out an institutional assessment. No such assessment was carried out. Had it been, it would
have shown pervasive weaknesses in the directorates of the Ministry of Health, which were entrusted with
project implementation and would have led to a different project altogether.
*     Ensure that project implementation arrangements are in place prior to project approval. The
project team recommended that such arrangements be made as conditions of effectiveness. Effectiveness
was much delayed and conditions were never met in substance.
*     Make sure that all stakeholders are on board. The provincial and local authorities, which were
expected to play a major role in the operationalization of health districts were not consulted. A project
launch workshop would have helped the large number of people involved in project implementation to
better understand what was expected of them. No such workshop was organized.
*     Ensure close supervision and involve Bank managers in the process. Supervision was ineffective in
the first years of project implementation and Bank management did not seem to be concemed with clear
signals that the project was in deep trouble.
- 14-



Many of those lessons (the first four) were already mentioned in the June 1995 ICR of the Social
Dimensions of Adjustment Project (Loan 3206-CM).
The (levaluation of the CFA franc opened up an opportunity for improved macroeconomic management,
after years of economic and social decline and failed policies. It was essential for the Bank to help
Cameroon improve social indicators, including health conditions. Not doing it vigorously would have made
the ongoing adjustment process eventually unsustainable. Instead of a large investment in the public sector,
the Bank should have considered a two-pronged approach: (i) build up institutions in the public sector and
(ii) improve services using the non-government network, which, in spite of its small comparative size, was
and is still providing the bulk of basic health services to the population.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
An impact evaluation at the closing date of june 2001 is difficult to undertake considering that the project's
achievements are not yet integrated into the system to modify health indicators. This would be the case for
example, of a district whose health staff has been trained in the extended program for immunizations in
april 2001 and whose hospital has been equiped in june 2001. One would have to wait at least six months
before seeing any results of these investments in the health system's statistics.
The choice of personnel and of executing agency were determining factors influencing the results obtained
through this project. Also, the complexity of the World Bank's procedures and the delays in harmonizing
responses between World Bank staff, the MOH and other concerned ministries contributed to decreasing
the actual implementation time for this project.
The poor results achieved by this project can be attributed mainly to the following factors:
- the strong centralization of the World Bank in Washington in terms of decision making for project
implementation;
- the insufficient technical capacity of the resident mission in assisting the project implementation team;
- the lack of mastery of certain procedures by the World Bank's task manager who sometimes took the
inadequate decisions;
- the fact that some World Bank staff take decisions during supervision missions after having analyzed the
situation in the field, but change opinion once they are back in Washington.
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other pai-tners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
The ICR mission, which visited Cameroon in October 2001, was confronted with several examples of
unacceptable performance by architects, contractors and suppliers. For instance, in a district hospital,
access to the operating room located on the second floor was through an outdoor ramp, built at a 40-degree
angle, and without any protection from the rain. In another hospital, the mission met with an obstetrician,
who showed an echography machine, which had been delivered with project assistance, but did not work.
Microscopes bought for the laboratories of health centers and hospitals were of such poor quality that were
not usable and were discarded. The waste incinerators built with project assistance in health centers and
hospitals were systematically not used, and waste continued to be discarded as before. The reasons given
- 15-



were that the incinerator used too much wood, that it did not heat enough to bum everything, or in one
instance, that the chimney was too short and the fumes would go back into the wards. Many high officials
indicated simply that the project was an example of what not to do.
- 16-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                    Projected in last PSR                  Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Rate of use of health centers       n.a.                                   n.a.
2. Coverage for BCG, DTC3, and Polio3    - in '91: BCG: 72%; DTC3:43%; Polio3: 45%  BCG: 72%; DTC3: 46%; Polio3: 42%
vaccinattions.                         - raise vaccination coverage in project areas
from 40% to between 60 and 80%
3. Coverage of antenatal care.         79% consulted trained personnel in '91  79% consulted trained personnel
4. Faminiy planning: contraceptive use  CPR from 5% in '94 to 20% in '99      CPR: 8% in '98 (was 4% in '91)
prevalence rate.
5. Rate of use of ORT for diarrhea control.  18% of children with diarrhea were given  22% of children with diarrhea were given
6. Prevalence of malnutrition in project    ORT salts in '91                 ORT salts
impact areas
7. Matsmal mortality in project areas  from 12% in '94 to 8% in '99          went from 16% in '91 to 22%
reduced by 30-50%                      n.a.
Column "Projected in last PSR": Note that except for indicators number 2, 4 and 6, 7, the SAR did not quantify the
objectives, nor were they quantified later on.
The "Latest estimate" is that from the 1998 demographic and health survey.
Outpu[t Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                    Projected in last PSR                  Actual/Latest Estimate
POPULATION POLICY:                     this component was eliminated as other
- sectoral population policy           donors were financing it.
- fertility surveys every 2 years, a
contraceptive prevalence survey/year
- establish a national information center on
population and dvlpt. in Yaounde
- nutrition survey
INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING:                                                -health map done in 2001
- study on financing of the sector not
a. Improve resource management by                                             c
establishing norms and standards, and                                          therapeutic guide for MDs done
reinforcing policy formulation and monitoring:                                 treatment guide for STDs done
norms and standards designed                                                  census of health personnel done
- increase the share of the health sector in                                   norms to allocate personnel by level of
national budget from 5% to 10%                                               infrastructure done
- develop a health management information                                      training policy published in 2001
syste rr                                                                      - manual on health district infrastructures
- strengthen the health education unit of                                     pbihdwt  tnadeupetls
.                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~published with standard equipment list
MOH and expand IEC.                                                           - share of the health sector in national
budget decreased to 3.7%
- a health management information systems
was started at the health centers level
- nothing was done on health education
b. Provision of essential drugs, vaccines:                                    - some drugs and vaccines (693,000 doses
- adopt a pharmaceutical policy                                               of meningitis vaccine) bought
- adopt regulations for the Central Supply
Store lor Essential Drugs
- propose measures to ensure quality of
imported drugs
- buy drug buffer stocks for provincial drug
supply stores
c. Establishing contractural arrangements                                     - a consortium of health NGOs was created
with NGOs and private sector                                                  (ROSACAM)
d. Reinforcement of community participation:
- Guide published
- Trairing on community committees                                            - guide for local committees was published
e. P omotion of decentralization:
- equipment bought                                                            - 2 provincial health offices; 1 provincial drug
- rehaDilitation and upgrading of                                             depot, renovated or built and partially equiped
-17-



infrastructures                                                               - guide on decentralized accounting system
- norms established                                                           designed
EXPANSION OF COVERAGE:
a. Support to primary care:                                                 - 25 people trained in management of health
-18 health districts operational                                              districts;
- 960 health center personnel trained                                         - 149 people trained on EPI
- 120 district hospital personnel trained                                     - 55 people trained on impregnated mosquito
-120 health distridct personnel trained                                       nets
- 10 provincial health staff trained                                          -39 people trained on management of AIDS
- 50 central level staff trained                                              -158 people trained on management of
malaria
- 39 lab. technicians trained on HIV/STD/
TB diagnosis
- 77 people trained on malaria diagnosis
-47 people trained on data collection
-164 people trained on drug management
TOTAL: 753 people trained.
- micronutrient supplementation
- growth monitoring of 1,500,000 children
through 150 health centers
b. Rehab/construction health centers:
150 integrated health centers and 18 district                                 - 10 health centers and 4 district hospitals
hospitals operational.                                                        built or rehabilitated and equiped
- 21 rural health centers, 4 urban health
centers, 3 district hospitals, built or
rehabilitated but not equiped;
- motorcycles bought for health centers
End of project
- 18-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million)
Appraisal Estimate    Actual / Latest    Percentage
Project Cost By Component           US$ million    Estimate US$ million Spent over Appraisal
Estimate
A. Assistance in development and
implementation of national population
policy and FP/IEC strategy
1. Supporting the activities of the national   0.82       0                  0
population commission
2. Improving demographic data collection    1.01         0.12               11.9
and dissemination'
B. Organization and administrative
reiForms of MOPH
1. Strengthening MOPH's services and  1.24                0.49              39.5
structures
2. Developing health management       0.31                0.22              71.0
inlormation systems
C. Expansion of PHC coverage and
se]rvice quality improvement
1. Supporting PHC Services through   22.86               15.67              68.5
decentralized.
2. Improving family planning and MCH   2.32               0                  0
3. Strengthening nutrition interventions  4.77           0.32                6.7
4. Strengthening training and retraining of   1.44        0.58              40.3
health sector staff
5. Supplying essential generic drugs,  2.53               0.57              22.5
vaccins and contraceptives
6. Expanding communications through    0.88               0.03               3.4
IEC
0.60               0.42              70.0
D., Project Preparation Advance
38.78             18.45              47.6
Total Baseline Cost                    3.26
Physical contingencies                 6.04
Price contingencies
Total Projects Costs                      48.08             18.45              38.4
Total IDA Financing Required              43.00             15.90              36.9
- 19 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
P:rocurement MethodI
Expenditure Category        ICB           NCB          Othero 2       N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                     16665.40       2941.00         0.00          0.00        19606.40
(16665.40)     (627.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)      (17292.40)
2. Goods                      7470.00        520.70         0.00           0.00        7990.70
(6982.30)      (468.30)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (7450.60)
3. Services                   1399.30         0.00          0.00           0.00        1399.30
(1399.30)       (0.(0)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (1399.30)
4. Drugs/Miscellaneous        4305.80         0.(0         1118.90         0.00        5424.70
(3570.40)       (0.(0)       (600.00)       (0.00)       (4170.40)
5. Training, Workshop and      0.00         4513.50        250.00         0.00         4763.50
Studies                       (0.00)        (4459.50)     (250.00)        (0.00)      (4709.50)
6.Operating/Maintenance/O      0.00           0.00         8469.20         0.00        8469.20
per. Cost/Supervision         (0.00)         (0.(0)       (7833.40)       (0.00)      (7833.40)
Total                     29840.50        7975.20       9838.10         0.00       47653.80
(28617.40)     (5554.80)     (8683.40)       (0.00)      (42855.60)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category        ICB           NCB          Other2        N B-F.      Total Cost
1. Works                      8447.40         0.(0         123.80         0.00        8571.20
(8045.15)       (0.(0)       (117.90)       (0.00)      (8163.05)
2. Goods                      1871.80         0.00         69.50          0.00        1941.30
(1779.40)       (0.(0)       (69.50)        (0.00)      (1848.90)
3. Services                  2566.60          0.00          0.00          0.00        2566.60
(2566.60)       (0.(0)        (0.00)        (0.00)      (2566.60)
4. Drugs/Miscellaneous                        0.00        1165.80         0.00        1165.80
(0.00)        (0.00)      (1165.80)       (0.00)      (1165.80)
5. Training, Workshop and      0.00           0.00         761.50         0.00        761.50
Studies                       (0.00)         (0.00)       (761.50)       (0.00)       (761.50)
6.Operating/Maintenance/O      0.00           0.00        3446.60         0.00        3446.60
per. Cost/Supervision         (0.00)         (0.00)       (890.25)       (0.00)      (890.25)
Total                     12885.80         0.00        5567.20         0.00        18453.00
(12391.15)      (0.00)      (3004.95)       (0.00)      (15396.10)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
- 20 -



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Corponent               Appraisal Estimate            Actual/Latest Estimate                           l
Bank      Govt.      CoF.      Bank       Govt.      CoF.    Bank   Govt.  CoF.
A                         2.20       0.25                 0.12                           5.5    0.0
B                          1.52      0.32                 0.69                           45.4    0.0
C                         38.66      4.44                 14.10      3.07                36.5   69.1
Project Advance           0.69                            0.42                          60.9
TOTAL:                    43.07      5.01                 15.33      3.07                35.6   61.3
-21 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
N/A
- 22 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                   No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)     Implementation  Development
Month/Year    Count            Specialty                       Progress       Objective
Identification/Preparation
10/90                        4    I TM, I OO,2 CONS
12/91                        3   1 TM, I 00, 1 CONS
Appratisal/Negotiation
05/94                         7   1 TM, I FA, I PHS, I PRS,
I PS, I ECON, I OA
12/94                         3   1 TM, I DO, I LW
Supervision
05/95
06/95                         2   I TM, I ECO                          S              S
03/96                         4   1 TM, I DA, I ECO, IS                S              S
12/96                         3   1 TL, I DA, IECO                     S              S
06/97                         6   I TL, I IS, 1 DA, I ECO, I           U              S
ARC, I NU
10/97                         5   I TL, I DA, I ARC, I PS,             U             U
I ES
03/98                         3   1 TL, I PHS, I HS                    U              U
10/98                         5   I TL, 1 ARC, I ECO, I PA, I          U             U
HS
05/99                         6   I TL, I PSH, I ECO, I PA,            U              U
I ARC, I DA
12/00                         8   I TL, IMECO, I FM, I PS,             U             U
1 DS, I TTA, 2 CONS
05/01                         5   1 TL, I PRS, I FA, I DS,1 TTA        S              S
ICR
10/01                        2    1 SPHS, I CONS                       S              S
ARC= Architect, CONS=Consultant, DA=Disbursment Assist., DO=Disbursement Office, DS=Disbursement Spec.,
ECO=]_conomist, ES=Equipment Spec., FA=Finance Assistant, HS=Health Spec., IS=Implementafion Spec., LW= Lawyer,
MECCO=Macroeconomist, NU-=Nutritionist,OO=Operations Officer, PA=Program Assist., PHS=Public Health Spec.,
PRS=P'rocurement Spec., PS=Pharmacy Spec., SPHS=Sr. Public Health Spec., TL=Team Leader, TTA=Task Team Assis.,
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                     Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks               US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                 82.9                        173.7
Appraisal/Negotiation                      76.9                        159.1
Supervision                               129.4                        697.6
ICE"                                        7.6                         13.3
Total                                    313.4                        1109.6
- 23 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
a Sector Policies                         O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
O Physical                                O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
O Financial                               O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Instittitonal Development               0 H  O SU O M  O N  0 NA
O Environmental                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction                O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
O Gender                           OH OSUOM SN ONA
O Other (Please specify)           O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
El Private sector development             0 H  O SU O M  S N  0 NA
El Public sector management               0 H  O SU O M  * N  0 NA
El Other (Please specify)                 O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
- 24 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                   Rating
O Lending                                             OHS OS OU *HU
EO Supervision                                        OHS Os   * U   O HU
O Overall                                             OHS OS *U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                               Rating
O Preparation                                         OHS OS  OU  O HU
O Government implementation performance               O HS O S   0  U  0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                   OHS OS   O  U  * HU
O Overall                                             OHS OS O U * HU
-25 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
*   Staff Appraisal Report, Republic of Cameroon, Health, Fertility and Nutrition Project, February 7,
1995. Report no. 12348-CM, The World Bank
*  Implementation Completion Report, Republic of Cameroon, "Social Dimensions of Adjustment Project
- Loan 3206-CM", June 16 1995. Report. No. 14686. The World Bank
*  Analyse des indicateurs de sante dans le cadre strategique de lutte contre la pauvrete, G.K. Ekanmian,
July 2001, The World Bank
*  Cameroun, Enquete Demographique et de Sante 1991. Macro International, December 1992
*  Cameroun, Enquete Demographique et de Sante 1998. Macro International, Mars 1999
*   Strategie Sectorielle de la Sante, Ministere de la Sante Publique, Kribi, Cameroon, July 2001
*  Aide-Memoires from World Bank missions
*  Correspondance between World Bank and Cameroon
- 26 -



MALI                             7 1 0 /      20   !                    12'                                     I                                       1-6-
NIGER                                                                                         ,        . ;ta-,e Ch d   t_
\ A   -.      _  ,         CHAD   (SUDAN                         CAMEROON
;EN3INi                      ,iU                    t             HEALTH, FERTILITY &
lvo NIGERIA                            ,                  NUTRITION  PROJECT
Z    12'                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~12'-
.,:-J-                                                                                                                                          C  HA/ TD  CENTRAL AFRICAN REP  CHAD
CAMEROON               ,        ,
'o r  Yaaaznde                                 0      40      80    120    160 KILOMETERS          *    '
EQUATOR IAL                                                 0.M
GUINEA                                                          20   40   60             0 MILES           A
SANOT0 P'1 ,                                 EM. REP.             Thi, nsp pao rd-cd by the               0Ma1 k
oN PNCE                        ( CONGOJ2          OF      0'             p    p
0'          -~~~~~~  GABON           C~)    ONGO               M~ 0.siq. Uni of The Wr.lrd Bank-
4r0    o                 20'                    skis .s  sf0 oat Insply, -n n pa-t of  : NAE
______________________________________       I         The  W ord    a-k  G -rop,  -ny   osl0nsatKA           E     5y
10'                                anyeadarsemensaraoepsanee f "Kae6 DAY
_10'                                                                                               j        G-ide r r ..d.                                       IS>1
.     5MA'O L8UTI, '
| x, etS ~~~Keb%,
-    6 DISTRICTS FOR LAST PHASE OF                              O      .
PROJEC1 IMPLEMENTATION                                              BENOUE
*     PROJECT LOCATIONS IN FIRST PHASE                               I J.
OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
NOUN  PROJECT DEPARTMENTS                                                             IiORJ'[                   N
PROJECT PROVINCES
DEPARTMENT CAPITALS                                                                              e Pal0   J   N
(     PROVINCE CAPITALS                                           FAR  -       '                MAYO REY BY
NATIONAL CAPITAL                                  (
-' 8                rC-  RIVERS                                                                         0                                    ' _2
DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES                                                                                              .
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                            i           <-',"t
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                      j  FARO-ET-DEO                      U_*
Tig.' r., ~ ~      ~        ~        ~        '      -*
,   Ti9nere0      - Ngaoundhrf b                                #
7 ,'t   /   WVNA
o.              ~    *+ \r    '  ,;A)DAMAOUA
NIGERIA                          ' '  ONGA -          j                                                 , /' >f'i
' ME     N   MANTUN                                   OJEREM NG- ,                                  /
NORD. Nk-nn6sL            'm'Tiat0-Ig,Y
t MAYO-BANYO
j tr *O u E g,Kumboffl ~~~_ '-.>,. oke X ~MBERE 'j'-  ,
>~~~~-                                   -Ns    Cmo                           9           ,,,7 Ooor
-",O U E$T                                                  A3na  <-,OOMET                                  -
1MO                                                          (   A nose
6             M- -    onnuo0f taonda                                                                                    62*
MAN\YU               At        oan~\~j                                                              (
NOUN/
6\J  TONI 00-                                                                                          CENTRAL
M0undenrbo MEMEC N.fE0METDEE                                                                                                       AFRICAN
10URST ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~eto0uHREPUBLIC
KuDrNla                                    5E~                     AT-ANAC
K-~~~~A
E                                       Ma
S -  Kr                OCEAN         Eb.,ouno       . ou on                                         EST
Nib,    -        ~~~~DJA-EP-LOBO 
- -                                        ~~~~~SUD 
LEQUATORA 
GUINEA    ~ '
C                                                                                                                                        C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4       



