Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2277-MAI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
A THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
IN MALAWI
May 1, 1979
Education Projects Division
Eastern Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
USED IN THIS REPORT
Currency Unit               =         Malawi Kwacha (MK.)
US$1.00                               M MK 0.83
MK  1.00                     =        US$1.20
MEASURES
1 meter (m)                 =         3.28 feet
1 square meter (m2)         =         10.76 square feet
1 kilometer (km)            =         0.62 mile
1 hectare (ha)              =         2.47 acres
ABBREVIATIONS
EEC    -  European Economic Community
JC     -  Junior Certificate
MBC    - Malawi Broadcasting Corporation
MBS    - Malawi Book Service
MCC    - Malawi Correspondence College
MCE    - Malawi Certificate of Education
MCETB  -  Malawi Certificate Examination and Testing Board
MOE    - Ministry of Education
NRDP   -  National Rural Development Program
PIU    -  Project Implementation Unit
PSLC   -  Primary School Leaving Certificate
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALAWI
BASIC DATA 1977-1978
General
Area (Including Lake)                                       118,500 km2
Area (Land only)                                             94,300 km2
Population                                                   5.6 million
Annual Growth Rate                                           2.9%
Per Capita Income                                            US$140
Education
School year                                               October-August
Gross Enrollment Ratios:
Primary Education (6-13 age group)                      56%
Secondary Education (14-17 age group)                    5%
Central Government expenditures on Education 1977/78
as percentage of total Government expenditures
Capital                                                5.0%
Recurrent                                              12.6%
Total                                                   9.7%
Total education expenditures as a percentage of GDP          2.5%
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
| of their ofMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






MALAWI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
A THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA
I.   SOCIO-ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND MANPOWER IMPLICATIONS    ........   1
Geographic and Socio-Economic Situation .....................     1
Development Objectives and Trends .....     ......................    1
Manpower Situation and Needs ..... ................... ........    2
II.  THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SYSTEM ...........................    3
Overview, Policy and Programs .....      ..........................   3
Structure, Administration and Planning ....................      5
Primary Education .......     .................................   6
Secondary Education .........................................    9
Specialized Secondary and Higher Education ..      ................  11
Financing of Education .......   .     ...............................   12
III. BANK GROUP EXPERIENCE AND LENDING STRATEGY
IN THE EDUCATION SECTOR OF MALAWI ........... ..............  14
IV.  THE PROJECT .     .................................8.....   l
Objectives and Composition ......    .............   .............   18
Primary Education: Improved Efficiency and Access
Primary School Construction ...... ................            19
Textbooks ....................................................   20
Mzuzu Teacher Training College ............. ...............  21
Secondary Education: Improved Efficiency and Access
Malawi Correspondence College ............     .................  21
Boarding and other Facilities for Day Secondary Schools ...   22
Secondary Education: Manpower Needs
Commercial Education ......................................  22
Agricultural Education .......    .............................   23
Secondary Teacher Training ....................................   23
This report is based on the findings of a mission which visited Malawi in
July/August 1978 and included Mr. G. Sinclair (Architect/Mission Leader),
Mrs. Z. Bozkurt (Economist), Mr. L. Wolff (Education Planner), Mr. S. Futagami
(Mass-Media Specialist) of the Bank Group, and Mr. R. Loken (General Educator,
Consultant). In December 1978 the project was further reviewed in the field
by Mr. Sinclair and Mr. Wolff.



Table of Contents (Continued)                                  Page No.
Education Services: Improved Curriculum Development,
In-Service Training and Management ...    .......................  23
Institute of Education .................. ..................  23
Vehicles ......   ............................................  24
Studies and Evaluation ................. ...................  24
V.  PROJECT COST AND FINANCING ..................................  25
Project Cost ...........   .....................................  25
Financial Plan     ..............................................  28
VI.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT ........  28
Implementation      ..............................................  28
Procurement     .................................................  30
Disbursements      ...............................................  32
VII. BENEFITS AND RISKS      ..........................................  33
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  .....................  33
ANNEXES
Annex 1 - Supporting Tables and Charts
Table 1. Number of Temporary Employment Permit Holders
2. Applicants and Vacancies by Occupation and Year
3. Comparative Education Indicators
4. Teacher Needs, Primary and Secondary Education
5. Enrollments and Internal Efficiency in Primary Education
6. Enrollments, Unit Costs and Recurrent Expenditures in
Formal Education, 1977, 1985, 1990
7. Classrooms, Student Places and Housing to be Provided
in Project Institutions
8. Summary of Estimated Project Costs
9. Schedule of Disbursements: (a) IDA Credit
(b) EEC Special Action Credit
Chart 1.  Full-time Enrollment and Population Pyramid, 1977
2. Structure of the Formal Education System
3.  Organization of the Ministry of Education
4. Implementation Schedule
5. Technical Assistance Required for Project Implementation
Annex 2 - Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAP - IBRD 13913R



MALAWI
I. SOCIO-ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND MANPOWER IMPLICGrIONS
Georgaphic and Socio-Economic Situation
1.01      Malawi is a land-locked country in South Eastern Africa.  Its size
is 118,500 sq.km. of which 94,300 sq.km. is land area and 24,200 is lake
surface. Malawi's population, which was 5.6 million in 1977, is growing at
about 2.9% a year. With an average density of 59 persons per sq.km. of land
area, Malawi is one of the more densely populated countries in Africa. How-
ever, apart from certain areas of the Southern Region where population is
heavy in relation to arable land, land availability is not yet an acute problem;
less than 50% of the potentially cultivable land is actually under cultivation.
The population is scattered and there are few urban concentrations, with only
about 10% of the population living in urban areas. Malawi's main physical
assets are moderately fertile soils, adequate water resources and a climate
favorable to the growth of a wide range of agricultural products including
tobacco, sugar cane and cotton. The country has no substantial mineral
resources.
1.02       Tn 1977 Malawi's GNP per capita was US$140 equivalent.  The agri-
cultural sector accounts for about 60% of GDP. More than 80% of agricultural
output is produced by small land holders and less than 40% of this output is
marketed. In spite of increases in the degree of monetization of the economy
during the past ten years, the non-monetary sector still accounts for more
than 30% of GDP.
Development Objectives and Trends
1.03      The Government's socio-economic goals are listed in the "Statement
of Development Policies 1971-1980", a document published in 1971, which places
strong emphasis on economic growth. The private sector, largely controlled by
foreign enterprises, is considered to be of crucial importance in the achieve-
ment of this growth; however the Government also plans to develop local ini-
tiative and increase Malawian participation in economic activities. To
achieve this aim the Government-owned Malawi Development Corporation is
gradually increasing Malawian financial and managerial participation in the
private sector.
1.04      Malawi's GDP in constant prices grew at an average annual rate of
6.5% between 1964 and 1973, and per capita GDP growth at 4.1% p.a. In spite
of a recent slowdown caused by unfavorable weather and a deterioration in the
external payments position, the real GDP is projected to grow at an average
rate of about 6.2% p.a. into the mid 1980's.
1.05      Unlike many other developing countries the revenue account in Malawi
has been in surplus since 1972 and official policy continues to be one of
fiscal restraint aimed at producing balanced budgets. However during recent



- 2 -
fiscal years (1975-1977) the rise in recurrent expenditures due to new devel-
opment projects, combined with a slower rate of growth of tax revenues, has
resulted in the elimination of these budgetary surpluses. After Independence
in 1964, the Malawi Government decided to invest in directly productivo
sectors rather than in social services. Its investment expenditures have
been mostly directed towards activities such as smallholder agriculture,
infrastructure and public utilities which are not covered by the private
sector. Nonetheless education absorbs the largest share of the budget after
agriculture and defense.
Manpower Situation and Needs
1.06      Of the total population of Malawi in 1977, 2.7 million were male
and 2.9 million female. The labor force participation rates are estimated
to be 56% for men and 37% for women for a total of 46%.
1.07      In Mlalawi, as in most developing countries, the shortage of ade-
quately trained and skilled local manpower is a serious constraint on de-
velopment. One of the major characteristics of the Malawian labor market
is the extent of reliance on expatriates. Although the number of expatri-
ates in relation to total employment is small (about eight per thousand,
Annex 1, T-1), their impact on the economy is great due to the fact that
they tend to hold decision making positions. There are numerous specific
shortages of technicians and professionals. 1/ In addition, expatriates
are employed because local personnel have often received education and
pre-service training which is not fully relevant to their employment or
of inadequate quality, thus impairing their efficiency and effectiveness
in certain modern sector jobs. For example, 44% of the total number of
expatriates working in Malawi are neither degree nor diploma holders. In
response to the quantitative and especially qualitative needs of the modern
sector for trained local manpower, many private and public enterprises under-
take formal and on-the-job training activities. Investment to improve the
quality and relevance of education is, therefore, likely to reduce the
dependency of the economy on expatriate skills.
1.08      There has been no general manpower study since 1971 and the occupa-
tional and sectoral breakdown of the labor force according to the 1977 census
is not yet available. Complete labor force and manpower data are available
only for 1966 and 1971 2/ and the relationships between education and occupa-
tion are not sufficiently documented. In Malawi, currently the only available
labor force and employment statistics are the registrations at the employment
exchanges; however not all unemployed persons choose to register at these
exchanges and many prefer to make applications for employment direct to
employers.  Because of a lack of an accurate data base, the Bank Group staff
conducted interviews with officials of Ministries and of major public
1/   For details, see "Education Sector Survey" Report No. 1781-MAI,
February 23, 1978.
2/   A manpower survey is now being conducted by the Government with bilateral
assistance.  It is expected to be completed in late 1979/early 1980.



and private enterprises which account for over 70% of Malawi's modern sector
employment. These interviews were intended to complement and supplement the
manpower analysis of the "Education Sector Survey" (para. 3.05) which was
based essentially on a macro-economic mathematical model.
1.09      On the basis of a study of registration at the employment exchanges
(Annex 1, >-2) and the above mentioned interviews, this analysis confirmed
the conclusions of the "Education Sector Survey" that there are clearly
demonstrated needs for increasing and improving the quality of outputs at
most educational levels. The supply of agricultural workers in particular
is insufficient to satisfy the growing needs of the private estates and rural
development projects. The shortage of production workers is evidenced among
other things by a vacancy rate of 23% in 1976. With regard to clerical
workers, including typists and bookkeepers, there appears to be a surplus
rather than a shortage; however, this is due mainly to the fact that many
unemployed secondary school leavers with minimal commercial or secretarial
training or skills apply for clerical jobs. At present the need is to
improve the quality of their training. As to the needs for secondary school
graduates, the interviews with the principal modern sector employers lead to
conclusions different from those of the "Education Sector Survey" which
prepared its manpower forecasts by extrapolations from the 1971 manpower
study. In particular, these employers maintain that, for the time being,
there is no significant shortage of junior secondary leavers. A manpower
survey, now being undertaken with assistance from the United Kingdom, and an
ongoing secondary school leavers tracer study being conducted by the MOE with
IDA support, can provide further information on which to base any subsequent
increase in the present rate of secondary education expansion.
1.10      While there is some uncertainty regarding expansion of general
secondary education, there are demonstrated needs to expand (a) primary
education, to improve literacy rates and provide the basic education needed
for adaptation to modern production methods and health practices, (b) techni-
cal and vocational education, to provide the middle manpower needed to operate
the economy, and (c) specialized and higher education, to replace expatriates
and to provide high level managers and professionals.
II. THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SYSTEM
Overview, Policy and Programs
2.01      As a result of the Government policy of giving priority to directly
productive sectors rather than to social services (para. 1.05), the educa-
tional system has lagged behind other sectors of the economy. In 1978, only
25% of the adult population were estimated to be literate. Enrollment in
grades 1-5 was equivalent to only 68% of the 6-10 age group and enrollment in
grades 1-8 equivalent to only 56% of the 6-13 age group. In addition, only
37% of the children entering primary school complete the first five years of
primary education, which are often given in inadequate facilities, with little
or no furniture or equipment. Less than 5% of the school age children are in



- 4 -
full-time secondary education, (including technical, vocational, commercial,
teacher training, and correspondence courses), a figure which is among the
lowest in Africa. Output of agricultural, industrial, and commercial tech-
nicians from specialized secondary and higher institutions falls short of
manpower demands (paras. 1.06-1.09).
2.02      After Independence in 1964, government policy within the education
sector emphasized the provision of middle and high level manpower required
for the economy and, accordingly, emphasis was placed on expansion of secondary
education and establishment of the University of Malawi. This emphasis, how-
ever, has not yet resulted in production of sufficient key manpower. The
"Education Plan of Malawi 1973-80," established broader goals for the educa-
tion system. It gave priority to improved internal efficiency and more
equitable distribution of educational opportunities as well as continued
efforts to meet manpower requirements. On the basis of these broader goals,
the Government has gradually turned more attention towards improving access
and efficiency in primary and secondary education, as well as to improving
overall management of the sector.
2.03      The central Government has increasingly participated in the devel-
opment of primary education, although until recently such participation has
been limited to the payment of teachers' salaries, teacher training and
upgrading, and the inspectorate. The provision of physical facilities, in-
cluding furniture and textbooks, has been the responsibility of local author-
ities. With assistance from IDA, EEC, and other agencies, the Government is
now involved in primary school construction and has decided to provide primary
school textbooks which are presently paid out of student fees (paras. 2.16-
2.19). Recently, the Government greatly expanded primary teacher training
capacity and is now proposing a major expansion of inservice teacher training.
In the meantime, however, the student:teacher ratio has deteriorated to 61:1
(para. 2.20).
2.04      At the secondary level, the Government for the time being is res-
training enrollment increases to about 3% per year. This decision is based
on a real shortage of teachers and on concern over the possibility of unemploy-
ment of secondary school graduates in the future. The proposed manpower study
and the ongoing tracer studies (para. 1.09) will provide guidance on the
relationship of manpower needs to secondary school output and the Government
is considering revision of its policy after completion of these studies. In
the meantime, the Government is committed to expand secondary teacher training
output in expectation of future enrollment increases, and is continuing to
work on improvement of secondary school access and efficiency through the con-
struction of additional dormitories at existing schools. The Government is
also proposing to meet some of the demands for access to secondary education,
in addition to the 3% annual growth of formal education, through support for
the lower cost secondary school equivalency program administered by the
Malawi Correspondence College (MCC) (paras. 2.28 and 2.29).
2.05      In response to specific manpower needs, the Government has initiated
or is planning various programs to expand the production of primary and
secondary school teachers; industrial technicians and engineers; accountants,



- 5 -
bookkeepers and secretaries; agricultural technicians; and nurses. The
Ministry of Education (MOE) has also recently placed great emphasis on
improved management of the system, curriculum development, and in-service
teacher training. Consistent with the above priorities and programs, the
Government has sought to control recurrent expenditures.
2.06      Apart from the highi student:teacher ratio in primary schools
(para 2.20), Government policy and programs are generally educationally and
fiscally sound and offer a basis for long term improvement and expansion of
the system in accordance with manpower needs. The following sections examine
these policies and programs in further detail.
Structure, Administration and Planning
2.07      The formal education system in Malawi consists of eight years of
primary education (five years in lower primary and three years in upper
primary), four years of secondary education (two years of junior secondary and
two years of senior secondary), and three to five years of higher education
(three years for a diploma and four to five years for degree)(Annex 1, C-2).
The eight year length of Malawi's primary education cycle is unusual among
African countries, which normally provide about six years of education at this
level.  The MOE has adm.inistrative, financial and academic control of primary,
secondary, technical teacher and in-school radio education. The MOE is also
officially responsible for the autonomous University of Malawi, which consists
of Chancellor College (arts and science as well as secondary teacher training),
Bunda College (agriculture), and the Polytechnic (engineering and business).
The Ministry of Agriculture is responsible for non-formal farmer training.
Various other training programs are undertaken by the Ministries of Health,
Works, Agriculture, and Community Development. The Malawi Broadcasting
Corporation (MBC), a parastatal corporation, broadcasts numerous educational
and cultural programs, and the Malawi Book Service (MBS), another parastatal
organization, is responsible for bulk purchase and distribution of textbooks.
The Malawi Certificate Examination and Testing Board (MCETB), another autono-
mous agency, is responsible for all educational tests. Coordination between
the MOE and the above-mentioned autonomous agencies is satisfactory.
2.08      The MOE itself is divided inlto academic, administrative, accounting
and personnel departments (Annex 1, C-3). While the quality of high level
personnel presently in post is good, administration is weakened by the fact
that almost one-third of the senior professional officer posts are vacant.
Planning has also been weak and the Government has not prepared a comprehensive
education development plan since 1973 (para. 2.02).  However, the MOE is now
actively recruiting qualifled Malawians to fill positions in the field of
education and recently expanded its planning office to include four profes-
sional staff members.
2.09      The Inspectorate or field supervisory staff is responsible for
teacher and headmaster evaluation, school maintenance, management of school
fees, and introduction of new curricula and textbooks. The present number
of primary school inspectors (29) is sufficient to visit the more than



- 6 -
2,000 primary schools only once every two or three years. Furthermore
these inspectors have no means of transport except for the occasional use of
district vehicles which must be shared by numerous agencies. In addition,
inspectors need continuing in-service training to acquaint them with new
trends in education and to strengthen their managerial skills. Curriculum
development in Hlalawi depends on the activities of the heads of departments
in the Inspectorate. However, these officers have multiple administrative
responsibilities and are unable to devote their full-time attention to cur-
riculum work.
2.10      The Government has recognized that there is presently no central
agency to study and systematically improve the quality of education and admin-
istration, and is, therefore, proposing to centralize curriculum development,
materials preparation, and in-service training at a new Institute of Education
to be located on the site of the present in-service training center at Domasi.
This Institute would be semi-autonomous and have full-time curriculum and
training personnel. Its Board of Governors would include representatives from
MOE and the University. With appropriate financing and staffing, the Insti-
tute could become a key factor in improving the educational system. In
addition to the above, the Government is planning to double the number of
school inspectors over the next seven years and to provide them with suitable
logistic support.
Primary Education
2.11      Internal Efficiency and Access.  Primary education is the weakest
element of the tMalawian education system and must be improved in the future
as a means of raising farmer and worker producitivity, decreasing fertility
rates and serving as a base for further education and essential skill train-
ing. As mentioned above (para. 2.01), at present, enrollment in grades one
to five is equivalent to only 68% of children aged 6 to 10, and enrollment in
grades 1 to 8 is equivalent to only 56% of all children aged 6 to 13. Only
29% of those students entering the first grade complete the full eight-year
course. About half the students in grade eight repeat the year in the hope
of obtaining higher grades in the Primary School Leaving Certificate (PSLC)
examination thus qualifying for admission to secondary education. Regional
inequities are severe; some rural southern districts have fewer than 40% of
school age children enrolled in primary schools compared to almost 100%
enrollment in other districts. Girls make up 37% of total enrollment and are
much more likely than boys to drop out after only one year of schooling.
2.12      The main internal causes of low primary school access and efficiency
are a lack of adequate school buildings, furniture, equipment, materials, and
qualified teachers. Issues, problems, and Government action in these areas
are described below.
2.13      School Facilities.  The physical facilities available to the primary
education system are grossly inadequate. Most primary schools have little or
no furniture and equipment, and buildings are of mud brick, in many instances
with roof structures in a serious state of decay as a result of termite infes-
tation. Many primary schools have five or fewer grades. Because Malawians



-7-
tend to favor living in isolated family clusters rather than in compact
villages, walking distances to schools offering the full eight grades are
often very great. The lack of full eight grade schools is a major factor
contributing to student dropout rates in the upper primary cycle.
2.14      Government policy has been to leave responsibility for primary
school construction, furnishing, and equipping to local communities.
Recently, however, this policy has undergone significant change. Under the
second education project, assisted by IDA (Credit 590-IAI), the Government is
constructing 23 prototype primary schools. In addition, with bilateral and
multi-lateral funds, the Government is providing assistance to communities
for self-help construction. In 1977, the Development Division of the Office
of the President, the agency responsible for central Government support to
community development projects, provided financial assistance to communities
for the construction of 400 classrooms with support from EEC, USAID, Canada
and other external agencies. This is still less than half of the annual
primary school construction needs in Malawi. The Development Division has
established five-man work teams, each team including one carpenter and one
mason, in the 24 rural districts. Under the direction of the District
Commissioner these teams supervise and, where necessary, participate in con-
struction. The quality of school construction undertaken on this basis is
generally higher and more durable but more costly than schools constructed
by the unassisted communities. Funds for these community self-help programs
are strictly limited and the Development Division is presently able to pro-
vide only about MK 3,000 per four classroom building. This is insufficient
to permit the construction of school facilities that are adequate in area
for the usual class sizes of 50-60 students. The buildings also lack the
protection of a permanent termite barrier and, consequently are soon under
termite attack. Their potential durability is therefore much reduced and the
useful building life is estimated at only 5-10 years. The Government is now
proposing to increase the expenditure per school building and to use an
improved design, based on prototype schools constructed under the IDA-assisted
second education project. This will provide increased classroom areas and
extend durability up to 30 years.
2.15      Although the MIOE approves all school construction locations, up to
now such approval has been on a pro-forma basis following community initia-
tives. The result has been that in many cases school construction is not
undertaken in the neediest areas. The MOE has recognized this problem and
with IDA assistance has initiated a school mapping survey to help determine
specific school construction needs and rationalize school locations in accord-
ance with population, geographic features, and equity requirements (paras.
*      4.02 - 4.04).
2.16      Educational Materials.  Provision of educational materials is the
responsibility of local authorities; they buy all expendable school materials
and equipment through utilization of school fees, which are now K2.00 per
student in rural areas and K3.50 in urban areas in grades 1 to 5 and K4.00
and K6.50 respectively in grades 6 to 8. However, these fees are sufficient
to cover only one half to one third the overall textbook requirements, depend-
ing on how long books last. In practice, because of limited funds, local



- 8 -
authorities usually emphasize the purchase of materials for children in the
eighth grade who are studying for the PSLC and seeking entrance to secondary
schools (para. 2.11); thus in grades 1 to 5 there may be as little as one book
for every five or seven students. School fees have not changed since 1975 and
since for social reasons the Government does not plan to raise -hem in the
foreseeable future, the number of textbooks available to students is likely
to continue to decline as costs rise. Such a decline would worsen an already
difficult situation and would have a serious effect on pass and retention
rates. 1/ Despite these difficulties Malawi's overall situation with regard
to textbooks is better than many African countries, since it is able to dis-
tribute relatively inexpensive and appropriate textbooks on a national basis,
and since teachers are accustomed to using textbooks as a learning tool.
2.17      The Government has recognized the importance of textbooks and, in a
major policy decision, has proposed to initiate a program under which the
Central Government would gradually take responsibility for financing a large
portion of the costs of textbooks, beginning with basic English, Chichewa and
arithmetic textbooks (paras. 4.05 - 4.06). Locally collected fees would be
used for additional textbooks, materials, furniture and equipment.
2.18      Most school books are published and printed privately in Malawi.
The Malawi Book Service (MBS), a parastatal corporation, purchases books from
local and, where necessary, foreign publishers, and then distributes and sells
them at reasonable prices to local education authorities. Profits of about
10% per year hIave enabled the MBS to expand its distribution network to
provide regional book depots where local authorities can pick up books.
2.19      The content of most textbooks is generally satisfactory but could
benefit from additional references to the local environment and more active
student involvement in learning. At present the MOE is revising the English
textbooks for use in grades 5 to 8. The proposed new Institute of Education
(paras. 4.18-4.20) would review all textbooks and gradually revise them in
accordance with new curricula.
2.20      Teachers.  The rapid expansion of primary school enrollment over
the past few years has led to an increase in the average number of students
per teacher which is now 61 to 1 compared to the official policy of 50 to 1.
In addition, only 53% of teachers are fully qualified by the Government's own
standards. A new teacher training college at Mzuzu constructed under the
second education project (para. 3.03) began operation in 1978 and the present
enrollment of 420 is expected to be increased to 540. Existing colleges are
also expected to increase their enrollments. Annual output from these
schools, of about 1,200 teachers per year, will be sufficient through 1985 to
meet enrollment increases and lower the average number of students per teacher
to 50:1, but would have to increase to about 1,700 per year during the 1985-
1990 period (Annex 1, T-4) to meet additional increases of primary education
1/   The charging of fees may in itself cause dropout from primary schools
among the poorest children.



- 9 -
enrollment brought about by improved retention rates. At the same time, more
than 5,000 underqualified teachers need to be retrained over the next ten to
twelve years. The Domasi in-service training center (para. 2.10) has been
upgrading only 150 teachers per year through vacation courses and correspon-
dence and radio programs and these programs should be expanded.
2.21      If the actions described above are undertaken, pass and retention
rates could improve significantly. Annex 1, T-5 provides a projection of
future expected improvements in access and efficiency. By 1990 enrollment in
grades 1-8 would be equivalent to 70% of the population aged 6-13 and in
grades 1-5 would be equivalent to 83% of the population 6-10. This proportion
is relatively conservative and the Government may wish to consider more rapid
expansion to reach more than 90% of the age group for grades 1-5 (para. 2.39).
According to the projection 48% rather than the present 29% of students
entering grade 1 would complete the full eight years of primary education and
69% rather than the present 37% would complete the first five grades. The
number of student years expended to produce one primary school graduate would
drop from the present 16.9 to 11.5, resulting in savings of over 30% in costs
per graduate. This estimate assumes that all of the investment in educating
a child is lost if he does not graduate; costs per graduate are therefore
greatly lowered when dropout as well as repetition rates are reduced.
Secondary Education
2.22      Reliable data are not available on projected long term manpower
needs for secondary school output (para 1.09). However the expected expan-
sion of primary school output will result in strong social pressure to expand
secondary school enrollment more rapidly than the present 3% per year increase.
Government policy up to now has been to limit growth of secondary education
because of high recurrent costs, an insufficient number of qualified Malawian
teachers, and concern about possible unemployment among secondary school
leavers (para. 2.04).
2.23      Internal Efficiency and Access.  Internal efficiency of secondary
education is relatively high but could be improved. About 69% of the students
pass the Junior Certificate (JC) examination which is given at the end of
the second year and 62% of the students pass the Malawi Certificate of Educa-
tion (MCE) at the end of the fourth year. However, pass rates in day secondary
schools are about 20% lower than those of boarding secondary schools. These
lower rates are at least in part due to the long distances that many students
enrolled in day schools must walk, and to the fact that often they must seek
lodging in nearby towns or in makeshift dormitories. In addition, as an
insufficient number of girls pass the PSLC examination with scores high enough
to proceed to secondary education, they are under-represented at this level
(Annex 1, C-1) and girls are more likely than boys to drop out of secondary
schools.
2.24      Secondary school places are available to only nine percent of
students who take the PSLC examination. Demand for secondary education is
so great that many students repeat the last year of primary education and



- 10 -
take the PSLC examination two or three times, in an attempt to achieve scores
high enough to enable them to enter the secondary system (para. 2.11). The
availability of boarding places ensures that at least some rural and poorer
students and girls have access to secondary schools, but these boarding places
would have to be increased to provide greater access (para. 4.11). The MOE
takes into account students' geographic origin before assigning places and
this creates an additional demand for boarding places. In a further attempt
to provide access to secondary education, the Government has encouraged
expansion of secondary equivalency programs using radio and correspondence
(paras. 2.28 and 2.29).
2.25      Physical Facilities.  Most secondary schools have adequate educa-
tional facilities, such as laboratories, libraries and workshops. However,
many of the 28 "day" schools are in fact providing some makeshift boarding
facilities, as a result of community initiatives, to students living too
distant to commute. Most of these schools are in serious need of additional
adequate boarding facilities. The Government policy is to provide dormitory
places for these schools as needed. In the future, should it be necessary,
these boarding facilities could be converted to classrooms.
2.26      Teachers.  In secondary schools the average number of students
per teacher is 21 and 87% of the 737 secondary school teachers are qualified
(graduate degree or diploma). However, 32% of all teachers are expatriate,
about 100 staff positions in secondary schools are available but unfilled,
and enrollment growth will require an average of 90 new teachers per year
from 1977 to 1990 (Annex 1, T-4). Output of teachers from Chancellor College,
which trains secondary school teachers as well as producing arts and science
graduates, has been only about 30 per year. To provide for secondary school
growth, and to replace teachers, the Government is proposing to increase
output at Chancellor College to at least 90 per year, with 45 completing a
three year diploma course and an additional 45 completing a four year degree
course.
2.27      Facilities at Chancellor College are barely adequate for the present
enrollment of 600. Expansion of secondary school teacher training would raise
enrollment to about 825 and would require the provision of additional academic,
boarding and staff facilities (paras. 4.15-4.17).
2.28      The Malawi Correspondence College.  Because of the pressures to
enter secondary education, the MOE has encouraged growth of an alternative
junior secondary school system, based on radio and correspondence courses
under the control of the Malawi Correspondence College (MCC), and is now
preparing a major upgrading of MCC facilities and staff.  The MCC was estab-
lished in 1965 and has grown to an efficiently managed organization of over
100 staff producing 28 radio programs per week, broadcasting about 15 hours
per week and providing correspondence materials for primary, secondary, and
teacher education.
2.29      Originally, the MCC secondary school equivalency centers were in-
tended for part time students who were often working during the day. These
centers now provide full-time classroom accommodation to students for up



- 11 -
to six hours a day. Although most classes take place in makeshift primary
schools with virtually no equipment, students follow the regular junior
secondary curriculum supplemented by detailed study material, correspondence
material, and supplemental radio programs. At present nearly 3,000 students,
or the equivalent of one third of the enrollment of regular junior secondary
schools, are enrolled in MCC centers. While only about 21% of MCC students
(representing about 10% of the total number of passes at JC level) pass the
JC Examination (compared to an overall pass rate of 67%), there are no
entrance requirements except for students to have a PSLC and to pay fees of
MK 22 p.a. Pass rates could be increased through improvements in local
physical facilities and in central facilities at MCC headquarters, through
strengthening MCC staff, and by the establishment of a division within the
MCC to evaluate the suitability of its ongoing programs (paras. 4.08 - 4.10).
Specialized Secondary and Higher Education
2.30      Industrial Education.  Needs for skilled industrial workers (para.
1.07) are being met by five secondary technical schools which specialize in
various training programs in bricklaying, carpentry, electricity, mechanics,
etc. These programs, enrolling about 900 persons per year, are well staffed
and produce workers appropriate to industry needs. For most skill trades
these trainees are participants in a national apprenticeship scheme under the
control of the Ministry of Labor and graduates are guaranteed job placement
through the scheme. The courses given last as long as three years and are a
controlled blend of periods of craft training and related on the job experi-
ence. Trade test certificates are given to the trainees as they achieve
the appropriate levels of competence during their period of training. These
courses are playing a significant part in the development of manpower skills
in Malawi and they are monitored for appropriateness by the MCETB. The out-
puts of higher level technicians and engineers will increase as a result of
expansions of the Malawi Polytechnic being undertaken with external assist-
ance, principally USAID, ODM and EEC.
2.31      Commercial Education.  In commercial education the principal sources
of training for typists, secretaries and bookkeepers are presently various
correspondence schools and poorly equipped private schools which charge high
fees. In addition some general secondary schools provide training in commer-
cial skills which is normally inadequate for all but the lowest level posi-
tions. The Government is, therefore, proposing to introduce training for
bookkeepers and secretaries into three existing technical schools (paras. 4.12
- 4.13). A shortage of accountants and business administrators will be met
through expansion of the Malawi Polytechnic as well as through expanded
in-service upgrading of junior accountants. A Staff Development College at
Mpemba continues to provide in-service training to Government personnel.
2.32      Agricultural Education.  The output from Colby College of Agricul-
ture (secondary level) of 160 agricultural technicians p.a. is insufficient
to meet future needs, especially in relation to the National Rural Development
Program being assisted by numerous bilateral and international agencies,
including IDA. To meet these needs a multi-purpose Natural Resources College



- 12 -
with an expected output of 380 agricultural technicians p.a. will be con-
structed adjacent to Colby College with assistance from CIDA. Since this
College is not expected to begin operating until 1983-84, the Government
proposes to maximise the output of students at Colby College through minor
improvements to existing facilities and increased staffing levels (para 4.14).
Output from several other secondary level institutions and from the Bunda
College of Agriculture (higher education) appears sufficient for the time
being to meet needs for agricultural engineers, agronomists, forestry and
fisheries technicians and rural home economists.
2.33      Education of Secondary School Teachers, Physical and Social Scien-
tists and Lawyers. Needs for additional secondary school teachers are well
documented, and enrollment of student teachers at Chancellor College is ex-
pected to increase from 105 to about 330 (para. 2.26). The Government is also
proposing to double total enrollment at Chancellor College from 600 to 1200
and therefore to increase output of physical and social scientists, lawyers,
and other liberal arts graduates. Needs for these professions have not been
well documented and the forthcoming manpower study (para. 1.09) should provide
guidance on this proposal. In any event, increases in enrollment in these
specialties would in most cases lead to economies of scale at Chancellor
College since present enrollments and student:teacher ratios are very low in
most of these specialties.
Financing of Education
2.34      Education and training activities in Malawi are financed by the
Government, churches, parents and other private agencies. Total education ex-
penditures, which constitute 2.5% of GDP, are low by African standards. In
1976/77, 81% of recurrent expenditures on education and training were paid
by the Central Government, 14% from student fees, and 5% by missionaries and
other private agencies. The percentage of recurrent expenditures on education
as a proportion of the overall Government recurrent budget declined from 17%
in 1970/71 to 12% in 1977/78 due mainly to increases in the budgetary alloca-
tions to other sectors. Due to the high salaries component of the education
budget the effect of a recent 32% salary increase announced in January 1978
will be to raise education's budgetary share to an estimated 14% in 1978/79
(para. 2.37). These proportions are low in comparison with the share of the
recurrent budget absorbed by education in many Eastern and Southern African
countries and reflect the greater emphasis placed by the Malawian Government
on directly productive sectors, in particular agriculture, and on defense.
2.35      During the the past five years, the increase in education recurrent
expenditures in constant terms has been only 0.8% p.a. while total public
recurrent expenditures have risen at a rate of 3.4% p.a. Over the past five
years, the proportions of educational expenditures by level and type have been
relatively stable. On average 43% of the expenditures have been devoted to
primary education, 21% to secondary education, and 28% to post secondary
education (including the University of Malawi). Only 5% of the total capital
budget went to education in 1977. Foreign assistance is the major source in
the financing of capital expenditures in education. From 1971-72 to 1977-78
foreign assistance provided 81% of total capital investment in education.



- 13 -
2.36      Recurrent costs to the Central Government in 1977/78 were about
MK 10 per student at the primary level, MK 169 at the secondary level and
MK 2,771 at the higher level. Low public recurrent expenditures on primary
education reflect low salaries, high student:teacher ratios, and use of
student fees to finance a significant portion of primary school costs.
Teacher training unit costs tend to be high (MK 493 per trainee) because
of low student: teacher ratios brought about by lack of candidates for some
schools and underutilization of new facilities recently opened. As a result
of recent salary increases (para. 2.34) more candidates are expected to be
attracted to the teaching profession.
2.37      Increased enrollment for all educational levels and their recurrent
cost implications are summarized below and presented in more detail in Annex 1,
T-6).
MALAWI
PUBLIC ENROLLMENTS AND RECURRENT EXPENDITURES 1978-79 AND 1990-91
1978-79                          1990-91
(estimated)              (projected, 1978-79 prices)
Public Enrollments    Total       Public Enrollments   Total
As a % of    Expend-            As a % of      Expend-
Relevant      iture             Relevant       iture
Total    Age Group 1/ (K 000)   Total  Age Group 1/  (K 000)
Administration                               1,515                            3,599
Primary education  612,260  49.8 (55.5)   9,011   975,100 62.6 (69.8)   23,695
Secondary general
education          13,620   3.0 ( 3.4)   3,296    22,430  3.5 ( 4.0)    6,929
Technical educ.         960   0.2              276      1,720  0.3              634
Teacher training      1,560   0.3              892     3,380  0.5             1,929
Malawi Corres-
pondence
College             4,020   0.9              359     7,226  1.1               816
University of Malawi 1,240   0.03            4,141      2,510  0.04          10,985
TOTAL                                 19,490                           48,587
As a percentage
of total recur-
rent budget                                 14.3                            17.1
As a % of GDP                                  2.3                             2.6
1/   Figures in parenthesis include private enrollment which exists only in
primary and secondary general education. Primary enrollment ratios are
for the 6-13 age group and eight years of primary education. Ratios for
the 6-10 age group and grades one to five would be 68.0% in 1978-79 and
83.3% in 1990-91.



- 14 -
The enrollment projections are based on the following assumptions, which are
in general in accordance with government policies: (a) 5% p.a. growth of
enrollment in technical education and in the MCC; (b) 6% p.a. growth of higher
education; (c) 3% p.a. growth of secondary general education to 1985 and 6%
p.a. thereafter; (d) growth of primary education in accordance with the
improved efficiency rates proposed in para. 2.21 and Annex 1, T-5 (an average
growth rate of 3.7% p.a.); and (e) growth of teacher education in accordance
with teacher needs, including an improved student teacher ratio, as estimated
in Annex 1, T-4 (an average growth rate of 6.8% p.a.). The projections are
also based on an average 2% p.a. increase of unit costs in real terms for all
educational levels with the following exceptions: (a) teacher education unit
costs would remain stable through an increase in the student teacher ratio
which would offset higher salaries, and (b) primary education unit costs
would increase an average 5.5% p.a. because of 2% p.a. salary increases, in
real terms, a reduction in the student teacher ratio from 61:1 to 50:1, and
government financing of 75% of the costs of textbooks. The projection
assumes that GDP would increase by 6.3% p.a. and the Government recurrent
budget would remain at about 15% of GDP.
2.39      On the basis of the above assumptions the percentage of the central
government recurrent budget devoted to education would increase from 14.3%
in 1978-79 to 15.3% in 1985-86 and 17.1% in 1990-91. This level of expendi-
ture for education would not greatly tax Malawi's resources and would still
be lower than that prevailing in most African countries. Additional possible
expansion of the educational system would have the following implications:
(a) a 5% p.a. growth rate of primary education would result in enrollment of
82% of children aged 6-13 (over 90% of children aged 6-10) and would increase
the 1990-91 education budget by an additional 8%; and (b) a 7% p.a. growth
rate of secondary education would result in enrollment of 5.4% of secondary
school age children and increase the 1990-91 education budget by an additional
5%. Implementation of both these more ambitious targets would mean an
education budget equivalent to 19.3% of the total recurrent budget. This
would be feasible provided the government made a decision to place very high
priority on education development.
III. BANK GROUP EXPERIENCE AND LENDING STRATEGY
IN THE EDUCATION SECTOR OF MALAWI
3.01      Past Experience.  Bank Group involvement in the education sector of
Malawi has been limited, especially if compared with the extensive assistance
provided by the Bank to education in adjacent countries such as Tanzania and
Zambia. Only two education projects (Credit 102-MlAI of US$6.3 million equiva-
lent in 1967 and Credit 590-MAI of US$11.6 million equivalent in 1975) have
been financed since Independence in 1964 in spite of significant needs for
improved quality and output from all levels of education. The principal
constraint on Bank Group lending for education in Malawi has been the high
priority given by the Government to directly productive sectors rather than to
social investment in development programs. As indicated in paras. 2.01-2.06



- 15 -
above, growth of the education sector has been carefully controlled. In
addition, specific manpower development programs have always attracted con-
siderable financial and technical assistance on a grant basis from bilateral
sources, consequently reducing the need for Bank Group aid, particularly in
secondary and technical education which, until the early 1970's, were the Bank
Group's priority areas for assistance in education.
3.02      In line with Bank Group policy at that time as well as with the
critical post-Independence needs for skilled manpower with a technical back-
ground, the first education project focused on the introduction of technical
subjects in secondary education, on a limited expansion of secondary schools
and on the rationalization and expansion of primary teacher training. The
project as originally conceived was virtually completed in about five years
with only a slight delay over the schedule developed at appraisal. Savings
were achieved because bilateral sources financed some of the technical assist-
ance and instructional equipment originally included in the project. The
project scope was expanded with these savings to provide for a Post and
Telecommunications Training Center which is serving not only Malawi but also
Botswana, Lesotho and Swaziland. A Project Completion Report (PCR) indicated
that in general terms the project accomplished its objectives, but the project
secondary schools had been supplied with overly sophisticated equipment and
that only a relatively small proportion of their students were interested in
pursuing technical subjects. The PCR pointed to the shortage of secondary
teachers in general, and technical subjects teachers in particular, and
cautioned against further expansion of the secondary school diversification
program. It also revealed that most schools, while overequipped for the level
of technical subjects being taught, lacked books and other essential teaching
materials, especially in basic subjects such as mathematics, science and
English.
3.03      The second project continues the emphasis of the first project on
secondary and primary teacher education. It also includes provision of dormi-
tories and classrooms designed to increase women's participation in secondary
education, assistance to institutionalize and expand rural training, and the
provision of prototype primary schools and rural education centers. After
some initial delays, the project is proceeding on schedule and is expected
to be completed by September 1980 as estimated at appraisal. Its largest
component, the Mzuzu Teacher Training College, is already in operation (para.
2.20). The secondary schools are at an advanced stage of construction.
Thirteen of the 23 prototype primary schools and rural education centers have
been completed and all the others are at an advanced stage of construction.
3.04      A full assessment of the second education project has not yet been
made. Preliminary reviews carried out in the course of sector work, super-
vision, and appraisal of the proposed third education project indicate that
the secondary and primary teacher education components are likely to produce
the quantitative and qualitative benefits anticipated. However, the pro-
totype primary schools were built using conventional construction methods
and contracting procedures, and are unlikely to be duplicated by the local



- 16 -
communities on a large scale; the designs utilized for these schools should
be modified to permit future self-help and less costly construction (para.
2.14). In addition, careful attention needs to be paid to the function of
these schools as rural training centers, since the successful implementa-
tion of this function will require close coordination of the inputs of the
various ministries.
3.05      The Bank Group's knowledge of Malawi's education sector has in-
creased considerably in the last five years not only through project work but
also through an active program of sector analysis. In the early 1970s, the
Bank Group, in an agreement with the Government, commissioned the University
of Manchester to conduct a comprehensive assessment of the sector ("Education
and Development in Malawi", 1973) which identified areas for improvement and
assisted in Government policy formation, even though only part of its recom-
mendations were ultimately implemented. More recently, Bank Group staff have
carried out a series of studies in collaboration with the Government that
have culminated in an in-depth "Education Sector Survey" (Report No. 1781-MAI
of February 1978). Although the Government has decided to postpone action for
the time being on one of the survey's central recommendations (i.e., the
expansion of junior secondary education), the survey has in general been well
received by the Government and most of the recommendations are in accordance
with national investment plans. Altogether the survey identified 22 major
priority areas for investment covering the entire education system. Various
bilateral and multilateral agencies have since come forward to assist Malawi
in several of these areas, especially those directly related to manpower
development. Among these agencies, CIDA will assist the development of a new
Natural Resources College (para. 2.32), USAID and the ODM the expansion of
technical and business education at the Polytechnic (para. 2.30), ODM the
provision of boarding facilities at secondary schools, UNDP/ILO the training
of accountants and bookkeepers, and EEC and and USAID the construction of
rural primary schools (para. 2.14).
3.06      Even though only two IDA credits for education have been extended
to Malawi, the Bank Group contribution to institution building in the sector
has already been significant. In physical facilities planning and implementa-
tion, the PIU of the MOE has developed a good capability in the field of
school design, supervision of construction and furniture and equipment pro-
curement. In the area of educational planning, in addition to the sector
work referred to in the previous paragraph, ad hoc Bank Group missions have
provided advice and assistance for tracer studies, the organization of an
education evaluation unit and a comprehensive school mapping exercise.
3.07      Future Strategy.  It is likely that the Bank Group efforts in sup-
port of the education sector will increase in line with the greater priority
Malawi is expected to give to human resource development. The focus of Bank
Group strategy will continue to be one of assistance to general primary and
secondary education as well as to the overall management and organization of
the sector as a means of providing the basis for long term manpower develop-
ment. These are the areas where, because of past involvement and emphasis



- 17 -
on physical and institutional development through capital financing, the
Bank Group has a comparative advantage over other agencies that have spe-
cialized in the provision of financial and technical support to manpower
training institutions. These are also the areas where the Bank Group and
Malawi can best apply the lessons learned from previous operations.
3.08      In the area of primary education, the Bank Group would build on
the experience of the prototype primary schools and rural education centers
of the second education project as well as on an EEC-supported community
self-help program to expand access. Specific lessons applied to the primary
education component of the proposed third education project--described in
the next chapter--are as follows: (a) the simplification of design and
construction techniques, (b) the use of self-help and community labor rather
than normal contracting practices, and (c) the application of school mapping
criteria for identifying the best locations. In addition, the Bank Group in
recognition of the importance of textbooks, would assist in an expanded
program of textbook production and distribution.
3.09      In the area of secondary education, the experience of the first
and second education projects, as well as the lack of sufficient manpower
data, has shown that expanding the program for the introduction of technical
subjects and curriculum diversification in general secondary schools cannot
be justified at this time. Present teacher shortages and the heavy reliance
on expatriate teachers (para. 2.26) have also demonstrated that, in expecta-
tion of long-term enrollment expansion needs, the expansion of the output of
trained secondary school teachers must receive urgent attention. In addition,
cost-effective measures must be devised to improve efficiency and increase
access. These can include strengthening the low cost alternative to secondary
education being provided by the MCC (para. 2.28-2.29) and continuing the
conversion of day schools into boarding schools (para. 2.25). With due
regard to the Government's present limits on growth of the system, and teacher
shortages, the Bank Group will however continue to keep the question of pos-
sible support for the expansion of general secondary education under review as
a source of manpower for Malawi's development.
3.10      The previous two projects have also shown that significant quality
improvement cannot be brought about without a strengthening of curriculum
development, education research and school supervision (paras. 2.08-2.10).
For this reason, the proposed third education project gives priority to the
establishment of a National Institute of Education, to the provision of
logistical support to the school inspectorate and to a number of studies on
the internal and external efficiency of schools.
3.11      Overall, the proposed third education project would provide support
to those key areas of the education sector which have been identified as
priorities by the Government and the Bank Group. Future education projects
would most likely continue the broad sector approach to education outlined
above, with renewed emphasis on expanded secondary education output. If
needed, specific training programs directly related to ongoing development
activities would also be supported as a part of future education projects and
not treated in isolation as a project component in some other sector.



- 18 -
IV. THE PROJECT
Objectives and Composition
4.01      The major objectives of the project are to improve efficiency in
and access to primary and secondary education, to assist in the provision of
key manpower needed for development, and to improve curriculum development,
in-service training, and management of education. Specifically the project
includes the following:
Principal
Level and Objective                  Item                   Beneficiaries
Primary Education      1.  Construction, furnishing,        50,000 primary
and equipping of about 250       school students
Improved efficiency        four-room classroom blocks
and access
2.  Provision of about 2.2 mil-    740,000 primary
lion textbooks to primary        school students
school children
Provision of primary  3.  Expansion of Mzuzu Teacher        120 student
school teachers            Training College from 420        teachers
to 540 students
Secondary Education
Improved efficiency   4.  Construction, furnishing,         2,720 MCC students
and access                 and equipping of 30 MCC
centers and equipping of
MCC headquarters
5.  Construction, furnishing         280 secondary
and equipping of boarding       school students
and other facilities for
five secondary day schools
Provision of key       6.  Construction, furnishing         120 technical
manpower needs for         and equipping of facilities    school students
commerce, Govern-          for commercial education in    and 240 workers
ment services and          three technical schools          (in-service)
agriculture                                                 per year
7.  Construction of staff            60 agricultural
houses and the provision of    students
furniture and equipment to
Colby College of Agriculture



- 19 -
Principal
Level and Objective                  Item                    Beneficiaries
Provision of           8.  Construction, furnishing          225 student
teachers needed            and equipping of facili-          teachers
for secondary               ties in Chancellor College
school expansion            to increase enrollment of
student teachers from 105
to 330
Education Services:   9.  Construction, furnishing           All primary and
Improved Management,       and equipping of an Insti-        secondary students;
Curriculum Develop-         tute of Education at Domasi    800 teachers and
ment, and In-Service                                         supervisors per year
Training
10.  Provision of 50 vehicles         35 school inspectors,
for school inspectorates         and district education
and educational institutions   officers; 6 educa-
tional institutions
11. Support of various studies
and evaluation of Second
and Third Education Project
Oveall the project would provide for the construction, furnishing and equip-
ping of 50,000 primary student places, 2,900 secondary student places, and
345 teacher training places. 855 student dormitory places and 614 primary,
secondary and university staff houses would also be constructed, furnished
and equipped (Annex 1, T-7).
Primary Education: Improved Efficiency and Access
4.02      Primary School Construction.  The project would support the con-
struction, furnishing, and equipping of about 250 four-classroom blocks
(a total of 1,000 classrooms) for primary schools serving about 50,000
children. In addition, about 500 simple staff houses would be provided, or
an average of one for every two teachers. A school mapping program currently
underway (para. 2.15) and expected to be completed by December 31, 1980, would
provide a basis for determining specific local needs for school facilities
and maximizing the impact of the investment. Half of the classrooms (about
500 classrooms) to be provided would be distributed equally among the 24 rural
and 2 urban districts. Within these districts schools would be selected on
the basis of criteria which would include population density, expected pop-
ulation growth, self-help initiatives, location of neighboring schools, and
the existence of other local development programs. Most of these classrooms
would replace existing inadequate facilities or be added to existing schools
to provide a full eight year primary school cycle. The remaining half of the
primary school classrooms would be allocated after completion of the school



- 20 -
mapping study and located according to criteria satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation. The allocation methodology would take into account enrollment
ratios and school age population by district.
4.03      Schools would, in general, be constructed of locally fired bricks,
with cement floors and termite barriers, wooden roof trusses, and metal roof-
ing sheets. With reasonable maintenance, they could be expected to last
about 30 years. Equipment to be provided would be based on equipment lists
developed for the prototype primary schools under the second education
project (para. 3.04) and would include simple audio-visual materials, culti-
vation implements, radios, science kits, and a small library. All primary
schools to be established under the project would be provided with textbooks.
In accordance with MOE policy, housing accommodations would be provided
by the project for about 50% of all rural school teachers; this is a necessary
prerequisite to encourage teachers to work in rural areas. Output from the
Mzuzu Teacher Training College which was established under the second educa-
tion project (paras. 2.20 and 3.03) and utilization of available capacity
in existing colleges (para. 2.36) would ensure an adequate supply of trained
teachers for these schools. A teacher upgrading program (para. 4.18) as well
as improvement of the inspectorate (paras. 2.09 and 4.21) to be supported
under the project would complement the proposed expansion and improvement of
primary school facilities.
4.04      District school inspectors and social workers would assist needy
communities to prepare applications which would clearly justify school facili-
ties needs. These applications would then be processed by the District
Development Committee, sent to the Development Division, and approved by the
MOE. In accordance with its ongoing program (para. 2.14), the Development
Division of the Office of the President would be responsible for supervising
school construction through district commissioners, including provision of
skilled labor. Each local community would provide fired bricks, sand, stones
and unskilled labor. The PIU (paras. 3.06 and 6.04) in cooperation with the
Development Division would provide and transport additional building materials,
furniture and equipment to project schools. The Government has would devel-
oped a preliminary guidelines for the implementation of the primary school
component establishing procedures and the respective responsibilities of the
participating ministries. Detailed guidelines acceptable to the Association
would be prepared by December 31, 1979.
4.05      Textbooks.  As indicated in para. 2.17, the Government has confirmed
its participation in a program that would finance the costs of primary school
textbooks. This decision represents a major advance in Malawi's educational
policies. Under the present system of provison of books, the local district
utilizes school fees to pay the MBS for the full cost of books. Under the
project, the Government, with IDA assistance, would cover the costs of provid-
ing arithmetic, English and Chichewa textbooks to children in grades one
through eight. School fees would cover the costs of other books, expendable
materials, furniture, and equipment.
4.06      Since Malawi already has an efficient textbook production and
distribution system and as textbook content is in general satisfactory, books
could be distributed to all students by October, 1980. The project would



- 21 -
therefore support the start-up period 1979-81 and one year of replacement
(1981-82), during which time a total of some 2.2 million textbooks would be
provided to about 740,000 primary school children. At present books in grades
one through five are estimated to last an average of 18 months and those in
grades six through eight about two years. The MBS has agreed to procure
textbooks with higher grades of cover stock, paper, and binding which would
cost about 20% more than the present type but would have an expected average
life-span of at least three years. As part of its evaluation procedures, the
Government would monitor and evaluate the real average life of the higher
quality textbooks to be provided and revise its textbook program accordingly.
The MOE intends to allocate a portion of recurrent funds for textbooks in
FY1980 and therefore set a precedent for long-term responsibility for financ-
ing the costs of primary school textbooks. By July 31, 1981 the government
would prepare and submit to the Bank Group for comment a plan for the pro-
vision of primary school textbooks beyond the project period.
4.07      Mzuzu Teacher Training College.  The project would support an ex-
pansion of Mzuzu Teacher Training College from its present capacity of 420
to a planned capacity of 540, and would provide essential housing. Expansion
would make it equivalent in size to the Lilongwe and Blantyre Colleges and
further increase the number of teachers entering the primary system.
Secondary Education: Improved Efficiency and Access
4.08      Malawi Correspondence College (MCC).  The project would support the
provision of an alternative program of access to secondary education through
the strengthening of the MCC and its junior secondary equivalency program
(paras. 2.28-2.29). Specifically, 30 MCC centers located throughout the
country would be constructed, furnished and equipped and would provide 2,720
student places. All but one of the centers to be assisted are among 58 MCC
centers that are already in operation and were selected by the MOE on the
basis of geographical distribution, expected enrollment growth, and the
physical state of existing facilities (which are usually located in makeshift
or temporary quarters, such as converted primary schools). Twenty-seven
centers would be located in rural areas and would consist of two 40 student
classrooms, a small library and office space. Two urban centers would have
four classrooms, and a new urban center to be established in Blantyre would
have six classrooms. Furniture and basic equipment including a science kit,
audio-visual materials, two radios and a radio-cassette recorder would be
provided to the centers and one staff house would be built at each center.
The new facilities would be located and constructed so as to allow expansion
and possible conversion of some centers to full-scale secondary schools as
and when Malawi's resources permit it.
4.09      Physical facilities at MCC headquarters, located in Blantyre, are
in poor condition and would be upgraded through: (a) extension of a recording
studio and construction of an additional studio control room; (b) provision
of recording equipment to replace existing outmoded equipment; (c) upgrading
of electrical reticulation; and (d) provision of printing equipment to
replace outmoded facilities.



- 22 -
4.10      To strengthen program production, the Malawi Government is expected
to conclude an agreement with the British Government for the provision of a
specialist in evaluation and the MCC plans to establish an evaluation unit in
the near future (Annex 1, C-5). The Government confirmed that adequate steps
would be taken to ensure that the specialist would be provided and that the
evaluation unit would be established not later than July 1, 1980 and ade-
quately staffed. Among other duties, the evaluation unit would be expected
to determine to what extent, if any, improved facilities result in improve-
ments in efficiency and thus in pass rates.
4.11      Boarding and Educational Facilities for Day Secondary Schools.
Access to and efficiency of general secondary education would be improved
through provision of boarding and other facilities to five rural secondary
schools currently enrolling 1,040 students. Although these schools are offi-
cially classified as "day" schools, walking distances are so great that over
95% of the students need to be accommodated in-school. Project assistance
would bring these schools up to a minimum standard of dormitory and teaching
accommodations and would include the following: Likoma secondary school, 40
boarding places and a laboratory; Mitundu secondary school, 80 boarding places
and one new library; Nkota-Kota secondary school, 40 boarding places, one
staff house, and ablution facilities; Salima secondary school, 80 boarding
places and one staff house; Balaka secondary school, 40 boarding places. In
addition each of the five schools would receive dining room furniture and a
set of basic audio-visual and science teaching equipment. The schools at
Likoma and Nkota-Kota would also be provided with electricity generators.
Dormitories for the schools would be constructed so as to permit future con-
version to classrooms if and when needed. This project item would supplement
a program assisted by the British Government for the provision of dormitories
to ten "day" secondary schools.
Secondary Education: Manpower needs
4.12      Commercial Education.  The project would support the establishment
of a new program in commercial education designed to raise the quality of
secretaries, typists, and bookkeepers in commmerce and government service
(paras. 1.09 and 2.31), which would provide a full-time one year training
course to a total of 120 students per year in the technical schools at Mzuzu,
Lilongwe, and Blantyre. An additional 240 clerical workers p.a. in commerce
and government services would be upgraded during evening courses. Entering
full-time students would be required to have completed junior secondary
education. Specifically the project would provide facilities for 40 students
in each of the three technical schools, including a three classroom block
with a model office, three staff houses, and administrative space in each
school, as well as appropriate furniture and equipment for teaching commercial
subjects. Dormitories for 40 students would be provided in Mzuzu (boys) and
Lilongwe (girls) technical schools. Sufficient dormitory space is already
available in the Blantyre technical school but would require some upgrading.



- 23 -
4.13      Since the commercial training program will be new, the services
of a specialist would assist in the preparation of curriculum and teacher
training programs, and a tracer program would be established by December 31,
1981 to follow the activities of 8iaduates and to assist in the possible
revision of curriculum, length of training, and/or entrance requirements.
4.14      Agricultural Education.  Since the Natural Resources College, to be
supported by CIDA, is expected to begin operations only in 1983 (para. 2.32),
the project would assist Colby College of Agriculture to improve the ratio of
students to qualified teachers and to increase output per year by 1981 from
160 to 190. The college would therefore be able to meet a portion of the
requirements for agricultural technicians under the National Rural Development
Program (NRDP) being financed by the Bank Group (Credit 857-MAI) and other
agencies for agricultural technicians pending implementation of the Natural
Resources College program. Specifically, the project would provide support
for construction of six faculty houses and dormitory furniture for an addi-
tional 60 students.
Secondary Teacher Training
4.15      The project would support the expansion of enrollment in the sec-
ondary teacher training program at Chancellor College from 105 to 330 and
of output from 30 to 90 teachers per year which would be adequate to meet
secondary teacher needs over the next twelve years at the present rate of
growth of secondary enrollment (para. 2.26 and Annex 1, T-4). About 30% of
the students would specialize in science and mathematics, 30% in English, 20%
in social studies, 10% in Chichewa, and the rest home economics, French and
art. About half the students would be expected to take a three year diploma
course and the other half would take a four year degree course. Bilateral
agencies are expected to provide most of the 15 additional staff required.
4.16      Since present facilities at Chancellor College are barely adequate
for the present enrollment of 600, the project would provide an expansion of
the physical facilities sufficient to serve the additional enrollment of 225
students. The additional facilities would include six classrooms, three
seminar rooms, three science laboratories, an audio-visual center, a home
economics center, 15 staff offices and housing, dormitories for 225 students,
library and kitchen expansions, and expansion of the staff common room.
4.17      By July 1, 1980, a tracer study would be initiated to determine
the activities of graduates of the teacher training program and to assist in
revising curriculum and/or salary and other incentives for secondary school
teachers.
Education Services:
Improved Curriculum Development, In-Service Training and Management
4.18      Institute of Education.  The project would support the establishment
of an autonomous Institute of Education to be located at the existing Domasi
teacher in-service training center (para. 2.10). This Institute would be



- 24 -
responsible for curriculum development, materials preparation, and in-service
training for the entire primary and secondary educational system. When fully
developed the Institute would have a staff of about 30 and boarding and teach-
ing facilities for 150 trainees at a time. Each year the Institute would
provide six-week in-service training courses to about 600 primary teachers as
well as short courses to 60 inspectors and district education officers, 100
primary school headmasters, 40 secondary school teachers, and others.
4.19      To permit the center to function as a national institute, the
project would support the construction, furnishing and equipping of an educa-
tional materials resource center, a science center, an administrative center,
four classrooms, a library, a students common room and four new senior staff
houses. Six existing classrooms, students' dormitory facilities, refectory
kitchen, and 26 faculty houses are sub-standard and would be upgraded.
4.20      The United Kingdom and UNDP have indicated their intention to
provide technical assistance for the establishment of a curriculum develop-
ment unit at the new Institute. The Institute would be legally established
with an autonomous Board of Governors by July 1, 1980, a director of the
institute would be named by that time, and steps would be taken to provide
appropriate specialist staff.
4.21      Vehicles.  To improve primary shool supervision (see para. 2.09)
and to strengthen the functioning of educational institutions, the project
would provide a total of 50 vehicles, distributed as follows: (a) 43 general
purpose vehicles for primary school inspectors (29), district education
officers (three), MOE headquarters (four), Mzuzu Teacher Training College (1),
PIU (3) and Malawi Correspondence College (three); (b) one bus for the
Institute of Education and one minibus for Colby College of Agriculture; and
(c) five trucks for the PIU to transport furniture, equipment, and primary
school building materials.
4.22      Studies and Evaluation.  The project would support a number of
studies on key issues in the educational system, which would be carried out
by the Institute of Education, Chancellor College, the Malawi Certificate of
Education and Testing Board, and other relevant institutions. These studies
are expected to include: (a) a tracer study on graduates of teacher training
programs at Chancellor College, of commercial training programs at technical
schools, and of general secondary schools (paras. 1.09, 4.13 and 4.17); (b) a
study of costs, durability, and financing of primary school textbooks (para.
4.06); (c) continuation of school mapping activities presently being supported
under the second education project (paras. 3.06 and 4.02); (d) monitoring and
evaluation of the second and third projects (including measurement of the
effects of textbooks on student achievement); and (e) studies leading to
the preparation of a national education plan and future education projects.
4.23      The Government agreed to seek the assistance of a specialist who
would be responsible for preparing and implementing the studies. In addition
the terms of reference for the monitoring and evaluation of the second and
the proposed third education project would be agreed upon and the Government
confirmed that it would provide the Association, not later than three months



- 25 -
after Credit Closing Date, with a report which evaluates the execution and
initial operations of the proposed third education project, its costs and
benefits, the performance of the Government and IDA, and significant lessons
learned during project implementation. The report would be carried out by the
office of the Chief Inspector of Schools in cooperation with various relevant
branches of the Government such as the PIU, the Malawi Institute of Education
and Chancellor College.
V. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
Project Cost
5.01      The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at US$26.6
million equivalent including duties and taxes estimated at US$0.9 million
equivalent. The estimated costs and foreign exchange components are given
in Annex 1, T-8, and summarized below:



- 26 -
Estimated Cost by Project Item
Malawi Kwacha                                % of
(Millions)            US$ (Millions)        Base
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Cost
1.  Construction, Furniture
and Equipment for
(a)  Primary Schools            2.79   1.86    4.65   3.36        2.24    5.60   26
(b)  Primary Teacher
College 1/                 0.58   0.26    0.84   0.70       0.31    1.01    5
(c)  MCC Centers 1/             0.90   0.67    1. ffi  1.08       0.81    1.89    9
(d)  Secondary Schools
(Boarding, Business
and Commercial
Education, Agricul-
tural Education)           0.82   0.48    1.30   0.99       0.58    1.57    7
(e)  Secondary Teacher
Training                   1.71   1.23    2.94   2.06        1.48    3.54   17
(f)  Institute of Education   0.94   0.59    1.53   1.13          0.71    1.84    9
2.  Textbooks 1/                    1.10   1.65    2.75   1.33        1.99    3.32   16
3.  Vehicles 17                     0.06   0.57    0.63   0.07        0.69    0.76    3
4.  Students and Preinvestment    0.18   0.12    0.30   0.22          0.14    0.36    2
5.  Architectural/Engineering
Services 2/                     0.36   0.24    0.60   0.43        0.29    0.72    3
6.  Project Administration          0.40   0.10    0.50   0.48        0.12    0.60    3
Total Base Cost
(February 1979)                9.84   7.77   17.61  11.85        9.36   21.21  100
7.  Contingencies
(a)  Physical (7%)              0.79   0.52    1.31   0.95        0.63    1.58
(b)  Price Increases (17%)    1.91   1.27    3.18   2.30          1.53    3.83
Subtotal                   2.70   1.79    4.49   3.25       2.16    5.41
Total Project Cost        12.54   9.56   22.10  15.10    11.52   26.62
1/   Component financed from EEC Special Action Credit.
2/   Represents about 20 man years at US$35,000 per man year.



- 27 -
5.02      Construction and furniture costs are based upon tenders received
during 1977-78 for the second education project assisted by IDA and for other
similar projects in Malawi. The February 1979 base construction costs are
as follows; US$35 equivalent per square meter for self help primary school
construction, $230 equivalent per square meter for secondary schools, and up
to $350 equivalent per square meter for post secondary institutions. The cost
per housing unit to be provided under the primary school development program
is estimated at US$1,600 equivalent. The low cost of construction of primary
schools and related housing is due to the fact that only building materials
not available from community sources will be provided. These costs compare
favorably with similar construction costs in the region; i.e. primary school
self-help construction-Ethiopia US$50 equivalent per square meter (1977),
Burundi US$80 equivalent per sq. meter (1976); secondary school construction
- Lesotho US$200 per sq. meter (1977), Kenya $250 equivalent per sq. meter
(1978), Tanzania $300-$400 equivalent per sq. meter (1977). Equipment costs
are based on experience in the second education project and/or preliminary
equipment lists drawn up by Malawian authorities and reviewed by the Bank
Group Staff. Textbook prices are based on an estimate by the local supplier
of the cost of the higher quality textbook that would be produced (para. 4.06).
5.03      Custom Duties and Taxes.  In line with Malawian policies and prac-
tices, items imported specifically for the project would be exempted from
customs duties and taxes. Certain items are anticipated to be purchased
locally off-the-shelf, and reimbursement percentages have been calculated
to exclude duties and taxes estimated at US$0.9 million equivalent on such
items as imported building materials and construction contracts, paper for
textbooks, and off-the-shelf purchases of furniture and equipment.
5.04      Contingency Allowances.  For physical increases, 10% has been added
to the base costs for construction and architectural/engineering services; 5%
has been added to furniture, equipment, textbooks and vehicles. Estimated
price increases are based upon the application of the following annual per-
centage rates of price escalation from the base cost date (February 1979) in
accordance with the implementation schedule (Annex 1, C-4).
Furniture,
Construction,                       Equipment,
Architectural and                Textbooks, Vehicles
Year              Engineering Services            Project Administration
1979                       12%                               6.5%
1980                       10%                               6%
1981-83                     8%                               6%
The estimated price increases for construction are based upon recent trends
and forecasts by Ministry of Works and the PIU which have been reviewed by
the Bank Group staff and found reasonable.
5.05      Foreign Exchange Component.  The foreign exchange component of
US$11.5 million equivalent has been calculated as follows; (a) construction
30%, (b) furniture 55%, (c) equipment and vehicles 90%, (d) textbook program



- 28 -
60%, (e) architectural/engineering services, project evaluation and general
studies 40%, and (f) project administration 20%. The foreign exchange compo-
nent of construction is comparatively low due to the extensive use of local
materials (para. 6.04), in particular the inclusion in the project of a
major community self-help construction component based on simple construction
methods and basic locally available construction materials.
Financial Plan
5.06      External financing from an IDA Credit of US$14.5 million equivalent
and an EEC Special Action Credit of US$7.5 million equivalent would represent
86% of the total project cost of US$25.7 million equivalent net of taxes.
Together the Credits would finance all foreign exchange costs and 74% of local
costs net of taxes. The EEC Credit would finance the Primary Teacher Training
College, MMC Centers, textbooks and vehicles components of the project. The
overall financial plan would be as follows:
Government      IDA     EEC       TOTAL
(1)  Construction                    2.34         7.07    2.10      11.51
(2)  Furniture                       0.51         1.92    0.20       2.63
(3)  Equipment, Vehicles             0.13         0.96    1.00       2.09
(4)  Textbooks                       0.31           -     2.80       3.11
(5)  Studies & Preinvestment         0.07         0.29       -       0.36
(6) Architectural/Engineering
Services                        0.14         0.58      -        0.72
(7)  Project Administration          0.12         0.48      -        0.60
(8)  Unallocated                     1.00         3.20    1.40       5.60
TOTAL                     4.62        14.50    7.50       26.62
of which taxes            0.90          -        -         0.90
5.07      In any year during project implementation, the maximum government
capital contribution to the project inclusive of taxes is not expected to
exceed US$1.6 million equivalent. This is 1% of the 1978/79 capital develop-
ment budget of the Government or 18% of the education capital budget. Re-
current costs generated by the project are estimated at about US$1.6 million
equivalent at 1979 prices or about 1% of the estimated total recurrent expend-
itures in 1985/86. Textbooks would account for 60% of this figure.
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
Implementation
6.01      The project would be implemented over a period of about five years
(Annex 1, C-4) including 6 months for completion of payments and withdrawals.
This is in line with experience with two previous projects in the sector



- 29 -
(paras. 3.02 and 3.03). A PIU already established within the MOE would
perform all administrative functions for the proposed third project. The PIU
has functioned well on the ongoing project and, with the recent addition of
a third architect, is presently adequately staffed at the professional level;
however additional drafting staff will be recruited.
6.02      Architectural/Engineering Services.  Architectural/Engineering
consultants would be appointed by the Government to undertake design and
supervision of the proposed expansions at Chancellor College Mzuzu Teachers
College, the Malawi Institute of Education and for the expansion of three
technical schools to add facilities for the teaching of business and commer-
cial subjects. These consultants would be required to undertake design work
in Malawi and would be appointed on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Association. Consultants have been selected for the Chancellor College and
Mzuzu Teachers College expansions. The PIU would be responsible for the
design and supervision of the primary schools, 30 MCC centers, and the im-
provement of secondary schools (para. 4.11). The PIU would use as far as
possible standard designs developed under previous education projects.
6.03      Primary School Construction Program.  Classroom designs for rural
primary schools prepared by the PIU for the second education project would be
modified by the PIU and simplified following actual experience with prototype
schools. The revised designs would form the basis for schools to be built
under the project. These schools would be constructed by local communities
as part of an ongoing community self-help program being implemented by the
Development Division of the Office of the President (para. 4.04).
6.04      School facilities and associated teacher housing would be con-
structed using as far as possible materials available in the local communities.
The Development Division would organize local community inputs e.g. locally
fired bricks, stone, sand and unskilled labour. The PIU would be responsible
for the bulk procurement and delivery to site of materials that are not avail-
able from community sources such as roofing sheets, cement and door frames.
Organization and on-site supervision of construction and technical assistance
to the local communities would be by building teams already established by
the Development Division in each of the 24 rural districts of Malawi. The
community self-help construction program would require close coordination
among several agencies, in particular the Development Division and the PIU,
at national and local levels. The Government has established preliminary
guidelines for co-ordination among these agencies and would establish detailed
operating procedures for such co-ordination by December 31, 1979. The present
total annual value of community construction projects being undertaken by the
Development Division is about US$1.4 million equivalent p.a. excluding local
self-help inputs and the proposed project would increase this figure by about
80% (US$1.1 million equivalent p.a.). Government confirmed that the Develop-
ment Division would increase its staff as necessary to undertake the expanded
program.
6.05      Site Selection.  Primary schools would be located throughout Malawi
on the basis of agreed criteria and a school location and development plan
to be undertaken by the Ministry of Education (para. 4.02). Land would be



- 30 -
provided free of cost to the project for school sites by the communities
included in the program. A list of the proposed locations for the 30 MCC
centers has been reviewed by Bank Group staff and found satisfactory. The
proposed sites for all other project components are already available and
are adequate. Land is provided at no cost to the project.
6.06      The Construction Industry.  Malawi has a small but adequate con-
struction industry which has been able to develop both through the continuing
availability of construction contracts for the new capital, Lilongwe and due
to stable economic conditions. Within the past few years several overseas
contractors have also been attracted to Malawi. The 1976 value of construc-
tion works was about MK 30 million. The maximum annual value of construction
under the project (excluding self-help primary school construction) would be
about MK 2.0 million and would represent about 7% of the 1976 construction
output. This would not present any significant problems as sufficient
capacity exists. Malawi is heavily dependent upon the Mozambique ports of
Beira and Nacala for most imported materials. As these ports are becoming
increasingly congested, materials and equipment delivery times are lengthen-
ing with resultant cost increases. The impact of these anticipated delays
has been taken into consideration when developing the project implementation
schedule and in estimating price increases. To avoid importation difficulties
the project will maximize the use of locally available materials for
construction.
Procurement
6.07      Contracts to be financed by IDA would total US$16.1 million equiva-
lent including contingencies. Contracts to be awarded on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank Group guidelines
for procurement would total US$10.9 million equivalent. Exceptions to these
procedures totalling US$5.2 million equivalent would be for:
(a)  Construction of rural primary school facilities using
community self-help procedures; local community inputs
of labor and materials would be organized by the Devel-
opment Division without charge to the project. Skilled
labor and technical assistance would be provided by the
Development Division and approved expenditures would be
reimbursable (para. 6.12). Construction materials for
these schools would be bulk procured locally following
competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Asso-
ciation (para. 6.10). To avoid deterioration of materials
whilst in storage, they would be procured by the PIU over
a period of four years in accordance with the implementa-
tion schedule (Annex 1, C-4). Maximum annual expenditures
on materials would be about US$750,000 equivalent and the
amounts involved would be unlikely to attract foreign
bidders. The value of labor and materials so procured
would be about US$4.5 million equivalent including
contingencies.



- 31 -
(b) Construction contracts costing less than US$250,000 equiva-
lent each and furniture and equipment contracts costing
less than US$50,000 equivalent each. The aggregate total
of such contracts is not expected to exceed US$0.75 million
equivalent.
6.08      Contracts to be financed by the EEC Special Action Credit totalling
US$8.4 million equivalent including contingencies would be awarded in accord-
ance with Bank Group guidelines for procurement as outlined below and subject
to EEC eligibility restrictions except that contracts for the purchase of
goods estimating to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent may be awarded in
accordance with the borrowers applicable procedures satisfactory to the
Association. Specifically, the EEC credit would finance components as follows:
(a) Construction contracts for the Malawi Correspondence College
and its 30 Centers: The individual contracts are small ranging
from US$25,000 to US$60,000 equivalent, are widely dispersed
throughout Malawi, and would be constructed over three years.
Such contracts are unlikely to attract contracting firms from
outside Malawi and would be procured locally. The value of such
contracts would be about US$1.9 million equivalent including
contingencies.
(b) Textbooks for primary schools: These would be procured through,
and distributed by, the Malawi Book Service, a parastatal body.
Most of the required textbooks are already published and printed
in Malawi (para. 2.18). The present MBS procedures for procure-
ment which involve mainly direct bulk purchases from local sup-
pliers are efficient and economical and Bank Group supervision
missions would continue to monitor costs and procedures during
the production period. The value of textbooks to be procured
from the MBS would be about US$3.8 million equivalent including
contingencies.
(c) The construction contract for the expansion of the Mzuzu
Teachers College, estimated to cost US$1.1 million equivalent,
would be negotiated on the basis of presently agreed unit costs
with the contractor employed to construct the first phase under
the Second Education Project (Credit 590-MAI). This is regarded
as the most efficient and economical contractual method in view
of the satisfactory performance of this contractor and of previous
difficulties in attracting bidders to this area.
(d) Equipment and furniture for components (a) and (c) and vehicles
for the project would be procured following international com-
petitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Association and the
value of goods so procured would be about US$1.6 million equivalent
including contingencies.
6.09      The total amount of contracts to be awarded following ICB would be
US$12.5 million equivalent including contingencies and contracts to be awarded
following negotiation and competitive bidding advertised locally and in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association are estimated at
US$12.0 million equivalent including contingencies.



- 32 -
6.10      Architectural sketch designs, draft tender documents and master
lists of furniture, equipment and vehicles including proposed grouping, would
be reviewed by the Association. Items would be grouped to the extent practic-
able to encourage competitive bidding and bulk procurement. Review of tender
evaluation documents by the Association prior to award would not be required
for construction contracts costing less than US$250,000 equivalent each and
for construction materials, furniture, equipment and vehicle contracts each
costing less than US$50,000 equivalent.
6.11      Where international competitive bidding procedures are used (i)
domestic manufacturers of furniture and equipment would be allowed a prefer-
ence of 15% or the existing applicable rate of import duties whichever is
lower, over the c.i.f. price of competing foreign suppliers and (ii) for IDA
financed components qualified domestic contractors would be allowed a prefer-
ential margin of 7-1/2% over the bid prices of competing foreign contractors.
Disbursements
6.12      Disbursement against components financed from the IDA Credit
(Annex 1, T-9) would be on the basis of (a) 80% of total expenditures for
civil works, and project administration; (b) 80% of local expenditures for
locally procured construction materials for primary school facilities and for
furniture, equipment including local transportation, consultants services and
studies; (c) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported construction
materials, furniture, equipment, consultants services and studies; and (d)
100% of the ex-factory cost of furniture and equipment manufactured locally.
Disbursement against components financed from the EEC Special Action Credit
would be (a) 87% of total expenditures for civil works (b) 90% of total
expenditures for textbooks and furniture; and (c) 90% of local and 100% of
foreign expenditures for equipment and vehicles. Disbursement for studies,
project administration and the Development Division's approved expenditures
would be made against certificates of expenditure, documentation for which
would not be submitted for review but would be retained by the Government for
inspection by the Association during project supervision. All other disburse-
ments will be fully documented. Project expenditures should be audited in
accordance with sound auditing principles by a Government appointed auditor
satisfactory to the Association. Copies should be provided to the Association
within four months following the end of the fiscal year.
6.13      Retro-active reimbursement of a sum not exceeding US$100,000 equiva-
lent for approved expenditures incurred after April 1, 1979 and prior to
Credit signing, is recommended for the services of consultant architects for
the preparation of design documents for the Chancellor College and the Malawi
Institute of Education and for project administration expenditures. This
could speed up implementation of these components by about six months.
6.14      The project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1983 with
a proposed IDA Credit Closing Date of June 30, 1984 including six months for
the completion of payments and withdrawals. Disbursements against the EEC
financed components are expected to be completed by June 30, 1982.



- 33 -
VII. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
7.01      At both the primary and secondary levels the project would help
provide greater access to education for underprivileged groups and would
improve efficiency and cost-effectiveness. It would provide places for
50,000 primary school children, most of them in rural areas, 2,720 MCC stu-
dents also mostly in rural areas, and for 525 secondary and teacher training
students. The project would improve equity by providing access to primary
education for children in educationally disadvantaged areas through careful
school location planning. It would also help children in disadvantaged rural
areas by expanding the "second chance" MCC alternative to secondary educa-
tion. The project would also help fill specific manpower needs by providing
345 student places for the training of future primary and secondary school
teachers and an output of 120 future typists, secretaries and bookkeepers and
60 places for the training of agricultural technicians. The project would
assist the education of women through its commercial education component and
through provision of dormitories to secondary schools, and it would help to
meet a portion of the short term requirements for agricultural technicians
under the NRDP. It would also result in improved management of the entire
educational system through support for improved curriculum development,
in-service training, and school supervision. Overall the project would assist
in establishing a secure base to permit expansion of the educational system in
accordance with long-term manpower needs.
Risks and Uncertainties
7.02      Most of the project components offer minimum risks and uncertainties,
since the various Government agencies to be involved in the project, including
the MOE, the PIU, Chancellor College, MBS and MCC, are capable of implementing
major educational programs. The self-help community construction program
would require coordination between several agencies including especially the
Development Division and the PIU at national and local levels. To minimize
risks in this component, the Government has established preliminary guidelines
for coordination among the key agencies involved (para. 6.04). The establish-
ment of an Institute of Education would be a major innovation and measures
were taken to ensure that the Institute would be adequately staffed (para.
4.20). The commercial education component to be supported under the project
would also be innovative for Malawi and for this reason assurances were sought
and obtained regarding the provision of trained teachers and a curriculum
development expert (para. 4.13).
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      Agreement was reached with the Government on the following principal
points:



- 34 -
(a) (i) procedures and criteria for primary school distribution,
location and construction, and (ii) the development of a plan
for the provision of textbooks to primary schools beyond the
project period (paras. 4.02, 4.06 and 6.04);
(b)  the provision of specialists for the Malawi Corredpondence
College, the business and commercial studies program, the
Malawi Institute of Education and the studies to be under-
taken by the MOE (paras. 4.10, 4.13, 4.23);
(c)  the establishment of (i) an evaluation unit at the MCC, and
(ii) the Malawi Institute of education (paras. 4.10, 4.20); and
(d)  Tracer study programs and terms of reference for project
monitoring and evaluation (paras. 4.13, 4.17 and 4.23).
8.02      Retroactive financing not exceeding US$100,000 is recommended for
the services of architectural consultants (para. 6.13).
8.03      The proposed project is recommended for an IDA credit of US$14.5
million equivalent and an EEC Special Action Credit of US$7.5 million
equivalent.



MALAWI
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Number of Temporary Employment Permit Holders by Industry and Occupation as
at December 31. 1975 (All Malawi)
Agricultural,    Production                    As a
Animal Husban-   and Related                   % of
dry, and For-    Workers,                     total
Professional,      Administrative,   Clerical and                       estry Workers,   Transport                   employment
Technical and        Managerial         Related       Sales   Service  Fishermen and    Equipment    Grand
Related Workers       Workers           Workers      Workers  Workers      Hunters       Operators    Total    %         X
Agriculture, Hunting,
Forestry and Fishing                  6                   7                 3           -         -           54               1          71    3.76      0.7
Mining and Quarrying                    3                   1                 -           -         -                            1           5    0.26      5.8
Manufacturing                          59                  97                11          17         1            27            104         316   16.75    10.8
Electricity, Gas and Water             18                   -                 1           -         -             -               1         20    1.06      7.2
Construction                           61                  30                 6           1         1             _             81         180    9.54      8.8  w
Wholesales and Retail Trade
and Restaurants and Hotels           51                  94                15          22        12           11              17         222   11.76    13.3
Transport, Storage and
Communication                       119                  26                16           4         1             -             31         197   10.44    15.6
Finance, Insurance, Real
Estate and Business Services        119                  60                30           4         -             1              4         218   11.55    73.5
Community, gocial and
Personal Services                   539                  36                49           2        11             1             20         658   34.87   10 6
Total                        975                 351               131          50        26           94             260       1,887    100%
Z                        51.66               18.60              6.94        2.65      1.38         4.98          '31.78         100%           7.7
Source: Ministry of Labor
Date     October 30, 1978                                                                                                                                         -



MALAWI
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Applicants and Vacancies Notified by Occupation and Year
(Registration at Employment Exchange and
the Advertisements in the Newspapers)
1974                       1975                         1976
Registered                 Registered                  Registered
Applicants   Vacancies    Applicants   Vacancies    Applicants   Vacancies
Professional Workers                     198           128           160            87           154            96
Administration Workers                    51            28            59            25            53              2
Clerical Workers                       2,410         1,076         2,970         1,193         2,801         1,237
Sales Workers                            574           281           536           197           488           202
Service Workers                        2,232         1,691         2,838         1,719         2,711         1,805
Agricultural Workers                                       1/
(including laborers)                   879        10,532-        1,244         4,233           845         1,178
Production Workers                    18,914        37,627        23,282        36,645        22,228        28,968
Registrants not elsewhere
classified                           1,134           238         1,292           106         1,516           139
Total                         26,392       51,601         32,381       44,205         30,796        33,645
1/ The high demand for agricultural workers, in 1974, is due mainly to a sharp increase in investments in the
agricultural sector, which grew 36% from 1973 to 1974 compared to only 6% from 1974 to 1975.
Source:  Ministry of Labor
Date  : October 30, 1978



-37 -
TABLE 3
Page 1 of 2
-    GNP/   % GNP  .% TOTAL:%  OF PUBLIC                                   :PRI. ~AV.PRI.                         SEC
CAPITA: DEVOTEO:PUBLIC    EDUCATION    :LITER-   PRI. :CDPPLE-  STU-  SCH.TEACH PROGRESS-~ SEC.  STU- -HIGHER-
-  AT  : TO EDU.:  EXP.   RECURRENT    :ACY           ENROLL:TION       :DENTS:SALARY IN:ION RATE :ENROLLzDENTS:ENROLL.
M1ARKET: (PUBLIC:DEVOTED:EXP ALLOCATED:  RATE :RATIO :RATE FOR:PER  :RELATION  ~FROM PR!. RATIO :PER   RATIO
POP. -PRICES: EXP.      :  TO           TO:       :(% OF   : NET   :PRI.SCH.:TEACH: TO GNAP/ :TO SEC. : NET   :TEACH- GROSS,
-RMLIS     (USS): ONLY)     EDU. 'PRI. SEC. HI.:ADULTS): (%    :CYCLE(%)ER            CAPITA        M V)    : V.   :ER         )
ADVANCED
AUSTRIA         74   7S5F 4.870F       5.3Y   IS.EY  24Y  5fY  IRY   99            98       920      260      2.00       990      510      190    i.s S8Y
CANADA          75  22.8  7,135        7.3   16.7       30   37   26    95         99       97       IS        2.0       99       90       lB     16.00
GERMANY F.REP.75  61.5  6.670          5.0   10.2    3tEV 64-- 28EV  99            90       99       23EY      . ..      995      S4Y      22C   20.26Y
JAPAN           75 111.   4.450        4.3E  20,7E   4DUY 37WY I1UY  99           990       99C      25        2.06      99C      99XY   20C   24.69Y
NETHERLANDS   79  13.7  5.425          9.4   22.40)   21   39   25    99           95       95       29        2.0       97       80       20     12.00
NEW ZEALAND   73   3.IF 4.28OF         5.2   -.         39   24   29    99         99      99        26        ...       99       67       19    24.00
NORWAY          76   4.0  8.C43        7.2   14.4    54   24   IS    99            99       99        Is       1.5       99E       62      II     11~00
SWEDEN          76  8:.2  8-, IS       8.8    140       23   29   12    99        99        99.      16        . ..      907      :SC      13    30.OOC
U.K.            75   6.0  3.780         7.1     3.9    26   41   18    99          99       ..        4        2.0       .. .      6a       7    2l.OOX
U.S.A.          76 314.6  7.990        9.4    15.5      -      72.. 28    99E      99       99       22        . ..      99        93      19    24.00
EUROPE
GREECE          76   9.1  2.590        2.6   10.4    37   26   21    868          99        820      31      2.0         70E      80       27     15.00
IREL AND        74   3.IF 2.390F       5.1    I3.90   43V  415  l4Y   98         IO8XY    99A        35      ...         95A      65XY    19      t5.47Y
PORTUGAL        75   9.6   1.:570      4.40   17.8    52   27   13    70          95        59       21      3.0         70       29       14      7.60
ROMANIA         75  21.2   .240        4.0      6.4    36   19   13    98          lOlA.X            21                  go . 5    49      22     10.00
SPAIN           74  35.3F 2.750F       2.46  15.2A   49Y  22Y  I5V   94A    11595            .       35A      . .. ..   ---        78XY   30      liBBgY
AFRICA
ALGERIA         77  16.9    990G       7.5    14.3FY  42   ..   21    35           759      45       39       4.0        95       26X      13      6.00
BEN IN          74   3.IF`   130F      7,2N  36.OY   470  230  100    110    44XY    7DB             535     25.08       438       hAXY   396      0.74Y
BO TSWANA       76   0.7      410      4.0   19.2    53   20   14           3      72X      95      -32       3.0        60        12      22      0.3D
BURUNDI         74   3.7F    IIOF    2.5    19.90   476  415  12R   10             20X      307      38       10.0       14         2X     la      1.0
CAMEROON        76   7.7    31A        3.7   21.5       33   43   20              60        45       52      4.0         2.0        90     24     0OS0CS
C.AR.           74    I SF   220F      3.00   17.00   568  196 .--T7XY                      25       695      --         la 1       595    278Y   0.21Y
CHAD            75   4.0      120      3.0   10.0    78   22  ...    Is            29X6Y   30        65KY   195.0         8         2ABS  30       0.0185
CONGO(S)        74    1.3F   SIOF      6.0   1g.3    40   32   21    50?    133X            63       63       6.0        48       339      22      3.40
EGYPT           76  38.2      310      5.9N    . ..    30   32   28       44      78        80       31        . .       79       45       20      12.00
ETHIOPIA        77  29.0      100      2.4    12.5   44      31   IA    10         26       . ..     SO        ...       63         8      38      ...
GABON           74   D.SF 2.54DF       5.00  20.60   250   90   IID    . ..   1o00          25C      46C      5.0        ISA      31Y      21C     0.29Y
GAMBIA          76   0.5      170      3.3    11.5    46   25    6         10      27       90       33       ...        92        13      25       ..
GHANA           74   9S9F   599F        - .    19.75    43Y  22Y  2050   .. .    6OXV       628      30Y      .. .       146      36XV    ISCY    lO0ST
GUINEA          76   4.7      IBOF     4.2ND . ..       30   31   30       . ..    30X      64       45        i2F       86        13X     26      4.00
VIOIP~ COAST   75   7.0    610         6.8   23.1    33   46   13          9A    60         86       43      7.0         47       I7XY   36        1.64Y
~-&h        76  13.8      240      5.9   25.0    67   23   to    4D           80?       6017    34        6.0        30        16      27      1 0
LESO'HG         75    1.2     '60     12.OP  23 0       49   IS   20    40        85        50       52       7DMN       St        ID     26       1.00
L.IFEPIA        75    1.5    410       2.4   13.2    27   Is   20    73           58        ---      35       2.0        ...      12      26       I.IOAP
MADAGASCAR      77   8.0      240      4.0   24.0    53   28   IS    s0            90       33       44        6.0       38        IA      23      1.70
MALAWI          '77   5.6     140      2.2    9.3    40   17   22         25       969      21       61        9.0        9         SX     21      0.47
MALI            79   5_7F      SOF    4.2M4  33:OF   4SF  37F  1SF   lOF    22XF            . ..     48F     9.SF        SOF        65     21         .
MAURITANIA      71    1.3F   320F      4.1Y  20.0Y........    IDA                  t7XV     ...      22A       ...       ...        355    246
MAURITIUS       76   0.9L   680        4.7   12.i    50   26    6    soc    94              99       24       4.5         90      45       32      1.90
MOROCCO         76  18.2    520        6.3    15.2    396  486  136   28          65X       33       40        ..        33        17X    22       4.00
NIGERIA         74  7S.OF   340F    4AIDY 24.20Y  23Y  165  42Y    .. .    4995             . ..     3.0Y      ...       . ..      Ioxy   20CY   0-48Y
PWANDA          73  4AIF    IOOF       3_2C  28.00........ 323                    92        ...      51        ...       ...       2       13      0.23CY
SENEGAL         77   5.2      420      5.0   23.0       46   34   20       10     32        . ..     49       10.0       20        10      21      1.5
SIERRA LEONE  73   3.OF   200F         3.4   23.4       31   36   30       I5?    34X       45       32      4ADE        68        l3X     21      0.53RY
SOMALIA         7S   3.2      110      3.70  10.80   490  160  I90   50?          34X       86       36      tl0.        60         3      IS      0.10
SUDAN           76  15-9    290        4.5   I9.9    48   36   16    20           34        74       33       3.8        33        14      24       1.24
SWAZILAND       75   0.S      470      3.8      ---    38   31   19    90         73        71       38       3.8        Si       24       22      tOO0
TANZANIA        76  15.1      180      6.6    i7.4      42   21   12    s0        93X       81       49       6.6         6        AX      19      0.34
TUNISIA         73   5_6F   730F       6.3   23.4       37   43   i8    58        72        81       41       6.0        31        14     21       3.00
UGANDA          75  11.6      230      3.40Y 15.70Y  34EY 40EY 22EY  25A           93XY     ---     34EY       .. .      14A       6XCV   21A   0OSBY
UPPER VOLTA   77   5.8        118      3.4   23.9    31   16   32          SC      13       23       SI      24.0        19         2      25      1.0
ZAIRE           76  25.6      140      6.0   22.0       49   26   25       IS     869       44       42X      2.0        41        13X    27       1.005
ZAMBIA          76   5.1      440      6.8   15.9    54   22   22         39      97X       s0       49       7.0        21        1B      23      ISO0
CENTRAL AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN
BARBADOS        76   0.2  1.620        8.1   22.1    43   31   i6    99           IOEX      99       21        3.0       99       SAX      17      ..
COSTA RICA      79   2.0      960      S.2B  22.76    578  396  126   898    IOSAP          658      296       2.08      986      5295    396    i71S5Y
CUBA            78   9.5  9. 500       8.0    11.0  .. ... ...            96       98       95       22        2.7       98       69       IS     15.00
oomrNICAN PEP.72   4.7F   720F          2.0    13.9    42   24   22    51          s0       17       54        3.00      63        13.5   24       7.00
EL SALVADOR   77   4.1    970          4.4   27.2       64     8   27    62       589       32       39        2.2       Al       23       21      7.00
GUATEMALA       73   6.3F   57OF        1.9   16.0    SS   23   14    47          64        26       35        3.0       69         a      29      4.09Y
HAITI           76   4.7    200         1.0    8.0    61   21   II    306          2SF      13       96U       3.0       62         4      . ..     0.7
HONDURAS        75   2.9      3900     4.20   18.80   620  ISG  19G   53           78       30       35        3.0       68        II      IT      4.00
JAMAICA         76   2.1  1.070        9.9   16.2    37   33   22    8BE           91       52       39       4.5        54       64       29      7.98
MEXICO          75  59.9   1.090        3.100 t2.000  Sly  26Y  12Y   76          11295     31       46        3.0       63       35XY   23A       89.7EY
NICARAGUA       74   2-3F   700F       2.5   14.3    61   13   13    57            65       21       37        2.0       93        17      24      7.00
TRINIDAD I T . 77   1.1  2.185         4.5    14.1    48   32   20        95       98       SI       30       3.0        49       63       24       ..
SOUTH AMERICA
BOLIVIA         76   S.8      315F      9.0    17S5F    ......               35    17B      290      24        SF         . ..      46     160O
BSZAZIL         75 107.0   1.030        5.0    12.4     42E  20E   37E  64A        860      . ..     27CY                 . ..     26G     ISCY   6 00B
CHILE           75  10.3    990         3.8RV  i2.5RY  23Y  1OY  SOY        -. .     iSXY   . ..     35Y       . ...  ---          485Y   . ..   IB.55Y
COLOMBIA        74  23-BF   580F        3.3DY 21.20Y  44DY 220Y IIY   73          I05XY     20       33Y       4.0       90        3655    14A    6.B7Y
ECUADOR         79   7.1    990        3.70  27.7C..... -                 69      102XY     ...      38C       ..        ...       365Y    I4C
GUYANA          74   0.8F  I SiOP      5.SN   14.70   47   35   IA    83A          92X      39       33       9.0        IS        625     24      7.00
PARAGUAY        74   2.6F   580F        1.8    11.0    55   13   22        8t      82       26       30        1.9       69        17      12      5.00
PERU            75  15.4      760      4.20Y 21.70Y  40Y  22Y  ISVy   72          11195     38       39DY      3.0       70       48XY   233V   14.41Y
URUGUAY         75   2.8   1.300        2.9   15.3    46   34   20    94           939      . ..     24        . ..      83        . ..    ID
VENIEZUELA      73  12.0F 2.28OF        4.6   19.9    300  380  350   77A          SI       ---     33         2.4       . ..     33       . .   12.R3CY



38                                                 ~~~~~~~~~TABLE 3
Page 2 of 2
G NP/   % GNP   :  TOThL:%  OF PUBLIC                                       :PRI. :AV.PRI.                          :SEC
CAPITA:  DEVOTEO:PUBLIC    EDUCATION    :LITER- :PRI.  COMPLE- :STU- :SCH.TEACH:PQOGRESS-: SEC. :STU-  ~HIGHER:
*      AT    TO EDU.:  EXP.   RECURRENT    :ACY           :ENROLL:TION       :DENTS:SALARY IN:ION RATE :ENROLL:OENTS:ENROLL:
:MARKET: (PUBLIC:DEVOTEO:EXP ALLOCATED:  RATE :RATIO  !RATE FOR:PER   :RELATION  :FROM PRI. :RATIO  :PER   RATIO  :
*POP. :PRICES: EXP.          TO           TO:       :(% 0OF  : NET   :PRI.SCH.:TEACH: TO GNP/  :TO SEC.     NET   :TEACH- GROSS:
YR:MILLS.: (US$): ONLY):  EDU. :PA1. SEC. HI.:ADULTS): (%)  :CYCLE(%):ER : CAPITA                          M X        (%)  'ER        %
ASIA AND OCEANIA
AFGHANISTAN    77M 14.3        I6OG     l.A    11.6      47    19   15    12        29X      69        37       3.0G        62        ox      17      1-00
BANGLADESH      73  78.86F    901'      1.2   20.2       44Y  22Y  21Y   230    585           -        480       ..        . ..      23X0    28       -...
CHINA(TAIWAN) 73  16.01F   930F    3.2    14.0           28   41   22       82      9BC      94        40      14.0        84        61C     26     20-00C
INDIA           75 608.t    140         2.6VY   _.        .....-           298      65XY      ...      43A       ...       ...       29XY   20AY'   2.34EY
INDONESIA       76 130.2       240      2.0    11.0      265  32    15    809       79EX     43E       30E      2.0        52E       IREX    14E     2.00
IRAN            73  33.4F' 1.6601F    3.3    12.6        501B  185  128   s0        77       74A       32       5.08       BOA       24      32      4 32CY
TYAO            75   11.1  1.250        6.7C  16.20R  _.    .. _.   26C             93XY      .1.      22       ...        ---       35XY    28C     8 .47Y
J.ORDAN         73   2.7F'  4801'       7.0     8.8      52    is   21    59        9IX      76        38       5.0        84        505     22      4.00
KOREA           76  35.9       698      3.0    15.60   65    13       8    921'   1035       97        so       2.6        80        84      39    14.4
LEBANON         72   3.21' i.0701F    3.5    18.0        29   40    10    88        86       85        19       2.0        63        26U     25     23.00
MALAYSIA        76  12.6       860      6.7   26.0       42   34    15    8OC    95          93        32       3.7        78        48      26      2.00
NEPAL           76   12.6F    1101F     1.1   10.0       29   20   41       19      55       28        31       2.3        64        14      24      0 a
OMAN            72   0.81' 2.3001'      i.7N   3.8       96     -   -       20      24X      99        271'     7.0        . ..      0~45     9       ..
PAKISTAN        75  89.2       180      1.6    16.2      45   25    18    21        47X      s0        39       2.0        . ..      17X     1a      6.00
PAPUA NOG.      75   2.8       470      5.6    16.1      38    16   24      32      577      73P       31      11.0        90        12X7    24      0.907
PHILIPPINES    74  42.21'   380F        2.5    14.9      73   15   12    67        104X       . ..     34      15.0        . ..      46X     . .    21 00
SINGAPORE       74   2.21' 2.450F       2.7Y   9.2Y   39Y  39Y   17Y   75A   iOSSY           72A       31P       ---       99A       44XY    24       7.66a'
SYRIA           75   7.4      720       3.6   6.9        39   25   26       53      89       70        35       2.0        92        45      21      12.00
THAILAND        73  41.91'   3501'      4,ONF' 20.71'   65      9    15    82       875      93C       32       3.0 U      91C       21X     24      2.00
TURKEY          73  40.21'   SOOF       5.6CY 2O.6CY .......                 .       sy      . ..      34Y      . ..       . ..      24Y     27DY   9.835
YEMEN           73   5.91'   200F       0.5     4.0      45P  21P  23P    10        15X      18        36       5.0        75         25     19      0.05BY
YEMIEN P.D.P   76    1.7      280       86-      --    57   28        8    20       695      48        30       5.0        94        21X     24      0.10
SUMMARY FOR DEVELOPING COUNTRIES:
NUMBER OF COUNTRIES:                    94     90      8s   88   85       87       95       74       95          68       77       94       91       84
RANGE:                               (0.5    (3.8-  (25- (5-  (2-    (3-    (14-          (13-     (19-       (1.9-    (7-       (.4-    (9-       (.01-
12.0 ) 33.0)   96 ) 47)  41)   98)          133X)   99 1        9)    25.0 )   99)           80o )  29)   23.0)
QUARTILES:UPPER :5.1   21.2                           54   32   22       73      94        78       48          7        83       36       25      7.0
MEDIAN:                   3.9    16.3     45   23    l8    50         78       55       36          4        63        17      23      2.3
LOWER :                   3.0    12.4     38   1a   12    20         53        30       32          3        43        9       20        *9
SYMBOLS ... DATUM UNAVAILABLE                  A-1970 OR BEFORE            M.CURRENT PRICES                          SOURCES:
-MAGNITUDE NIL OR NEGLIGIBLE 5-1971                            N~GDP----
OUESTIONABLE                     C-1972                      P-INCLUDING F'OREIGN AID                   COLUMNS:l AND 2 WORLD RANK ATLAS
*INCLUDES PART-TIME STUDENTS 0=1973                            O-CENTRAL GOVT. ONLY                                          OR IB6D MISSIONS
-*COMBINED WITH PRIMARY            E=1974                       R-MINISTRY OF EDUCATION (MOE) ONLY                  3 TO 14 1660 MISSIONS
...  UNDER REVIEW                      F.1975                      S-MOE AND STATE GOVT. ONLY                                    AND/OR UNESCO
0.1976                      T-EXCLUOING CENTRAL GOVT.                                     STATISTICAL
U-PUBLIC ONLY                                                YEARBOOK
V-INCLUOING PRIVATE EXPENDITURE
X5INCLUOING OVERAGED STUDENTS
V-UNESCO SOURCES
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION DATA ARE USEFUL IN THE EVALUATION OF VARIOUS EDUCATION SYSTEMS AND ANALYSIS OF RELATIVE STAGES OF EDUCATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT BETWEEN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. HOWEVER.ON THE BASIS OF THE PRESENT DATA.CROSS-NATIONAL COMPARISON SHOULD BE APPROACHED WITH.
GREAT CAUTION. DATA PRESENTED IN THE ABOVE TABLE HAVE BEEN COLLECTED LARGELY BY THE BANK MISSIONS FROM GOVERNMENT SOURCES: THE
REMAINJDER ABE STAFF ESTIMATES ORZ DATA FROM UNESCO. EFFORTS HAVE BEEN MADE TO STANDARDIZE DEFINITIONS AND WITHIN LIMITS. TO CHECK T+iE
ACCURACY OF THE DATA. NEVERTHELESSISUCH DATA ARE STILL IMPERFECT IN SEVERAL RESPECTS AND THE BANK IS WORKING TO IMPROVE THEM
PROGRESSIVELY ON THE OCCASION OF ITS OPERATIONAL WORK. IN THE USE Of THESE DATA. THE FOLLOWING QUALIF'ICATIONS SHOULD BE BORNE IN
MIND:
()'EOUCATION' AS DEFINED IN THE TABLE INCLUDES ALL EDUCATION AND TRAINING. FORMAL AND NON-FORMAL.
(2)'PRIMARY EDUCATION REFERS TO EDUCATION AT THE FIRST LEVEL AND 'SECONDARY' EDUCATION REFERS TO ALL EDUCATION AT THE SECONDARY
LEVEL REGARDLESS OF TYPE (E.G. GENERAL. TECHNICAL. AGRICULTURAL) 
(3)PLITERACY RATESI(COL.6) ARE OFTEN OBTAINED FROM COUNTRY CENSUSES. IN MANYCOUNTRIES THEY ARE ONLY APPROXIMATIONS AND IT IS
DOUBTFUL THAT ANY UNIFORM DEFINITION OF 'LITEPATE' HAS BEEN FOLLOWED CONSISTENTLY:
(4)"PUBLIC EXPENDITURE IN EDUCATION'(COLS-3.4 AND 5) REFER TO ALL CAPITAL AND RECURRENT EXPENDITuREtS DEVOTED TO EDUCATION BY
PUBLIC AND QUASI-PUBLIC AGENCIES;
(S)"ENROLLMENT BATIOS)(COLS 7. 12 AND 14) REFER TO SCHOOL YEAR AND MEAN THE PERCENTAGE OF ELIGIBLE CHILDREN ENROLLED FULL-TIME
IN THE APPROPRIATE SCHOOL. PUBLIC AND PRIVATE BY LEVEL. THEY ABE OFTEN SUBJECT TO A WIDE MARGIN OF ERROR IN THE DEVELOPING
COUNTRIES OWING TO VARIATION IN THE ACCURACY OF BASIC DATA(IIE. AGE-SPECIFIC POPULATION AND ENROLLMENTS). ENROLLMENT FIGURES
FREQUENTLY ARE HIGHER THAN THE NUMBER OF STUDENTS ACTUALLY IN SCHOOL. OVERAGED STUDENTS WHOSE INCLUSION IS INDICATED BY
FOOTNOTES ALSO CAN INFLATE THE RATIOS.



- 39 -
MAIAWITLE 4
TRIRD EDUCATIO- PRDXCT                       TABE.
TEACHER NEEDS, rK'IMAX AN] ZU NwDas wiUCATION, 1977-1990
*_____ n      sar uca io
PROJCTEDTEAC,HER REQ3UIREMENTJ
WAST -
TEACHER TEACHERS AGE AT PROMOTIONS
ENROLL- / FUFIL REQUIRED END OF ETC,AT END            **
YEAR  MENT    RATIO  ON FOST   YEAR  ' OF YEAR           AT
77/78 675740. 1. : 61,  11115.   333,            111.    482.
78/79 680286. 1. : 61.  11152.   335.            112.    878,
79/80 689897, 1.   59.  11693.   351.            117.   1127.
80/81 704462. 1, : 57,  12359.   371.            124.   1268.
81/82 723277. 1. : 55.  13150.   395.            132.    1437.
82/83 746689. 1. : 53,  14088.   423,            141.    1636.
83/84 774954. 1. : 51.  15195.   456.            152.   1541.
84/85 808430, 1. : 50.  16169.   485,            162,   1389.
85/86 847164. 1. : 50.  16943.   508.            169,   1532.
86/87 889956. 1. : 50.  17799.   534.            178.    1624,
87/88 935529. 1. : 50.  18711.   561,            187.   1406.
88/89 968454. 1. : 50.  19369.   581.            194,  -1743.
89/901016835. 1. : 50  20337.   610.            203.   2143.
90/911083429. 1. : 50.  21669,   650.            217.  -_-
18206
ADDITIONAL TEACHERS REQUIRED FOR BEGINNING OF FOLLOWING YEAR
PROJECTED TEACHER REOUIREMEMTS
WAST
TEACHER TEACHERS AGE AT PROMOTIONS
ENROLL- / PUPIL REQUIREDL END OF ETC.AT END           **
YEAR  MENT    RATIO  ON POST   YEAR    OF YEAR           AT
77/78  15140. 1. : 21.    737.    37.              7.      50.
78/79  15594, 1. : 21.    743,    37.              7.      65.
79/80  16062. 1. ' 21.    765.        38,          8.      66.
80/81  16543. 1. : 21.    788.    39.              8.      67,
81/82  17040. 1. : 21.    811.        41.          8.      70,
82/83  17551. 1. : 21.    836.    42.              6.      72.
83/84  18077. 1. : 21.    861.    43.              9.      77,
84/85  18620. 1. : 21.    887.    44.              9.      79.
85/86  19178. 1. : 21.    913.        46.          9.    110.
86/87  20328. 1. : 21.    968.    48.             10.    116.
87/88  21548. 1. : 21.   1026.    51.             10.    124
88/89  22841. 1. : 21.   1088.    54.             11.     130.
89/90  24211. 1. : 21.   1153.    58.             12.    138.
90/91  25664.  .. : 21.   1222.    61.            12.
U64
ADDITIONAL TEACHERS REQUIRED FOR BEGINNING OF FOLLOWING YEAR
Seurce.  lzd str-r of Ldacatam, 'UEducti.na7i t1sti&i, 1971-72 - 1977-78", and
Bak st- e Ostimates.
D4te    Octob.er 30, 1978



- 40 -
TABLE 5
MALAWI
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
ENROLLMENTS AND INTERNAL EFFICIENCY IN PRIMARY EDUCATION 1977 AND PROJECTED TO 1985 AND 1990
Flow Rates                    % of entering cohort        School years to produce
1977                             Enrollment   Promotion  Dropout  Repetition              who graduate                    one graduate
Grade 1                         180,500         54%        29%        17%
Grade 2                         119,000         69%        16%        15%
Grade 3                         100,700         66%        20%        14%
Grade 4                          76,800         75%        13%        12%
Grade 5                          62,400         73%        19%         8%                   37.5%                          9.1
Grade 6                          47,400         73%        17%        10%
Grade 7                          36,900         86%         2%        12%
Grade 8                          52,000         52%         0%        48%                  29%                            16.9
Total                           675,700
As a percentage of
school age population
Grades 1-5                     68%
Grades 1-8                     56%
1985
Grade 1                         212,500         70%        17%        13%
Grade 2                         160,800         70%        12%        12%
Grade 3                         129,700         74%        14%        12%
Grade 4                         100,600         78%        11%        11%
Grade 5                          79,500         77%        13%         9%                  43%                             9.4
Grade 6                          62,200         77%        14%        10%
Grade 7                          47,200         92%         1%         7%
Grade 8                          54,600         75%         1%        24%                  36%                            13.2
Total                           847,200
As a percentage of
school age population
Grades 1-5                     77%
Grades 1-8                     63%
1990
Grade 1                         231,100         80%        10%        10%
Grade 2                         197,100         80%        10%        10%
Grade 3                         166,500         80%        10%        10%
Grade 4                         138,600         80%        10%        10%
Grade 5                         114,382         80%        10%        10%                  69%                             6.4
Grade 6                          93,480         80%        10%        10%
Grade 7                          71,783         95%         1%         4%
Grade 8                          70,437         90%         1%         9%                  48%                            11.5
Total                         1,083,400
As a percentage of
school age population
Grades 1-5                     83%
Grades 1-8                     68%
Source: Ministry of Education, "Educational Statistics, 1971-72 - 1977-78", and Bank staff estimates.
Date : October 30, 1978



MALAWI
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Public Enrollments, Unit Costs, and Recurrent Eupenditures in FPrmal Education, 1977-1990
(in 1978-79 prices)
1977-78 (actual)                             1978-79 (estimated)                          1985-86 (projected)                              1990-91 (projected)
Public                  Expenditures          Public                   Expenditures         Public                   Expenditures          Public                   Expenditures
Enrollment   Unit Cost    (MK '000)           Enrollment   Unit Cost    (MK '000)           Enrollment   Unit Cost    (MK '000)            Enrollment   Unit Cost    (MK '000)
Administration                                                1,313.5                                        1,515.6                                       2,510.1                                         3,598.9
Primary Education                605,733         12,1         7,329.4           612,257         14.7         9,011.0          762,400         22.0        16,772.8           975,100         24.3        23,694.9
Secondary General
Education                      13,227        197,5         2,612.3           13,624        241.9          3,295.6           16,760        279.8         4,689.4            22,430        308.9         6,928.6
Technical Education                   913       271.7           248.1               958        287.9           275.8            1,350        333.8            450.6            1,720        368.5            633.8
Teacher Training                   1,433        577.7            827.8            1,563        570.6           891.8            2,650        570.6          1,512.1            3,380        570.6          1,928.6
Malawi Correspondence
College                         3,832         78.5           300.3            4,023         89.1            358.5            5,662        102.3           579.2             7,226        113.0           816.5
University of Malawi               1,178      3,247.4          3,825.4            1,237      3,347.5         4,140.8            1,860      3,963.8          7,372.7            2,510      4,376.4         10,984.8
Total MOE                                               16,457.3                                      19,489.1                                       33,886.9                                       48,586.1
As a percentage of total
recurrent budget                                              12.6                                           14.3                                           15.3                                           17.1
As a percentage of CDP                                            2.0                                           2.3                                            2.5                                            2.6
NOTES:  1.  Enrollment growth as follows:  primary education, based on Table T-3; secondary general education, 3% p.a. to 1985 and thereafter 6%; technical education 5% p.a.; teacher training
Annex 1 T-4; Malawi Coespondenca College. 5;% p.a.; University of Malawi, 6% p.a..  Enrollk6nt in private institutions would remain at 1977 percentage (e.g., primary 10.4%;
secondary general 12.6%; others 0%).
2.  Unit costs an follows:  unit costs for teacher education to remain stable through an increase in the teacher student ratio which would offset salary increases; unit costs for
primary education to increase 5.5% p.a. because of a reduction of the student teacher ratio from 61;l to 50:1, central government financing of 75% of the cost of textbooks,
and a 27, p.a. salary increase; unit costs for all other levels to iscrease 27. p.a. because of salary increases.
3.  Costs of administration to remain at 8% of total.
4.  1978-79 is used as the base year to take into account the effects of a recent 32% increase in salaries.  The 1978-79 expenditure estimate does not take into account a proposed
but unspecified savings of MK 600,000 in the education budget in government budget estimates.
5.  The projection assumes that GDP would increase at 6.3% p.a. and the recurrent budget would remain 15% of GDP.
SOURCES:    Government statistical yearbook, budget documents, and mission estimates.                                                                                                            November 2, 1978



MALAWI
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
CLASSROOMS, STUDENT PLACES AND HOUSING TO BE PROVIDED TO PROJECT INSTITUTIONS
No. of Lab-      Additional   Additional
No. of         No. of       No. of         ratories &       Student        Annual        Dormitory      Staff
Schools     Classrooms    Libraries       Workshops         Places         Output         Places       Housing
Primary Schools      250          1,000                           -             50,000        6,250             -           500
Mzuzu Teacher
Training College      1              3            -                               120           60            120           22
Malawi Correspon-
dence College
Centers              30             68           30              -              2,720        1,360             -            30
Day Secondary
Schools               5             -             1              1                 -            -             280            2
Commercial                                                                                         /1
Education             3              9            -              -                120          360             80            9
Agricultural
Education             1             -                            -                 60           30             -             6
Secondary Teacher
Training              1              7            1              4                225           60             225          15
Institute of                                                                                       /1
Education             1             10            1              2                150          800             150           30
TOTALS    292          1,097           33               7            53,395        8,320             855          614
/1  Including short courses and night courses                                                                                      >
Source:  Ministry of Education and Bank Staff estimates
Date: April 15, 1979



MALAWI
THID EDUCATION PE0JECT
SUHlfARY OF ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS
tla=wi Coacha 000 except as ind-cated
($US 1.0 =kw 0.83)
CONSTRUCTION                                                               FURNITURE                                                                               TOTAL. Os    T_
PROJECT ITEM                        Acadeic   Boardiog       Staff      Total Cost     Site       Total Cost    Academic       Boardiog    Sctff    Total Cost   Eqoip-ent   Physical    Ito. StodLon  Arch/Etg.  teo-ect       9.liaao.         USD
& Cosnal                 Io.s.ig   of BSildigs   Deonlop. of Bldgs & Site   & Commontl                Ho-sing  of fDonitcte  (inc.         facilfties    &           Servtce-   Admit.          000          .00
Deoelop.                                                        books)     Tocal Lost  Pteoiooscte-I
A.  PRIMARY EDUCATION
1) Prlmtry School De-alop.ae.                 2,175        -          80D0.       2,975.0         -          2,975.0         551.0           _         _       1,55D.0       125.0     4,650.0             -          -         -        4,650.0        5,602.4
2) Textbook Progr                                                                                                              -           -                       -       12,711.0    2,7                                                2,50.0        3,313.2
3) MEase  Teachers College                       46.2       248.3     321.4         621.9       170,0          791,9            5,0         40,0       -           45.0        -         836,9             -       (103.0)      -           836.9       1 008 3
Sub TstaI Al-3          2,221.2      248.3   1,127,4        3,596.9       170,0        3.766.9         555.0         40.0        -       1.595.0    2.875.0      8.236.9            -           -         ,        8,236.9        S,923.9
B.   SZOOEDARY EDUCATION
Mla-i C-orraeponde.ce Clleee sod Satellites
Na. of Uaits
I) MCC Headq2arters       I    - Blaxcyro        28.6        -         -             28.6         4.3           32.9           2.1           -         -            2.1      244.8       279.8             -          -         -           279.8
2) M4CC Rural Crarree    27    - larlos         496.8        -        360.0         816.8       150.0           968.8          97.2          -        15.0         97.2       27.9     1,106.9             -          -         -          106.9
3) MCC UIrba  Ceatre      I    - M..eu           50.9        -         -             50.9         5.6            56.5           7.3          -         -            7.3        2.1        65.9             _          _          _           65.9
4)  MCC Ueba C-t-re       I    - Samba           36.4        _         -             36.4         4.3            40.7           7.3          -         -            7.3        2.1        50.1             -          -          -           50.1
5) MCC Centre             1    - Bla-cyte        47.5        -         -             47.5         4.3            51,8          10,4          -         -           10.4        3.1        65.3             -          _          _           65.3
620.2       -        360.0         980.2        168.5        1.148.7         124.3          -         i3.0       124,3      280.0      1.568.0            -           -         -        1.568.0        1.889,2
O.coodars Schools., Boarding d Upg-adiag
6)  BaLaka Secoodary School                       -         49.6       -             49.6        16.8            66.4           4.0         3.6        _            7.6        2.0         76.0            -          -          -           76.0
7) Likmbas                                       12.8       48.2       -             61.0        31.0           92.0           15.0         3.6        -           18.6        2.0       112.6             -          -         -           112.8
8) Mitundu                                       22.7        63.2      -             85.9         18.0          103.9           6.5         7.2        _           13.7        4.0        121.6            -          -          -          121.6
9) NkR kabota                                     -          54.7      25.2          79.9        35.0           114.9           4.0         3.6        1.5          9.1        2.1        126.0            -          -          -          126.0
10)  Salima-                                                 63,2       19,9          82.1        12.3           94.4           4.0          5.4        1.5         10.9        2.1       107.3             -          -         -  ,,       101.3          _ __
Sub Total B6-lI             35.5      278.9      44.1          358.5       113.1          471,6          33.5         23.4        3.0        59.9        12.0       543,5             -          -         -           543.5         654.8
aa Eraes and Casaseetlal
11) Lilongwe Teihbical School                     33.1       47.2       36.0         11643        17.5           133,8           5.2         4.8        2.1         12.1       25.9        171.8            -          _          _          171.8
12) Macu. Technical School                        46.3        66.1      50.5         162.9        24.4           187.3           5.2         4.8        2.1         12.1       25.9        225,3            _          -          _          225.1
13) Sorhe Technical Schoal                        37.3        12.7      54,6         104.6        15,7           120,3           5,2         4.8        3.1         13,1       25.9        159.3            -           -         -          155
Sub Total B11-13           116.7      126.0      141.1         383.8        57.6          441.4           15.6        14.4        7.3         37,3       77.7       556.4             -        197,8)      -           556.4         670.3
ASicclture
14) Colby Collage af Agricultare                    -          -       168.0         168.0         17.0          185.0            -         12.0        -           12.0        7.0        204.0            -           -         -          204.0          245.8
Sub Total B-i14             772.4      404.9      713.2       1,890.5       356.2        2.246.7          173.4        49.8       25.3        248.5      376.7     2,871.9                                            2.871.9       3.460.1
C.  SECONDARY TEACHER TRAINING
1) Ch-astllor College - Zamba                   952.8       576.6     397.5       1,926.9       289.0         2,215.9         183.7        67.3         -         251.0      469.7      2,936.6           -         (288.1)      -        2,936.6        3538.1
D. EDUCATDIN MAiACRENT. CURRICULUM DEVELOPMENT
AND TRAINING
1) M      lawE          Edn o ti-o  - Dorsi     591.7       157.2     323.3       1,072.2        187.0        1,259.2          67.1        16.6         -          83.7      191.5      1,534.4           -          151.1       -        1,534.4
2) Trarspartaian for DiSticLt OfIoCTf-                        -        -             -            -              -              -           -           -            -       636.0        636.0           -            -         -          636.0
and Ptoject Related Vehicles
591.7      157.2     323.3       1,972.2        187.0        1,259.2          67.1        16.6         -          83.7       827.5     2,170.4            -         151,1       _        2,170.4       2.614.9
E. GENERAL STUDIES AND PREINVESTMENT                  -           -         -             -                          -                     -                -                                   -           300.0          -          -          300.0         361.4
P. PROJECT ADMINISTRATLIO                             - N                                                                                                                 -                                    -           -         500.        500.0         6E2.4
G. ARChITRCTLRAL/RNGINEERING SERVICES                             -         -             -            -              -              -           -          -                                                  -         600.0        -          600.0         722.9
Februaro 1979 - Base Cosi                -              -             -             -         9,488.7            -                       -       2 178.2    4,54d.9    16,215.9         300.0         600.0      5.00,    17.615.8      21.223.8
PRyatoal Itoreases                                      _             _ -_-         -           909.9            -           -           -         109.1      227.6      1,246.5           -           60.0       -        1,306.5       1,574.1
Base Coat + PbyelcaL Totroasre -               -        -             -            -         10,398.4            -           -           -       2,287.3    4,776.5    17,462.3         300.0         660.0      500 i    18,822.3      22,797,9
Price Ioorees                                  .                      -.-                     2 127.5            -           -           -         328.9      498.9      2.955,3            -         120.0      100       3.175.3       3,625.7
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                                                           12,526.0                                            2,616.2    5,275.4    201417.6         300,0         780.0      600      22,097.6      26,623.6
of which icoes                 -            -        -             -             -           513.5            -           -           -          -          94.0          --                       117.0       20          744.5        897 0
Foreigr Exchange Coaponot-     -            -        -             -             -         3,757.9            -           -           -       1,439.7    3,808.0                     1 120.0       312.0      120       9,556.6      11,514
Soirc.: Bark Ceoup Staff
Apeil 9, 1979



- 44 -                               TABLE 9(a)
MALAWI
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements against IDA Credit
(US$ '000)
l/                                      Accumulated             Undistributed
Qua~rter/                Disbursements           Disbursements          Balance
1                                                                       14,500
2                                                  -                    14,500
3                         100                    100                    14,400
4                         100                   200                     14,300
5                         300                    500                    14,000
6                         400                    900                    13,600
7                         400                  1,3Q0                    13,200
8                         600                  1,900                    12,600
9                       1,000                  2,900                    11,600
10                       1,000                  3,900                    10,600
11                       1,000                  4,900                     9,600
12                       1,200                 6,100                      8,400
13                       1,3O00                7,400                      7,100
14                       1,400                 8,800                      5,700
15                       1,400                10,200                      4,300
16                       1,400                11,600                      2,900
17                       1,100                 12,700                     1,800
18                         900                 13,600                       900
19                         600                 14,200                       300
20                         300                 14,500
1/ From date of effectivenesE
Source: Bank staff
Date: April 12, 1979



TABLE 9(b)
- 45 -
MALAWI
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements against EEC Special Action Credit
(US$ '000)
Accumulated          Undistributed
Quarter/                 Disbursements          Disbursements        Disbursements
1                                                                     7,500
2                                                                     7,500
3                            -                    -                   7,500
4                           300                   300                 7,200
5                           500                   800                 6,700
6                           800                 1,600                 5,900
7                           850                 2,450                 5,050
8                         1,200                 3,650                 3,850
9                         1,250                 4,900                 2,600
10                         1,200                 6,100                 1,400
11                           900                 7,000                   500
12                           500                 7,50sn
1/  'From date of effectiveness



MALAWI
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
FULL-TIME ENROLLMENT AND POPULATION PYRAMID -1977
Age group
Age        Grade     Population                                                          Male               Enrollment               Female
23                    94000
+
22                    97000
HIGHER
21          4         9800C                                                                                 100  30
4-                                                                                                                  _     _
20          3         97000                                                                                      100
+                                                                                                         50     200.                         
19          2         97000                                                                                 0    200
18          1         95000                                                                               500   200
SECONDARY'-'
1 7         4         970002800                                                                                   900
16          3        104000                                                                            3100       900
15           2       114000                                                                            200          1700
14           1       125000                                                                           4300          1800
PRIMARY230
PRI ARY 8 135000 < 28 00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ g.........   .    f ................ -". <Q 30
13          8        1350002.230
12            142000                                                       25400                                     11600
11          6        147000                                                   30400                                              1000
+                                                                                                                                     22700_     _         _  
10          5        150000                                          39700                                                            2220
+ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 . ]. ... .....! :. : :: ,,......                       .......... ,t:: '::''"::4.:.:....  
9           4       154000                                    46200                                                                         30000
+ 3                 159000                          58200
+                                               r-
7          2       163000                  67100                                                                                                               51900
6          1        167000   52100                                                      __                                                                                                                98400
100               80                60                 40                20                 0                20                40                 60                80                100
1 1 _ _                 _ _      _   _I_ _I_                                         I  _ _                                 I_
I/ NOTE  Enrollment at Sec-ndary Leve includes Mlawli Cor-esponcence Colege.
e    Fl  Tme erciliuent
D   Age Gro.up Poplarl'o"                                                                                                                                               Wnrld B ork   19407
:31



MALAWI
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
STRUCTURE OF THE FORMAL EDUCATION SYSTEM
PRIMARY                                                                    SECONDARY                                                                    HIGHER
Day and Boarding                                            Sixth
Secondary Schools                                            F                                Overseas Studies
Schioo s                                                    Arts and Sciences
Teacher                              ~~~~~~~~Secondary Teecher Tr.ining
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Prn,ary
Teacher
Training (T-31                                Technology
Malawi Correspondence_~{
P,in,ary T..her Training tT-2)                                                                 _
46 C                   't t                    r L] rLABOR FORCE
1        2         3        4          i                 r                            I         1             11       12                                I1       14        1.5             1                 is        if 1 
ScholYeaI               f     I                                                I                    I I                   I         I                                1                                           I         I        I        I
AgeI                                 I        I         I        i                  i                      I          '                                                                  1                                      1
Age  j        j               ~ ~~Ii      11        12       13                 14        1s             1f1                                                  Is        25            2         22        23       24        2
EXAMINATIONS
.S> Prireary School Leaving Cenificate
<j> Junior Certificate
Malawi Certificate of Educetion
X                                                                                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~World 8ank -19405
Higher School Certificate
O To be supported under Third Education Project
ft



MALAWI
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF THE MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
Minister
Principal                -  -  -  - _       -  -  -  -  -  --    -  -  -  -  -   -
Secretary
University of  I       IMalavvi Book  I           I    Library     I
Deputy                               Malawi                     Service                   Service
_ __Deputy_____________L_____________I                                                                   National
Secretary
Chief Inspector                                         Chief Education|UnesctayJ
of Schools     XOfficer                                                         lOlD
Assistant Chief            Assistant Chief                             Assistant Chief
Assistant Chief             .    Assistant Chief                                Education                         Principal                          Principal
Inspector of                      Education                                    Officer,                        Accountant                          Personnel
Schools                      Officer, Planning                            Administration                                                          Officer
Primary, Teacher                     Accounts,                             s
Inspectorate                       Planning                               Training, Secondary,                  Auditing and                       Personnel
and Examinations                       Office                                Correspondence and                  Internal Services                      Office
Technical Education
World Bank - 19406
fth



- 49 -
Chart 4
MALAWI
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
19791-'           1980               1981               1982              1983          1984
PR I MARY SCHOOLS
School Location Plan
Design Proposals/IDA Reviews
Construction Program, Furniture
and Equipment                                             -         _Construction
TEXTBOOK PROGRAM2i                                                               Dlls
Proposals, Distribtution                                                                               -
EXPANSION OF MZUZU2'_
TEACHER COLLEGE
Preparation Sketch Plans, IDA Review
Working Drawings a Pre-tender                               T/Award       Construction              Guarantee
Tender/Award/Construction                                                 C        iGurante
Furniture and Equipment
VEHICLES FOR THE PROJECT2V                Prepl. Lists    T/Award     Deli ry
Prep. Lists, Tender and Award              .  L                       De|vr
MALAWI CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE
AND SATELLITE CENTERS2'
Preparation Sketch Plans, IDA Reviewv
Working Drawings and Pre-tender               |                  Tender/Award   Constriition                    Guarantee
Tender/Award/Construction                     Ia  X!                                        l    -I 7              7rs      _                )
Furniture and Equipment                                             7I P L|                 e|
SECONDARY SCHOOLS BOARDING                                                                 D                          o_
BUSINESS AND COMMERCIAL TRAINING                           |
Preparation Sketch Plans, IDA Review                                     I                      I                   uru
Working Drawings and Pre-tender                              Tender/Award                            Guarantee
Tender/Award/Construction                                                    C                         u 1  1         U- 
Furniture and Equipment                                                                                             0 |u
Prep. Lists Tender/Award  Delivery                C                        i
EXPANSION OF COLBY                                                                                                  < uu                    O
COLLEGE OF AGRICULTURE                                   T/wrd        Cnsrcto                                                               C)
Tender/Award/Construction                                              Constrti
Furniture and Equipment                                                  I                                         a I  Z                   Wu
TAward   Delivery                    I        LO
EXPANSION OF CHANCELLOR COLLEGE                                               I                                    Lu0                      0
Preparation Sketch Plans, IDA Review                                         d
Working Drawings and Pre-tender                                       T/ Award
Tender/Award/Construction                                                                  Cons uct ion                 L       aran tee
Furniture and Equipment
MALAWI INSTITUTE OF EDUCATION
Preparation Sketch Plans, IDA Review                 o iwe
WVorking Drawings and Pre-tender                                      TAad           Cn   co                    urne
Tender/Award/Construction                                                            Co ns-ct                  Guarantee-|
Furniture and Equipment                                                  I T rrt
11 Calendar Year                                                                                                               World Bank - 20327
2/ Components Financed from
EEC Special Action Credit
Source: Bank Staff



MALAWI
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
1/
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE REQUIRED FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
1979         1980              1981             1982             1983
INSTITUTION AND AREAS OF
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Malawi Institute of
Education
Director of Library &
Learning Resource Center                           xxxxxx    xxxxxxxxxxxx    xxxxxxxxxxxx        xxxxxx
Director of Office of
Curriculum Development &
Evaluation                                         xxxxxx    xxxxxxxxxxxx    xxxxxnxxxxxx        xxxxxx
Audio-visual Aids                                   xxxxxx     x xxxxxoxxnx    xxxxxxxxxxxx       xxxxxx
English Education                                   xxxxxx    xxxxxxxxxxxx    xxxxxxxxxxxx        xxxxxx
Mathematics Education                               xxxxxx    xxxxxxxxxxxx    xxxxxxxxxxxx        xxxxxx                  0
Science Education                                   xxxxxx    xxxxxxxxxxxx    xxxxxxxxxxxx        xxxxxx
Malawi Correspondence
College
Evaluation                                          xxxxxx    xxxxxxxxxxxx    xxxxxx
Malawi Polytechnic
Curriculum Development and
Training of teachers of
commercial education                               xnxxxx    xxxxxxxxxxxx    xxxxxxxxxxxx        xxxxxx               n
Project Implementation Unit
Ln
Procurement                          xxxxxx   xxxxxxxxxxxx    xxxxxxxxxxxx    xxxxxxxxxxxx
Architectural designs and
supervision (3)                    xxxxxx   xxxxxxxxxxxx    xxxxxxxxxxxx    xxxxxx
Studies
Research                                      xxxxxxxxxxxx    xxxxxxxxxxxx    xxxxxxxxnxxx
l/ Expected to be provided by bilateral or multilateral assistance with the exception of the researcher,
whose activities would be financed with project funds.
April 23, 1979



- 51 -                                     ANNEX 2
MALAWI
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Reports and Studies Related to Education and Manpower in Malawi
1. J.S. Dey, Survey of Accountancy Development Needs in the Republic of
Malawi, ILO, 1977
2. Skill Survey Report, Ministry of Labor (no date)
3. Accounts of the University of Malawi, 1973-78
4. Educational Statistics 1971/72-1977/78, Ministry of Education, 1978
5. Malawi Education Sector Survey, World Bank Report 1781-MAL, February, 1978
B. Reports Related to the Project
1. Third IDA Education Project, Government Project Submission, July, 1978
2. Proposals for Doubling Enrollment of Chancellor College, University of
Malawi, 1977
3. Specifications and Materials Lists for a Model Primary School and Adult
Education Center.
C. Working Papers and Tables
1. Architectural Working Papers
2. Calculation of Contingency Allowances and Foreign Exchange Component
3. Educational Working Papers.
4. Indicators for Project Supervision.






BRD 13913R
34'                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~REPUBC
r                                                 49X n                                                         ? REL8IC XTA~NZANIAh
To DARESSAAA A M                                                                                                          ZAIRE _-
ANGOLA   r; A r                              IA -A.09
100 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~R090                                                                                       1REPUBL}C'1
|  Y   AURI'IA    BOTSWANA           i
06(         fA N   HiRELUMBA                                      REPU8LIC           WAZBND
0  4  t\    Cgiwe7r3      t/                \SUTH  AFRICA
1     .  /L2N~~~~GSTONIv >                                                  36.
360~~~~~~~~~.
-1~~~~~~-0
_  .  ~~~ i                         KHATA. . 
(  Mlirb          CONTHECHE          LAK(                                                                               0
120 XJ Zu^ibehEhl /tf /t '*> k, ..,T...................  12'7
MALAWI MA
\   s  |*KALULUMA   o  CI O          O      o          \
RK          AL OAN    B          N K-- Mo 1                     y
asungu  <                             r9
/ Goenmn   eConor  SchRoo<,                                           IlllcbrlC
/J         J      k           UPHE~~~MRENE  \                                                        )
~~  Mo1ooo IrotItoole of BoocoD...rionIr.
*  oer yCol e     Le       L.  TC*                                        hyoo         'A.l                                                )1\
Coo              Co l    of   g      r                                                                                                                 14A-
_ Pr            I Itr  T eoer   oF AGfle ULTe                  1. *    |            MULEH
C110-1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I      n e r a I O O   B o o n d   e n                                                                                    , p c o r e 0 .l n   0 0 0 0 6 , 0 00XA A W F A 
~~~~~~~\S R ver                                                                         *  f N Oh doomo,\   ooomoTO NoC
MALAWI 
MILES          3400(                 TO  BAILA                  K0A10
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT !LIxEDm
fz G.ye-nent Secon3arySchoo s                                 g       rEs           t    bD o b
MaOlC-resp-nd-ne Coleges                               im     ona              /ChNEL                !
H We.dq-t-er                                               iJ           f            Croul                 ||wcc HEADOUA6TERSI
sotae lte C-ntres 130)                                   '/LIM  w . .|A-1rh  RURALN
s ch-n1 colSh-OI                                                  .ATIEf  SOCHE - TECHNICAL 
10.1a.,w Inst.ltI,.of Ed.c.f-                       /(                 hWrr                  \!
*  U-iers ty College                                             II  IHrrAO       A    t>19
*Coloy C. lege of Ag,cullure 1; NL\L RZOe/
A      Prl narv Teachers C. leg.                                  v         n\ 0T-A
IOlF PR, dA, 1-OO 5 N.~T Sh-1/ ON -AP.              l                             (        ){
Roo ds                                                               \.           1^1, S
4 i       Ea s[ ng Radways                            l                         Ngab \  
+  +     Ro, Way Unde, Consfrvcholo                   t                                          hrm
.......Reg,onal Bound- es                                   _                                                                  h.  b- Wolsak^ -/rrlad h*
--nternwl,onol Bou,,dar,es |\ )reeotohc iaOse
Rvers ,SrJ)if N5ane                                                                                              ronaissiw  ne  r
0    20       40         60       8p        100\                                  S
MILES                     3Ao                   TO B-IA<                                     e



