Document of              FLE  gCp
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2475-MAI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON
PROPOSED CREDITS
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
FOR A
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
May 2, 1979
This document has a restricted disrbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents my not Otherwise be disclosed without World Banlk authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
USED IN THIS REPORT
Currency Unit           -            Malawi Kwacha (MI)
US$1.00                 =            MK .83
MK1.00                  =            US$1.20
MEASURES
1 meter (m)      2                   3.28 feet
1 square meter (m )     =            10.76 square feet
1 kilometer (km)        =            0.62 mile
1 hectare (ha)          =            2.74 acres
ABBREVIATIONS
CIDA    -     Canadian International Development Agency
EEC     -     European Economic Community
MBS     -     Malawi Book Service
MCC     -     Malawi Correspondence College
MOE     -     Ministry of Education
ODM     -     United Kingdom Overseas Development Ministry
PIU     -     Project Implementation Unit
UNDP    -     United Nations Development Programme
USAID   -     United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALAWI
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Republic of Malawi
Amount:               US$14.5 million (IDA); and US$7.5 million (EEC
Special Action Credit)
Terms:                Standard IDA (for both Credits)
Project               The proposed project would help to improve and expand
Description:       primary and secondary education, and would provide
assistance for curriculum development, in-service
training and management of education. Major components
include (i) provision of primary schools and textbooks
to all primary school students and expansion of primary
teacher training facilities; (ii) improvement and
expansion of secondary education by enlarging the Malawi
Correspondence College, improving facilities at five
secondary schools, expanding teacher training facilities,
and assisting three technical schools and the agri-
cultural college; (iii) establishment of an Institute
of Education responsible for curriculum development,
in-service training, and materials preparation; and
(iv) assistance for the school inspectorates, architec-
tural and engineering services, educational studies
and project administration. An important project benefit
would be the improved quality of primary and secondary
education through the provision of primary school
textbooks to all students, and the improvement in
primary and secondary school teacher training facilities.
The project faces no special risks, although the
effectiveness of the self-help community construction
of the project primary schools would require close
coordination between several agencies at the national
and local levels. Several of the programs sponsored
under the project (the Institute of Education and the
commercial education component) are innovative and would
require adequate staffing to be successful.
LThis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:
US$ Millions
Local      Foreign      Total
1.  Primary Schools                                 3.4         2.2         5.6
2.  Secondary Schools                               2.1         1.4         3.5
3.  Teacher Training                                2.7         1.8         4.5
4.  Institute of Education                          1.1         0.7         1.8
5.  Vehicles                                        0.1         0.7         0.8
6.  Textbook Program                                1.3         2.0         3.3
7.  Studies, Services, Project Administration   1.1             0.6         1.7
8.  Contingencies                                   3.3         2.1         5.4
Total                                 15.1        11.5        26.6
(taxes and duties)                  (0.9)                   (0.9)
Total net of taxes and duties         14.2                    25.7
Financing Plan:
IDA                                             7.5         7.0        14.5 (57%)
EEC (Special Action Account)                    3.0         4.5         7.5 (29%)
Government                                      3.7          -          3.7 (14%)
Total net of taxes and duties                  14.2(55%)  11.5(45%)  25.7 (100%)
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year                 1980      1981      1982      1983      1984
IDA
Annual                            0.2      1.7       4.2       5.5       2.9
Cumulative                       0.2       1,9       6.1      11.6      14.5
EEC
Annual                            0.3      3.3       3.9
Cumulative                       0.3       3.6       7.5
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 2277-MAI, dated April 26, 1979



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON
PROPOSED CREDITS TO THE REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
FOR A THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on two proposed
credits to the Republic of Malawi for the equivalent of US$22.0 million on
standard IDA terms to help finance a Third Education Project. One credit
of US$14.5 million would be made from IDA resources; a second credit of
about US$7.5 million equivalent would be made from the EEC Special Action
Account administered by the Association in accordance with the terms of
the agreement of May 2, 1978, between the Association and the European
Economic Community.
PART I - THE ECONOMY i'
2.        A report entitled "Memorandum on the Economy of Malawi" (Report
No. 1677a-MAI) dated September 30, 1977 was circulated to the Executive
Directors on October 10, 1977. A Basic Economic Mission will visit Malawi
from May 11 to June 15, 1979. Country data sheets are provided in Annex I.
3.        With a population of 5.6 million and a land area of about 46,000
square miles, Malawi is relatively densely populated. Its main assets are
moderately fertile soils, good water resources and a climate favorable to
crop production. Unlike its neighbors, Malawi has no known substantial
mineral resources. Forests constitute the main, essentially untapped,
resource which could be exploited on a significant scale in the future.
4.        Although Malawi has a GNP per capita of only US$140 and is listed
by the United Nations among the world's poorest countries, its progress
since 1964, measured against its natural endowments, has been remarkable.
Between 1964 and 1976, GDP at constant prices grew at an average annual
rate of 6.5 percent, domestic investment and savings increased rapidly, and
government finances improved sufficiently to eliminate the need for budgetary
aid. Agriculture, which dominates the economy (47 percent of GDP and 48
percent of paid employment in 1977), has been directed towards export
markets by encouraging cash crop estates production and integrated rural
development schemes. In addition, rapid industrial development (the share
of industry rose from 9 percent of GDP in 1964 to 17 percent in 1977) has
significantly broadened the economic base.
1/ The section on the economy is substantially the same as in the
President's Report for the National Rural Development Programme
(NRDP) - Phase I (P-2377-MAI, November 6, 1978).



5.        The continuing success of Malawi's development efforts has
been due in large part to realistic and purposeful planning by the
Government. A Statement of Development Policies (DEVPOL), which pro-
vides a general framework for three-year rolling plans, was published
in 1971. DEVPOL contains major economic targets up to 1980 and states
as main socioeconomic objectives: (a) raising living standards and pro-
ductivity in rural areas; (b) achieving an eight percent average annual
real growth of GDP through the parallel development of smallholder out-
put, estate agriculture and industry; (c) promoting a more balanced
regional development; and (d) developing local initiatives by gradually
increasing local participation in the economy.
6.        Of total public sector investments during 1971-80, agriculture
will receive 19 percent, public utilities 11 percent, and social services
15 percent. The transportation sector will receive about 29 percent,
although between now and 1980 the proportion is expected to be tempo-
rarily higher (46 percent) because of the concentration of several large
investments in those years. Malawi has an effective administration which
has been quite successful in preparing and implementing development
projects.
7.        DEVPOL recognizes the important role of private investment in
development which, it is anticipated, would account for about one-half
of total fixed capital formation over the 1971-80 period. The Govern-
ment also recognizes the role of a healthy private sector in generating
foreign exchange and savings needed to sustain other elements of the
development strategy, and has adopted policies which are intended to
attract foreign investors and to ensure continued rapid growth of the
private sector. Trade and payments policies are liberal; profits are
moderately taxed and wages are held down to favor labor-intensive
estates and industries. The modern private sector has been the leader
in economic growth. The output of estate agriculture increased by 10
percent a year in real terms over the past decade, and industrial pro-
duction rose by 13 percent annually.
8.        In 1969, the poorest 40 percent of Malawi's households received
15 percent of the total income; the highest 20 percent received 53 per-
cent and the top 5 percent received 30 percent. Since then, the Govern-
ment has not conducted a national household income survey, not only
because it is a costly undertaking but also because income distribution
has not been a critical issue in this country with a large subsistence
population and a small modern sector.
9.        In keeping with its efforts to develop the rural areas, the
Government has directed some of its agricultural investment programs
toward smallholders. Although, for some years, the Government kept
producer prices low, it now recognizes the importance of sufficiently
remunerative commodity producer prices and has recently authorized
increases. Over the past seven years, real wages have fallen somewhat,
and wage employment has increased by eight percent a year on the average.



10.       In 1977, a population census revealed that the country's
population grew at 2.9 percent per annum during the past decade.
Projecting the same growth rate for the remainder of the century,
Malawi's population will almost double by the year 2000. This high
population growth rate has important implications for the 1-bor-land
ratio. Malawi's population density is about 136 per sq. km of agri-
cultural land, among the highest in Africa. By the year 2000, Malawi
will have 267 people per sq. km. While the Government argues that
the country has substantial unused agricultural land, it has not had
much success in settling farmers on new land; settlement schemes have
had high investment cost and have run into difficulties, social as well
as economic. We are discussing these implications with the Government
which, at this time, opposes adoption of an official policy of
active population control, reportedly for religious reasons. As a
result, sales of contraceptives are prohibited in Malawi, though clinics
are permitted to give family planning advice to those who seek it.
The Basic Economic Report will provide further in-depth analysis (par-
ticularly of the cost of social services for a rapidly growing population
and of the Government's land-use policy) for continuous follow-up. Only
about eight percent of the total population live in urban areas. How-
ever, because of the diversification of the economy, urban population is
increasing by more than seven percent per annum, in line with the ex-
pansion of wage employment opportunities in the non-agricultural sectors.
11.       As about 90 percent of the population live in rural areas,
rural development is a primary social and economic objective. At pre-
sent, the majority of farmers are smallholders on the fringe of the
market economy. Their staple crop is almost exclusively maize, and
their principal cash crops are cotton, tobacco and groundnuts. Until
now, the principal instrument for increasing smallholder productivity
has been relatively intensive, integrated development projects in
specific areas which, when completed, will reach about 25 percent of
the rural population.
12.       In spite of the Government's efforts, however, production from
traditional agriculture has lagged behind that of the estates. Although
firm figures are lacking, indications are that between 1971 and 1976,
production from the traditional sector grew at about 4.5 percent a year
compared to about 11 percent in the estate sector. The Government is
concerned about this relatively slow growth and has prepared a new country-
wide approach to rural development. It constitutes a departure from the
previous approach in that it primarily concentrates on providing farm
inputs and extension services, with less emphasis on infrastructure.  The
new approach - the National Rural Development Programme - is to become
the Government's chief vehicle for smallholder development.



- 4 -
13.       The country's progress in generating and using domestic re-
sources has, on the whole, been impressive. Both domestic savings and
fixed investment have risen steadily since independence. Savings,
virtually nil in 1964, were 19.2 percent of GDP in 1977, and fixed in-
vestment rose during the same period from 8.5 to 22.5 percent of GDP.
In general, the Government's fiscal management has been skillful. By
holding recurrent expenditures down while expanding revenues, the
Government has managed to achieve small budget surpluses to raise the
domestic contribution to financing capital development expenditures,
which was negative in 1964, to 13 percent in 1977. Nevertheless, the
expanding level of development activities would lead to additional
demands for recurrent expenditures, possibly limiting future govern-
ment contributions to the capital budget. Consequently, there is need
for stepping up domestic resource mobilization, particularly through
taxation. In response, the Government has increased the company tax,
personal income tax and import duties and excise taxes on some com-
modities. Further increases, however, will be needed, both for re-
current expenditures as well as to help finance future development.
The Government is concerned about the problem and, with Bank assist-
ance, has initiated a study of the fiscal implications of its develop-
ment program.
14.       After serious deterioration in 1975 and 1976, Malawi's balance
of payments recovered sharply in 1977. The deterioration was due
principally to international inflation (and consequent deterioration
in the terms of trade), exacerbated by the suspension in 1974 of the
flow of Malawian migrant workers to South Africa, which drastically
reduced remittances, and substantial capital outflows in 1975 and 1976.
As a result, Malawi's foreign reserves declined from US$82 million in
1974 to US$26 million - equivalent to about 1-1/2 months of imports -
in 1976. The Government took fiscal and monetary measures to deal with
the problem, and in 1977, the IMF made available a first tranche standby
credit, equivalent to US$6.3 million. Demand for Malawi's main agri-
cultural exports, however, continued strong, and foreign exchange
reserves rose to a record level of US$88 million (equivalent to about
four months of imports) by the end of 1977.
15.       The expansion of the Government's investment programs has
been assisted by increased public capital inflows on very concessionary
terms. The net contribution from foreign official sources to the fi-
nancing of public investment increased from US$17 million in 1967 to
about US$66 million in 1977, of which US$9 million was in grant form.
The sources have also been gradually diversified. At independence,
Britain was virtually the only source; by 1977, the British contribution
had declined to about 40 percent. Multilateral sources, especially IDA,
provided about 40 percent, and a variety of bilateral sources, notably
Canada and the USA, accounted for the remainder.



16.       At the end of 1977, Malawi's external public debt totalled
US$421 million, of which US$283 million had been disbursed. Debt
service in 1977 amounted to US$14.2 million, equivalent to about
7 percent of foreign exchange earnings.  At the end of 1977, the Bank's
and the co'bined IDA/Bank shares in Malawi's disbursed debt were 0.8
percent and 23.4 percent, respectively, and service on the Bank Group
debt accounted for 6.3 percent of total debt service.  In 1985, the
IDA/Bank share in total disbursed debt is projected to be 45.3 per-
cent and the service on the Bank Group debt to be 24.5 percent of the
total debt service. With the continuing increase in public investment,
external capital inflow is estimated to increase to about US$117 million
by 1985. In the future, some hardening of the average terms of lending
can be expected. However, even if the average grant element of official
assistance were to fall from the 80 percent level of 1971-75 to, say,
about 60 percent by 1985, Malawi's public debt service obligations still
would remain below 5 percent of export earnings in 1985. Because of the
Government's limited ability to mobilize domestic resources for the pipe-
line of projects it is able to prepare and implement (para. 13), external
financing usually covers a substantial part of the project cost, including
local costs when the foreign exchange component is relatively small.
Despite the Government's success in steadily raising the domestic share
of development expenditures (13 percent in 1977), new investment is ex-
panding more quickly than the domestic resource base. Moreover, much of
the Government's development outlays are necessarily cancentrated in
activities not suitable for external assistance, so that the proportion
of external financing in specific projects reached the overall level of
87 percent in 1977. In consideration of the Government's good performance
in economic management and project preparation and implementation, Malawi
became eligible for some borrowing on Bank and Third Window terms in 1976.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAWI
17.       Malawi has received 18 IDA credits totalling US$154.9 million
and four Bank loans totalling US$29.2 million, of which two were on
Third Window terms. Of the total Bank Group assistance, US$85 million
(46 percent) was for agriculture, about US$38 million (20 percent) for
power development, about US$18 million (10 percent) for education,
US$32 million (17 percent) for roads, US$3 million (2 percent) for a
development finance company (INDEBANK) and the balance of US$9 million
(5 percent) for water supply and to finance feasibility studies for a
planned pulp mill at Viphya. The first Bank loan to Malawi was made on
Third Window terms in June 1976 and the first standard Bank loan in
April 1977. IFC's investments in Malawi consist of a loan of US$6
million made in February 1976 for a textile mill, another of US$9 million
for sugar development in April 1977, and a US$562,000 equity investment



- 6 -
in INDEBANK in July 1978. A summary statement of Bank Group operations
and notes on the execution of ongoing projects are provided in Annex II.
Project implementation is generally satisfactory.
18.       Bank Group operations in Malawi will continue to emphasize
rural development and agriculture through further investments in the
National Rural Development Programme (NRDP). A second phase NRDP
project, recently appraised, will improve the supply of wood-based
energy and forest products in rural areas through the establishment
of 43,000 ha of fast growing plantations. Other major areas of con-
centration include education, water supply, and transportation. In
water supply, project preparation based on a sector study recently
undertaken by the IBRD/WHO Cooperative Program has begun. A fourth
highway project is being prepared which will include extension of the
main north-south spine road as well as assistance for feeder road
development. Finally, we are examining possible investments in power,
industry and urban sites and services.
PART III - THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR
Overview
19.       After independence in 1964, the Government placed high priority
on economic growth and the development of directly productive sectors
rather than social services. Consequently, in education emphasis was
given to improving those institutions which would provide the middle
and higher level manpower required for the productive sectors of the
economy. As a first priority, secondary education was improved and the
University of Malawi established. In the early 1970s, the "Education
Plan of Malawi, 1973-79" was prepared, which set broad goals for the
education sector and stressed the need to improve internal efficiency,
achieve a more equitable distribution of educational opportunities and con-
tinue the efforts to meet manpower requirements. Despite these efforts,
shortages of adequately trained skilled, technical and managerial manpower re-
main throughout the economy, and only 25 percent of the population is literate.
Education System
20.       The formal education system consists of eight years of primary
education, four years of secondary education and post secondary and
university courses of various durations. Currently, primary education
is the weakest element in the system: enrollment in grades 1-5 amounts
to 68 percent of the 6-10 age group; only 37 percent of children enter-
ing primary school complete the first five years of primary education
and only 21 percent complete the full eight year course. Girls make up



37 percent of enrollaent and are more likely than boys to drop out
after one year of schooling. Repeater and drop out rates are high
due to a lack of adequate school facilities, educational materials,
textbooks and qualified teachers. Moreover, as Malawians tend to
favor living in isolated family clusters rather than in villages,
walking distances to schools offering the full eight grades are
often great. The Ministry of Education recognizes the need to im-
prove primary education and with IDA assistance has recently initiated
a school mapping survey to help determine specific construction needs
and rationalize school planning. The Government has also started a
program to provide primary school prototypes with the intention that
they should be replicated by the communities, and has begun to provide
technical and material support to self-help school building.
21.       Local authorities are responsible for providing educational
materials to primary schools. They buy all expendable school
materials and equipment through utilization of school fees, which
are now K 2.00 per student in rural areas and K 3.50 in urban areas
in grades 1 to 5 and, K 4.00 and K 6.50 respectively in grades 6 to
8. At present these fees are sufficient to cover only one-half to
one-third of the overall textbook requirements, depending on how long
books last. School fees have not changed since 1975 and the Govern-
ment does not plan to raise them in the foreseeable future due to
hardships this would cause poorer families. Consequently, the number
of textbooks available to students is likely to continue to decline
as costs rise. Such a decline would worsen an already difficult
situation and would adversely affect pass and retention rates. The
Government has recognized the importance of textbooks and has pro-
posed to initiate a program under which the Central Government would
gradually take responsibility for financing a large portion of the
costs of textbooks, beginning with basic English, Chichewa and
arithmetic textbooks. Locally collected fees would be used for ad-
ditional textbooks, teaching materials, furniture and equipment.
22.       In secondary education, school places currently are available
to only nine percent of students who pass the primary school leaving
certificate. The internal efficiency of secondary education is re-
latively high but could be improved. Pass rates in day secondary
schools are about 20 percent lower than in boarding schools, due in
part to the long distances that many children have to walk to school
and the fact that children must often seek lodging in nearby towns or
make-shift dormitories. The availability of boarding places would
increase access to secondary education for a large number of poor
students, particularly from the rural areas, and for girls. About
32 percent of all secondary school teachers are expatriates and 100
staff positions are available but unfilled.



- 8 -
23.       In the field of technical education, the needs for skilled
industrial workers are being met by the Polytechnic and several
secondary technical and training schools which offer training pro-
grams in bricklaying, carpentry, joinery, electrical working, plumbing,
etc. At present there are no cormercial education programs in public
schools and there continues to be a shortfall in output of trained
agricultural technicians.
24.       In non-formal education, several ministries and private
agencies sponsor adult education programs. While the lack of co-
ordination has often led to duplication of efforts, the programs have
reached a significant number of adults. The Ministry of Health offers
several programs which provide training in the basic techniques of
preventive medicine. Numerous other programs in child care, homecraft
and literacy are provided by the Ministry of Community Development and
Social Welfare.
25.       Total education expenditures currently absorb about 2.5 per-
cent of GDP. In 1977/78, recurrent education expenditures were 12
percent of the Central Government's recurrent budget and are estimated
to increase to 14 percent in 1978/79, due mainly to a recent salary
increase. These proportions are low by African standards and reflect
the greater emphasis placed by the Government on directly productive
sectors, especially agriculture,and on general administration. Assuming
moderate growth in enrollment, improved student/teacher ratios and con-
tinued upgrading of educational facilities, educational expenditures
as a percentage of the recurrent budget should increase to about 15
percent in 1985/86 and 17 percent in 1990/91. This level of expenditure
would not greatly tax Malawi's resources and would still be lower than
that prevailing in most African countries.
Government Policy and Programs in the Sector
26.       The Government has adopted a strategy for formal education
which includes:
(a) expanding and improving primary schools through programs
to provide textbooks and assistance to villages for
constructing schools on a self-help basis;
(b) improving the quality of secondary education, limiting
its rate of expansion, and providing a low-cost alter-
native to formal secondary education by expanding the
Malawi Correspondence College;
(c) expanding primary and secondary school teacher training
facilities;



- 9 -
(d) increasing the output of the technical schools,
agricultural colleges, the apprenticeship program
and the University of Malawi to meet the increasing
demands for professional and technical manpower; and
(e) establishing the Institute of Education to strengthen
curriculum development and in-service training for
teachers.
In quantitative terms, the Government's programs for the gradual expan-
sion and improvement of the formal education sector would lead to
substantially increased enrollments at the primary level. By 1990,
enrollment in grades 1-5 would be equivalent to about 85 percent of
the 6-10 age group and enrollment in the full eight year primary
course would be equivalent to nearly 70 percent of the 6-13 age group.
In the short term, the expansions in enrollments in secondary schools
would be limited to about three percent per year due to a shortage
of qualified teachers and concern over the possibility of unemployed
secondary school graduates in the future. In post-secondary education,
enrollments are projected to double over the next 12 years. At the
same time, major efforts would be made to expand on-the-job and non-
formal training programs to meet specific manpower needs. To provide
more precise information on the economy's manpower requirements, the
Government is undertaking a series of studies on manpower needs and
on secondary school leavers. These studies will provide a basis for
planning the rate of expansion of the sector, particularly at the
secondary level.
27.       Specific programs to expand and improve primary education
focus on increasing the supply of qualified teachers and teaching
aids and providing physical facilities that would meet basic educa-
tion, health and safety standards. The Government's recent decision
to take responsibility for financing a large portion of the costs of
textbooks will improve efficiency and equity at this important level
of education. Also important is the Government's program to support
community self-help initiatives for primary school building with
building materials and technical advice provided by work teams
organized under the Development Division of the Office of the President.
In parallel with these improvements in the resources at the disposal
of the primary school system, the Government is planning to improve the
curriculum and to strengthen the primary school inspectorates. In
particular, curriculum development, textbook preparation, materials
production and in-service teacher training for teachers and headmasters
would be centralized at a new Institute of Education to be located on
the site of the present in-service training center at Domasi. With
the planned expansion of the inspectorate and the supply of vehicles
to the inspectors, primary schools would be visited more frequently
and on a regular basis rather than every two to three years as at present.



- 10 -
28.       In secondary education, the first priority is to expand
teacher training. Enrollment growth at the present rate of
three percent per annum requires an average of 90 new teachers per
annum, while the present output of Chancellor College is only 30
students per annum. Present secondary programs focus on improving
access for female students and students from rural areas by con-
structing dormitories and specialized training facilities in existing
day-schools, expanding agricultural and commercial education, and
promoting a lower cost alternative to secondary education through
the expansion of the Malawi Correspondence College.
Previous Bank Group Assistance to the Education Sector
29.       To date Bank Group assistance to the education sector con-
sists of two IDA credits. The first project, approved in 1967
(Cr. 102-MAI), provided US$6.3 million to help finance: (i) extensions
to 12 secondary schools to enable them to teach technical subjects;
(ii) a primary teacher training college; and (iii) ten fellowships.
The project was implemented on schedule. Savings realized under the
project were utilized in financing an institute to train Post and
Telecommunications personnel in Malawi, Botswana, Lesotho and
Swaziland. The Project Completion Report observed that it achieved
its objectives though the equipment procured for technical training
in the secondary schools may have been too sophisticated.
30.       In 1975, the Association approved a US$11.6 million credit
(No. 590-MAI) to help finance the Second Education Project which con-
tinues the emphasis that the first project placed on secondary education
and primary teacher training. It also includes provision of facilities
designed to increase women's participation in secondary education,
assistance to institutionalize and expand rural training and the
development of prototype primary schools and rural education centers.
The project is progressing well and should be completed on schedule.
31.       The Bank has carried out an active program of sector studies
in collaboration with the Government culminating in an in-depth
"Education Sector Survey" (Report No. 1781-MAI, February 1978). The
Government has accepted most of the findings of the Survey and is
currently negotiating financial assistance to implement its recommenda-
tions with several donor agencies. CIDA is expected to help finance the
establishment of a Natural Resources College which will train middle to
high level manpower for the agricultural sector, while USAID, ODM and
the UNDP are considering proposals to help finance facilities for higher
level commercial and technical education as well as secondary education.



- 11 
Future Strate&y
32.       The Bank Group's strategy in the sector has focused on
improving the quality of, and expanding the access to, primary and
secondary education as well as strengthening the overall management
and organization of the sector. These are the areas where the Bank,
through its project lending, has developed considerable knowledge
and expertise. Building on past experience, the Bank will endeavor
to help Malawi strengthen and streamline primary and secondary
education. In primary education, the Bank will support programs
based on improving quality and equity by assisting local self-help
school construction activities and improving textbook production and
distribution. In secondary education, the Bank will support measures
to improve quality through the expansion of the output of secondary
school teachers. The Bank would also support measures to improve
general efficiency and increase access for females and for students
in rural areas. In addition to assistance for primary and secondary
education, the Bank will complement the activities of other assistance
agencies in the fields of higher level manpower development, improved
curriculum development, educational research and school supervision.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
33.       The proposed project was formally identified in September/
October 1977 and prepared by the Government with assistance from the
Association. The project was appraised in Malawi in July/August 1978,
and negotiations were held in Washington in April 1979. Mr. C.L.
Mphande, Under-Secretary in the Ministry of Finance, led the govern-
ment delegation. A Staff Appraisal Report on the project is being
circulated separately. Annex III provides supplementary project data.
Project Objectives and Description
34.       The proposed project would: (i) help to improve efficiency
in, and access to, primary and secondary education; (ii) assist in
the provision of manpower needed for development; and (iii) improve
curriculum development, in-service training, and management of education.
The project would carry out these objectives by:
-   constructing, furnishing and equipping educational
facilities;
-   providing textbooks to primary school students;
-   providing vehicles for school inspectorates and
educational institutions; and
financing studies, services, and project administration
costs.



- 12 -
Overall, the project would construct, furnish and equip buildings
and related facilities for about 50,000 primary students, 2,900
secondary students, 180 commercial and agricultural school students,
and 345 teacher trainees. The project would also help to provide
courses for over 800 primary and secondary teachers and supervisors
per year, and would provide dormitories for 855 students, and houses
for 614 primary, secondary and university staff.
Project Details
(a) Primary Schools
35.       The project would support a community development program
for the self-help construction, furnishing and equipping of (i) 250
four-classroom blocks for primary schools serving about 50,000
children, and (ii) 500 staff houses. About half the classrooms would
be distributed equally among administrative districts and would be
located on the basis of the Government's present criteria which in-
clude self-help initiatives, population density, expected growth and
location of neighboring schools. The remainder would be located
after completion of a school mapping program; here the distribution
by district would take into account school age population and en-
rollment rates by district (see Section 3.04 of the draft IDA
Credit Agreement). Local authorities would prepare applications for
school facilities which would be processed by the District Development
Committee, sent to the Development Division in the Office of the
President, and approved by the Ministry of Education. In order to
ensure proper coordination at all levels, the Government would
prepare, by December 31, 1979, an implementation program and pro-
cedures, acceptable to the Association, which would establish the
respective responsibilities of participating ministries (see Section
3.03 (a) of the draft IDA Credit Agreement). The Government
also would ensure that the Development Division increased its staff
sufficiently to supervise construction of the primary schools (see
Section 3.03 (b) of the draft IDA Credit Agreement).
(b) Primary School Textbooks
36.       Supplying educational materials currently is the responsibility
of local authorities who collect school fees for materials and equipment
(see para. 21). Because this system is inadequate, the Government is
undertaking a program to finance the costs of primary school textbooks
for mathematics, English and Chichewa; school fees will cover the rest.



- 13 -
The project would support the program in its initial phase,
and for one year of replacement. Overall a total of some
2.2 million textbooks would be provided during this period to about
740,000 primary school children. The Government would prepare and
submit to the Association for comments by July 31, 1981, a plan for
supplying primary school textbooks beyond the project period (see
Section 4.03 of the draft IDA Credit Agreement).
(c) Correspondence Centers and Secondary Schools
37.       Due to the strong social demand for secondary education,
the Government has encouraged growth of an alternative lower cost
secondary school system based on a regular junior secondary curri-
culum taught by radio and correspondence courses. The system is
operated by the Malawi Correspondence College (MCC), through a net-
work of 58 secondary school equivalency centers. These centers now
provide full-time classroom accommodations up to six hours a day for
nearly 3,000 students, the equivalent of one-third of the enrollment
in regular secondary schools. The pass rates in these centers are
substantially below those in regular junior secondary schools; how-
ever, regular secondary school students are selected by examination
while there are no specific entrance requirements for these centers.
Pass rates could be increased through improvements in local physical
facilities and in central facilities at MCC headquarters. Under the
proposed project, 30 centers would be constructed or reconstructed,
furnished and equipped and facilities at headquarters would be
improved. In order to strengthen the management and program delivery
of these centers, an evaluation unit would be established at MCC by
July 1, 1980, and a specialist would be recruited for the unit (see
Section 3.06 of the draft IDA Credit Agreement).
38.       The Government, with assistance from the United Kingdom, is
currently building boarding facilities in some schools whose students
live too far away to commute. The project would complement this
effort by providing for the construction and furnishing of boarding
and other facilities for 280 students at an additional five secondary
schools.
(d) Commercial and Agricultural Education
39.       The Government plans to establish a new program for training
secretaries, typists and bookkeepers. The project would support this
training by providing classroom blocks, staff houses, administrative
space and related furniture and equipment for three existing technical
schools. Dormitories also would be provided for two of the schools;



- 14 "
the third school has adequate capacity. Since the commercial training
program would be new, a specialist would be recruited to assist in
the preparation of curriculum and teacher training programs (see
Section 3.08 of the draft IDA Credit Agreement). A tracer
program would be established by December 31, 1981 to follow the
activities of the graduates (see Section 3.05 (b) of the draft
IDA Credit Agreement).
40.       The Government has announced its intention to establish a
Natural Resources College to meet the growing manpower requirements
of the agricultural sector. Several financing agencies have expressed
interest in assisting the College, which is targeted to open in
1983/84. Meanwhile the project would assist Colby College of Agriculture
to improve the ratio of students to qualified teachers and to increase
output per year by 1981 from 160 to 190. Specifically, the project
would provide for six new faculty houses, dormitory furniture for an
additional 60 students and one vehicle.
(e) Primary and Secondary School Teacherst Training
41.       The project would help expand the enrollment at Mzuzu Primary
Teacher Training College from 420 to 540 and would provide for the
additional staff housing required for the expansion. The proposed
additions would increase the number of qualified school teachers enter-
ing into the primary system.
42.       The project would also help Chancellor College expand its
physical facilities in order to increase the enrollment of its secondary
school teacher training program. On completion, enrollment of teacher
trainees would increase from 105 to 330, and the College's annual output
of teachers would triple from 30 to 90. A tracer program would be
established by July 1, 1980 to monitor the activities of graduates from
the secondary school teacher training program (see Section 3.05 (a)
of the draft IDA Credit Agreement).
(f) Institute of Education
43.       The project would assist the Government to establish an
Institute of Education for curriculum development, materials prepara-
tion and in-service training for both the primary and secondary educa-
tional system. An education materials resource center, science center,
administrative center, library and staff houses would be built and
equipped. At full development, the Institute would have a staff of
about 30 and residential accommodation for 150 students and would
upgrade annually about 600 primary school teachers and provide short
courses to 100 district education officers, 100 primary school head-
masters and 40 secondary school teachers, The Government has agreed
to legally establish the Institute with an autonomous Board of
Governors, to appoint its Director and to take steps to provide ap-
propriate technical assistance to it, by July 1. 1980 (see Section 3.07
of the draft IDA Credit Agreement).



- 15 -
(g) Vehicles for School Supervisory System and Educational
Institutions
44.       In order to ensure a satisfactory standard of teaching in the
schools, the Government has established a school inspectorate responsible
for teacher evaluation, school maintenance, and introduction of new
curricula and textbooks. Its existing staff of 29 inspectors, with only
limited transportation facilities, however, is unable adequately to cover
over 2,000 primary schools in Malawi. The project would support the
inspectorate by financing the purchase of 29 vehicles, which would
enable the inspectorate to visit each primary school in Malawi about
twice a year. The project also would provide 21 vehicles to regional
and central MOE offices, Mzuzu Teacher Training College, the MCC, Colby
College of Agriculture, and the Project Implementation Unit.
(h) Studies, Services and Project Administration
45.       The project would support a number of studies on key educational
issues, including monitoring and evaluation of the Second and Third
Education Projects,to be carried out by the Institute of Education,
Chancellor College, the Malawi Certificate Examination and Test Board
and other relevant institutions. It also would provide funds for archi-
tectural and engineering services, and for project administration.
Project Implementation
46.       The Project Implementation Unit (PIU), established under the
Second Education Project, has functioned well and would supervise the
implementation of the proposed project. The PIU would prepare designs for
primary schools based on the prototype schools built under the Second
Education Project, and would arrange for the supply of building materials
to local communities which would construct the schools on a self-help
basis. The project would be implemented over a five-year period.
Project Cost and Financing
47.       The total project costs are estimated at US$25.7 million equivalent
(net of taxes), of which about US$11.5 million, or 45 percent, represent
foreign expenditures. The value of locally provided labor for self-help
construction and some materials expected to be provided by the communities
have not been included in project costs. The proposed US$14.5 million
IDA credit would finance 57 percent of costs, and a credit of about
US$7.5 million from the EEC Special Action Account, about 29 percent. IDA
and EEC Special Action Account financing would be provided on a parallel
basis. The IDA credit would finance project expenditures related to



- 16 -
primary, secondary and technical schools, secondary teacher training
facilities, Colby College of Agriculture, and the Institute of Education,
as well as studies, consultant services and project administration. The
EEC Special Action Credit would finance project expenditures related to
primary teacher training, MCC and its centers, primary school textbooks and vehicles.
Procurement
48.       Contracts to be financed by IDA total about US$16.1 million
equivalent, including contingencies, of which about US$10.9 million
equivalent (68 percent) would be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. Exceptions
to these guidelines amounting to US$5.2 million equivalent (32 percent)
would be for:
(a) Labor and materials, costing about US$4.5 million, for
constructing rural primary school facilities with community
self-help, would be financed following local procedures.
The Development Division would provide skilled labor and
technical assistance, financed by the project. The PIU
would procure construction materials locally, in bulk and
as needed over a four-year period (to avoid deterioration
in prolonged storage) following competitive bidding pro-
cedures acceptable to the Association. As maximum annual
expenditures on materials would be only about US$750,000,
the amounts would be unlikely to attract foreign bidders;
(b) Other construction contracts costing less than US$250,000
each and furniture, equipment and vehicle contracts costing
less than US$50,000 equivalent each. The aggregate total
of these contracts is not expected to exceed US$0.7 million
equivalent.
49.       Contracts to be financed by the EEC Special Action Credit total
about US$8.4 million, including contingencies, and would be awarded in
accordance with Schedule III of the draft EEC Special Action Credit Agree-
ment which limits bidding to EEC member countries and IDA member countries
which are eligible to receive Special Action Credits. Specifically the
EEC Special Action Credit would finance the following:
(a) Construction contracts for Malawi Correspondence College
and its 30 centers, costing US$1.9 million. As the work
on the MCC and its centers would be phased and spread over
a wide geographical area, these contracts would not be of
interest to international firms and would be awarded on the
basis of local procedures;



- 17 -
(b) Textbooks for primary schools, costing an estimated US$3.8
million. Procurement of textbooks, most of which are
published in Malawi, would be through the Malawi Book
Service (MBS), a parastatal body. MBS currently procures
and distributes all textbooks for government schools, mainly
by direct purchases from local suppliers. Its procurement
is efficient and economical and procedures for procuring
project textbooks would be acceptable to the Association.
(c) The construction contract for the expansion of the Mzuzu
Teachers College, estimated to cost US$1.1 million equivalent.
The contract would be negotiated on the basis of presently
agreed unit costs with the contractor employed to construct
the first phase under the Second Education Project
(Credit 590-MAI). This is regarded as the most efficient
and economical contractural method in view of the contractor's
satisfactory performance on the existing contract and the
previous difficulties in attracting bidders to the Mzuzu
area.
(d) Equipment and furniture for (a) and (c): and vehicles for
the project, costing an estimated US$1.6 million. Pro-
curement for these items would follow international com-
petiive bidding procedures set out in Schedule III of the
draft EEC Special Action Credit Agreement.
50.        Contracts to be awarded following international competitive
bidding total US$12.5 million equivalent; contracts to be awarded following
negotiation and competitive bidding advertised locally,and in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association,are estimated at US$12.0 million
equivalent,including contingencies. Architectural sketch designs, draft
tender documents and master lists of furniture, equipment and vehicles,
including proposed grouping, would be reviewed by the Association. Items
would be grouped to the extent practicable to encourage competitive bidding
and bulk procurement. Review of tender evaluation documents by the
Association prior to award would not be required for construction contracts
costing less than US$250,000 equivalent each and for construction materials,
furniture, equipment and vehicle contracts each costing less than US$50,000
equivalent. Where international competitive bidding procedures are used (i)
domestic manufacturers of furniture and equipment would be allowed a prefer-
ence of 15 percent or the existing applicable rate of import duties,whichever
is lower, over the c.i.f. price of competing foreign suppliers and (ii) for
IDA financed components qualified domestic contractors would be allowed a
preferential margin of 7-1/2 percent over the bid prices of competing
foreign contractors.



- 18 -
Disbursements
51.       Proceeds of the proposed IDA credit would be disbursed on the
following basis: (i) 80 percent of the total costs of civil works and
project administration; (ii) 80 percent of local expenditures for locally
procured construction materials for primary school facilities, furniture,
equipment, consultants services and studies; (iii) 100 percent of foreign
expenditures for directly imported construction materials, furniture,equipment,
consultants services and studies; and (iv) 100 percent of the ex-factory cost of
furniture and equipment manufactured locally. Disbursement against
components financed from the EEC Special Action Credit would be: (a)
87 percent of total expenditures for civil works; (b) 90 percent of
total expenditures for textbooks and furniture; and (c) 90 percent of
local and 100 percent of foreign expenditures for equipment and vehicles.
Retroactive financing up to US$100,000 equivalent is recommended to help
finance the cost of architectural consultancy services and project
administration expenditures incurred after April 1, 1979.
Benefits and Risks
52.       The proposed project would improve the quality of and the
access to primary and secondary education. The provision of textbooks
to all primary school children and the increased availability of primary
and secondary school teachers are among the project's major qualitative
benefits. Assistance for the Institute of Education, and the school
inspectors would improve the educational system's operations and effi-
ciency. On equity grounds, the project would improve the access of
students in the disadvantaged areas, largely rural, to educational
opportunities at the primary and secondary level. The provision of
boarding facilities in secondary schools for both boys and girls would
help to improve student performance as well as strengthen female par-
ticipation in economic activities. The project also would address
Malawi's manpower needs by assisting commercial education and helping to
improve the supply of secondary school teachers and agricultural tech-
nicians. Finally, investment in the Malawi Correspondence College would
offer much needed opportunities for secondary education to students who
for various reasons are unable to enroll or continue enrollment in the
regular secondary school system. There are no major risks associated
with the project. However, construction of the primary school program
by communities on a self-help basis would require close coordination
among several agencies. In addition, several of the programs sup-
ported by the project, particularly the Institute of Education and the com-
mercial education component, are innovative and would require adequate staffing
to be successful. To minimize risks it has been agreed that: (i) the Government
would, by December 31, 1979, prepare a program, satisfactory to the Association,
which would show how it intends to coordinate the responsibilities
and activities of all agencies involved in the construction



- 19 -
of the primary schools (see Section 3.03 of the draft IDA Credit Agreement);
and (ii) the Institute of Education as well as the other agencies concerned
with project implementation would be suitably staffed (see Sections 3.07(b)
and 3.08 of the draft IDA Credit Agreement).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
53.        The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Malawi and the Association, the draft EEC Special Action Credit Agreement
between the Republic of Malawi and the International Development Association,
as administrator of the EEC Special Action Account established with funds
contributed by the member states of the EEC, and the Recommendation of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Association are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
54.        Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III of this report.
55.        A special condition for effectiveness of the IDA Credit Agreement
would be that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the EEC
Special Action Credit Agreement have been met other than the effectiveness
of the IDA Credit Agreement. A special condition of effectiveness of the
EEC Special Action Credit Agreement would be that all conditions precedent to
the effectiveness of the IDA Credit Agreement have been met other than
the effectiveness of the EEC Special Action Credit Agreement.
56.        I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association, and that the EEC Special Action
Credit would comply with the criteria established by the Agreement of
May 2, 1978 between the Association and the European Economic Community.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
57.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
May 2, 1979



- 20 -
ANEX 1
TABLE 3A
MALAWI - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
MALAWI                                                La
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                               - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL            118.5                                                 SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL     41.2                                MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME       INCOME
1960 Lb    1970 A  ESTIMATE Lb      REGION Le  GROUP /d    GROUP Le
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                 50.0        70.0    140.0            223.6      182.9       432.3
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       ..        46.0      56.0            86.7       88.9       251.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                        3.5         4.6       5.6
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 4.4         5.6       7.9            13.6       15.0        24.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                      29.0        38.0      47.2            18.4       46.8        42.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    92.0       114.0    135.9             53.6      254.1        95.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        42.9        43.9      45.4            44.4       43.6        44.9
15-64 YRS.                        53.2        52.1      51.3            52.7       53.3        52.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  3.9         4.0       3.3             2.8        2.9         3.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             2.2         2.6       2.9             2.6        2.4         2.7
URBAN                             5.5         5.0       7.6             5.8        4.0         8.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    49.0        49.3      47.7            46.9       44.3        42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    30.6        28.1      23.7            20.6       19.7        12.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             3.2         3.2       3.2             3.1        2.9         3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..          ..        ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MALRRIED WOMEN)   ..         ..        ..             2.5       14.6        14.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)            89.0       100.0    113.2             94.2       96.4       104.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  86.0       103.0    103.0             90.1       92.3        99.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         50.0        54.0      68.4            55.2       50.0        56.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       6.0 If      9.0       9.9            17.1       13.9        17.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      ..          ..        ..              ..         ..         7.5
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   35.0        38.5      41.0            43.7       45.8        53.3
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                                        .-    142.0            138.4      102.7        82.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..          ..        ..            22.4       26.4        31.1
URBAN                              ..          ..        ..            66.3       63.5        68.5
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..            10.4       14.1        18.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..          ..        ..            23.9       16.1        37.5
URBAN                              ..          ..        ..            70.3       65.9        69.5
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..            14.2        3.4        25.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        35000.0 /f  38250.0        ..         21757.5   13432.7       9359.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        ..    16090.0         ..          3473.8    6983.3       2762.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           940.0 f     760.0        ..           645.4    1157.6        786.5
URBAN                              ..       190.0        ..           172.9      183.3       278.4
RURAL                              *-      1520.0        ..          1292.6    1348.8       1358.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..        36.3 /h                   19.2       19.5        19.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              ..          ..        ..             4.9        5.2
URBAN                              ..         3.4 Lt     ..             5.0        4.8
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..             4.7        5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              ..          ..        ..
URBAN                              ..         1.9 ft    1.7              ..        1.8         2.3
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              ..          ..        ..              ..       25.9        28.3
URBAN                              ..         16.0 Li     ..
RURAL                               *-         *-         **                        8.7        10.3



- 21 -                                           ANNEX I
TAULE 3A
MALAW! - SOCIAL IhDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
MALAY!W                                                  La
- HOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAhE        SAMlE     NEXT  IGHER
MOST RECENiT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960 lb     1970 /b ESTIIATE Lb        REGION LI   GROUP /d    GROUP Ie
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  63.0        40.0       61.0*            52.1        62.9         75.8
tEKALE                45.0         29.0      48.0             37.6        45.9         67.9
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   1.0         2.0        3.0*             8.0        14.4         17.7
FEMALE                 0.3          1.0       2.0              5.0         8.8         12.9
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 24.0            3.0       8.5              7.2         6.6          7.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             41.0        43.0       58.0 *           43.2        38.5         34.3
SECONDARY                           14.0         16.0      19.0 *           22.8        19.8         23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)                      22.0 1I   25.0             20.3        36.7         63.7
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           1.8          2.0       2.3              3.9         3.1          7
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THDUSAND
POPULATION                           9.0 k      20.0       26.0             40.1        31.1         71
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND                                                                                  1
POPULATION                           0.7                                     2.2         2.8         14.;
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                                           2.0              3.9         6.0         16.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.3                      0.4               1.2        1.4          1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       1700.0      2000 0    p300 0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    38.3         37.8      37.5             32.6        24.2         28.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               93.0        89.1       86.0             73.3        60.7         54.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   2.7         3.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 48.2         46.9      45.8             42.0        39.8         37.8
MALE                                  60.3         59.2      58.1             54.8        53.3         50.3
FEMALE                                36.4         35.0      33.9             27.3        19.6         20.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.0          1.1        1.1              1.2        1.3          1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS                  29. 5                      25.7        20.3         19.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS                52.9                        55.1        45.1         48.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS                  5.7                         5.8         5.7          5.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS                  15.0                       14.5        16.8         15.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUlTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                                      60.0            108.8        88.5        155.9
RURAL                                                      60.0             74.1        71.9         97.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                                                      124.4       100.8        143.7
RURAL                                                      40.0             59.6        42.0         87.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                                      25.0             26.8        46.0         22.9
RURAL                                                      85.0             47.6        48.0         36.7
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-veighted geometric means. excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c  Africa South of Sahara;   /d  Low Income ($280 or less per capita, 1976);  /e  Lower Middle Income
($281-550 per capita, 1976);   /f  1962;  Ia  1963;  /h  1965; fL  1967; LI  1966;  /k  Including
data for Southern Rhodesia and Zambia.
*   1978 Primary, Secondary education enrollment and pupil/teacher ratios
are 56, 5, 61 and 21, respectively.
April 26, 1979



- 22 -
ANNEX I
DEFINITIONS OF COCIAL INDICATORS
Notes:  Although the data are drawn fr-o sources generally Jadged the soot authoritative and reliable, it uhoald alsc be noted thlt they nay uoc be inter-
satisallv unsparabte beconue of the lank of standardized definitions and  .o.epts pt ed by different cocutrion  in collecting  the data.  The date are. nnetheless
useful to deocribe orders of magnitude, indinote trends, and ohar-atenria certais najor differences between countries.
The adjusted grouP average  for eanh indinotor are population-weightad ge.etn,in means, excludieg the e.treme values of the indicator aed the most
populated country in esch group   Coverage of countries  among the indinatore depends on availability of data and in nut uniform   Dce to lack of data,
group averages lot CapItal Surplus Oil Efportere and indicetors of a-ces.  to sense and e-creta dispoaal, houoing. i-cu-e distribhtios and poverty are
simple popolation-weighted g-retric  -neess cithont the enclusion of etrene values.
LAND AREA (thonsand sq. in                                                                Popluation per hospital bed - total, urban, and rural - Population (total,
Total - Total surface area  -caprisleg land area and inland waters.                        urban, and rural) dinided by their respective number of hospital beds
Aeniculiural - Most recent estimate of agrinultural area used tempocrnily                  v-ilabise in public and priatet  general and opecialloed hospital and re-
or  -ormaoently for crops, pa-tures, market and kitchen gardens or to                    habilitation centers.  lfuspitalu are establishments permanently ataffed by
lie fallow                                                                               at least one phynician.   Eutablishmentu providing principally castodiol
cere are net included, Rlana hospituls, however, include health and medi-
GNP PER CAPITA (1S1) - GNP peo  capita estimates at current market prides,                  cal centers not permanently rtaffed by a physician (bht by a medical as
calculated by .asa  convension method ao  World Bank Atlas (1971-77 basis);              niatest, n-r-e, nidwife, etc-) which offer in-patient accommodati-u and
1960, 1970, and 1977 cita,                                                               provide a limited range of sedical facilities.
Admissions per hospital bed - Total number of admissions to or discharges
ENERGY CONSLMPTIION PER CAPITA - Ancual consumption Of commercial energy                    feom hospitals divided by the nubmhr cf beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleua, natucrl gas and hydro-, nuclear and gee-
thearmal electicity) in kilogr.ss  of coal equivalent per capits.                   HOUSING
Average siae of household (persona per household) - total, urban, and rural-
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                             A household consists of a group of individuals whu shore living qearters
Tontl population, =id-year (millions) - As of July 1; if not available,                    and their main  eals.   A boarder or lodger say or maY not be included in
aoerage of two end-year estimaten; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data,                            the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of house-
Urban population (procent of totel) - Ratio of urban to trtal popula-                      hold vaey.
tion; different definitions of urban areas may affect comparability                   Average number of persons per room - total, urban, and rural - Average sum-
of data among countries,                                                                 ber of pers.ns per r..a in all, urban, and rural occupied conventional
PopslaLiun density                                                                         dwellings, respectively.  Dvellings enclude nom-permanent structares and
Pe n. Ia. - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectarms)                       usoccupied parts.
of trual area.                                                                        Ancess to electricity (percent of dwellings) - rotal, urban, and  rural -
Per sq. kbe.  griclturo loud - Computed  s above for agricultural land                    Conventi oal I dwellings with e1eoricity in living quarters as percentage
only.                                                                                   of total, urban, uan  rural dwellings respectively.
Population aao structure (percest) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) an parcentages of mid-               EDUCATION
year popul7- ion                                                                     AdJusted enrollment ratios
Pepulstion growth rati  (percent) - total, And urban - Compound annual                  Primary school - total, and female - Total and fetale enrollment of all ages
growth rates of total and urban aid-year populations for 1950-60,                        at the primary level au percentages of respectively primary school-age
i960-70, and 1911-15,                                                                   popalaio.ns; normally includes childron aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crado birth rate (oer thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                       different lengths of primary education; fun countries with universal edu-
oid-year populatione  ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                    nation enrollment may emceed 100 percent Since Snoe pupils are below or
1910 and five-yrur average ending in 1975 for .s.t recent estitate.                      above the official sobhol age.
Crude death rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                     Secondary school - tatal. and female - Compated as above; seco- dary educa-
year population; tnn-yest                -.h.r.tin avecages ending in 1960 and 1970      tin  requires ot _leat four yern of cpproved prinary instrcctiec; pro-
and fine-yost average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                          vide  general vocational, or teacher training instructions for pupils
Groa  reproduction rate - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                    usually of 12 to 17 yearn of ago; conrrepondence courses are generally
is her normal -eprodactise period if ohs experiences present Age-                       ecluded.
specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,                  Vocational enrollment (Percent of aecundunol - Vocational institutions in-
1970, ad 1975.                                                                          clude technical, indnutrial, or other programs vhih operant iodapendently
Family planeing - acceptors, annual (thousands) - Annual number of                         o  AS departmets  f secondary institutions.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspicss of national family                 Pupil-teacher ratio - prisary. and seco-dary - Total studosta enrolled in
planting program.                                                                        primary And           y levels divided by numbers of teachern in the corns-
Family planning - uers (percent of  Torried women) - Percentage of                         spending levels.
married won of child-beating age (15-44 years) who use birth--corntl                 Adult literacy rate (nprtent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
devices to oil married woren in  ame age group,                                          a percentage of total adult population aged 15 yeers and over.
FO1OD AND NUTRITION                                                                    CONSUMPTION
Index of food prodaction per capita (i97f10.0) - Index number of per                   Passenger cars (per thousand population) - Passenger corn comprise mater cars
rapitresoual production of all food commodities,                                      seating lees  than eight per.osi; excludes a=bulancer, hearses and military
Pee casino supply of calories (percen  ofrnle t)- tonputed from                          vehicle..
energy equivlent  f net loud supplies available in country per .apita                Radio reoeivers (per thousand population) - All types of receivers for radio
per day.  Avalable supplies comprise domestic production, imports les                broad..st  tno general public per thouxn.    d of population; emnlude- unlicensed
exports, ond changes in stock.  Net supplies exclde animal feed, seeds,               receivers in countries and in years when registration of radio sets was in
quantities used in food processing, and losses in distribution    Re-                 effect; data for recent years may not be comparable since moat countries
qaire=ento were esti=ated by FAO bhsed on physiological reeds for por-                abolished licensing.
_al activity and hoIth considering enviromaental temperature, body                   TV receivers (per thouaand popularion) - TV receivens for broadcast to genera
weighni, age and  -so fiottlbutions of populatio., and allowing 10 per-                  public per thousand populatios; exciodie  unli mnsed TV receivers in nose-
cent for nwaste at household leel.                                                       trie  and  in years when registration of TV sets was in effect.
Per ocpita  upply_ofprti            s  per dy), - Protein content of per               Newspaper circulation (per thousand Population) - Shows the average circula-
capita noe  nupply of food per day.  Net supply of food is defined aS                    ties of "daily general interest newspaper", defined  as a periodical publi-
bove.  Requiremennt for all countries established by USDA provide for                    cutie  devoted pri=grily to recording gneral news.  It is considered to
a  ni.uim   allowance of 6h  sram of tat.l protein per day and 20 grams                  be "daily" if it appears at leant four times au ek.
of animal and paloe protein, of which 10 grams should be animal protein.             Cinema ancual attendance per capitu per sear - BRed on the  number of tickets
These standards arc lower than those of 75 grass of total protein and                    sold during the year, including admissions to drive-in cine=as and sobile
3 grams of animal protein an an average fur the world, proposed by                      units
FAO in the Third World Fond Survey.
Per ca-ira protein aupply from animal and pulse - Protein onpply of food              EbPLOYMENT
derived from amlsend pul.es in grams per dey.                                        Total labor furoc  (thousa.nds) - Economically octive person, including armed
Chld (ges 1-4) mrtality rute (per thbuxapd) - Annual deaths per thous-                     forces and unemployed but e-cluding huYSewive,  tudeonts,  tcd.  Defini-
and in age group 1-4 years, to children in this age groap.                               ti.sa in vurious countrIes ate -ot conparable
Female (percent) - F..ale labor force as perconcage of trtal labor force.
HEALTH                                                                                   Agricutre (perce_ t) - Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting And fishing
Life expectancy at birth (years) - Averago number of years of life                         as percentage of total  labot force.
remaining at birth; usually fico-yost averages ending in 1960, 1970,                 Industry (percent) - Labor force in rising, construction, -anufactu-ing and
cod 1975                                                                                 elontrinity, water and gaf  as percontage of mtii labor corcos
Infant mortality  tu  (per thouand) - Annual deaths of infants under                   Participation  nate (percent) - t_tal,  sale, and female - Total, male, and
use yeor of age per thousand line birht.                                                 femule labor force an porcentages of their respective populations.
Accesg to safe water (parcent of population) - total, urban, and rural -                   These are ILOs adjusted participation  rates  eCflecting age-set
Number of people (tonal, urban, and rural) with reasonable  access to                    structure of tho population, and long tine trend.
safe sutrr supply (inclueso treated surfacewars or untreated hut                    Etno=sic dependency rttic - Ratic of population under 15 and 65 and over to
oncouruolsated saner ouch as that from protected boreholes, springs,                     the labur force in age group of 15-h4 year.
and sanitary wells' on porcentuges of their respective populations.
In an urban ac.a a publiC fountoin or snandpost located sot more                    INCOME DISTRIBLTION
tban l2i met2rs iron a bouse nay be on.sidered as being within rea-                  Percentage of pr'iate income (both in cash and kind) received by richest 5
conublo accost of char l_ousr   In rural areas reas.oabla access would                   percens, richest 70 pccnt, poorest 2C percent, and peore. s  40 percent
imply that the bo,so..fo or membern of the household do not haye to                      of houehIoldn
spend a disproportioate part of the day in fetching the fa=ily's
autec t..d.                                                                         POVERTY TARGET 1001ff
Accsa  to eEcreta   ocual  (percent  of eupulatiun)  -otal, urban, and                  Itimated absolut- pover e             lovol s     pertcnyotal   - uch  an  coral-
rura  - Nuehec of co-plo  -toa. -rba-  and rur  al)ervd by -octeta                         Abouep-recy to-o- lovel In thut Inon                 -1o boloso ubfoth   niniml
disposal as percentages of their respective papulatioun.  Excreta                        nutritionally adequato dite  plus essential non-focd requirements in not
disposal maY include the collection and disposal, with or without                        affordable.
cecatron:, of fu-at                                               yEcresa and wanna-water tywetee-borne  systems  Estimated relativesy  income lewe  (.01 per capita)  - urban and canal -
or the ue cf pit prities end uimilar installation.                                       Relative poverty inourn lenel is that inoose I-el lens  than one-third
Poularion  onc obcsicicc - Population divided by number of practicing                      per capita personal irco-e of the coantry.
phypiclan- qualified fros a nedinal uchnel at university level.                      fEninated  population below poverty incoe level (percent) - urban end rural -
PoPulantice  rc c m on   - Population divided by number of                                 Percent of populotion (urban and rural) who ato either "absolute poor" or
pruntc icyx ultl and fe-alo goudus  nurues, peunninal nurses, and                        "cel=ice puocor licbscr is
ssisantrse
Economic and Sociai lata Division
Ecscs.io An-lysis and Projections Deprtn-ent



- 23 -
ANNEX I
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1977                                  ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.       X                       1967-76          1977
GNP at Market Prices                 826.5       100.0                       5.1             6.7
Gross Domestic Investment            179.0        21.7                       7.1            39.5
Gross National Savings               116.5        14.1                      35.0           246.0
Current Account Balance              -37.2        -4.5
Exports of Goods, NFS                241.9        29.3                       7.2            26.8
Imports of Goods, NFS                279.1        33.8                       2.1            14.9
OUTPUT, EMPLOYMENT AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1977
Value Added             Labor Force/                 V.A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.      %         Thousand        Z              US$ Mln.         X
Agriculture                  357.5      44.7         1334         85.2               267.6         52.1
Industry                     144.0      17.9           83          5.3             1734.9         337.6
Services                     302.7      37.4          148          9.5             2040.5         397.1
Total/Average             804.2    100.0         1565         100.0              513.9        100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
K Mln.              % of GDP
1977/78      1977/78         1974/75 - 1976/77
Current Receipts                                     115.7        15.0                 15.4
Current Expenditures                                 108.3        14.0                 10.0
Current Surplus                                        7.4         1.0                  0.7
Capital Expenditures                                  76.5         9.9                  6.3
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this Annex are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the
period covered.
1/ Total labor force defined as male population between 15 and 60 years of age plus women actually employed.
not available
not applicable
April 15, 1979



- 24 -
ANNEX I
COUNTRY DATA - MALAWI
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES '                         1972      1973      1974      1975     1976      1977
(Million K outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                            62.9      84.6    115.7    122.4    121.0    122.7
Bank Credit to Public Sector                     11.1      12.1      20.0     67.4      88.1      44.2
Bank Credit to Private Sector                    35.6      33.0      49.4     56.1      76.5      87.7
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP                16.9      21.1      23.8      21.4     18.7      23.5
General Price Index (1970-100)                  108.9    119.0    136.1    148.6    165.4    178.7
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                               0.9       8.5      14.3     13.5      11.1      11.2
Bank Credit to Public Sector                    136.2       9.0      65.3    237.0      30.7    -49.9
Bank Credit to Private Sector                     1.4      -7.3      49.7     13.6      36.4      14.6
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                             MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1975-1977)
1973    1974    1975    1976    1977                                US$ Mln.    X
(Millions US$)                 Tobacco                   75.4     44.2
Tea                       33.4     19.6
Exports of Goods, NFS               122.1   151.7   179.4   202.6   241.9    Groundnuts                     9.9      5.8
Imports of Goods, NFS               167.6   214.1   284.0   246.4   279.1    Sugar                        18.7      11.0
Resource Balance                    -45.5   -63.4  -104.6   -43.8   -37.2    All Other Commodities   38.1           19.4
Total              170.5    100.0
Interest Payments (net)              -3.0   -4.0      -5.4    -5.5    -5.5
Other Factor Payments (net)           4.6   18.8       17.3   -14.2   -20.0  EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1977
Net Current Transfers                 7.1    5.7        6.1     5.5    23.5
Balance of Current Account          -37.4  -41.9    -86.6   -58.0   -37.2                                           US$Mln.
Direct Private Foreign Investment  11.4   14.9          9.9     8.2    11.1    Public Debt, incl. guaranteed    432.5
Net MLT Borrowing                                                               Non-guaranteed Private Debt          ..
Disbursements                      25.8   37.4      42.3    34.0    56.8    Total Outstanding & Disbursed
Amortizations                       2.4    2.6       2.9      3.3      8.4
Subtotal                           23.4   34.8      39.4    30.7    48.4  NET DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1977
Other Capital (net)                 25.3      1.6    -17.9   -30.1    35.6                                            X
Increase in Reserves (+)            33.3    16.4    -47.1   -38.3    57.9
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed       5.2
Gross Reserves (end year)           66.7    81.8       65.5    26.2    88.0    Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Total Outstanding & Disbursed
Petroleum Imports                   11.2    17.9       22.9    26.1    21.5
Petroleum Re-exports                 2.1      1.0       -       -        -
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                 IBRD/IDA Lending, (March 31, 1979) (Mln. US$)
IBRD      IDA
1975     1976      1977      1978                                                    (Inc. Third
US$ - K              .8861    .9130    .9029    .8438                                                          Window)
K 1 - US$           1.1545   1.0953   1.1075   1.1851                            Outstanding & Disbursed          8.3       102.1
Undisbursed                     20.9        52.8
Outstanding incl. Undisbursed 29.2         154.9
1/ IMP, International Financial Statistics, June 1977
April 15, 1979



- 25 -                         ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAWI
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(March 31, 1979)
Amount (less cancellations)
US$ Million
Bank incl.
Loan or                                                      Third
Credit No.     Year       Borrower        Purpose           Window        IDA   Undisbursed
Nine Credits have been fully disbursed                         -         66.0        -
282-MAI        1972    Republic of       Agriculture           -          6.6      0.1
Malawi        Karonga
s-17-MAI       1974                      Transport engineer-  -           2.0      0.3
ing and Services
523-MAI        1975                      Second Highway        -         10.0      3.3
550-MAI        1975                      Agriculture-          -          8.5       0.3
Lilongwe III
590-MAI        1975                      Education II          -         11.6      4.8
1286-T-MAI     1976                      Agriculture-         9.2          -       2.9
Karonga II
1388-MAI       1977          "/ESCOM    Third Power           9.0          -       8.0
1387-T-MAI     1977          "             "     "            8.0          -       7.0
711-MAI        1977    Republic of       Water Supply          -          7.0       7.0
Malawi
758-MAI        1977          it          Third Highway         -         10.5      5.8
823-MAI        1978          "           Shire Valley          -         10.7      9.2
Consolidation
1610-MAI       1978    INDEBANK          Investment and Dev. 3.0           -       3.0
Bank of Malawi
857-MAI        1979    Republic of       Agriculture           -         22.0     22.0
Malawi           NRDP I
TOTAL                                29.2      154.9      73.7
of which has been repaid             -         0.4
Amount sold                            -           -
of which repaid              1/
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA-    29.2        154.5
TOTAL Undisbursed                    20.9       52.8    =73.7
1/ Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 26 -                        ANNEX II
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS IN MALAWI
(March 31, 1979)
--US$ Millions-------------------
Investment   Fiscal                 Type of                               Total Held  Total Un-
Number      Year      Obligor    Business   Equity   Loan    Total   by IFC          disbursed
One loan has been fully disbursed                 -        6.0     6.0       6.0          -
362-MAI        1977   Dwangwa       Sugar         -        9.0     9.0       9.0         1.9
Sugar        Process-
Corpora-      ing
tion Ltd.
434-MAI       1979   Invest-        DFC          0.6        -      0.6       0.6         0.2
ment and
Develop-
ment Bank
of Malawi
TOTAL                      0.6     15.0    15.6      15.6         2.1
C. BANK PROJECTS IN EXECUTION-
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Credit No. 282-MAI  Agriculture - Karonga Development Project; US$6.6 Million
Credit of January 26, 1972; Date of Effectiveness:
August 14, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Over four years the Project is to establish 1,000 acres
irrigated double cropped rice, 6,000 acres rainfed rice and improved cultivation of
maize, cotton and groundnuts on about 7,800 acres of existing smallholder farms and
livestock development. In addition, it provides for the construction of a lake
terminal, the provision of a barge, and extensions to a district hospital and other
health services.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems
which are being encountered and the action taken to remedy them. They should
be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they do not purport to
present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 27 -                         ANNEX II
Due to cost escalation,the Project period has been reduced from five
to four years. Only minor reductions of physical targets have occurred. Com-
pletion of the irrigated double cropped rice scheme was delayed due to excep-
tional flooding. Extension and research are progressing satisfactorily. All
necessary staff for the health component are in post and bilharzia control is
now a continuous program. Lake transportation has been generally improved,
and a jetty at Chiluma harbor has been raised by another 2 feet to avoid flood-
ing caused by high tides. The original Closing Date has been postponed to
June 30, 1979 to allow sufficient time to complete civil works, particularly
rural roads. A Project Completion Report has been completed.
Credit No. 550-MAI Agriculture - Lilongwe Land Development Program
Phase III; US$8.5 Million Credit of May 27, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: August 29, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979
The Project continues extension, farm credit and infrastructure
maintenance for previously established units and expand the program to cover
an additional 210,000 acres. The Project also provides for the construction
of 15 unit centers with associated investments; survey and demarcate about
200,000 acres; continue development of the Dzalanyama ranch; introduce poultry
and egg production and dairy development; expand and improve health facilities;
and carry out Project evaluation and future project preparation. The Project
infrastructure is now almost on schedule. Crop and livestock production in
the Project area have increased,although crop production has generally fallen
below the levels forecast at appraisal. Part of this has been due to a sudden
rise in fertilizer prices between 1973 and 1974,which for a time reduced
fertilizer use. Credit administration and loan repayments continue to go very
well, and the Project is expected to be fully disbursed by the Closing Date.
Loan No. 1286-T-MAI Second Karonga Rural Development Project; US$9.2 Million
Loan of June 24, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:
August 18, 1976; Closing Date: March 31, 1981
The Project, financed on Third Window terms, consists of the pro-
vision of seasonal and medium-term credit to farmers, extension service,
market complexes, health facilities, boreholes and other infrastructural
facilities, agricultural and hydrological research, preparatory investments
for the National Rural Development Programme, and rehabilitation of berthing
facilities at Chipoka Lake terminal. Reconstruction of Chipoka harbor has
started. Although understaffing hampers implementation efficiency in some
parts of Chitipa district and there have been small cost increases, the
Project's progress is satisfactory.



- 28 -                      ANNEX II
Credit No. 823-MAI Shire Valley Agricultural Development Project;
US$10.7 Million Credit of July 7, 1978; Date of
Effectiveness: September 6, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The Project is the consolidation phase of the Shire Valley Agri-
cultural Development Programme and includes extension services  to support
increased cotton and foodcrop production, seed multiplication and afforesta-
tion programs, production credit, livestock and fisheries development, health
and potable water supply facilities, a smallholder irrigation development
study and some rural roads.   It will provide social and infrastructural
services to about 70,000 families. The Valley attained self-sufficiency in
food crops for the first time in its history in 1977-78. Cotton production
also regained the levels attained in the early 1970s. Guar bean production
is rising rapidly, but groundnut production is declining. The staffing
situation remains critical: ten senior staff (mostly expatriate) will be
leaving within the next seven months upon expiry of their contracts and no
steps have been undertaken to fill these posts. It is also unlikely that
the Government will manage to fulfill the provision of the Credit Agreement
for employing 97 extension workers by May 1, 1979 (there are now 45).
Credit No. 857-MAI National Rural Development Programme Project Phase-I;
US$22.0 Million Credit of December 21, 1978; Date of
Effectiveness: April 5, 1979; Closing Date:
September 30, 1983
The Project will assist the Government in implementing the first
phase of Malawi's National Rural Development Programme. Over a five-year
period it aims to increase output of maize, groundnuts, oriental tobacco
and rice, and expand milk and meat production through strengthening the
Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources and establishing eight new
development areas. It will complete the consolidation phase of the Lilongwe
Land Development Programme. The Project is being cofinanced with CIDA, EDF,
ODM and the Federal Republic of Germany. The Credit became effective on
April 5, 1979 and Project implementation is on schedule.
EDUCATION SECTOR
Credit No. 590-MAI Second Education Project; US$11.6 Million Credit of
November 24, 1975; Date of Effectiveness:
February 24, 1976; Closing Date: March 31, 1981
The Project provides prototypes construction models of primary
schools, strengthen the program of rural education, establish a new primary
teacher training college and add facilities for the teaching of practical
subjects in selected secondary schools, with emphasis on facilities for girls.
Its implementation is proceeding satisfactorily and construction contracts
have been awarded for all Project institutions. Contracts have been awarded
for the supply of nearly all furniture and equipment. The Project is expected
to be completed on schedule.



- 29-                         ANNEX II
TRANSPORTATION SECTOR
Credit No. S-17-MAI  Transport Engineering and Services Project; US$2.0
Million Credit of June 13, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
August 28, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The Project is to help determine the infrastructural requirements
and provide technical assistance for the exploitation of the Viphya forest
resources. Necessary transportation studies and the design of the required
transport facilities have been completed. Part of the credit proceeds that
remained were used to assist in putting together a financial package for
the proposed mill. The package is still incomplete, however, and the pro-
posed Project is still being analyzed by the Government. The Closing Date
was recently extended by one year to June 30, 1979.
Credit No. 523-MAI Second Highway Project; US$10.0 Million Credit of
December 19, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
February 21, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The Project consists of (i) reconstruction to two-lane bituminous
paved standard of the Lilongwe-Kasungu road (about 73 miles), including a
bypass around the Lilongwe industrial area and reconstruction of the Ligadzi
bridge; and (ii) a pilot program to improve the development and maintenance
of district roads. Construction works for the main road are 99 percent
complete and savings of approximately US$3.5 million are currently expected
for this Project component. Results from the pilot program for district
roads improvement and maintenance indicate clearly that the program has
been successful and that it is feasible to extend it to other districts.
The savings from the reconstruction component are being used to extend the
pilot program to seven additional districts; consequently, the Closing Date
has been extended by four years to June 30, 1982.
Credit No. 758-MAI Third Highway Project; US$10.5 Million Credit of
January 18, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
June 29, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The Project consists of (i) constructing the 53-mile Kasungu-Jenda
road to two-lane bituminous surfaced standard, (ii) strengthening three short
sections of the Zomba-Lilongwe road,and (iii) providing consultant services
for the supervision of (i) and (ii) and for the feasibility and engineering
studies of the Jenda-Mzuzu road. Work is in progress on all components
except (ii), for which tenders will be called shortly.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Loan No. 1610-MAI  Investment and Development Bank of Malawi Limited;
US$3.0 Million Loan of July 7, 1978; Date of
Effectiveness: November 1, 1978; Closing Date:
July 1, 1983
The Project provides foreign exchange for financing medium-
to large-scale industrial and agro-industrial investments, and will help
INDEBANK consolidate its policies and procedures and develop project pro-
motion. To date, US$100,000 has been committed for one sub-project, and
more commitments are expected shortly.
PUBLIC UTILITIES SECTOR
Loans No. 1388-MAI
and 1387-T-MAI
Credit 691-MAI       Third Power Project; US$25.0 Million Loans and Credit
of April 28, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
November 11, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The Project assists ESCOM in financing its investment program
to meet increased demand for power. The Project consists of a rock-fill
dam on the Shire River at Nkula, a pressure cut and cover conduct, head-race
tunnel, penstock and tailrace outlet system, and a power house for five 20 MW
hydro units, two of which will be installed at this stage. The Project also
provides for consulting services and training. The Government recently
decided to install a third hydro unit (20 MW) due to increased demand, the
availability of external funds and favorable manufacturers' offers for equip-
ment. The third unit will be financed by EDF, KfW, and CDC. Civil works
contracts, which will be financed by Bank funds,were awarded in 1977, and
construction is generally on schedule.
Credit No. 711-MAI Blantyre Water Supply Project; US$7.0 Million Credit of
June 3, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: April 18, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
Project implementation has slipped, mainly because of delays in
the progress of an ongoing UK-financed Phase IV Water Supply Project, and
due to the Government's recent request to revise the scope of the
Project. The proposed revision is based upon the recommendations of engineer-
ing consultants to construct a second water supply
line from the Walker's Ferry waterworks to Blantyre, instead of increasing
the supply through construction of an intermediate pumping station. The Bank
is currently reviewing the Government's request.



- 31 -                     ANNEX II
D. EXISTING IFC INVESTMENTS
Dwangwa Sugar Corporation Limited, 362-MAI, Sugar ProcessiR&
The IFC investment is to help finance the development of a
13,188-acre sugar estate and a factory to produce 67,000 metric tons
per year of sugar for both domestic and export markets. The Project
is now under construction and at this stage commercial operations are
expected to commence on schedule in June 1979.
Investment and Development Bank of Malawi Limited, 434-MAI, DFC
IFC has purchased shares in the Investment and Development Bank
of Malawi (INDEBANK) and provides technical assistance to its management
by being represented on INDEBANK's Board of Directors.



- 32 -
ANNEX III
MALAWI
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
I. Timetable and Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare               9 months
(b)  Prepared by                         Government with assistance
from IDA
(c)  Initial Discussion with IDA         October 1977
(d)  First IDA mission                   October 1977
(e)  Appraisal mission departure         July 1978
(f)  Negotiations                        April 1979
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness       August 31, 1979
II.  Special IDA Implementation Action
None
III.  Special Conditions of the Credit
(a) The Government would prepare, by December 31, 1979, an
implementation program and procedures acceptable to the
Association for construction of primary schools; the
Development Division would increase its staff as necessary
to undertake the construction of the primary schools; and
50 percent of the classrooms to be constructed would be located
after completion of a school mapping study by December 31, 1980,
and in accordance with criteria acceptable to the Association
(para. 35);
(b) The Government would prepare and submit to the Association
for comments, by July 31, 1981, a plan for provision of
primary school textbooks beyond the project period (para. 36);
(c) An evaluation unit would be established at the MCC by July 1,
1980, and an expert in evaluation would be recruited (para. 37);



- 33 -
ANNEX III
(d) To support the commercial training program, a specialist
would be recruited to assist in the preparation of curri-
culum and teacher training programs, and a tracer program
would be established by December 31, 1981 to follow the
activities of the graduates (para. 39); a tracer program
would be established by July 1, 1980, to monitor the activities
of graduates from the secondary school teacher training program
(para. 42);
(e) By July 1, 1980, the Institute of Education would be legally
established, a Director would be appointed, and steps would
be taken to provide appropriate technical assistance (para. 43);
and
(f) A condition of effectiveness of the IDA Credit Agreement would
be that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
EEC Special Action Credit Agreement have been met. A condition
of effectiveness of the EEC Special Action Credit Agreement
would be that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of
the IDA Credit Agreement have been met (para. 55).






IBRD 13913R
if.F REPUIBLIC
_,           34                                        \   -\    X-t 3 Re~~~~~~~PUI  ST ANZANIAh
TA DAR ES SALAAM                                                                                          ZAIRE
,   Chitipo    9       A                                    2  A NGOLA   r            %     ' \A
AMialA AiAMI                . ' j
00o                                                                                    AR                I RN6       0-tEUL.AHOSilA  J   t
(   >    }  NllX   t   t                       A~~~~~~AMISIA  IEOtOWANA r    7 
-1                 j ~~~~~REPOUC
eSUTH AFRICA
N lKA           I OMT,NIA                                           3900
_~~~~~~~~~Z .                                                                                           0J,0 
iL,<ggX F 4//? A8SSk                                    s~~4
( M.im,6d       CHNI74ECIA      lAKE
s,         ,pX'>       ,)   '   ( MBANLEN,                                                                           12A
4'-T-&tU~KLULU A            A                
LI Nifhaomkot
(cEsOng  >,9 ASAB -2        $       \f
/!   C   f v    F  (R    X       !      l~~~~vdar cr3br.1    
AJ       J  V             42HEPEPE        (,  <               \H /EA
Ch oto             Rj      /f,t/
-140                         NAM,KIPPET          1Q9%#  CHIFUKA  DHIP?A  aF v         ofEAr\                                            no
LILONG  E                          . OMA      T D T
~~ *5b;a\)      \    5             09ANZ  Deede              S   O        RJ\
h    MBIIILL   .R f  AT /        \.                        TA NACALA
MSALAW                                heEgw0b 
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT /                                                         3VNDE/
C1    Gooernmerer Secondory Scroocis                      {      E_)-OS             J     $       .  h/<
)       Hleodqu rIer;                                      C na              
*      Soleire Cenlre, (30  /Crdzuu\la AaaTh )|
*     Technnocl Schroo s                                               .    LME; LATh-PULO
i Moocw Inst LIe of Ed00to OgB}NYRE |_________________N
*     FRImcOry Teocrers Col ege l Lh'e- 
Rosds~~~~~~~~~~~d  Gomt :,k!:5A   Y
- +-.  Ralwoy Under Constriction             NuCizm
.Reg 020. Bcunoories                                                \         %
nt- ernelororl Bo,ndare   4or/da;5 eeasjFfb^
R f                         O 001 0rRR rI 00000  R
tc                 M.16,,h*SOne        baaftonUead
MILE ow C-s.,l-                                                                            orcepen gebondN
IMBLANT-W TO BRE                      ! R
Mal20         40f      60 E0            10  -0700  .O   00000
I  - I        Iy      I           g
MILES. Ig.O  Ag0                                  TO BOeA                               3-



