CREDIT NUMBER 910 MAI
Development Credit Agreement
(Third Education Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                               , 1979


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 910 MAI
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1979, between
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNA-
TIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Associa-
tion).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the cost of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending the credit as herein-
after provided; and
(B) by the Special Action Credit Agreement (hereinafter
called the Special Action Credit Agreement) of even date herewith,
the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower a
Special Action Credit (hereinafter called the Special Action
Credit) to assist in financing the Project on the terms and
conditions therein set forth. Said Special Action Credit is
granted by the Association in its capacity as the Administrator of
the Special Action Account established by the Association with
funds contributed by the Member States of the European Economic
Community;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as .follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02.   Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:


﻿-2-
(a) "MOE" means the Ministry of Education of the Borrower;
(b) "PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit, estab-
lished under the Development Credit Agreement concluded between
the Borrower and the Association on November 24, 1975 for the
Second Education Project;
(c) "MCC" means the Malawi Correspondence College;
(d) "Institute of Education" means the Institute of Educa-
tion to be established under Part C (1) of the Project; and
(e) "Development Division" means the Development Division
of the Office of the President and Cabinet of the Borrowcr.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set- forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to fourteen million five hundred thousand dollars
($14,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods 'and civil works to be financed cut
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1984
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.


﻿-3-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn -d outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April 15
and October 15 commencing October 15, 1989, and ending April 15,
2029, each installment to and including the installment payable
on April 15, 1999, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through MOE with due diligence and cfficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and
educational practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
.funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause MOE to assign to
PIU the overall responsibility for: (i) the preparation of the
plans, architectural designs, specifications, contract documents
and construction and procurement schedules for Parts A, B and
C of the Project; (ii) the coordination and monitoring of all
studies under the Project; and (iii) the supervision of all
consultants' services and construction works under the Project.
(b) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the
Project, the Borrower shall employ, or cause MOE to employ,
architectural/engineering consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association.


﻿4
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than
December 31, 1979, identify and coordinate, under a program
satisfactory to the Association, the responsibilities and activi-
ties of all agencies of the Borrower involved in the construction
of classrooms and staff houses under Part A (1) of the Project;
and (b) ensure that the Development Division will have all such
staff as shall be required to carry out its activities under such
program.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause MOE: (a) to allocate
not more than 50% of the classrooms and staff houses, to be
constructed under Part A (1) of the ?roject, equally among the        r
administrative districts of the Borrower; (b) to complete by
December 31, 1980, or such other date as the Association may
agree, a school mapping and location study; and (c) to allocate
the remainder of such classrooms and staff houses after the
completion of said study and in accordance with criteria accept-
able to the Association.
Section 3.05. In order to assist MOE in the review and
revision of curriculum, training programs and enrollment require-
ments, the Borrower shall cause MOE to establish and to operate a
tracer system for the continuous monitoring of: (a) starting from
July 1, 1980, the employment of graduates of the teacher training
programs conducted at the Chancellor College; and (b) starting
from December 31, 1981, the employment of graduates of the com-
mercial training programs at the technical schools, referred to in
Part B (4) of the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall cause MOE: (a) to establish
by July 1, 1980, and thereafter to maintain, an evaluation unit
at MCC; and (b) to appoint suitably qualified staff to said
unit.
Section 3.07. The Borrower undertakes: (a) to establish the
Institute of Education, referred-to in Part C (1) of the Project,
by July 1, 1980, under such statutory, administrative and opera-
tional procedures as shall entrust it, under the general supervi-
sion of MOE, with the responsibility for curriculum development,
materials preparation and in-service training for the primary
and secondary education systems; and (b) to appoint a suitaoly
qualified director to head said Institute and to provide it
with specialists and administrative staff, materials and equipment
required for its efficient operation.


﻿-5-
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall cause MOE to employ an
education specialist to assist in the preparation of the curricu-
lum of, and the training of teachers for, the commercial and
business training programs to be conducted at the schools referred
to in Part B (4) of the Project.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.10. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
contract documents and construction and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
.the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Ciedit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the


﻿-6-
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the
Association of their respective obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire all such land and
rights in respect of land as shall be required for the timely
carrying out of all construction works under the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained separate Project accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect
of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) have said Project accounts for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
able to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon
as available, but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year, the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such
other information concerning said accounts and the audit thereof
as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken,
through appropriate procedures, -all measurts required to ensure
the adequate operation, maintenance, repair and renewal of
buildings and equipment provided under the Project in accordance
with appropriate engineering and financial practices.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall prepare by July 31, 1981,
or such other date as the Borrower and the Association may agree,
a plan for financing the provision of primary school textbooks
following the implementation of the Project.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of
the Special Action Credit shall have been suspended, cancelled
or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms and
conditions of the Special Action Credit Agreement; or
(b) the Special Action Credit shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
The foregoing paragraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association
that:
(i) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
the Special Action Credit Agreement; and
(ii) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following event is specified pursuant to
paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that, the event specified in
paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that all conditions precedent to the effec-
tiveness of the Special Action Credit Agreement, except for the
effectiveness of this Agreement, have been fulfilled.


﻿-8-
Section 6.02. The date 4    oM   - 5'        is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Section
4.01 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on Ihe date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date ten years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall
be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretary to the Treasury
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 30049
Capital City
Lilongwe 3, Malawi
Cable address:
FINANCE
Lilongwe
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-9 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereco, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
By          I                          ~i
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By        ~
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
Ui


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage for
items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent     to be Financed
(1) Civil Works under           5,470,000         80%
Parts A (1), B (3),
(4), (5) and (6) and
C (1) of the Project
(2) Construction equip-         1,600,000         100% of foreign
ment and materials                           expenditures and
under Parts A (1)                            80% of local
and C--(l)-of the                            expenditures
Project
(3) Furniture under             1,920,000         100% of foreign
Parts A (1), B (3),                          expenditures and
(4), (5) and (6) and                         100% of local
C (1) of the Project                         expenditures ex-
factory and 80%
of other local
expenditures
(4) Equipment under               960,000         100% of foreign
Parts A (1), B (3),                          expenditures and
(4), (5) and (6) and                         100% of local
C (1) of the Project                         expenditures ex-
factory and 80%
of other local
expenditures
(5) Consultants'                  580,000         100% of foreign
services                                     expenditures and
80% of local
expenditures


﻿- 11 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent     to be Financed
(6) Studies                      290,000         100% of foreign
expenditures
and 80% of local
expenditures
(7) Project admin-               480,000         80%
istration
(8) Unallocated                3,200,000
TOTAL      14,500,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the poli y of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbArsed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals,


﻿- 12 -
in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $100,000
may be made in respect of Category (5) on account of payments made
for such expenditures before that date but after April 1, 1979.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent
with the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement,
no expenditures for such item shall be- financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associ-
ation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿-13-
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following:
Part A:   Primary Education
(1) The construction, furnishing and equipping of about
1,000 classrooms and about 500 staff housing units.
(2) The provision of about 2.2 million textbooks to primary
school students.
(3) The construction, furnishing and equipping of facilities
at Mzuzu Teacher Training College so as to increase its
total enrollment capacity to about 540 students.
Part B:   Secondary Education
(1) The construction, furnishing and equipping of about
30 satellite Centers for MCC, including about 30 staff
housing units.
(2) Improving the facilities at MCC headquarters through
expanding and upgrading its recording studio facilities,
providing it with recording and printing equipment
and upgrading its electrical system.
(3) The upgrading of about five secondary schools; includ-
ing, inter alia, the provision of boarding facilities
for about 280 students.
(4) The construction, furnishing and equipping of facilities
for the teaching of commercial and business subjects to
about 120 students at the three technical schools in
Blantyre, Mzuzu and Lilongwe.
(5) The construction, furnishing and equipping of facilities
sufficient to increase the enrollment capacity of the
Chancellor College by about 225 teacher training
students.
(6) The construction and furnishing of about 6 staff houses,
and the furnishing and equipping of boarding facilities


﻿- 14 -
for about 60 students at the Colby College of Agricul-
ture.
Part C:   Education Services
(1) The establishment of the Institute of Education through
the expansion and improvement of the facilities of the
teacher in-service center at Domasi so as to accomodate
about 150 students and 30 staff.
(2) The provision of about 50 vehicles.
Part D:   Studies
Unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and the
Association, the following studies will be carried out:
(1) A tracer study of graduates of general secondary
schools, teacher training programs at the
Chancellor College and commercial training programs
at the technical schools.
(2) -A.school mapping study.
(3) Studies to assist in the preparation of a national
education plan and future education projects.
(4) A study of the costs, durability and financing
of primary school textbooks.
(5) Monitoring and evaluation of the Project and of the
project financed under the Development Credit            (
Agreement concluded between the Borrower and the
Association on November 24, 1975.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1983.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   Items of furniture, equipment and civil works shall be
grouped so as to permit such bulk procurement as shall be con-
sistent with appropriate technical standards and procurement
practices.
3.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Association
shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange lor the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods or
works remain to be procured on the basis of international compe-
titive bidding.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿- 16 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Malawi may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Malawi if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Association
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Malawi equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Malawi.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods..
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such


﻿- 17 -
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the '-i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Preference for Domestic Contractors
With respect to the evaluation of bids for any contract for
civil works included under Category (1) of the table set forth in
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement and to be procured
in accordance with the procedures described in Part A of this
Schedule, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference of 7-1/2%
to domestic contractors, in accordance with, and subject to, the
following provisions:
1.   Contractors shall be required to prequalify as provided
in Part A of the Guidelines and applicants for qualification
applying for such preference shall be asked to provide, as part
of the data for qualification, such information, including details
of ownership, as shall be required to determine whether, according
to the classification established by,the Borrower and accepted by
the Association, a particular firm or group of firms qualifies for
a domestic preference. The bidding documents shall clearly indi-
cate the preference and the method that will be followed in
the evaluation and comparison of bids to give effect to such
preference.
2.   After bids have been received and reviewed by the
-Borrower, responsive bids will be classified into the following
groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible
for preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.
D.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works under Part A (1) may be carried out under pro-
cedures of the Borrower satisfactory to the Association or under


﻿- 18 -
competitive bidding advertised locally pursuant to procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph I above,
contracts for the carrying out of civil works estimated to cost
less than the equivalent of $250,000 per contract and contracts
for the purchase of goods estimated to cost less than the equiva-
lent of $50,000 per contract may be awarded in accordance with the
Borrower's applicable procedures satisfactory to the Association.
E.   Review of Invitations to Bid and of Proposed Awards and
Final Contracts
1.   With respect to (i) all contracts for civil works estimated
each to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more, and (ii) all
contracts for the procurement of goods estimated each to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the .bidding, and shall make,such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Association of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Associ-
ation, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report
on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such
other information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to


﻿- 19 -
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            dayLday of  A  ,
1974.
FOR SECRETARY


