CONFORMED COPY
SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT NUMBER 12 MAI
Special Action Credit Agreement
(Third Education Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL ACTION ACCOUNT
established with funds contributed by
the MEMBER STATES of the EUROPEAN ECONOMIC COMMUNITY
Dated June 19, 1979


﻿SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT NUMBER 12 MAI
SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 19, 1979, between REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION as
ADMINISTRATOR of the Special Action Account established with funds
contributed by the MEMBER STATES of the EUROPEAN ECONOMIC COMMU-
NITY.
WHEREAS (A) by the Agreement, dated May 2, 1978, between the
International Development Association (hereinafter called IDA) and
the European Economic Community and its Member States there has
been established by IDA a Special Action Account constituted
by the funds which shall be contributed by the Member States of
the European Economic Community and administered by IDA, acting as
Administrator of such Special Action Account, for the purpose of,
and in accordance with, the provisions of said Agreement;
(B) the Borrower has requested the Administrator for
assistance from the resources of the Special Action Account in the
financing of a project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and the Administrator has determined that such assistance would be
in accordance with the provisions of the Agreement of May 2, 1978
referred to above;
(C) the Borrower has also requested IDA to provide addi-
tional assistance towards the financing of the Project and by
an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and IDA
(hereinafter called the Development Credit Agreement), IDA is
agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal
amount equivalent to fourteen million five hundred thousand
dollars ($14,500,000) (hereinafter called the IDA Credit);
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Special Action Credit to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the International Development Association,


﻿-2-
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following
modifications thereof (said General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements of the International Development
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions):
(a) the term "Association", wherever used in the General
Conditions, means the International Development Association acting
as the Administrator of the Special Action Account referred to in
the Preamble to this Special Action Credit Agreement;
(b) the terms "Development Credit Agreement" and "Credit",
wherever used in the General Conditions are amended to read
"Special Action Credit Agreement" and "Special Action Credit",
respectively;
(c) Sections 4.01, 4.02, 4.03, 4.04 and the second sentence
of Section 5.01 are deleted; and
(d) in Sections 6.02 and 7.01, the term "Association" shall
also include the International Development Association acting in
its own capacity.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement,) unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Member States" means the Member States of the European
Economic Community, i.e. Belgium, Denmark, The Federal Republic of
Germany, France, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, The Netherlands and
The United Kingdom;
(b) "Administrator" means the International Development
Association acting as Administrator of the Special Action Account
referred to in the Preamble to this Special Action Credit Agree-
ment; and
(c) "Development Credit Agreement" means the agreement of
even date herewith between the Borrower and IDA for the purpose of
the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to time;
and such term includes the General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements of IDA, dated March 15, 1974, as


﻿-3-
made applicable to such agreement, all agreements supplemental to
the Development Credit Agreement and all schedules to the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Special Action Credit
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower on the terms and conditions in the Special Action Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, the following currency
amounts:
nine million one hundred
thirteen thousand            Belgian francs    (BF9,113,000);
one million one hundred
thirty-four thousand         Danish kroner     (DK1,134,000);
four million three
hundred eighty thousand      Deutsche marks    (DM4,380,000);
four million six hundred
thirty-one thousand          French francs     (FF4,631,000);
ten thousand one hundred     Irish pounds      (IrE10,l100);
five hundred thirty-seven
million three hundred
forty-eight thousand         Italian lire      (ItL537,348,000);
two hundred eighty-
seven thousand               Luxembourg francs (LF287,000);
one million two hundred
eleven thousand              Netherlands guilders (Dfl 1,211,000);
and
one million one hundred
sixteen thousand seven       Pounds sterling   (1,116,700).
hundred
Section 2.02. '(a) The proceeds of the Special Action Credit
may be withdrawn from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may
be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and
the Administrator, for expenditures made (or, if the Administrator


﻿shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit.
(b) Withdrawals shall be made only on account of expendi-
tures (i) in the currency of the Borrower, or (ii) for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, (A) any of the Member
States and (B) any developing country which is a member of the
International Development Association and could be the recipient
of a special action credit, as determined by the Administrator.
(c) Withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the
respective currencies in which the expenditures to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit have been paid or are
payable or, at the option of the Administrator, in such currency
or currencies as the Administrator shall from time to time select.
Section 2.03. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1982,
or such later date as the Administrator shall establish. The
Administrator shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Administrator
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum, on each of the various currency amounts with-
drawn from the Credit Account and outstanding from time to time.
The amounts of service charge in various currencies so found, and
additional service charges (if any) payable pursuant to Section
3.02 of the General Conditions, shall be payable in the currency
of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, or in
another currency selected by the Administrator in accordance with
the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section, after their
conversion into such currency on the basis of exchange rates
determined in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.05 of
the General Conditions.
(b) If the Administrator shall at any time determine that
the currency so specified or selected is not freely convertible or
freely exchangeable by the International Development Association
for currencies of other members of the International Development


﻿-5-
Association for the purposes of its operations, service charges
shall be payable in such other currency as the Administrator may
select for such purposes and shall notify in writing to the
Borrower, whereupon, commencing thirty days after the date of such
notice, service charges shall be payable in such other currency.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Special Action Credit in semiannual installments
payable on each May 1 and November 1 commencing November 1, 1989
and ending May 1, 2029, each installment to and including the
installment payable on May 1, 1999, to be one-half of one per cent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment there-
after to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
(b) Each of the installments payable pursuant to paragraph
(a) of this Section shall be the aggregate of such amounts in the
various currencies withdrawn from the Credit Account as shall be
found by multiplying the total amount in each currency so with-
drawn by the applicable installment percentage as specified in
paragraph (a) of this Section, unless the Administrator shall
otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower prior to each pay-
ment date for the purpose of avoiding the payment of fractional
currency amounts.
(c) If withdrawal shall have been made in a currency which
the Administrator, shall have purchased with one or more other
currencies for the purpose of such withdrawal, the portion of the
Special Action Credit so withdrawn shall, for the purpose of
paragraph (b) of this Section, be deemed to have been withdrawn in
the currency or currencies used by the Administrator for such
purchase in the amounts of such currency or currencies so used.
(d) The Administrator will, at the request of the Borrower
and on such terms and conditions as the Administrator shall
determine, use its best efforts to purchase any currency needed
by the Borrower for payment of principal required under this
Agreement upon payment by the Borrower of sufficient funds
therefor in a currency or currencies to be specified by the
Administrator from time to time. In purchasing the currencies
required the Administrator shall be acting as agent of the
Borrower and the Borrower shall be deemed to have made any payment


﻿-6-
required under this Agreement only when and to the extent that
the Administrator has received such payment in the currency or
currencies required.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall duly perform all its obliga-
tions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement as if they
were fully set forth herein.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Special Action Credit to be used exclusively
for the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Administrator
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of
the IDA Credit made to the Borrower for the financing of the
Project shall have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in
whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the Development Credit
Agreement; or
(b) the IDA Credit shall have become due and payable prior
to the agreed maturity thereof.
The preceding paragraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply if: (i)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its


﻿-7-
obligations under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof; namely, that the event speci-
fied in paragraph (b) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall
occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Special Action
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions, namely, that all conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement, except for the
effectiveness of this Agreement, have been fulfilled.
Section 5.02. The date September 19, 1979 is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretary to the Treasury
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 30049
Capital City
Lilongwe 3, Malawi


﻿-8-
Cable address:
FINANCE
Lilongwe
For the Administrator:
Administrator of the Special Action Account
(International Development Association)
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
By /s/ Jake T. X. Muwamba
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL ACTION ACCOUNT
established with funds contributed by
the MEMBER STATES of the EUROPEAN ECONOMIC COMMUNITY
By Is/ Hans A. Adler
Acting Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawals of the Proceeds of the
Special Action Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit, the
allocation of the amounts of the Special Action Credit to each
Category and the percentage for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Special Action Credit            % of
Allocated (Expressed         Expenditures
Category         in Dollar Equivalents)       to be Financed
(1) Textbooks under           2,800,000            90%
Part A (2) of
the Project
(2) Civil works               2,100,000            87%
under Parts A (3)
and B (1) and (2)
of the Project
(3) Equipment under Parts     1,000,000            100% of foreign
A (3) and B (1) and                           expenditures and
(2) and vehicles                              90% of local
under Part C (2) of                           expenditures
the Project
(4) Furniture under             200,000            90%
Parts A (3) and
B (1) and (2) of
the Project
(5) Unallocated               1,400,000
TOTAL    7,500,000
2.   The total dollar amount shown in the foregoing table shall be
adjusted from time to time as required to reflect the aggregate


﻿- 10 -
dollar equivalent of the unwithdrawn currency amounts in the
Credit Account; the unallocated dollar amount shall be adjusted
accordingly.
3.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of, and for goods produced in or services supplied
from, (i) any of the Member States and (ii) any developing
country, other than the Borrower, which is a member of the Inter-
national Development Association and could be the recipient of a
Special Action Credit, as determined by the Administrator; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
4.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Administrator that no proceeds
of the Special Action Credit shall be disbursed on account of
payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower
on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procure-
ment or supply thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such
taxes levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Special Action Credit decreases or increases,
the Administrator may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or
decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item
as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the
Administrator.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
6.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Special
Action Credit or the disbursement percentages set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 above, if the Administrator has reasonably
estimated that the amount of the Special Action Credit then
allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance the
agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category, the
Administrator may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Special Action Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Administrator are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)


﻿- 11 -
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expen-
ditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
7.   If the Administrator shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Special Action
Credit Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed
out of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit and the Admin-
istrator may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other
right, power or remedy of the Administrator under the Special
Action Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such
currency amounts of the Special Action Credit as, in the Adminis-
trator's reasonable opinion, represent the currency amounts
which would otherwise have been eligible for withdrawal out of the
proceeds of the Special Action Credit in respect of such expendi-
tures.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following:
Part A:   Primary Education
(1) The construction, furnishing and equipping of about
1,000 classrooms and about 500 staff housing units.
(2) The provision of about 2.2 million textbooks to primary
school students.
(3) The construction, furnishing and equipping of facilities
at Mzuzu Teacher Training College so as to increase its
total enrollment capacity to about 540 students.
Part B:   Secondary Education
(1) The construction, furnishing and equipping of about
30 satellite Centers for MCC, including about 30 staff
housing units.
(2) Improving the facilities at MCC headquarters through
expanding and upgrading its recording studio facilities,
providing it with recording and printing equipment
and upgrading its electrical system.
(3) The upgrading of about five secondary schools; includ-
ing, inter alia, the provision of boarding facilities
for about 280 students.
(4) The construction, furniFhing and equipping of facilities
for the teaching of commercial and business subjects
to about 120 students at the three technical schools
in Blantyre, Mzuzu and Lilongwe.
(5) The construction, furnishing and equipping of facilities
sufficient to increase the enrollment capacity of
the Chancellor College by about 225 teacher training
students.
(6) The construction and furnishing of about 6 staff houses,
and the furnishing and equipping of boarding facilities


﻿- 13 -
for about 60 students at the Colby College of Agricul-
ture.
Part C:   Education Services
(1) The establishment of the Institute of Education through
the expansion and improvement of the facilities of
the teacher in-service center at Domasi so as to accom-
modate about 150 students and 30 staff.
(2) The provision of about 50 vehicles.
Part D:   Studies
Unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and the
Administrator, the following studies will be carried
out:
(1) A tracer study of graduates of general secondary
schools, teacher training programs at the Chancel-
lor College and commercial training programs at
the technical schools.
(2) A school mapping study.
(3) Studies to assist in the preparation of a national
education plan and future education projects.
(4) A study of the costs, durability and financing of
primary school textbooks.
(5) Monitoring and evaluation of the Project and of
the project financed under the Development Credit
Agreement concluded between the Borrower and the
Administrator on November 24, 1975.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1983.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Subject to the eligibility restrictions set forth in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement and except as provided in Part C
hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in accor-
r.ance with procedures consistent with those set forth in the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding
as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   Items of goods shall be grouped so as to permit such bulk
procurement as shall be consistent with appropriate technical
standards and procurement practices.
3.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Administrator as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form
and detail and containing such information as the Administrator
shall reasonably request; the Administrator will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods in
question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information to
update such notice annually so long as any goods remain to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿- 15 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
 described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Malawi may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comnparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Malawi if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Administrator
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Malawi equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Malawi.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall.be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, *the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such


﻿- 16 -
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works, to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Special Action Credit, may be carried out under procedures of the
Borrower satisfactory to the Administrator or under competitive
bidding advertised locally pursuant to procedures satisfactory to
the Administrator. Contracts for the carrying out of such works
shall be grouped so as to permit such bulk procurement as shall be
consistent with appropriate technical standards and procurement
practices.
2.   The primary school textbooks, referred to in Category (1)
of the table shown in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, shall be
purchased from the Malawi Book Service Corporation or other
suppliers pursuant to such procedures and under such terms as
shall be satisfactory to the Administrator.
3.   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 2 above,
contracts for the purchase of goods estimated to cost less than
the equivalent of $50,000 per contract may be awarded in accor-
dance with the Borrower's applicable procedures satisfactory
to the Administrator.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all. contracts for civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more, and for all contracts for
the procurement of goods estimated each to cost the equivalent of
$50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Administrator, for its comments, the text of the invita-
tions to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the


﻿- 17 -
said documents or procedures as the Administrator shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Administrator's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Administrator of the name of the bidder to which it intends
to award the contract and shall furnish to the Administrator,
in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such other
information as the Administrator shall reasonably request. The
Administrator shall, if it determines that the intended award
would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Administrator's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Administrator promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Administrator of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Administrator,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to
the Administrator of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two
conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of
the respective bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Administrator shall reasonably request. The
Administrator shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by


﻿- 18 -
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Administrator of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Administrator, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


