                                   Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                     Report No: ICR00002994



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (TF-53458)

                                       ON A

                                      GRANT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$53.041 MILLION


                                     TO THE

                               REPUBLIC OF INDIA

                                      FOR A

                  CTC SECTOR PHASEOUT PROJECT (ODSIV)


                                September 30, 2014




Environment and Natural Resources Global Practice
South Asia Region
      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

(Exchange Rate Effective September 30 2014)

    Currency Unit = Indian Rupee (INR)
              61.76 INR= USD1
              0.016 USD = 1 INR
             FISCAL YEAR
            April 1 - March 31




                    2
                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CSL       Chemplast Sanmar Limited
CFC       Chlorofluorocarbons
CTC       Carbon tetrachloride
DEA       Department of Economic Affairs, MoF, GoI
DGFT      Directorate General for Foreign Trade
DVAC      DV Acid Chloride
EHS       Environment Health and Safety
EMP       Environmental Management Plan
ExCom     Executive Committee of the MLF
FI        Financial Intermediary
FM        Financial Management
GEF       Global Environment Facility
GEO       Global Environmental Objective
GHG       Greenhouse gases
GIZ       Gesellschaft fur Internationale Zusammenarbeit (German Agency for
          International Cooperation)
GoI       Government of India
GWP       Global Warming Potential
GFL       Gujarat Fluorochemicals Limited
IDBI      Industrial Development Bank of India Limited
ISR       Implementation Status and Results Report
MDG       Millennium Development Goal
MEA       Multilateral Environmental Agreement
MIS       Management Information System
MLF       Multilateral Fund for the Implementation of the MP
MOEF      Ministry of Environment and Forests
MoEFCC    Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change
MoF       Ministry of Finance
MP        Montreal Protocol
MT        Metric Ton (1000 kilograms)
MTR       Mid Term Review
NACEN     National Academy of Customs Excise and Narcotics
NFIL      Navin Fluorine International Limited
OC        Ozone Cell
ODP       Ozone Depleting Potential
ODS       Ozone Depleting Substance
ODS II    Ozone Depleting Substance II Project (P031829)
ODS III   CFC Production Sector Closure Project (P069376)
ODS IV    CTC Sector Phase-Out Project (P085345)
OS        Ozone Secretariat
PDO       Project Development Objective
PMU       Project Management Unit



                                     3
SRF     SRF Limited
TA      Technical Assistance
UNDP    United Nations Development Program
UNEP    United Nations Environment Program
UNIDO   United Nations Industrial Development Organization




                      Vice President: Philippe H. Le Houerou
                    Country Director: Onno Ruhl
                     Sector Manager: Herbert Acquay
                Project Team Leader: Laurent Granier
                   ICR Team Leader Dora Nsuwa Cudjoe




                                    4
                                        INDIA
                         CTC SECTOR PHASEOUT PROJECT – ODSIV

                                                          CONTENTS




B. Key Dates ............................................................................................................................... 6
C. Ratings Summary ................................................................................................................... 6
D. Sector and Theme Codes........................................................................................................ 7
E. Bank Staff ............................................................................................................................... 7
F. Results Framework Analysis .................................................................................................. 9
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs................................................................................10
H. Restructuring (if any) ............................................................................................................11
I. Disbursement Profile .............................................................................................................12
1. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design ...............................................12
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ..........................................................19
3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................................26
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ......................................................................31
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance...................................................................31
6. Lessons Learned.....................................................................................................................36
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................................39
Annex 2. Outputs by Component...............................................................................................40
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ..............................................................................42
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervisions Processes ........................43
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................................45
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ................................................................46
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................................47
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................................48
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................................49




                                                                    5
Project Data Sheet
A. Basic Information
                                                                                        CTC Sector Phaseout
Country:                      India                        Project Name:
                                                                                        Project - ODS IV
Project ID:                   P085345                      L/C/TF Number(s):            TF-53458
ICR Date:                     09/26/2014                   ICR Type:                    Core ICR
                                                                                        GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:           SIL                          Borrower:
                                                                                        INDIA
Original Total
                              USD 53.04M                   Disbursed Amount:            USD 39.71M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:               USD 39.94M
Environmental Category: B                                  Global Focal Area: O
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Environment and Forests2 (now Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate
Change), Ozone Cell
 IDBI Bank Limited
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                               Revised / Actual
        Process                  Date                 Process             Original Date
                                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:              10/06/2003         Effectiveness:                                   12/10/2004
                                                                                                 09/30/2010
                                                                                                 12/31/2012
Appraisal:                   03/22/2004         Restructuring(s):
                                                                                                 12/31/2013
                                                                                                 02/19/2014
Approval:                    09/21/2004         Mid-term Review:            07/06/2009           08/03/2009
                                                Closing:                    09/30/2011           03/31/2014

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                                  Satisfactory
Risk to Global Environment Outcome                         Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                                          Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                                      Moderately Satisfactory




2
    At the time of the operation, MoEFCC was called the Ministry of Environment and Forests.




                                                           6
C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower                       Ratings
Quality at Entry:            Satisfactory       Government:                  Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                              Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                              Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                               None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                          No                                                None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
GEO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Other industry                                                        100               100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Environmental policies and institutions                                33                  33
Pollution management and environmental health                          67                  67

E. Bank Staff
           Positions                      At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:           Philippe H. Le Houerou                Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:         Onno Ruhl                             Michael F. Carter
Sr. Global Practice
                          Paula Caballero
Director
Director                  Bilal H. Rahill
Practice
                          Herbert Acquay                        Jeffrey S. Racki
Manager/Manager:
Project Team Leader:      Laurent Granier                       Bilal H. Rahill
ICR Team Leader:          Dora Nsuwa Cudjoe
ICR Primary Author:       Dora Nsuwa Cudjoe
ICR Secondary Author      Vaideeswaran Sankaran



                                               7
8
F. Results Framework Analysis
Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators(as approved)

1.      The global environmental objective of this Montreal Protocol operation is to
support international efforts to restore the stratospheric ozone layer to its original level in
order to provide the earth's living organisms with the full benefit of the ozone layer's
protection from solar radiation.

2.      India's effort on the carbon tetrachloride (CTC) front is part of India's national
program for the phaseout of ozone depleting substances controlled under the Montreal
Protocol. The project will therefore support the India's objective to reduce its Protocol-
controlled CTC production and consumption level to zero by 20103.

3.      While it is impossible to directly link India's efforts with specific
achievements/development outcomes related to the recovery of the stratospheric ozone
layer, it is worth noting that India was the second largest consumer of ozone-depleting
substances among developing countries and that its efforts are essential for the long term
recovery of the ozone layer.

Revised Global Environment Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
and Key Indicators and reasons/justifications

4.       Neither the project objective nor its key indicators were revised in all three
         restructurings.

(a) GEO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target    Formally       Actual Value
                                               Values (from      Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                 approval         Target       Completion or
                                                documents)        Values       Target Years
                 Total Phaseout of CTC production and consumption in all applications controlled
Indicator 1 :
                 by the Montreal Protocol
                 11,553 ODP MT
Value
                 (Production)               0 ODP MT                        0 ODP MT
(quantitative or
                 11,505 ODP MT              0 ODP MT                        0 ODP MT
Qualitative)
                 (Consumption)
Date achieved 07/01/2003                    12/31/2009                      09/30/20104
Comments         100% target achieved: Total phaseout of CTC production and consumption in all
(incl. %         applications controlled by the MP was zero on 1 January 2010 according to MP
achievement) schedule and has been at time of project closure on March 31, 2014.

3
  Sourced from the “Memorandum and Recommendation of the Country Director for India for a CTC Sector Plan
Implementation Project for India”

4
  The phase-out was completed in 2010. However, the project was extended to 2014 in order to complete the TA
activities associated with the phase-out.




                                                        9
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                              Values (from                       Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                             Revised
                                                approval                       Completion or
                                                              Target Values
                                               documents)                       Target Years
Indicator 1 : Issuance and management of quotas for non-feedstock consumption of CTC
                                                                             Quota license
                                                              Quota license issued every year
Value            The Quota order for 269
                                                              issued every for non-feedstock
(quantitative or ODP MT was issued in
                                                              year for non- use prior to
Qualitative)     February 2005.
                                                              feedstock use achieving target in
                                                                             2009
Date achieved 05/06/2005                                      12/31/2009     03/30/2009
                 Target has been 100% achieved. The Quota order for 269 ODP tons was issued
Comments
                 in February 2005 and up until achievement of complete phase out, GoI issued
(incl. %
                 Quota license every year for non-feedstock production. No quotas were issued
achievement)
                 after March 2009.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                 Actual
        Date ISR
No.                             GEO                        IP                Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                             (USD millions)
  1     12/16/2004          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                       0.00
  2     06/13/2005          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                       5.00
  3     03/21/2006          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                     12.37
  4     07/17/2006          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                     17.12
  5     02/23/2007          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                     21.53
  6     09/18/2007          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                     29.42
  7     12/05/2007          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                     31.00
  8     06/09/2008          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                     31.00
  9     12/21/2008          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                     35.74
 10     04/15/2009          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                     38.41
 11     05/20/2009          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                     38.41
 12     11/26/2009       Highly Satisfactory         Satisfactory                     38.63
 13     05/25/2010       Highly Satisfactory         Satisfactory                     38.63
 14     12/05/2010       Highly Satisfactory     Moderately Satisfactory              38.63
 15     06/25/2011       Highly Satisfactory         Satisfactory                     38.63
 16     01/16/2012       Highly Satisfactory     Moderately Satisfactory              38.63
 17     11/17/2012       Highly Satisfactory     Moderately Satisfactory              38.63
 18     04/25/2013          Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory              38.63
 19     07/30/2013          Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory              38.63
 20     01/30/2014          Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory              38.63
 21     03/31/2014          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                     39.71




                                               10
H. Restructuring (if any)

                         ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board    Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                           Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                 Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                   Key Changes Made
              GEO Change GEO      IP       in USD
                                          millions
                                                      i) Extend the project closing
                                                      date by 27 months from Sept
                                                      30, 2010 to December 20, 2012;
                                                      and (ii) Re-allocate funds
 09/30/2010       N        HS      S          38.63   between disbursement
                                                      categories under the Technical
                                                      Assistance Component being
                                                      implemented by the MoEF &
                                                      CC
                                                      (i)Extend the closing date from
 12/31/2012       N        HS     MS          38.63   December 31, 2012 until
                                                      December 31, 2013
                                                      Extend the closing date from
 12/31/2013
                  N        S      MS          38.63   December 31, 2013 to March
                                                      31, 2014
                                                      i) Incorporate under Part A of
                                                      the Project, as defined in
                                                      Schedule 2 to the Grant
                                                      Agreement, the financing of the
                                                      second tranche of the
                                                      accelerated phase-out of CFC
                                                      Production by CFC producers
                                                      (ii) Cancel US$13,098,886 to
 02/19/2014       N        S     MS           38.63   adjust the grant amount and
                                                      total Project cost to
                                                      US$39,941,114 (iii) Re-allocate
                                                      outstanding undisbursed
                                                      amounts among the
                                                      disbursement categories (iv)
                                                      Retroactively increase the
                                                      financing percentage for
                                                      Category (3) - goods;




                                         11
I. Disbursement Profile




1. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design

Country Background:

1.      The stratospheric ozone layer protects life on earth from harmful radiation. It
shields the earth and protects human and ecosystems health from the sun’s dangerous
ultraviolet radiation. Scientific investigation has revealed that certain man-made
substances - referred as ozone depleting substance (ODS) that includes carbon
tetrachloride (CTC) - caused depletion of this ozone layer, which was confirmed through
measurements of the ozone layer at the South and North Poles, and northern latitudes.
This stimulated international efforts to arrest and reverse this trend through phased
elimination of the use and emission of ODS. These efforts resulted in the Montreal
Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer (MP) that binds its signatories to
actions limiting and eventually phasing out the use and production of ODS. A multilateral
environmental agreement, the MP was adopted in 1987 in response to growing global
recognition that concerted international action was required to protect the earth’s ozone
layer. The MP established time bound targets to reduce the production and consumption
of various ODS including CFC, halons, and CTC.

2.     The Government of India (GoI) ratified the MP on September 17, 1992. As a
developing country, India is classified as a country operating under Article 5, Paragraph 1
of the MP, and is eligible for financial support from the Multilateral Fund (MLF) for the
implementation of the MP to cover the incremental costs of phasing out the consumption
and production of CTC.




                                            12
3.     Following accession of the MP in 1992, the GoI has since phased out CFC and
halons in three earlier ODS-phase out operations and the CTC in ODS-IV. See Table 1
below.

Table 1: Phase-out Schedule for Article 5 Countries
                  CFC                  Halons                    CTC Annex B, Group 2
                  Annex A, Group 1     Annex A, Group 2
Base Level        Average of 1995-97   Average of 1995-97       Average of 1998-2000
Freeze at base    January 1, 1999      January 1, 2002              -
level
50% reduction     January 1, 2005      January 1, 2005              -
85% reduction     January 1, 2007      January 1, 2010          January 1, 2005
100% reduction    January 1, 2010      January 1, 2010          January 1, 2010


1.1 Context at Appraisal

4.      CTC, the target chemical of this project, is an ODS controlled under the MP. At
the time of appraisal, India was a significant user and producer of CTC. Following the
elimination of ODS production and consumption in developed countries, India became
the world's second global leader in ODS production and consumption after China. In
India, CTC was primarily used in the chemical/pharmaceutical sector (i) as a major
feedstock for the production of Chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) and DV Acid Chloride
(DVAC); (ii) as a process agent and (iii) solvent. For process agents, CTC was used in
sectors such as chlorinated rubber, chlorinated paraffin, pharmaceuticals, and agro-
industries; and as a solvent in the textile, garment industries, metal cleaning etc. Usage
far exceeded production capacity and therefore CTC was significantly imported. In
addition, a large percentage of CTC production and usage was for feedstock applications
that are taken into consideration by the MP but not subject to phase-out. Only CTC
consumption and production for non-feedstock applications are controlled by the MP and
subject to the agreed phase-out schedule.

5.    The Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change (MoEFCC), then
MOEF, was empowered by the GoI with the overall responsibility for implementing the
MP. MoEFCC established the Ozone Cell (OC) with the operational responsibility for
implementing the MP-related activities including the CTC phase out operation.

6.     As part of its obligations under the MP, India prepared the National CTC Phase-
out Plan in 2001 with support from the World Bank. At the time of approving the India
National CTC Phase-out Plan in 2003, India’s CTC production was 11,553 ODP MT
with consumption at 11,505 ODP MT.

7.    Experience and lessons learned from the design and implementation of the earlier
ODS I-III operations were built upon for ODS-IV, integrating the following core design
parameters:




                                           13
    a. development and implementation of a policy and financial incentive structure to
       drive CTC phase-out, supported by extensive discussions and consultations with
       participating enterprises, both CTC consumers and producers;
    b. development of comprehensive monitoring, verification, audit and enforcement
       mechanisms;
    c. development of a ‘low transaction cost’ performance based delivery mechanism
       for channeling grant funds from the MLF to GoI and beneficiaries;
    d. incorporation of significant flexibility in the deployment of grant resources to
       achieve timely implementation of project activities; and
    e. a significant TA component to support capacity building of all key stakeholders.

8.     Table 2 below gives the year-on-year phase-out schedule for consumption and
production levels agreed between India and the MLF Executive Committee (ExCom).

    Table 2: Agreed Phase-out Schedule for CTC Non-feedstock Consumption and
                            Production levels for India
                                   Base        2005       2006      2007       2008       2009       2010
 Consumption:                     11,505       1,726      1,147      708        268        48          0
 Maximum allowable
 (ODP tons)
 Production: Maximum              11,553       1,732      1,147      708        268         48          0
 allowable (ODP tons)

9.     At the time of appraisal, the MP required India to reduce its consumption and
production of CTC non-feedstock to 15% of base levels (see Table 2 above) by January 1,
2005 and 0 ODP MT by January 1, 2010 corresponding to 1,726 ODP MT and 0 ODP
MT for consumption and 1,732 ODP MT and ODP MT for production respectively. The
CTC Sector Phase out Implementation Project was designed to assist India in mobilizing
CTC users and producers to achieve the interim and ultimate CTC phase-out targets
involving the World Bank as the lead agency and other bilateral and multilateral
agencies– France, Germany, Japan, UNIDO and UNDP - as cooperating agencies5.

10.     Within the CTC sector plan, the World Bank worked with the large scale CTC
producers and users. GTZ on behalf of the Government of Germany and France had the
mandate to strengthen the capacity of the GoI in the implementation of the MP by
assisting small to medium scale CTC users in the textile industry and in the metal
cleaning sector in the phase-out of CTC. UNDP on behalf of Government of Japan was
responsible for executing conversion activities in large and medium metal cleaning sub-
sectors. UNIDO was responsible for process agents.

Rationale for Bank’s Assistance


5
  GTZ (now GIZ) implemented on behalf of France and Germany, and UNDP on behalf of Japan. In the report, GTZ
and GIZ are used interchangeably.




                                                     14
11.     The World Bank is one of the key implementing agencies for the MLF to assist
countries in meeting their respective phase out targets under the MP. At the time of
appraisal, GoI and the World Bank enjoyed a ten-year partnership on implementation of
the MP. India’s MP program implemented by the Bank was the second largest program
amounting to over US$130 million and disbursements of about US$80 million since 1993.
The Bank had established a comparative advantage with large sub-projects - Second
Ozone Depleting Substances Phase-out Project (referred as “ODS II”) and CFC
Production Sector Gradual Phase-out Project (referred as “ODS III”). In consideration of
the successful implementation performance of ODS II and ODS III projects, and to build
on the long standing engagement between the World Bank and the GoI on cross-sectoral
global environmental quality issues, GoI invited the Bank as the lead implementing
agency to develop a sector strategy for CTC use in process agent applications and for
CTC production sector. This request was further expanded to include project preparation
work initiated by other agencies and incorporation of these into a CTC Sector Plan,
which forms the technical basis of this project. The Bank also brought in experience of
implementing such large MP programs in other countries including China and Turkey.
The Bank was therefore well positioned to deliver production phase-out projects in
general and the proposed project in particular.

1.2 Original Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators

12.      The GEO is to support international efforts to restore the stratospheric ozone layer
to its original level in order to provide the earth's living organisms with the full benefit of
the ozone layer's protection from solar radiation.

13.    The PDO is to support India's objective to reduce its Protocol-controlled CTC
production and consumption level to zero by 2010 (Refer to Section F).

14.    The key indicator is total phaseout of CTC production and consumption in all
applications controlled by MP in India. These were to be regularly monitored, and
compliance to the MP requirements were to be confirmed between 2005 and 2010.


1.3 Revised GEO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

15.    The original GEO and PDO and key indicators were not changed.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

16.     Direct Beneficiaries: In terms of receiving the project’s grant funds / incremental
cost compensation payment for their respective phase-out of CTC, the main beneficiaries
targeted under this project were the CTC producers and CTC consuming enterprises that
are eligible for funding under the MLF. CTC Producers and CTC Consumers that
registered with and received registration certificates from the MoEF were considered
eligible to receive assistance under the project. The process involved an independent
verification of baseline and post phase-out CTC levels using a verification framework.


                                              15
Beneficiaries could receive 20% upfront of the estimated incremental cost for CTC phase
out and the final tranche of 80% upon verification of having achieved complete phase out.

17.    Among the CTC producers, the three main beneficiaries who received the
incremental cost compensation payments were Chemplast Sanmar, Gujarat Alkalies and
Chemicals Limited and SRF Limited. Among the CTC consumers, 29 eligible enterprises
received the incremental cost compensation payments.

18.      Secondary Beneficiaries: Secondary beneficiaries were the enterprises and
institutions that benefitted from the Technical Assistance Component and related project
management support activities. A Project Management Unit (PMU), under the Ozone
Cell, MoEFCC, was instituted as a separate registered entity with the assigned
responsibility for the day-to-day implementation of the project under the close
supervision and guidance of the Ozone Cell. The Ozone Cell and the PMU benefitted
from institutional strengthening and development of the Management Information
System (MIS). MoEFCC received support in establishing the production and
consumption quota system and in updating/amending the ODS (Regulation and Control)
Amendment Rules (2014). To support the project on the financial aspects, the Industrial
Development Bank of India (IDBI) Limited was designated as the financial agent (FI) for
channeling the grant to CTC producers, CTC users and the PMU.

19.     Considering that at the time of appraisal, India’s consumption rate was such that
additional CTC had to be imported to complement local production, it was expedient to
control illegal import transactions. Thus, other key stakeholders received capacity
building and training including the Directorate General for Foreign Trade (DGFT),
National Academy of Customs Excise and Narcotics (NACEN) and customs authorities.
The metal cleaning and textile industries amongst the solvent sector received awareness
training and knowledge with regards to available alternatives that are environmentally
benign and that do not compromise worker safety. State Level Pollution Control Boards
received training on the environmental and social issues pertaining to the issuance of
permits and consents for industrial activities that produce or consume CTC.

20.     Direct Global Benefits: In view that CTC has a high Ozone Depleting Potential
(ODP) of 1.1, meaning that a metric ton of CTC depletes 1.1 times the amount of
stratospheric ozone compared to a ton of CFC, India’s cessation of MP –controlled CTC
production and consumption contributed significantly towards helping to restore the
stratospheric ozone layer. A secondary direct global benefit is the reduction of
Greenhouse Gases (GHG). Having a high global warming potential (GWP), 14006 times
higher than Carbon Dioxide (CO2), CTC phase-out is a significant contribution to GHG
emission reduction. To put this in a broader perspective, the production phase out of
11,553 ODP MT is equivalent to approximately 15 million tons of CO2eq yearly, or
annual emissions from over three7 coal-fired power plants.

1.5 Original Components

6
    IPCC 4th Assessment Report, 2007
7
    USEPA Greenhouse Gas Equivalencies Calculator


                                                    16
21.     The MLF ExCom at its 40th meeting held in November/December, 2003,
approved the CTC National Phase out Plan to be implemented jointly with the World
Bank as lead implementing agency and the cooperating agencies (GTZ, UNDP, UNIDO)
at a total funding level of US $52 million8 (excluding agency fees) to phase out 11,553
ODP tons of CTC production and 11,505 ODP tons of CTC consumption by January 1,
2010. The grant includes US $10 million under the bilateral assistance program with the
Governments of Germany, France and Japan contributing US $2 million, US $3 million
and US $5 million respectively.

22.     Out of the total grant funds to the              GoI for CTC production and consumption
sector phase out, US $28.5 million was                   Box 1: Allocation of the MP MLF Grant
allocated for CTC production phase-out,                  Financing (US$) to the GoI for CTC Phase out
US $21.5 million for CTC consumption                     World Bank:        38,100,954
phase-out and US $2 million for                          UNDP/ Japan:        5,000,000
technical assistance. The World Bank                     GTZ/ Germany: 2,000,000
                                                         GTZ/ France:        3,000,000
umbrella grant ceiling was set at $53.04
                                                         UNIDO:              3,899,046
million, representing the total approved                 Total:             52,000,000
by ExCom plus provision for fees for the                 Total              53,040,000 (including 2%
financial intermediary for the project                   agency fees)
(2%). This, according to project                         The sub-projects implemented by GTZ, UNDP
documentation, was to “allow for the                     and UNIDO were implemented in coordination,
accommodation of any shortfall in                        but independently, and therefore this ICR is
                                                         focused on the World Bank implemented
bilateral contributions, therefore allowing
                                                         components for a total of $38.1 million (less 2%
for additional funds to flow through the                 fees to the financial intermediary IDBI). World
Bank instrument with no additional                       Bank allocation with 2% agency fee included is
administrative burden. This is proposed                  US$38,862,973 million (~US$38.86million)
as a precautionary measure to avoid
disruptions in project implementation in                 Project Amount after Restructuring in
case bilateral donors cannot meet their                  February 2014
                                                         (Refer to Section H and Table ‘a’ in Annex1)
commitments in part or in full.”9
                                                         US$13,098,886 was canceled to adjust the total
                                                         grant amount and total Project cost (through the
                                                         World Bank) to US$39,941,114. Also,
23.     Of the total grant ceiling, the                  US$ 1.06 million was incorporated under Part
World       Bank        was      allocated               A of the Project, as the Sub Grants to Former
US$ 38.1million (excluding the fees for                  Producers (from CFC III) on account of
the financial intermediary that were paid
from the Agency fee received by the World Bank from the MLF to implement the
project) and distributed according to the three components as follows:




9
 Memorandum of the Country Director for India to the Regional Vice President, South Asia Region, September, 21,
2004




                                                       17
Component 1: Incremental Cost Compensation to CTC Users for Conversion to non-
ODS Technologies (US$7.6 million): The project provided incremental cost funding to
CTC-using enterprises converting their manufacturing operations to non-ODS
technologies. The grant-based assistance was determined based on a formula linking the
amount of CTC utilized with sector-specific cost-effectiveness criteria. These
conversions typically involve minor changes in manufacturing and process equipment to
accommodate non-ODS substitutes. In a few cases, the changes were significant, e.g. in
the case of chlorinated rubber (refer to Section 2.2).

Component 2: Incremental Cost Compensation to CTC Producers for CTC Production
Reduction (US$ 28.5 million): Associated with the consumption component described
above, the project also supported a phased reduction in CTC production not destined for
feedstock applications. This component involved independent verification of CTC
production levels and sales along with a comprehensive monitoring and verification of
material uses in feedstock applications and sales (refer to Section 2.2).

Component 3: Project Management. Technical Assistance and Other Non-Investment
Activities (US$ 2.0 million). The CTC Sector Plan also proposed a number of non-
investment activities to strengthen capacity of the GoI to effectively address CTC phase-
out needs, including those of small CTC users (refer to Section 2.2).

1.6 Revised Components

24.         The project components were not revised.

1.7 Other Significant Changes

25.     Upon the request of the GoI, the project went through four minor project
restructurings. There were no changes to the design, scope, scale and implementation
arrangements.

First Restructuring: The changes were as follows: (1) Extension of project closing date by
27 months from September 30, 2010 to December 31, 2012; and (2) Reallocation of
funds between the disbursement categories under the third Technical Assistance (TA)
component being implemented by the MOEFCC10.

Second Restructuring: The change was to extend the closing date from December 31,
2012 until December 31, 2013.

Third Restructuring: Here again, the change in project closing date was to extend it by 3
months, from December 31, 2013 to March 31, 2014. However, in this case, the GoI
request was to extend the project closing date by 6 months, to June 30, 2014. But the
World Bank extended the project closing date by only 3 months.


10
     Unused funds were reallocated to disbursing categories.




                                                               18
Fourth Restructuring: This fourth restructuring involved incorporating under Part A of
the Project, as defined in Schedule 2 to the Grant Agreement, the financing of the second
tranche of the accelerated phase-out of CFC production by CFC producers (legacy from
the closed project ODS III); canceling US$13,098,886 to adjust the grant amount and
total project cost to US$39,941,114; reallocate the outstanding undisbursed amounts
among the disbursement categories; and retroactively increase the financing percentage
for Category (3) (goods). The cancellation did not include any cancellation of activities
but was only an accounting operation to reflect the amount of the grant approved by the
ExCom of the MLF for implementation through the World Bank. As described above, the
earlier amount was the total MLF grant to the GoI for the CTC phase-out to cover the
entire project size, including the sub-components to be implemented by the other bilateral
/ multilateral cooperating agencies. By having the entire phase-out as the Bank project,
flexibility was retained to implement all tasks / activities if necessary. During
implementation, it turned out that it was not necessary and only the grant implemented by
the World Bank should be retained.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

26.     Soundness of background analysis. The project preparation was based on the
Sector Strategy for CTC use in process agent applications and for CTC production
prepared by the GoI with active support from the World Bank. The substantive analytical
work served as a solid foundation for this relatively complicated ODS sub-sector. The
variety of CTC applications and the need to continue CTC production due to feedstock
applications that are outside the purview of the MP made the sub-sector quite different
from the CFC phase-out.

27.     Assessment of the project design. Project design was simple. The document titled
“Memorandum and Recommendation of the Country Director for India for a CTC Sector
Plan Implementation Project for India” outlined a straightforward 3-component structure
targeted to the CTC users (Component 1); the CTC producers (Component 2) and a TA
(Component 3) directed towards building the institutional capacity to address the CTC
phase-out issues.

28.     Lessons from earlier operations: Gleaning lessons from earlier ODS phase out
operations, including the ODS-III that was under implementation at the time of
preparation, the design included (i) an easy-to-implement financing approach of routing
all funds through the financial intermediary IDBI, an arrangement that minimized
transaction cost and ensured continuity; 11 (ii) a performance-based disbursement
approach tied to actual reduction in CTC monitored through third party audits; and (iii)
the fast-track approach taken to ensure smooth, effective and timely implementation (also
refer to Section 1.1).


11
     Having provided similar support under ODS-III, the IDBI role ensured continuity




                                                           19
29.     Adequacy of Government’s commitment: As a signatory to the MP, GoI has
committed to the provisions for the elimination of Protocol-controlled uses and
production of CTC. In the earlier ODS phase-out programs, GoI's commitment was a key
factor in successful implementation. At the time of project preparation / design, the level
of commitment of the GoI was adequate and found to be of a high order (refer to Section
5.2).

30.     Assessment of the risks: The GoI’s strong commitment resulted in establishing a
dedicated institutional structure to provide sustained support to the national ODS phase-
out program including the CTCs. Regular consultations with the industry served a key
feature of the GoI’s phase-out approach further reducing the risks of implementation
failure. As mentioned earlier project also benefited from integrating lessons from over a
decade of MP implementation in India. The CTC Sector posed two new challenges: i)
tight schedule for India to meet the 85% reduction of its CTC production and
consumption in non-feedstock applications by 2005 and complete phase-out by 2010; and
ii) reach out to a large number of enterprises requiring an effective mechanism to deliver
financial and technical support. To address the former, the project design included
mechanisms such as stockpiling before end-2004 to ensure MP compliance. And for the
second challenge, GoI engaged with bilateral and multilateral (cooperating) agencies that
have comparative advantages in managing technology transfer to small enterprises, while
the Bank focused on CTC phase-out activities in the production sector and larger users.
The cooperating agencies had committed to provide funding of US$10 million to support
this project .To mitigate the risk in the situation whereby one or more such agencies were
unable to fulfill their commitments, the operation set the maximum funding at US$52
million (exclusive of the fee paid to the financial intermediary). This was to make up for
any shortfall of bilateral contribution to be channeled through the Bank following Gol’s
request to the ExCom (refer to Box 1).


2.2 Implementation

31.     The GoI adopted implementation measures based on the CTC National Strategy
to control and restrict the supply and uses of CTC for all non-feedstock applications.
Salient features included:
provision of incremental cost compensation and regulatory measures to restrict
production and supply of CTC to all uses controlled by the MP, supported by technical
assistance from cooperating agencies to reach small users of CTC, largely in the informal
sector supported by a comprehensive monitoring, verification and audit framework;
 given the limited time remaining before the first target of 85% reduction in CTC
    production and consumption, the GoI allowed CTC producers to build up a small
    amount of inventory of CTC to be used for non-feedstock applications in 2005, in
    accordance with provisions allowing such action under the MP. This was particularly
    important issue given that additional CTC material available as stockpile would
    facilitate the downward adjustment in CTC consumption required during 2005, and
    reduce the possibility of disruption in industrial activity thereby minimizing the risks
    of non-compliance;



                                            20
through the existing ODS Rules (2000), all CTC consumers (feedstock and non-feedstock
applications) were required to register their uses of CTC with the OC. By January 2006,
the use of CTC in certain applications (such as process agent applications and chemical
solvents) were prohibited;
provision of financial assistance to larger enterprises using CTC for metal cleaning and
spot cleaning in the textile industry through this operation in order to accelerate their
CTC phase-out by January 2005;
restriction of total supply of CTC for users by imposing sales quotas on non-feedstock
applications to all CTC producers from 2005 onwards. A quota system was developed
for non-feedstock consumption and quotas allocated to the producers in line with their
production quantities. The Quota Order12 required that CTC production for non-feedstock
applications (controlled under the MP) not exceed the levels agreed as part of the
Agreement between India and the MLF ExCom for the CTC phaseout;
restriction of CTC import through the requirement of advanced import licenses after
2009;
provision of TA and some financial assistance, if necessary, to smaller CTC users in the
metal cleaning and textile industry through complementary efforts of bilateral
cooperating agencies in order to assist them to phase out before 2010 (refer to Section
1.2) ; and
working closely with CTC distributors and dealers through GOI’s outreach program in
order to identify and channel available technical and financial assistance to small CTC
users to accelerate their CTC phase-out adopting environmentally-friendly and
economically viable alternatives.

32.     The implementation of the first two components pertaining to the CTC users and
CTC producers proceeded satisfactorily all through the project period. The phase-out
targets were met, the monitoring was done through audits and the disbursements of grants
were made in line with the agreements. The project did not have an adverse risk status at
any stage.

33.     Given the need to achieve 85% phase-out target in the first year, the project did
very well in effectively using a ‘quick-start’ strategy to expedite project initiation towards
achieving the set targets. With assistance from the World Bank, the OC adopted the
‘quick-start’ strategy enabling actual project implementation to proceed right after
signing of the Grant agreement. Activities agreed under the strategy included expedited
identification and preparation of sub-projects, development of project’s institutional
framework, policy framework, and monitoring-verification-data management. The
project also adopted a ‘fast-track’ approval process to streamline the approval process of
large number of small CTC consuming enterprises in the metal cleaning sector with CTC
consumption below 10MT. Enterprises within this sector were identified to have similar
CTC usage applications and CTC conversion options across the sector and thus enabled a
cluster approval of sub-project proposals. Process involved entering into agreements /
arrangements with these enterprises for the phase-out, conducting the baseline


12 G.O. No. 37/2/2005-OC Implementation of Quota System for CTC Production for Non Feedstock Applications in
India


                                                     21
verification of their CTC consumption, executing agreements with them about
compensation payments, and conducting post-phase-out verification.

34.     The adjustment required by Indian industry in terms of reduction of consumption
of CTC is probably the most challenging amongst India’s various phase-out targets for
substances controlled under the MP. There were no implementation issues in this regard.
In fact, India’s efforts and achievements on the monitoring and verification front were
recognized by the MLF and its ExCom as a model of transparency and thoroughness.

35.    Although the first two components proceeded according to the time-bound
schedule leading to the complete phase out of non-feedstock CTC in production and
consumption sectors, implementation of the third component on TA was delayed and did
not progress as originally planned. Designed to strengthen the institutional, policy,
operational, monitoring and verification, and reporting dimensions of the project during
the time-bound implementation phase, and to sustain the phase out of non-feedstock CTC
once the project closed, the TA component was considered important to the overall GEO
and PDO. This was more so since CTC will continue to be produced and used as
feedstock in compliance with the MP.

36.    Factors deduced as contributing to the delayed implementation of the remaining
TA activities included:

 Staffing gaps in the PMU (refer to Section 5.2): From November 2008 until 2013 the
  position of the Project Coordinator and Audit Coordinator were vacant affecting
  management of the PMU daily activities particularly the planning and implementation
  of the TA activities;
 Gaps in understanding that, even when operating as implementing agency of the
  MLF, the World Bank was bound to its rules and procedures and the terms of the
  Grant Agreement (refer to section 2.4 and Section 6);
 Inconsistencies in the OC/PMU compliance with the procurement guidelines per
  Legal Agreement between the World Bank and the GoI (MoEF) (refer to Section 5.2)
 Communication channels (refer to Section 5.2);
 Failure to transfer implementation of TA activities to UNEP (refer to Section 5.1);
 Delay in securing ExCom approval of the TA workplan: Through decision 67/21, the
  ExCom requested the World Bank to “submit a work plan covering the funds
  remaining in the CTC phase-out plan in India to the 68th meeting of the Executive
  Committee”. However, upon submission, it was withdrawn from the 68th meeting in
  2012 to allow for further consultation with stakeholders, and only approved in July
  2013 at the 70th ExCom meeting.

37.    The draft TA workplan that was approved by Excom in June 2013 outlined the
following activities/studies:
      Analysis of post conversion market of alternatives to CTC in consumption sector
        and their availability;
      Awareness workshops on alternatives and sustainability of CTC phase out;



                                          22
       Training of State Governments and pollution control board officers to ensure that
        CTC is mainstreamed at the SPCB/regional level to ensure sustainability
        (building on GTZ’s training success);
       Success Story publication about “A decade of ODS phase out”;
       Strengthening of the MIS, including updated hardware;
       Sustainable monitoring framework for CTC; and
       Support on-going PMU activities to ensure oversight and full support to the
        above activities.

38.     In view of the relevance of the TA activities to sustaining the development
outcomes and impacts beyond the project closing, substantive efforts were put in place to
complete the remaining TA activities. This necessitated the three project restructurings
that were done (refer to Section H). Although there were no adverse implications in terms
of meeting the phase-out schedule, the non-completion of the TA component in a timely
manner resulted in lapses in further strengthening the institutional capacity critical to
sustaining the project outcomes. This lack of capacity may have a negative bearing if
CTC use were to resume in the non-feedstock sectors that are controlled under the MP.
However, this appears unlikely given the market conditions – availability of alternatives,
CTC market prices and demand for feedstock applications coupled with the impetus for
changeover to green/clean alternatives from international pressures, and improved GoI
enforcement.

39.     The IDBI Limited was involved to support the project as the financial
intermediary (FI) channeling the grant to CTC producers, CTC users and the PMU. For
this role, it was paid a fee of 2% of the amount disbursed to the enterprises and the Ozone
Cell.

40.      Throughout the implementation, the project coordinated and cooperated with the
other bilateral / multilateral MP cooperating implementing agencies, namely GIZ, UNDP
and UNIDO. The World Bank in its role as the lead implementing agency was
responsible for combined reporting of all activities implemented under this program to
the ExCom. The Bank was effective in strategically using its convening power to
facilitate dialogue on annual programs preparation, and other reporting to the ExCom on
behalf of the GoI. The MoEF routinely called inter-agency coordination meetings among
the lead and cooperating agencies.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Design
41.    Monitoring and Verification Framework was designed to include the verification
of CTC production at each CTC producing facility and that of its use as a feedstock
application. CTC consumption in non-feedstock applications was calculated as CTC
production minus CTC for feedstock consumption. Any CTC destroyed and net import-
export was also provisioned in determining the CTC for non-feedstock consumption. The
Management Information System (MIS) was mainly for the use of the PMU, which was



                                            23
responsible for the operational aspects and the OC had the overall responsibility for
monitoring compliance.

Implementation
42.     The CTC phase-out MIS designed for supervision and monitoring of
implementation activities worked satisfactorily during project implementation. With a
focus on the performance indicators, i.e. total phase-out of CTC production and
consumption in all applications controlled by the MP, the MIS was used as a tool for
monitoring project disbursements, performance audits of the CTC producing enterprises,
and generating progress reports and impact analysis. It tracked implementation progress
of Annual Programs and overall phase-out, including investment and non-investment
activities.

43.     The MIS design was to evolve and be revised as needed, based on project
implementation experiences and changing reporting requirements. Up until the complete
phase-out targets were achieved in 2010, the M & E was reported to have progressed well.
Regular audits served as a tool of the monitoring & verification framework. Annual audit
verification which formed the basis for the mandatory reporting to the MLF was properly
implemented until 2011, a year after the CTC phase-out was completed. The annual audit
verification reports documented and served as the evidence of impact analysis. Data
triangulation through the licensing system and obtaining data from customs was also
instituted under the project as a means to cross-verify the data.

Post Project Utilization
44.     Continuing CTC phase-out monitoring (audits/verification and reporting)
following project closure is particularly important to ensure that no CTC manufactured
for feedstock use can be diverted to non-feedstock use. Therefore, the capacity of the OC/
PMU would have to be retained in order to operate the critical CTC monitoring system
and sustain the outcomes from the efficient CTC phase-out. Considering the non-
availability of the OC for discussions as a part of this ICRR preparation, it was not
possible to determine whether post phase-out audit verifications and post-project
monitoring systems are fully established and functional, thereby able to ensure the
sustainability of the M & E efforts.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

2.4.1 Safeguard

45.     The project was classified as Category B. The phasing out of CTC yielded both
global and local environmental benefits (refer to Section 1.3). Global benefits are towards
reduced depletion of the ozone layer, whereas local benefits accrue with reduced worker
exposure to CTC, a toxic substance and a suspected carcinogen, in non-feedstock
applications. To address environment and social issues, the project included an
environmental and social screening review framework that was implemented as part of
the project management activities.




                                            24
46.     Per safeguard procedures, CTC producers were required to submit an
Environmental Management Plan (EMP) to MoEFCC “before modifying or dismantling
(partially or fully) any production lines as a consequence of reduction or cessation of
CTC production or destruction of any surplus CTC”. However, there is no foreseen
cessation of CTC production in the foreseeable future due to continuing CTC production
for feedstock applications not covered by the MP. Producers have not had to modify or
dismantle production lines, thus the environmental health and safety requirement was met.

47.      With regards to the CTC consumption sector, release of funds to project
beneficiaries occurred only after verification 13 that they had implemented required
environmental and safety measures, in addition to other technical GoI requirements. The
initial and post-completion verification reports that were furnished by the independent
Verification Consultants and reviewed by the World Bank ensured that these
requirements were met prior to disbursements being approved/made by the Bank. The
biggest challenge for CTC phase-out was in small and medium enterprises (SME) sector
where they tend to use cheaper alternatives such as Trichloroethylene (TCE), which,
while less toxic than the CTC they replace, still present significant health and safety
hazards. The GIZ’s ODS phase-out support program addressed these issues through the
comprehensive guidance manuals and capacity-building efforts that benefited the CTC
users as a whole during the project period.

48.     Under the GTZ window, technical assistance (TA) was provided to replace CTC
used in stain removal work for small garment manufacturers and metal cleaning in 2009.
GTZ did extensive work in testing alternatives that meet health, safety and environment
standards. The achievement of the CTC phase-out in these two widely dispersed industry
sectors - garment and metal cleaning - has also been realized through awareness
programs and GoI policy measures, especially those which influenced the availability and
pricing of CTC and its alternatives.


2.4.2 Fiduciary Compliance

49.    There were no major financial management (FM) or procurement issues during
implementation. This was due to the simple project FM design, which involved IDBI as
the FI responsible for the annual financial audits. The auditing process coordinated by
IDBI was streamlined. The audit findings revealed minor observations that were
subsequently addressed. At the time of closing, the FM rating was satisfactory. On
procurement, there were not many transactions, as most of the financial resources were
disbursed to CTC producers and users as compensation for the phase-out activities. There
were minor lapses, e.g. the hiring of a technical auditor in May 2008 was done without



13
  Verification was conducted by an independent technical/verification Consultant contracted by the MOEF. The
consultant confirmed the baseline CTC consumption data as furnished by the beneficiaries in addition to other technical
implementation requirements including compliance with safeguards standards.




                                                         25
the prior approval of the Bank (refer to Section 5.2). For such minor lapses, appropriate
corrective and preventive follow-up actions were undertaken.

2.5 Post-Completion Operation/Next Phase

50.     The Bank has been the lead agency in coordinating with the OC and the
cooperating agencies in furnishing progress reports to the MLF. Also, the MLF requires
that a Project Completion Report be submitted. The Bank would have to coordinate and
submit the same as a part of the post-project activities.

51.     From 1993 to 2014, a 21 year period, the Bank has actively supported the GoI in
four separate but interlinked operations (ODS I-IV) resulting in the successful phasing
out of Halons, CFC and now the CTC. Given that the CTC phase-out is complete, there is
no need for a follow-on project in the ODS sub-sectors that have been covered in the four
operations. There are other MP controlled ODSs that will subsequently require a phase-
out. This project implementation experience could be gainfully used in developing the
design of similar future projects, e.g. HCFC phase-out projects that are being considered.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

52.      Highly Relevant. The objectives of the project are highly relevant to the global
priorities of phasing-out ODS, including CTC, and GoI’s priorities under the MP.

53.    In phasing out CTC, a toxic and carcinogenic chemical compound, the project is
helping GoI in ‘moving closer to achieving the MDGs by 2015 14 ’ having leveraged
available resources to improve health and quality of life through reducing direct worker
exposure to CTC and overall human exposure to harmful ultraviolet radiation. The
project also supported the CAS FY09-12 by reducing the burden of environmental
degradation from toxic compounds.

54.     The current CPS (2013-17) recognizes the use of Trust Funds for implementing
global conventions and support global partnerships / global public goods, and to support
activities in country programs that implement country, regional and sector priorities. In
Annex 6, the CPS explicitly states the program under the Ozone Trust Fund, which
assists countries in phasing out ODS as agreed under the MP for the protection of the
Ozone Layer, with funding from the MLF of the MP.

55.    The design and implementation were in line with the support required by the GoI
to meet its CTC phase-out targets. The implementation outcomes are that a complete
phase-out has been achieved as per the schedule agreed with the MLF. Although the TA
component could not be fully implemented, the scope of activities was designed, based
on lessons from earlier operations, to address identified capacity gaps and help sustain
14
     World Bank CAS FY 05-08




                                           26
project outcomes. In all aspects, the relevance of this project is high both in terms of
replicability of the project design and implementation mechanism adopted, as well as the
local and global benefits accrued from the investments.


3.2 Achievement of Global Environmental Objectives

Rating: Satisfactory vis a vis Achievement of the GEO and the PDO

56.     The objectives were fully achieved. The financial assistance provided to the GoI
to phase out its MP-controlled CTC production and consumption levels allowed India to
achieve its targets and obligations to reduce its production and consumption including
both imports and exports in line with the MP agreed phase-out quantitative targets for the
period 2005-2010 in a timely and cost effective manner. India’s achievements under this
operation are very important on the global front in that at the time of project
conceptualization, it represented one of the largest global producer and consumer of CTC.
Successful phase out of CTCs therefore represents a significant progress in reducing
anthropogenic pressure on the stratospheric ozone layer. Through the sub-projects
administered by the cooperating bilateral and other multilateral agencies, alternative
substances have been recommended and well received resulting in the conversion from
ODS based solvents and process agents. Conversion has been verified by well-structured
monitoring systems. The outcome of the project in terms of the phase-out accomplished
is included in the Table 4 below.

       Table 3: Phased-out CTC Consumption and Production in India 2005-2011
        Year       CTC Consumption* (ODP MT)      CTC Production* (ODP MT)
                      Allowed       Verified        Allowed           Verified
     Base              11, 505         N/A          11, 553              N/A
     2005               1,726         1,657          1,726            (15,289)
     2006               1,147       (1,002) 15       1,147             (9,483)
     2007                708         (1,037)           708             (7,623)
     2008                268           267             268               267
     2009                 48            29              48                29
     2010                  0             0               0                 0
     2011                  0           0**              0               0***
Source: Bank’s Aide Memoire, Apr-May 2013 which is compiled from the Annual Verification Audit
reports as submitted by the GoI to the Executive Committee of the MP
Note: (1) * Consumption and Production as defined by the MP. (2) ** Verified consumption based on
independent verification of the absence of CTC sale from the four producers other than non-feedstock use,
and that no CTC were imported; and (3) *** Verified production based on independent verification both of
producer stocks and flows, and of feedstock user stocks and flows.

15
   Bracketed numbers are actual verified quantities. These bracketed numbers need not be in line with the allowed
figures. In the years, 2005-7, the differences between the allowed and verified are due to allowances given for
consumption, and inclusion of production for feedstock applications.




                                                         27
3.3 Efficiency

57.     The impacts demonstrated above were achieved with high efficiency, as assessed
based on the cost-effectiveness of phase-out achieved. Cost effectiveness is defined as the
amount of MLF grant per unit of ODS phased-out in ODP/ Kg. The overall allocation for
the CTC phase-out from the MLF was US$ 52 million plus agency fees (includes
allocation to the World Bank and other multilateral/bilateral agencies) altogether, i.e. for
both the production and consumption phase-out. The ODP phased-out was 11,553 ODP
MT of the CTC production and 11,505 ODP MT of CTC consumption. This works out to
be US $ 2.30/kg ODP for the CTC phase-out in India.

58.     An average cost-effectiveness of US$3.54/Kg ODP was achieved in the CFC
production phase-out component (ODS III project) and the average cost- effectiveness of
the Halon production phase-out component was US$7.98/Kg ODP. In China, the average
cost of ODP phase-out achieved across all sectors was $1.93/kg ODP, while unit costs
ranged from $1.00/kg to $12.37/kg depending on the sector. The average cost-
effectiveness across all ODS sectors in Malaysia was US$10.19/kg ODP, in Indonesia
was US $4.41/kg ODP and in the Philippines was US $4.28/kg ODP (Refer to Annex 3).

59.    When comparing the average cost-effectiveness of CFC and halon phase-out in
India and also of all ODS phase-out in other countries, the CTC phase-out in India is
highly cost-effective.


3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

60.     The relevance of the Project's objectives, design, implementation and efficiency
are rated high. All the targets were fully met at the 100% level. It is worth noting that in
the first year of the project implementation, in 2005, GoI's challenging target was
achieved, i.e. it reduced its Protocol-controlled CTC production and consumption level to
15% of its baseline level. Specifically,

      the project helped India comply with its obligations under the MP. Through
       implementation of the CTC sector phase out plan, and earlier phase out plans for
       CFC and Halons, India has made a significant and long lasting impact in the ODS
       phase out agenda
      the CTC sector phase out plan was developed based on results, lessons learned
       and innovations achieved during implementation of ODS I-III
      cost effective use of the MLF grant resources, evidenced in cost savings/efficient
       use in spite of gaps in complete implementation of the TA component
      overall, capacity of the OC improved relatively having been provided the basis
       for building needed support to sustain the monitoring program developed to
       reduce/eliminate potential leakage of CTC to non-feedstock uses.




                                              28
61.   In view of the high relevance, satisfactory efficacy and high efficiency, the project
outcome rating is satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

 62. Phasing out CTC typically yields significant environmental benefits, both local
 and global, especially since CTC is a toxic substance and a suspected carcinogen. The
 project was designed to primarily implement global conventions and to support global
 partnerships / global public goods but it also contributed to reducing poverty, creating
 greener jobs, addressing related social development issues and supporting GoI’s goals
 on environmental health, quality of life and overall sustainable development objectives.

63.    (refer to Section 3.1) Owing to the contribution of phasing out CTC, a toxic and
carcinogenic chemical compound, and recommending relatively safer and
environmentally benign alternatives, the ODS-IV operation helped in reducing worker
exposure to harmful compounds and helped to “leverage available resources to improve
the quality of life of some of the world’s poorest citizens” per the India CAS FY05-08.

64.     The ODS-IV also contributed to the GoI 10th Five Year Plan – to better support
the private sector and ensure widespread improvement in well-being. Actions in support
of CTC phase out encouraged the adoption of modern alternatives to CTC-based process
agents and solvents thereby contributing to removing some of the future threats to growth
of private sector companies in the form of pollution constraints, and related health threats
from CTC exposure.

65.     The GTZ’s contribution in a complementary fashion helped to support CTC
dependent industries in managing the challenge of the phase-out and changeover to non-
ODS substitutes without jeopardizing the process economy and product quality which
indirectly helped to reduce industry fold-ups and layoffs.

(b)Institutional Change/ Strengthening

66.     During implementation notably between 2004 and 2009, substantive institutional
expertise was built through the project in assisting GoI to meet the CTC phase-out targets.
This expertise was routed through the PMU, a legal entity that was created as a special
vehicle for the ODS phase-out under the earlier ODS III project. CTC phase-out required
significant coordination between the bilateral/multilateral agencies including the World
Bank that the PMU effectively executed, particularly during the initial part of the project
period. As a legal entity, the PMU is intended to continue beyond the project period with
the expectation to help sustain project outcomes beyond project closing.16


16
 As meetings with the PMU / Ozone Cell was not possible during this ICRR preparation, the current status of the
PMU is not known.




                                                        29
67.      Under the project, the following capacity building initiatives were implemented:
(i) development and deployment of MIS, (ii) monitoring and audit verification framework
protocols for phase-out in producing, consuming and storage facilities, (iii)
awareness/skill-building of CTC producers and CTC consumers in non-feedstock
application, (iv) amendment to the ODS Rules 2000 as required for the CTC sub-sector
(v) training workshops for custom officials across the country, and (vi) targeted outreach
activities to create awareness of CTC phase-out. All of these resulted in direct and
indirect improvements in the capacity of the various Government agencies primarily the
MoEFCC Ozone Cell, IDBI, the respective state Pollution Control Boards that
participated in training sessions, Customs offices, and CTC producers and consumers
involved. Provided that the reporting framework established for producers and consumers
for CTC feedstock remains functional, the OC maintains its routine monitoring, backed
by the improved capacity of Customs for tracking CTC imports and exports, a functional
MIS, and a supportive policy environment per the recent amendment to the Ozone Rules
(2014), India should maintain its position to sustain the successful phase out of CTC non-
feedstock use and production.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts

68.     The GWP of CTC is 1,400 times higher than that of CO2, the main GHG. By
phasing-out CTC production and use in non-feedstock applications, the release of GHG
has been reduced by approximately15 million tons of CO2 equivalent on an annual basis.
This is a significant outcome of this project.

69.     The project objective was to support the GoI’s efforts to phase-out CTC. While
the major part of the project was completed by 2010 (when the phase-out of CTC
production and use in the non-feedstock application), the third TA component was not
completed. As explained earlier, the OC / GoI requested for the extension of the closing
date of the project. In line with the request, the Bank had extended the closing date from
September 30, 2010 to December 31, 2012 in the first instance and from December 31,
2012 to December 31, 2013. In the third instance, the OC/ GoI request was to extend the
closing date from December 31, 2013 to June 30, 2014. However, the Bank extended the
closing date only to March 31, 2014. This was due to the very late arrival (31 December
2013) of the formal request of the extension of the closing date and partly due to that both
requests for earlier closing date extensions had been to complete TA activities.

70.    This among other reasons (refer to Section 2.2) resulted in non-completion of the
TA activities planned by the OC in the last few months of the project period. However,
this may only have minor implications on the development outcomes as the major part of
the phase-out had already been completed.

71.     In spite that 3-month adjustment in final closing date will not affect overall
project outcomes, it has resulted in the straining of relationships between the OC and the
Bank’s Task Team, and may have a bearing on possible future initiatives. These are
unintended negative outcomes of the project implementation.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops


                                            30
Not applicable

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Low

72.     GoI / OC has put in place a system under the Ozone Rules to ensure that CTC
production and consumption for controlled use will continue to be monitored. This
monitoring system, which is one of the outputs of the ODS IV project, requires all
producers manufacturing CTC for feedstock use – not controlled by the MP – to report to
the OC their CTC production, opening and closing stocks, and sales to feedstock users,
on a quarterly basis. CTC feedstock users are also subject to similar reporting
requirements. Both producers and feedstock users are also obliged to submit independent
audits of CTC production and feedstock use on an annual basis. This system allows the
OC to accurately confirm that no CTC produced is diverted to non-feedstock use. Also
the ODS (Regulation and Control) Amendment Rules, 2014 will enforce that CTC is not
used for non-feedstock applications.

73.      The CTC market conditions have been influenced substantively by the phase-out
in both the production and consumption sector in line with the MP requirements. The
value-addition of its use in the feedstock applications has since become so important that
its leakage or illegal sale to the non-feedstock applications is highly unlikely.
Furthermore, the global market for CTC has shrunk, making production and consumption
outside non-MP controlled uses uneconomical and less attractive. The likelihood of any
leakage of CTC for non-feedstock use given the high degree of import licensing control
that is in place is very insignificant/minimum. Therefore, in spite of the TA component to
support post phase out activities having not been completed, risk to development
outcomes is low.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

74.    In terms of design and quality at entry, there were no inadequacies (refer to
Section 2.2). The Bank project team ensured to use the lessons learned during the
previous three ODS projects but the risks with implementing TA activities in earlier
operations were not fully reflected in design of the TA component for the ODS-IV. In the
design, the main component of disbursing grant to the beneficiaries for CTC production
and consumption phase-out for non-feedstock applications was supported with a TA
component that built on the capacity to ensure and sustain phase-out. The performance-
based programmatic approach adopted in the project design, sound institutional
arrangement including use of a FI, and the fast track approval process that helped to
streamline the process of sub-project preparation of small-scale solvent projects thereby
accelerating the verification process, also contributed to the project’s quality at entry. In


                                             31
fact, 85% phase-out was successfully achieved in the first year of project implementation
with a disbursement rate for the calendar year of 20% (US$10.3 million) of original
project total amount and this is evidence enough of the effectiveness of the design and
quality at entry.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

75.      The World Bank’s performance in supervision is rated moderately satisfactory.
The World Bank conducted regular implementation support missions to proactively
identify and address key issues. These missions were systematic and held routinely
throughout the project period with some mission jointly fielded for the ODS III project
that was being implemented concurrently. The structured Aide Memoires were useful to
facilitate timely resolution of implementation gaps, if any. The World Bank also provided
constant, close follow-up and support to the PMU throughout the CTC phase-out
particularly during the first year when 85% of the CTC phase-out was achieved. The
Bank engaged an independent team to conduct regular and systematic verification audits
that formed the basis of monitoring the phase-out. Coordination with the World Bank
project team was effective due to their physical presence in New Delhi during this period.
Substantive technical support for the third TA component was also provided.

76.     Although the Bank conducted regular supervision and implementation support
missions, the Mid-Term Review exercise was significantly delayed with implications for
identifying and addressing in a timely manner substantive issues affecting project
implementation. The February 2009 MTR mission noted that given the past performance
of TA disbursement, it was evident that OC would not be able to disburse the remaining
funds for the TA over the remainder of project life. During the June 2010 World Bank
supervision mission, it was discussed that focus for 2010 onwards would be on post
phase-out monitoring and building capacity of stakeholders to continue monitoring
activities at various locations. It was then agreed that the Bank would transfer the TA
activities to UNEP to support the OC in implementing some of the capacity building and
awareness activities including replicating GTZ’s work on Occupational Health and Safety
related to CTC alternatives. Towards this, UNEP developed a draft Action Plan which
details the activities, timelines and associated budget. However, after 9 months of
discussions, the proposed agreement had to be abandoned due to apparent distinct legal
and procurement requirements of UNEP and the World Bank. Failure to negotiate a
contractual agreement with UNEP further slowed down TA implementation in 2011.

77.     Towards the end period of the original project closing date (September 30, 2010)
and extended project period, there were issues between the OC/PMU and the World Bank
related to the TA component. These were procedural and not technical in nature. Though
some of these were addressed, not all of them were resolved. The Bank team solicited
assistance from the GoI DEA and the World Bank India Country Management Unit in
attempts to resolve the strained relations but without any significant success. This was
evident in the correspondence received from the OC after project closure on March 31,
2014. With hindsight, with most funds disbursed by 2009 and the project development


                                           32
objective having been met, the Bank could have pursued much more aggressively options
to close the project and transfer the remaining TA activities. In view that the quality of
supervision had been high during the earlier operational part of the project, and also since
the Bank team had consistently offered hands-on help aimed at facilitating
implementation of the TA component, quality of Bank supervision could have been rated
satisfactory. However, failure to take more decisive action after the mid-term review
eventually led to friction between the Bank team and the client.

78.     In the agreement between the World Bank and the IDBI as the FI, the payments to
be made to the IDBI were to be based on a percentage of the disbursements. After 2010,
once the phase-out was completed, the disbursements were minimal but the IDBI noted
that it continued to incur transaction costs such as staff salaries, office overheads and
conduct of financial audits, and that extension of closing dates implied further costs to the
IDBI that was not commensurately compensated since the percentage-based payments
did not compensate for the costs incurred by the IDBI. In addition, the project size was
indicated to be US$ 53.04 million, the overall outlay for the CTC phase-out that included
funds implemented separately by UNDP, UNIDO and GIZ (refer to Section 1.5). Of this
amount, the World Bank was directly administering only US$ 38.1 million through the
IDBI. As the IDBI Bank fee was linked to disbursements through them, the project
agreement should have reflected US$ 38.63 million (including the 2% financial
intermediary fee), the actual amount once that was clear. The agreement with the IDBI
was formally modified to reflect this amount but rather late in the project period.

79.     As the phase-out has been completely achieved, neither of the above
shortcomings has a direct bearing on the project development objective. However, the
issues outlined reduce the Bank’s overall performance rating to moderately satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

80.     Given the quality of the Bank’s performance at entry and during supervision, that
led to efficient (effectively managing several sub-project components using the
performance based programmatic approach in line with a sector plan, and an expedited
cost effective delivery of the project goals) and sustained relevance of the project
outcomes for the CAS FY05-08, CAS FY09-12 and CPS FY13-17, the overall Bank
performance could be rated satisfactory. Overall, the outcome has been successful in
assisting India to meet the phase-out as per the agreed phase-out schedules under the MP.
However, due to the couple of implementation lapses, the Bank performance during
supervision is rated as moderately satisfactory reducing the overall Bank Performance to
moderately satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower
(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory



                                             33
81.     As of January 2010, the project under the execution of the MoEFCC (then MoEF)
had fully met its PDO of supporting the GoI and stakeholders using or producing CTC in
fully phasing out MP-controlled production and consumption of CTC. Overall
Government performance ratings across the stream of project activities could be rated
satisfactory as the project has benefitted from sustained political commitment (quite
evident even over the first three ODS operations). During design and implementation of
the ODS-IV, the GoI remained a consistent advocate in support of the MP in complying
with the ODS-phase out control measures. Results from the ODS-IV and three prior ODS
operations have informed MoEFCC in the updating of the Ozone Rules, 2000 as well as
the prospective HCFC phase out plan. Multisectoral government agencies played
strategic roles in adopting the CTC phase out sector plan, in transitioning to viable
alternative substances, and in promoting awareness about the importance of phasing out
ODS to control impact on the ozone layer.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

82.     While the PMU had the main day-to-day responsibility, the OC provided the
guidance and supervision. The PMU’s role during the phase-out period until 2010 was
sufficient. In particular were the effective way in which the OC/PMU employed the quick
start and the fast track phase-out in 2005 and 2006, which resulted in a steep reduction of
CTC production and consumption, and the strategic approach of focusing on the large
CTC consumers in order to meet the MLF phase-out schedule. The PMU also
coordinated effectively both with the lead and coordinating agencies and with
OC/MoEFCC. Considering the complexity of the CTC phase-out, i.e. multiple sectors
using CTC and need to continue production for feedstock applications, managing the
phase-out issues was quite a challenge. Sufficient awareness and capacity creation were
provided.

83.     Following the completion of the phase-out, there were some staffing issues within
the PMU as reflected in subsequent Aide-Memoires. At the time of the project mid-term
review (November 2008-February 2009), the position of the Project Coordinator (PC)
and the Audit Coordinator had been vacant for two months. Absence of a PC put stress
on the existing institutional capacity of the OC and PMU, on leadership from the PMU,
and effective supervision and management of the project particularly the TA component.
Furthermore, the non-responsiveness of the OC to Bank correspondence posed
limitations to the dialogue between the Bank as the lead agency and the GoI. While these
might have affected the third TA component17, they did not have a bearing on the CTC
phase-out that was completed by 2010.

 84. Per the legal agreement, Project management including the TA activities was to
 be implemented by the OC, in a manner consistent with the Project Agreement between
 India and the World Bank. Part C of Schedule 1 of the Project Agreement dated Dec. 10,

17
  As meetings with the PMU / Ozone Cell were not possible during this ICR preparation, the implementation issues
with the PMU or its current status are not known.


                                                        34
2004 (page 7) states that “A plan for selection of which shall include contract cost estimates,
contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedure, shall be furnished to
the trustee for its review and approval prior to the issuance to consultants of any request for
proposals”. In May 2008, the hiring of a technical auditor was done without the prior
approval of the Bank. Also the requirement to clearly delineate funding request against
specific activities was not followed by the OC. Request for funds under the TA
component were submitted to the World Bank without the requisite
itemization/procurement plan thereby slowing the Bank’s no-objection process.

85.     During the final year of implementation of the project, procurement of consulting
services planned under the TA workplan could not take place as the PMU would not
readily prepare a procurement plan. The OC had sent requests to the World Bank to
release funds to implement remaining TA activities without the requisite procurement
plan/itemized budget proposal. Partially due to (i) paragraph 8 of the agreement between
the GoI and the ExCom whereby “…funds provided to India pursuant to this [GoI-MLF]
agreement may be used in any manner that the country believes will achieve the
smoothest and most efficient CTC phase-out”. Therefore the OC did not want to be
inhibited by the World Bank’s internal procurement procedures which were considered
onerous.

86. The Bank’s standard procedure and agreement with GoI require channeling all
substantive correspondences through the DEA, the Banks’s official counterpart. As per
this protocol, all correspondence related to legal agreements including request for
extension of project closing date were to be submitted to the Bank through the DEA.
Under such an overarching agreement, the World Bank procedures, correspondence and
terminology therefore do not distinguish between the source or nature of funding of
different programs. On the contrary, the OC expected to communicate directly with the
World Bank on all legal issues for example pertaining to extending project closing dates
thereby delaying the process for submitting restructuring requests to the World Bank.

87. Considering that the closing date had a three and half year extension, i.e. from
September 30, 2010 to March 31, 2014, the project had sufficient time post phase-out to
mainstream tracking and managing CTC so that there are no environmental releases due
to its production and use for feedstock applications, as explained above. In the
correspondence from the OC to the Bank in April 2014, however, it is clear that the post
phase-out activities are still to be completed. In spite of the considerable delay in
securing ExCom endorsement of the TA workplan, in July 2013 only, the shortcomings
described above led to that workplan not having been implemented at time of project
closure, March 31, 2014, thereby reducing the MoEF performance to moderately
satisfactory. This rating is given based on the information available. The non-availability
of the OC for discussions as a part of this ICRR preparation was a serious constraint, as
the information arising from discussions with them would have had an important
influencing role in determining the rating.

88.    IDBI’s role as FI spanned the crux of activities that cumulated in the CTC phase
out. Responsibilities included entering into Sub-Grant Agreements with beneficiaries,
including small CTC producers and consumers and managing the SGA process, receiving


                                             35
and reviewing proposals to determine eligibility and transferring grant funds to qualified
beneficiaries and furnishing audit reports. Throughout the project period, the IDBI
carried out its role as FI in conformity with appropriate financial and administrative
practices. The financial management (FM) arrangements were satisfactory throughout the
project period. The FM Reports to the Bank were submitted in a consistent manner.
Financial audits were conducted annually and follow-up to the audit observations were
also undertaken. All the activities were carried out in a satisfactory manner and in full
compliance of financial covenants. Effective and productive cooperation among the PMU
/OC / MoEFCC, the World Bank, beneficiaries and IDBI was key for this satisfactory
performance.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

89.     The outcome has been successful in assisting India to meet the CTC phase out as
per the agreed phase out schedules under the MP. However, in view of the
implementation challenges outlined, the overall Borrower Performance is moderately
Satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

90.    As the project achieved its development outcomes effectively, there are positive
lessons to be learned:

      Project design should be kept simple even if the issues are complex. The CTC
       sub-sector was perhaps the most complicated one among the ODS sub-sectors.
       However, retaining a simple design with separate components for producers and
       consumers, and a TA component to support the overall phase-out, including
       coordination with other multilateral / bilateral agencies, facilitated
       implementation and monitoring.
      Continuance of key staff in linked/programmatic operations facilitates
       effective implementation. Ideally, in programmatic or linked operations (such as
       ODS-III and ODS-IV) maintaining the same key operational staff help in
       transferring lessons and enhancing coordination. During the critical period of the
       CTC phase-out, i.e., between 2005 and 2010, stability in the team within the
       different organizations - PMU / OC, World Bank, IDBI and the verification
       auditors made coordination easier resulting in more effective implementation.
       Once the staffing of the PMU changed, continuity was lost and progress in the TA
       component suffered.
      More structured co-ordination between the various multilateral and bilateral
       agencies enhances effectiveness: Based on the experience from the earlier ODS
       phase-out initiatives, this project ensured that there was better co-ordination
       between the various cooperating agencies from the onset. This was even more
       important in this project as the responsibility of support for the CTC phase-out


                                           36
       activities was divided among the agencies, i.e. UNDP, UNIDO, GIZ and the
       World Bank. The structured coordination enhanced implementation effectiveness
       especially where outputs required joint interventions between the Bank and a
       cooperating agency.
      Long-term partnership between the World Bank and IDBI in ODS phase-out
       served a big advantage. The World Bank and IDBI have had a long-term
       partnership that started with the first ODS phase-out project. Being the fourth
       project in the series, the capacity and expertise within IDBI, and the well-
       established relationship with the PMU / OC and the World Bank has been an
       important aspect of this CTC phase-out project as well as the overall successful
       MP program in India.
      Relating to the use of a financial intermediary, IDBI’s role was strategic in
       facilitating a seamless financial/disbursement and technical link between
       beneficiaries and the OC thereby enabling the OC to focus on the broader policy
       reform, donor collaboration, overall monitoring and reporting to the Bank and the
       MLF.
      Regarding the project design, the performance-based disbursement where funds
       are released on annual basis based on pre-determined phase-out schedules and
       verified targets did provide an excellent implementation structure which served as
       a motivation and incentive to stakeholders/beneficiaries to find cost effective
       ways of phasing out production and use of CTC.
      The programmatic approach of using a CTC sector plan framed within a national
       ODS-phase out framework lent itself to effective planning and supervision which
       helped in generating higher level sustainable results.
      Ideally, an effective MIS as adopted under this operation complemented by a
       verification of both financial and technical results helped in determining the
       accuracy of the results achieved by the project.

91.     In terms of how implementation could have been done better in the context of this
project , the following are the lessons learned:

Supporting national Governments with ODS phase-out in line with the MP commitments
is different from the World Bank’s regular operations of development funding / lending.
As it is, the OC tended to view the World Bank more as an executing agency that
disburses the MLF grant in line with ExCom’s decisions and therefore did not want to be
inhibited by the World Bank’s internal procedures even though the client agreed at the
time of signing the project agreement to conform to World Bank operational standards.
There is the need to be clear upfront of roles and expectations in project legal agreements.
This is the root cause of the relationship issues between the OC and the World Bank that
emerged during the project implementation.
Signing project agreements with the DEA on behalf of GoI, and acting through, eg,
MOEF makes it unambiguous that DEA is the main interlocutor for the Bank. With the
ODS-IV, the project agreement was signed with MOEF directly which gave room to the
OC to refuse to deal with the Bank through the DEA.
The project should have implemented the establishment and maintenance of a
knowledge website. During implementation, the project generated a lot of good practice


                                            37
information that will be useful even beyond the project period. Even though CTC is
phased-out for non-feedstock applications, there is information pertaining to the use of
CTC substitutes. For instance, there are Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) issues
with the substitutes that users will benefit from. Providing web access to the online
knowledge and learning self-help materials such as those produced with GTZ support
would help bridge knowledge gap with the handling of non-ODS solvent / process agent
substitutes.
Setting the financial intermediary fees based mainly on disbursement levels might
have limitations. The financial intermediary, IDBI, had a role of coordinating the
conduct of the financial audits which in the case of this operation extended even beyond
disbursements. As their management fees were based solely on disbursements, IDBI
notes that they had to provide their services without a mechanism for compensation once
disbursements were completed. Given their continued role, the IDBI notes that they
incurred fixed costs for their staff and overheads more than 3 years after the bulk of the
disbursements were completed.
MTR process should consider all aspects of the project design, including agreements
and should initiate any agreed actions/restructurings. In this project, the MTR was
done between November 2008 and February 2009, and along with the implementation
support mission of the ODS III project that was being implemented concurrently. During
the MTR, it was explicitly recognized that the funding that will be routed through the
World Bank would be less than the US$ 53.04 million that was originally included in the
umbrella Grant Agreement. Once this was clear, all the agreements should have been
reviewed and appropriate modifications should have made. In this case, the agreement
between the IDBI and the World Bank was not revised and only done towards the end of
the project period.
Draw on lessons from related operations from across the Bank to duly inform project
design and to help address implementation challenges. Some other ODS operations from
other regions across the Bank were encountering similar delays and difficulties with
implementing the TA component at about the same time. Drawing on such experiences
could have helped take more aggressive steps and not extend the project closing date
three times.
Decision on canceling portion of project funds, when essential: By the MTR stage, the
core of the PDO which was to reduce CTC production and consumption to zero by
January 1, 2010 was near completion and considering that non-completion of the TA
activities did not affect achievement of the PDO, the project team could have canceled
the remaining project funds. Attempts to extend the project closing to implement the
remaining TA component rather spurred strained relations between the Bank and the
MOEF which could affect potential future operations




                                           38
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing
Table a: Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                     Actual/Latest
                              Appraisal Estimate                     Percentage of
          Components                                Estimate (USD
                                 (USD millions                        Appraisal
                                                       millions)

Agency Service Fee                       1.04              0.78          75%
Sub-Grants:                             50.0
 Sub-Grants (Other than Sub-
                                                          36.10
grants for Former CFC Producers)
 Sub Grants to Former Producers
on account of successful
                                                           1.06           NA
acceleration of the phase out of
CFC Production
Goods including equipment for
                                         0.03              0.06          200%
Part C of the Project
Consultants’ services, training,
workshops and supervision
                                         1.04              1.20          115%
activities under Part C of the
Project
Operating Costs for Part C of the
                                         0.93              0.74          80%
Project
Amount cancelled as of January 2,
                                                          13.10
2014
Total                                   53.04             53.04


Table b: Financing
                                                  Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                      Type of     Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                    Cofinancing    (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                  millions)   millions)
Borrower                                            0.00        0.00         .00
Multilateral Fund (MLF)                            53.04       53.04       100.00




                                          39
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1: Incremental Cost Compensation to Producers for CTC Production
Reduction

As of January 1, 2010, the Government of India (GoI) had fulfilled its obligations under
the MP and phased-out production and consumption of CTC used in non-feedstock
applications, as detailed in the Table 3 of the main report).

The annual verification audit for 2011 was done in May 2012, when the Bank’s audit
team undertook field visits to the designated beneficiaries (The three primary
beneficiaries were Chemplast Sanmar, Gujarat Alkalis and Chemicals, and SRF Limited)
and feedstock users. The gross production reported for feedstock use was 17,740 MT in
2011. Total sales and use for feedstock purposes was 17,404 MT. The difference
represents differences in stocks at closing and opening. As noted above, sales for non-
feedstock use was nil, which confirmed that India was in compliance with production and
consumption limits for 2011. This was the last verification audit that the Bank was tasked
by the ExCom to conduct.

Component 2: Incremental Cost Compensation to CTC Users for Conversion to non-
ODS Technologies

In June 2012, the OC has supported the technical and financial completion of 26 sub-
projects in the CTC consumption sector. Three projects are being closed by IDBI due to
the enterprises failing to submit appropriate documentation. The second installment
(80%) was not paid to these 3 enterprises. However, since CTC is no longer available on
the market, the enterprises can no longer be consuming CTC. Therefore, the main
objective of even these sub-projects has been met. As the consumption for non-feedstock
use is banned, all consumption sector enterprises are expected to have converted to non-
CTC alternatives.

Component 3: Project Management and Technical Assistance

As a part of the Project Management, the functioning of the PMU throughout the project
period was the output.

The following capacity building initiatives were implemented: (i) development and
deployment of MIS, (ii) monitoring and audit verification framework protocols for phase-
out in producing, consuming and storage facilities, (iii) awareness/skill-building of CTC
producers and CTC consumers in non-feedstock application, (iv) amendment to the ODS
Rules 2000 as required for the CTC sub-sector (v) training workshops for custom
officials across the country, and (vi) targeted outreach activities to create awareness of
CTC phase-out. All of these resulted in direct and indirect improvements in the capacity
of the various Government agencies primarily the MoEFCC Ozone Cell, IDBI, the
respective state Pollution Control Boards that participated in training sessions, Customs
offices, and CTC producers and consumers involved.



                                           40
In terms of outputs of the TA, during the April-May 2013 implementation support
mission, the OC has also confirmed that the GoI had already put in place a monitoring
system under the Ozone Rules to ensure that CTC production and consumption for
controlled use will continue to be monitored by the government. The monitoring system,
which is one of the outputs of the ODS IV project, requires all producers manufacturing
CTC for feedstock use – not controlled by the MP – to report their CTC production,
opening and closing stocks, and sales to feedstock users, on a quarterly basis to the
Ozone Cell. CTC feedstock users are subject to similar reporting requirements. In
addition, both producers and feedstock users are obliged to submit independent audits of
CTC production and feedstock use on an annual basis. This system allows the OC to
accurately confirm that no CTC produced is diverted to non-feedstock use.

Further information on the final outputs of the TA was not available. 18 It is known that
many of the TA activities relevant to this project were done under the ODS III project,
which was implemented by the same PMU. Many of the TA activities were common and
relevant to both the projects. The TA funds under the ODS III project were first used. The
balance and those pertaining only to CTC phase-out was done under ODS IV.




18
   The information for this Annex has been compiled using the aide-memoires and other documents. As meetings /
discussions with the OC for the preparation of the ICR could not be held by time of writing, compiled information
regarding the outputs of the third TA component, in particular, was not available.


                                                         41
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

For ODS phase-out projects, the analysis of the economic soundness of the project could
be either done through a cost-benefit analysis or a cost-effectiveness analysis. The
benefits derived from all ODS phase-out projects are global in scope and thereby difficult
to measure in monetary terms. Therefore, the cost-effectiveness analysis is preferred, as it
does not require benefits to be quantified in in monetary terms. In the cost-effectiveness
analysis, unit costs are used for comparing the efficacy of interventions across countries.
In this case, the comparison of the costs is based on the unit costs incurred per kg of ODP.
And, cost effectiveness is defined as the amount of MLF grant per unit of ODS phased-
out in ODP Kg.

The following table gives the compilation of the average cost of ODP phase-out achieved
in other countries in all or in specific sectors.

         Table c: Average cost of ODP phase-out achieved in other countries
     Country                      Sectors                  Cost / Average Cost
 China             All                                      US$ 1.93 / kg ODP
 China             CTC as process agent and CTC             US$ 1.00 / kg ODP
                   production
 China             CTC in pharmaceuticals                  US$ 12.37 / kg ODP
 China             CTC in foam sector                       US$ 4.46 / kg ODP
 Malaysia          All                                      US$ 10.19/kg ODP
 Indonesia         All                                      US$ 4.41/kg ODP
 Philippines       All                                      US$ 4.28/kg ODP
 India             CFC                                      US$ 3.54/kg ODP
 India             Halon                                    US$ 7.98/kg ODP
 India             CTC                                      US$ 2.30/ kg ODP
Source: Compiled primarily from China ODS Phase-out ICR Report, Dec 2013 and India CFC Production Phase-out
ICR Report, June 2012. Pertains only to Bank-funded projects


The overall allocation for the CTC phase-out was US$ 53.04 million (includes allocation
to the World Bank and other multilateral / bilateral agencies). The ODP phased-out was
11, 553 ODP MT of the CTC production and 11, 505 ODP MT of CTC consumption. On
the average, this works out to be US $ 2.30/kg ODP in the CTC phase-out in India.




                                                    42
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervisions Processes

Table d: Task Team members
                                                                           Responsibility/
          Names                          Title                  Unit
                                                                             Specialty
Lending
Supervision/ICR
Laurent Granier               Sr. Environmental Specialist     CCGIA Team Leader (2012-14)
Ruma Tavorath               Senior Environmental Specialist    SASDI Team Leader (2007-2012)
Bilal H. Rahill                     Senior Manager              CESI2 Team Leader (2004-2007)
Dora Nsuwa Cudjoe              Environmental Specialist        SASDI     ICR Team Leader
Philip Beauregard          Senior Human Resources Officer      HRDCO          Legal
Martin Serrano                      Senior Counsel             LEGES          Legal
                              Lead Financial Management
Manoj Jain                                                     SARFM            FMS
                                       Specialist
Papia Bhatachaarji        Sr Financial Management Specialist   SARFM            FMS
Atul Bhalchandra Deshpande Senior Public Sector Specialist     AFTP3            FMS
Arun Manuja               Sr Financial Management Specialist   SARFM            FMS
Arvind Prasad Mantha       Financial Management Specialist     SARFM            FMS
Anantha Krishna Karur       Financial Management Analyst       SARFM            FMS
Atin Kumar Rastogi               Procurement Specialist        SARPS         Procurement
Santhanam Krishnan                     Consultant              EASOS         Procurement
Kumaraswamy
                                       Consultant              SASDC         Procurement
Sankaravadivelu
Viraj Vithoontien           Senior Environmental Specialist    EASER    ODS Technologies
Sidney Thomas                          Consultant               CESI2   ODS Technologies
Vaideeswaran Sankaran                  Consultant              SASDI       ICR Author
Erik Pedersen                          Consultant              EASER    ODS Technologies
Srinivas Ravindra                      Consultant              SASDI    ODS Technologies
Shubhendu Mudgal                       Consultant              SASHN Environment Management
Bela Varma                     Senior Program Assistant        SASDO     Program Support
Genevieve Maria Dutta              Program Assistant           SASDO     Program Support
Rachel S. Palmer                   Program Assistant           SASDO     Program Support
Kumudni Choudhary                  Program Assistant           SASDO     Program Support




                                          43
Table e: Staff Time and Cost
                                         Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
     Stage of Project Cycle                                   USD Thousands (including
                                       No. of staff weeks
                                                              travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY04                                          23.77                    110.41
  FY05                                           4.5                      28.78
  FY06                                           0.00                      0.00
  FY07                                           0.00                      0.00
  FY08                                           0.00                      0.00
                              Total:            28.27                    139.19
Supervision/ICR
  FY04                                           0.00                      0.00
  FY05                                          20.23                    121.56
  FY06                                          14.12                    268.68
  FY07                                           8.97                    171.39
  FY08                                          16.64                    150.75
 FY09                                            7.07                     53.25
 FY10                                            6.40                     85.28
 FY11                                            4.12                     83.21
 FY12                                            5.14                     35.77
 FY13                                            8.12                    129.46
 FY14                                            5.45                     33.02
                              Total:            96.26                   1132.37




                                           44
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(not applicable)




                                      45
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(not applicable)




                                   46
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


The borrower did not prepare a separate evaluation of the project as required and did not
provide comments on the draft ICRR prepared by the World Bank. The World Bank
ICCR team held extensive discussions with the IDBI during preparation of the draft
ICRR but it did not receive comments from the IDBI on the draft report shared with the
MoEF.




                                           47
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
(Not applicable)




                                    48
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


   1. MLF for the Implementation of the MP: Memorandum and Recommendations of
      the Country Director for India of the IBRD to the RVT, SAR on a Proposed
      Ozone Projects Trust Fund Grant (Report No.20613) June 7, 2000
   2. Sector Strategy for CTC
   3. All 21 ISRs
   4. Aide–Memoires/Management letters
   5. Ozone Projects Trust Fund (OTF) Grant Agreement (TF053458) December 10,
      2004
   6. Amendment to the OTF Grant Agreement (TF053458) December 3,
      2009/September 18, 2010/June 18, 2011/December 27, 2012/December 27, 2013




                                      49
