 IEG
                                                                                               Report Number: ICRR14897

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 04/19/2016

               Country: India
             Project ID: P085345                                                   Appraisal                  Actual
          Project Name: Ctc Sector Phaseout          Project Costs (US$M):                     53.04                   53.04
                         Project - Ods Iv
  L/C Number:                                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                      53.04                   39.94
      Sector Board:        Environment                Cofinancing (US$M):

           Cofinanciers:                              Board Approval Date :                                    09/21/2004
                                                             Closing Date:              09/30/2011             03/31/2014
          Sector(s):       Other industry (100%)
          Theme(s):        Pollution management and environmental health (67%); Environmental policies and
                           institutions (33%)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:           ICR Review                  Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Ranga Rajan                Ridley Nelson          Christopher David           IEGPS1
Krishnamani                                       Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

The project development objective as stated in the Ozone Projects Trust Fund Grant Agreement (Schedule 2, page
16) was:

"To assist India in implementing its Country Program and CTC (Carbon Tetrachloride ) Phase-out Program for
Phasing-out Consumption and CTC production within its territory ."

The project development outcome as stated in the Memorandum and Recommendation of the Country Director for
India to the Regional Vice President of the South Asia Region (hereafter referred to as the "RGV memo") was: (RGV,
page 7).

"To assist India with the implementation of its Carbon Tetrachloride Sector Plan in the context of India 's
commitments under the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer ."

The RGV Memo further states that the proposed operation was to support the achievement of the following project
objectives:

(a) Development and implementation of a policy and financial incentive structure to drive CTC phase out, supported
by extensive discussions and consultations with participating countries, CTC producers and consumers.
(b) Development of comprehensive monitoring, verification, audit and enforcement mechanisms.
(c) Development of a 'low transaction cost' performance-based delivery mechanism for channeling grant funds from
the Multilateral Trust Fund to India and to beneficiaries. and,
(d) Incorporation of significant flexibility in the deployment of grant resources to achieve timely implementation of
project objectives.
b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Components:

1. Incremental Cost Compensation to CTC producers for conversion to Non Ozone Depleting Substance (ODS)
Technologies: Estimated cost at appraisal US$28.5 million, Actual cost at closure US$28.5 million.
This component provided incremental cost compensation to support a phased reduction in CTC production intended
for non- feedstock applications. (Feedstock refers to a raw material for industrial purposes. Non feedstock applications
of CTC as defined in this project included, using CTC as a process agent and solvent) CTC reduction was calculated
from the baseline level, with the baseline defined as the average level during the period 1998-2000). Activities
included independent verification of CTC production levels and sales and monitoring and verification of material uses
of feedstock applications.

2. Incremental Cost Compensation to CTC users for conversion to Non ODS Technologies : Estimated cost at
appraisal US$21.5 million. Actual cost at closure US$7.6 million.
This component provided incremental cost compensation to CTC using enterprises for converting their manufacturing
operations to Non Ozone Substance (ODS) technologies. The grant based assistance was to be determined on a
formula linking the amount of CTC utilized with sector-specific cost-effectiveness criteria. These conversions typically
involved minor changes in manufacturing and process equipment to accommodate non-ODS substitutes and in a few
cases, major changes (such as in the case of chlorinated rubber).

3. Project Management, Technical Assistance and other Non Investment Activities : Estimated cost at appraisal
US$2.00 million: Actual cost at closure US$2.00 million.
This component included provision of goods, training and consultants' services for the strengthening of the
management and operational capability of the Project Management Unit (PMU) to carry out the Annual Program.
Activities in this component included:
(i) the development of a Management Information System (MIS) for collecting and managing CTC data.
(ii) the preparation and implementation of an annual program for the CTC phase out program.
(iii) the development of production and sales quotas for non-feedstock applications.
(iv) the monitoring and supervision of project implementation at the national level (including coordination of
independent verification of CTC phase out by the beneficiaries.
(v) the provision of information exchange support (including carrying out public awareness programs on the
importance of CTC reduction.
(vi) the periodic assessment of supply situation of alternatives and recommendations for possible interventions, if
required, to the Ozone cell.
(vii) the support for implementation of information exchange and training activities,
(vii) the maintenance of database and relevant records related to the CTC phase out program.
(viii) the monitoring of the impact of activities implemented under the CTC activities. and,
(ix) the maintenance of financial management systems and timely management of resources through diligent
disbursement management.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

Project Cost Estimated cost at appraisal US$53.04 million (including an agency service fee of US$1.04 million) .
Actual cost at closure US$39.88 million (including an agency service fee of US$0.78 million). At closure, US$13.10
million was cancelled.

Project Financing: The project was funded by a Multilateral Trust Fund administered by the Bank. Other agencies,
such as the Governments of Germany and France (through GTZ), Japan (through the United Nations Development
Program) and the United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNID)) contributed in kind to the CTC phase
out project.

At appraisal, US$38.1 million of the grant was allocated by the Bank. Other cooperating agencies were expected to
contribute a total of US$13.8 million (This included US$2.00 million from Germany, US$3.00 million from France,
US$5.00 million from UNDP and US$3.8 million from UNIDO). However, at approval, the World Bank umbrella ceiling
was set at US$53.04 million. This was intended as a precautionary measure for preventing disruptions to the CTC
phaseout activity, in case the bilateral donors were unable to meet their commitments.(ICR, page 17). During
implementation, all activities were completed as intended by the other agencies. At closure, US$39.94 million of the
grant had been disbursed by the Bank. This included financing of the second tranche of a prior closed ODS-III project
and cancellation of the grant of US$13.10 million.
Borrower's Contribution: None was planned.

Dates: The project development objectives and GEF objectives and the key indicators were not changed. However,
there were four project restructurings. The first restructuring on 09/30/2010 reallocated funds between disbursement
categories under the technical assistance component and extended the project closing date by 27 months from
September 30,2010 to December 20, 2012.
The second restructuring on 12/31/2012 extended the project closing date by 12 months (from December 31, 2012 to
December 31, 2013).
The third restructuring on 12/31/2013 extended the project closing date by three months from December 31, 2013 to
March 31, 2014.
The fourth restructuring on 02/19/2014 entailed the following, financing of the second tranche of the ODS-111 project,
cancellation of the grant, reallocation of the outstanding not disbursed amounts and retroactive increase in the
financing percentage for component 3 activities.

The project closed 42 months behind schedule on March 31, 2014.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

HIgh

Scientific investigations, which were eventually confirmed through measurements of the ozone layer at the South
Pole, where the largest depletion of the ozone layer occurred every year, indicated that certain man-made substances
(such as Carbon Tetrachloride (CTC) among others) caused depletion of the ozone layer that protected life on earth
from harmful radiation. These scientific developments resulted in a Multilateral protocol - the Montreal Protocol on
Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer (hereafter referred to as the protocol). The goal of the protocol was to
arrest and reverse the trend of depletion of the ozone layer globally through setting time bound targets for reducing
the production and consumption of Ozone Depleting Substances (ODS). The protocol binds the signatory countries to
take actions to eventually phase out the production and consumption of ODS like CTC. Only CTC used in
non-feedstock applications was controlled by the MP protocol. The Government of India ratified the Montreal Protocol
on September 17, 1992.

At the time of appraisal, India was a significant user and producer of CTC. Following the elimination of ODS
production and consumption in developed countries, India was the second largest producer and consumer of ODS
after China and as a signatory to the Montreal Protocol, the objective of arresting, reversing and eventually eliminating
the production and consumption of CTC for non-feedstock applications was highly relevant for India.

The project development objective was highly relevant to the Bank Strategy for India. At the appraisal stage, the
Country Assistance Strategy for the Fiscal Years 2009-2012 period identified the need for reducing the burden of
environmental degradation from toxic compounds in India. The CAS for the Fiscal years 2013-2017 recognized the
need for using Trust Funds for implementing global conventions, partnerships and public goods and to support
activities in country programs that implement country, regional and sector priorities. Annex 6 of CPS explicitly
reported the program under the Ozone Trust Fund, which assisted countries in phasing out ODS under the Montreal
Protocol.

b. Relevance of Design:

High

The project's goal was simply stated and design was straightforward and relevant. The national targets for CTC
reduction were clearly defined, and the ODS regulations banned the creation of new CTC facilities or the expansion of
existing ones.

The technical assistance activities under Component 3 were relevant to building India's institutional and regulatory
capacity to phase out the consumption and production of CTC and reduce the imports of CTC for non-feedstock
applications. The focus on developing an MIS to collect and manage production and consumption data was relevant,
as was the provision of technical support to the Project Management Unit in fulfilling its responsibilities, including
monitoring, verification and independent performance audits. The design and implementation of the awareness
programs and provision of training to the government agencies was expected to reduce demand for CTC for
non-feedstock applications. Annual financial and technical audits were to be used to ascertain the actual CTC phase
out and progress towards targets, and were relevant to the development and implementation of monitoring, reporting
and verification mechanisms.

The combination of these activities can be expected to contribute to the phase out and eventual dismantling of the use
of CTC for non-feedstock applications and these can be expected to contribute to the higher level objective of
supporting international efforts to restore the stratospheric ozone layer to its original level in order to provide the
earth's living organisms with the full benefit of the ozone layer's protection from radiation.

4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

The project development objective."To assist India with the implementation of its Carbon Tetrachloride Sector Plan in
the context of India's commitments under the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer." is
rated as Substantial.

Outputs:

The quotas for reducing the consumption and production of CTC for non-feedstock applications were issued to the
CTC consumers and producers by the Government, based on the agreement between the government and the
Multilateral Fund Agreement. The quotas for the baseline were issued in 2005 and quota licenses were issued since
then up to 2009. No quotas were issued after 2009.

The following capacity building activities were completed as targeted.

    The Management Information System (MIS) was developed and deployed.
    The monitoring and audit verification framework protocols for the phasing out CTC in production, consumption
     and storage facilities, were completed.
    Awareness/skill building of CTC producers and consumers in non-feedstock applications were completed.
    The ODS Rules 2000 for the CTC sub-sector was completed.
    Training workshops were held for customs officials around the country.
    The Government of India put in place a monitoring system under the Ozone cell for ensuring that the production
     and consumption of CTC for controlled uses will continue to be monitored. This monitoring system required all
     producers manufacturing CTC for feedstock use to report their CTC production, opening and closing stocks and
     sales to feedstock users on a quarterly basis to the Ozone cell. CTC feedstock users were subject to similar
     reporting requirements.
    Both producers and consumers of feedstock users were required to submit yearly independent audits of CTC
     production and feedstock consumption to ensure that there is no diversion of CTC to non feedstock applications.

Outcomes:

At the time of appraisal, the Montreal Protocol required India to reduce its consumption and production of CTC for non
feed stock applications to 15% of base levels by January 1, 2005 (that is from 11,505 ODP tons to 1,726 tons by
2005) and complete phase out by project closure.

The targets were met and the annual verification audit for 2011 done in May 2012, indicated that sales of CTC for
non-feedstock applications was nil in 2010, as per the Montreal Protocol.

5. Efficiency:

Substantial

A cost benefit analysis for activities associated with reduction of ODS was not done at appraisal in view of the inherent
difficulty of measuring in monetary terms the global benefits due to reduction of ODS. A cost effectiveness analysis
was done at closure, which entailed comparison of the unit costs for such interventions across countries. Cost
effectiveness was defined as the amount of MLF grant per unit of ODS phased out in ODG/kg. The overall allocation
for the CTC phase out (of both CTC production and consumption) from the MLF was US$ 52 million plus agency fee.
The ODP phased out was 11,553 ODP MT of the CTC production and 11,505 ODP of CTC consumption. This worked
out be US$2.30/ kg ODP for the CTC project in India (as compared to the average cost effectiveness of US$3.54/kg in
the CFC production phase out component (ODS III project) and as compared to the average cost of US$1.93/kg of
ODP in China, US$10.19/kg in Malaysia and US$4.28 in Philippines.

There were delays in implementing the technical assistance component of the project and the target for the reduction
of CTC was not met by the date planned due to slower progress initially. The situation improved and the zero target
was met at project closure with an accelerated pace during the final years of the project. Though the project closed 42
months beyond schedule, the targets were met and were achieved within the budget envelope.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                  Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

       Appraisal                       No
       ICR estimate                    No
                                          * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:

Relevance of objectives was assessed as High since the project was instrumental in helping India meet the
obligations as a signatory to the Montreal Protocols, while the relevance of design was rated high in view of the clear
and logical causal chain between project activities and project development objective, Efficacy in attaining the project
development objective was rated as Substantial. All targets pertaining to the production and consumption of CTC for
non- feedstock applications were realized. Efficiency was rated as Substantial. Although there were time overruns,
the targets were realized at an accelerated pace in the final years of the project and there were no cost overruns.

 a. Outcome Rating: Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

There is a risk that CTC produced and consumed will be diverted to uses not covered by the Montreal Protocol.
Along with the phasing out of CTC production and consumption of CTC for non-feedstock applications as done by the
project, the government put in place a monitoring system. Under the system, all CTC manufacturers were required to
report their CTC production, their opening and closing stocks and sales to feedstock users. Similar reporting
requirements were required for CTC feedstock consumers. All CTC producers and users are also required to submit
annual independent audits of the amount of CTC produced and consumed. In view of the measures, the risk
associated with the diversion of CTC for non-feedstock applications is rated as negligible to low.

      a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Negligible to Low

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:

The preparation and appraisal of this project (ODS-IV) build upon the three lessons learned from the two
completed ODS phase out operations (ODS-I and ODS-II) and from the ODS-III that was ongoing at the time of
preparing this project.
  The Industrial Development Bank of India (IDBI) Limited, which was the financial intermediary for the ongoing
    project, was retained for this project, in the interest of saving on transactions costs and maintaining continuity.

      A performance-based disbursement system was to be used for realizing the target of reducing CTC. The
       monitoring of this system was to be through third party audit.
      A fast track approach was adopted in the initial years of the projects for effective and smooth implementation..

The project team was responsive to the needs of capacity building and incorporated technical assistance activities
such as, training for the staff, research and awareness raising programs and implementing monitoring, auditing
and reporting mechanisms.



      Quality-at-Entry Rating:                        Satisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
The Bank conducted regular supervision missions to proactively identify and address key issues during the
implementation phase. The missions were systematic through the project execution phase and the project also
benefitted from having joint missions with the staff who were responsible for the ongoing ODS-III project. An
independent audit team was hired to conduct regular and systematic verification audits and the audit team
coordinated with the Bank project team during the project implementation period.

The Mid Term Review exercise was held in February 2009, about a year before the original project closing date.
The significant delays in holding the Mid Term Review contributed to not addressing substantive issues related to
the technical assistance component of the project in a timely fashion.

Towards the end of the original project closing date, there were issues with the project management unit of the
Ozone Secretariat and the Bank team. Although these were mainly on procedural matters, this caused delays and
there were still some unresolved issues at project closure.



     Quality of Supervision Rating :              Moderately Satisfactory

     Overall Bank Performance Rating :            Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

As a signatory to the Montreal Protocol, the Government of India was committed to the provisions for the
elimination of protocol controlled uses and production of CTC and had demonstrated this commitment through the
three prior ODS operations. The Government's political commitment remained high for this project. Government
agencies associated with different sectors were actively involved in adopting the CTC phase out sector plan and
making the transition to viable alternative substances.

     Government Performance Rating                             Satisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

There ere two implementing agencies: (1) The Ozone Cell established within the Ministry of Environment, Forests
and Climate Change (MoEFC) was in charge of overall supervision and providing guidance, while the project
management unit provided day to day responsibility. (2) The Industrial Development Bank of India Limited (IDBI)
was the financial intermediary.

The project Management Unit : The employment of the quick start and the fast track phase by the project
management unit contributed to the steep reduction in CTC production and consumption in the initial years of the
project in 2005 and 2006.

     There were staffing issues within the project management unit during implementation at the time of the Mid
      Term Review, with the post of the Project Coordinator and Audit Coordinator lying vacant from November
      2008 to February 2009. The absence of a project coordinator contributed to the delays in implementing the
      technical assistance component of the project.
     As per the legal agreement, project management including the technical assistance activities were to be
      implemented by the Ozone Cell, in a manner consistent with the Project Agreement. In May 2008, a technical
      auditor was hired by the unit without prior approval of the Bank. Some requests for technical assistance
      activities were submitted to the Bank for no objection without the required procurement plan.

IDBI. As the financial intermediary, the IDBI was responsible for reviewing proposals to determine eligibility and
transferring grant funds to qualified beneficiaries and furnishing audit reports. The IDBI was familiar with the Bank
procedures based on its experience with prior Bank project, including the ongoing ODS-III project. Through the
execution phase, the IDBI's financial arrangements were deemed to be satisfactory, and all financial activities
were in full compliance with the financial covenants.


     Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                  Moderately Satisfactory
   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                      Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

The M&E system was developed to track the disbursement of grant funds to the CTC manufacturing companies and
the procurement of technical assistance services. The M&E system operated by the staff of the PMU also contracted
consultants to provide technical services to prepare performance monitoring, verification and reporting audits and to
track implementation of ODS production and consumption. A Management Information System (MIS) was used by
the project management unit for monitoring the project..

b. M&E Implementation:

The central mechanisms established to track disbursements were the annual performance audits, which were
conducted by independent consultants. Data triangulation through the licensing system and obtaining data from
customs was instituted to verify the data.

c. M&E Utilization:

The M&E system was used to monitor reductions in CTC. Annual audit verification which formed the mandatory
reporting to the Multilateral Fund was implemented until 2011, a year after the CTC phase out was completed.

M&E Quality Rating: Substantial




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

The project was classified as "Category B" and triggered one safeguard policy - Environmental Assessment (OP
4.01). To address environment and social issues, an environmental and social screening review framework was
implemented as part of the project management activities.

CTC producers would have been required to submit an Environment Management Plan (EMP) to the Ministry of
Environment, Forests and Climate Change (MoEFCC) for either modifying or dismantling (either partially or
completely) CTC production sites. However, no cessation of CTC production was expected to occur in the near future
since production of CTC continued for feedstock applications and the Montreal Protocol did not cover such
applications. Regarding CTC consumption, compliance with environmental and safety measures was ensured since
compensation funds were disbursed to CTC producers and consumers only after verification by Independent
Verification consultants.


b. Fiduciary Compliance:

Financial Management : There were no financial management or procurement issues during implementation,
according to the ICR (page 25). This was due to the involvement of the Industrial Development Bank of India (IDBI) as
the financial intermediary, with its broad experience in the Bank's financial management procedures. The ICR (page
25) reports that the audit findings revealed minor observations that were adequately addressed by project closure.

Procurement: On the procurement side, there were not many transactions, since most of the financial resources were
disbursed to CTC producers and consumers as compensation for the CTC phase out activities. The ICR notes that
there were minor lapses, such as the hiring of a technical auditor in May 2008 without prior Bank approval, but these
were resolved through appropriate corrective and preventive follow up action.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                  Reason for
                                                                                      Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Negligible to Low             Negligible to Low
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                              Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

The following lessons are taken from the ICR with some modifications.

1. Project design should be kept as simple as possible even if the issues are complex . Despite the considerable
complexity of the environmental issue in this case, the implementation of this project was facilitated by a simple
and practical project design which included, separate components for producers and consumers, a technical
assistance component to support the overall phase out and coordination with other multilateral/bilateral agencies.

2. Strong and structured coordination between various donors can aid in project implementation . Based on the
experience from the earlier ODS phase-out initiatives, this project ensured that there was better coordination
between the various cooperating agencies from the outset. The structured coordination enhanced implementation
effectiveness especially where outputs required joint interventions by a number of responsible agencies.

3. Using a financial intermediary can aid in facilitating seamless financial and disbursement processing activities
in support of beneficiaries but the setting of fees may require careful design to relate fees to tasks . The Industrial
Development Bank of India's (IDBI) role as a financial intermediary responsible for the disbursement of the grant to
the beneficiaries enabled the Ozone cell to focus on the broader policy reform, donor collaboration, and overall
project monitoring. Related to this, there could be disadvantages associated with setting the financial intermediary
fees based mainly on disbursement levels. In the case of this project, IDBI, besides being responsible for
disbursement of grants to beneficiaries, was also responsible for conducting financial audits which in the case of
this operation extended beyond disbursements. As their management fees were based solely on disbursements,
they had to provide their services without a mechanism for compensation once disbursements had been completed.

14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


The ICR is concise and for the most part well written. It reports both outputs and outcomes of the project and its
assessment of the project is comprehensive. It is also candid about the implementation problems that were
encountered and how they were resolved during the execution phase.

There is a discrepancy about the original project closing date in various parts of the ICR text and in the project data
sheet. The ICR in pages 11, 18, 30 and 32, reports the original project closing date as September 30, 2010, while the
project data sheet in page 6 reports the original project closing date as September 30, 2011. This discrepancy results
in an inconsistency with the aggregate months of extensions reported.
 a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
