The World Bank                           OFFICI     Oelhi ice        Telephone :41479301/49247601
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVEL                       Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION     G   fUfl   i    110 003     Mailing Address: P.0 Box 416
India  jFacsimile : 41479393
February 20, 2014
Mr. Balkrishan Batra
Group Head - Corporate Banking and Executive Director
Infrastructure Corporate Group
IDBI Bank Limited
IDBI Tower, WTC Complex, Cuffe Parade
Mumbai - 400 005
Dr. Mr. Batra,
Re: INDIA: CTC Sector Plan Implementation Project
Ozone Projects Trust Fund Grant Agreement (TF053458)
Letter of Amendment
I refer to the Ozone Project Trust Fund Grant Agreement, dated December, 10,
2004 (TF053458) (the "Grant Agreement"), between the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development, acting as Trustee of the Ozone Project Trust Fund (the
"Bank" or "Trustee"), and the Industrial Development Bank of India (the "IDBI" or the
"Recipient") for the financing of the CTC Sector Plan Implementation Project (the
"Project").
I further refer to: (i) the request from the Department of Economic Affairs of
Ministry of Finance of India, dated 31 December, 2013; and (ii) the discussions between
the IDBI and representatives of the Bank, acknowledged in the Aide Memoire of the
Bank's Project supervision mission, dated June 24, 2013; as well as (iii) the decisions
made by the Executive Committee of the Multilateral Fund for the Implementation of the
Montreal Protocol, dated July 21, 2012 and April 19, 2013; whereby it was agreed that
the Project would be restructured to: (A) incorporate under Part A of the Project, as
defined in Schedule 2 to the Grant Agreement, the financing of the second tranche of the
accelerated phase-out of chlorofluorocarbon ("CFC") production by CFC producers; (B)
cancel the amount of US$13,098,886 in order to adjust the grant amount and total Project
cost to US$39,941,114; (C) reallocate the outstanding undisbursed amounts among the
disbursement categories; and (D) retroactively increase the financing percentage for
Category (3) (goods); among others.
I am pleased to inform that, after due consideration, the Bank has agreed to the
foregoing restructuring and proposes to hereby amend the Grant Agreement as follows:
1.    Definitions (e) and (z) in Article 1, Section 1.02 of the Grant Agreement are
hereby amended to read:
HeadquarterU Washington DC L  USA


﻿Mr. Balkrishan Batra                -2-                      February 20, 2014
"(e)  "Beneficiaries" means CTC consumers, CTC Producers, and Former CFC
Producers."; and
"(z)  "Sub-Grant Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section 3.03
hereof, to be entered into between the Recipient and each of the
Beneficiaries, outlining the terms under which payment out of the OTF
Grant shall be made to each of the Beneficiaries for: (i) phasing out CTC
Production or CTC Consumption, or (ii) having successfully accomplished
the phase out of CFC production in a manner and substance satisfactory to
the Trustee, as the case may be."
2.    The following new definitions are incorporated under Article I, Section 1.02 of
the Grant Agreement:
"(aa) "CFC" means Chlorofluorocarbon"; and
"(bb) "Former CFC Producers" means the following four former CFC producing
enterprises, legally established and operating under the Companies' Act of
India, 1956, namely: (i) Chemplast Sanmar Ltd.; (ii) Gujarat
Fluorochemicals Ltds.; (iii) Navin Florine Ltd.; and (iv) SRF Limited,
which have ceased to produce CFC substances in accordance with targets
agreed with MoEF and the Trustee, as certified pursuant to the technical
and financial verification of the CFC production sector gradual phase-out
Project (ODS III - TF023789) for calendar year 2010, conducted by an
independent auditor appointed by the Trustee."
3.    Article II, Section 2.02, sub-paragraph (a), of the Grant Agreement is amended to
read:
"(a)  The Amount of the OTF Grant may be withdrawn from the OTF Grant
account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
for: (i) expenditures made (or, if the Trustee shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of Sub-Grants to CTC Producers for the reduction of CTC
Production under Part A of the Project; (ii) expenditures made (or, if the
Trustee shall so agree, to be made) in respect of Sub-Grants to CTC
Consumers for the reduction in CTC Consumption for Part B of the
Project; (ii) expenditures made (or, if the Trustee shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the Agency Service Fee to the Recipient; (iv)
expenditures made (or, if the Trustee shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable costs of goods and services, required for Part C of the
Project; and (v) expenditures made in respect of Sub-Grants to Former
CFC Producers on account of their certified completion of the accelerated
CFC production phase-out under Part A of the Project, and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the OTF Grant."


﻿Mr. Balkrishan Batra                -3-                      February 20, 2014
4.    The table set forth in paragraph I of Schedule 1 to the Grant Agreement is hereby
amended to read as follows:
Amount of the OTF        % of
Category               Grant (expressed in  Expenditures to
US Dollars)        be financed
(1) Agency Service Fee                  784,114            100%
(2) Sub-Grants (other than Sub-grants  36,100,000     100% of amounts
for Former CFC Producers)                             disbursed
(3) Goods including equipment for       60,000             100%
Part C of the Project
(4) Consultants' Services, training,
workshops and supervision           1,200,000           100%
activities under Part C of the
Project
(5) Operating costs for Part C of the   740,000            100%
Project
(6) Sub-Grants to Former CFC
Producers on account of                            100% of amounts
successful acceleration of the                        disbursed
phase out of CFC production
(7) Amount cancelled as of January    13,098,886
2, 2014
TOTAL                                 53,040,000
5.    Paragraph 3, sub-paragraph (c) of Schedule I to the Grant Agreement, is hereby
amended to read:
"(c)  any Sub-Grant to a Beneficiary under Category (2) above, unless: (i) such
Sub-Grant is provided for in a Sub-Grant Agreement of which the Trustee
shall have been furnished with a copy; (ii) such Sub-Grant is specified or
provided for under a relevant entry in the Annual Program; (iii) the
Trustee has confirmed that (A) the Beneficiary has maintained CTC
Consumption and CTC Production levels, as the case may be, which do
not exceed the phase-out targets set in the Annual Program, or (b) where
the Beneficiary has maintained CTC Consumption and CTC Production
levels, as the case may be, in excess of the said targets, the Beneficiary has


﻿Mr. Balkrishan Batra                -4-                      February 20, 2014
taken measures satisfactory to the Trustee to correct the situation and the
payments to be made to such Beneficiary have been reduced by fourth
thousand one hundred dollars ($4,100) per metric ton of CTC Production
above the target set forth in the Annual Program for the Program Year in
question;"
6.    A new sub-paragraph (f) is hereby added to paragraph (3) of Schedule I to the
Grant Agreement, which reads:
"(f)  any Sub-grant to a Former CFC Producers under Category (6) above,
unless: (i) IDBI has properly notified such Former CFC Producer of the
increase of the amount of it respective Sub-Grant Agreement, and/or enter
into a new on-granting arrangements, in order to reflect the (additional)
compensation to be paid by IDBI to said Former CFC Producer, on
account of its successful accomplishment of the accelerated phase out of
CFC production, all in manner and substance satisfactory to the Trustee."
7.    Part A of the Project description set forth in Schedule 2 to the Grant Agreement is
hereby amended to read:
"Part A: CTC and CFC Production
Provision of Sub-Grants to: (i) CTC Producers for the phase out of CTC
Production for non-feedstock applications; and (ii) Former CFC Producers on
account of the accomplishment of an accelerated CFC production phase out."
8.    Paragraph 1, sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) of Schedule 3 to the Grant Agreement are
hereby amended to read:
"(a)  the term "eligible Categories" means any of the Categories (1) through (6)
set forth in the table in paragraph I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)   the term  "eligible expenditures" means the following items of
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the OTF Grant allocated
from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, namely: (i) Sub-Grants under
Part A and B of the Project paid to Beneficiaries on account of (X) the
reduction in CTC Consumption and/or CTC Production; or (Z) the
successful accelerated phase out of CFC production; (ii) expenditures in
respect of the reasonable costs of goods and services required for Part C of
the Project; and (iii) the Agency Service Fee; and"
Except as otherwise expressly set forth in this letter of amendment, all provisions
of the Grant Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.


﻿Mr. Balkrishan Batra                -5-                      February 20, 2014
Please kindly confirm your agreement with the amendments proposed above in
this letter of amendment, by signing the form of confirmation set forth below, and
returning to us one fully executed original of this letter of amendment at your earliest
convenience, and retaining one original of this letter for your records. Copies of this
amendment letter will be sent to the Department of Economic Affairs (the "DEA") of the
Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Environment and Forests (the "MoEF") and the
United Nations Environment Programme (the "UNEP").
The letter of amendment shall: (i) enter into force upon the Bank's receipt of a
duly countersigned original, executed by an authorized representative of the Recipient;
and (ii) be deemed effective, retroactively, as of the date of the Grant Agreement, for
purposes of determining the eligibility of any expenditure financed under the Project.
Sincerely,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(Acting as Trustee of the Ozone Project Trust fund)
Onno Ruhl
Country Director, India
South Asia Region
AGREED on behalf of
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA
By:
Name:     Offa.
Title:      P-De-A          R4< D 6
Date:     Q    s-C?     0tL


﻿Mr. Balkrishan Batra                -6-                      February 20, 2014
cc:   Mr. Mukesh Nandan Prasad, Executive Director (India), World Bank
Mr. Manoj Pant, Senior Advisor to Executive Director (India), World Bank
Dr. V. Rajagopalan, Secretary, Ministry of Environment and Forests
Mr. Maninder Singh, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Environment and Forests
Mr. Brijesh Pandey, Deputy Secretary, Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry
of Finance
Mr. S.G. Dastidar, Controller of Aid Accounts & Audit, Department of Economic
Affairs, Ministry of Finance
Dr. A. Duraisamy, Director, Ozone Cell, Ministry of Environment and Forests
Mr. Aloke Sengupta, Chief General Manager - SSAD & PAD, IDBI, Mumbai


