Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 25154
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-28630; PPFI-P8690)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 5.4 MILLION
TO THE
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
FOR A
PRIVATE FARMER SUJPPORT PROJECT
March 10, 2003



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective October 2002)
Currency Unit = Macedonia Denar (MKD)
Macedonia Denar (MKD) = US$ 0.016
US$ 1.00 = MKD 62
FISCAL YEAR
January 1   -  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADUR     Agency for the Development of Underdeveloped Region
ARC     Agricultural Research Committee
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
FAO/IC  FAO Investrnent Center
FESAC    Financial and Enterprise Structural Adjustment Credit
FMD     Foot and Mouth Disease
FMF      Federation of Macedonian Farmers
GTZ     German Technical Cooperation Agency
IFAD     International Fund for Agriculture Development
MAFWE Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
NEA      National Extension Agency
PFSP    Private Farner Support Project
PSDP    Private Sector Development Project
PPF     Project Preparation Facility
SFRY     Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
MSO     Macedonia Statistical Office
SIDA     Swedish Intemational Development Agency
VI      Veterinary Institute
VISI     "Your Choice for the Future", Agric. Consulting Company
WTO     World Trade Organization
Vice President:  Johannes F. Linn, ECAVP
Acting Country Director:  Neil Simon M Gray, ECCU4
Sector Manager:   Joseph R. Goldberg, ECSSD
Task Team Leader:    Rapeepun Jaisaard, ECSSD



MACEDONIA, FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF
PRIVATE FARMER SUPPORT PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
I. Project Data                                                                       1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                      I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry            2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                               4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 9
6. Sustainability                                                                    10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                     12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                   14
9. Partner Comments                                                                  16
10. Additional Information                                                          21
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                 22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                 24
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 26
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 27
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                30






Project ID: P010001                                       Project Name: MACEDONIA PRIVATE FARMER
SUPPORT
Team Leader: Rapeepun Jaisaard                            TL Unit: ECSSD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: March 10, 2003
1. Project Data
Name: MACEDONIA PRIVATE FARMER SUPPORT              L/C/TF Number: IDA-28630;
PPFI-P8690
Country/Department: FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF                         Region: Europe and Central
MACEDONIA                                                    Asia Region
Sector/subsector. Central govemment administration (31%);
Agricultural extension and research (26%); Animal
production (18%); General finance sector (17%);
Agricultural marketing and trade (8%)
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   03/15/1994                             Effective: 12/23/1996         12/20/1996
Appraisal:  04/03/1995                               MTR: 11/01/1997            04/24/1998
Approval: 05/16/1996                               Closing: 12/31/1999         08/31/2002
Borrower/lImplementing Agency:  FYR MACEDONA/MIN. OF AGRICULTURE
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes F. Linn                          Wilfred Thalwitz
Country Manager:     Neil Simon M. Gray                        Kenneth Lay
Sector Manager:      Joseph R. Goldberg                        Jim Goering
Team Leader at ICR:  Rapeepun Jaisaard                         Chuck Anholt
ICR Primary Author:  Rapeepun Jaisaard
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely. HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M-=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: S                      S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The development objective of the Private Farmer Support Project (PFSP) was "to support the economic
transformation process by strengthening the provision of technology and information related services to
privatefarmers, thereby increasing their productivity and income". The objective was consistent with the
Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), approved by the Board on May 16, 1995, which identified the
small-farmer-dominated private agriculture sector as a growth sector. This outcome was seen as being
contingent on increasing participation in agricultural support services, within a more market-oriented
development environment, which would benefit from the reduction of subsidies, and the privatization of
agro-kombinats. A Structural Adjustment Loan/Credit, prepared in parallel with this project, was expected
to address these latter contingencies.
The development objective was appropriate in that it addressed the expressed needs of private small
farmers and met the government's objective of lifting growth and downsizing public services. The objective
was not, however, achievable within the project's original 3.5-year time frame, nor easily measurable,
being directed at development of infrastructure in the main rather than specific, measurable impacts on
production and income. This development was expected to generate long-term improvements in the delivery
of technological and animal health services to small farmers and thereby raise their incomes and reduce
poverty. The emphasis on animal health in both research and institutional development (e.g., privatization
of veterinary services) was aimed primarily at the small-scale household production of dairy cows and
small ruminants carried out primarily by women.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objectives were not revised during implementation.
3.3 Original Components:
The project components were built on the limited available experience in agricultural service reform in
eastern Europe at the time of project preparation and the wider knowledge of Bank project performance in
Macedonia under the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. The project components included
(i)  Strengthen the public extension service (MES), develop a network of partner private farmer
associations (FA) and assist MES in implementing pilot cost-sharing of FA expenditures on advisors,
farmer training and other costs;
(ii) Establish a competitive research grant fund to finance adaptive research and demonstration in priority
areas, such as Integrated Pest Management (IPM), animal husbandry, farm management, new horticultural
varieties and other areas identified in cooperation with farmers during project implementation;
(iii) Develop a substantial private veterinary services industry by inducing government veterinarians to
establish private practices by providing matching grants for individual investment; additional support to
strengthen the veterinary law, veterinary chamber and limited training of veterinarians;
(iv) Strengthen government animal health services through recruitment and specialized training of
additional staff, technical and financial assistance, support for animal-health research and upgrading of
animal quarantine services at 10 border posts;
(v) Support the development of a market news service through financial support and technical assistance,
plan and design a private, wholesale horticulture market for Skopje, and assist the government statistics
office with technical and financial assistance so that it could refine its methodology for generation of such
agricultural statistics as farmer income and productivity;
(vi) Improve rural credit provision by providing consultant services for farmers, training for commercial
bank credit officers, specialist assistance to selected banks, technical assistance to update the legal
framework governing collateral and court procedures, and support the expansion of rural savings
associations (SA) (contingent on the favorable review of a SA pilot program).
-2 -



3.4 Revised Components:
Three project components were revised during project implementation. The technical assistance support to
participating financial institutions was reduced and resources redirected to respond to a Foot and Mouth
Disease (FMD) outbreak emergency. Public advisory service resources were partially redirected to support
emerging private sector farm advisors, an activity identified, but not elaborated in the SAR. Savings from
various components were also applied to the extension of the adaptive agricultural research program to
include a market innovation research program. All revisions were detailed in supervision mission reports
and subsequent follow up letters to the govemment, copied to the relevant Executive Director.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality at entry is rated as satisfactory. The project responded to the CAS, within which it was
identified and to the Borrower's agricultural sector development priorities (to the degree that they had been
developed) and drew on the available experience of agricultural service reform in transitional economies.
The project objective and components were also consistent with those of parallel Bank investments
including a Structural Adjustment Loan (Loan No. 41530-MK) and Credit (Credit No. 29490-MK) and a
Financial and Economic Structural Adjustment Credit (FESAC), focused respectively on policy and
structural reforn, including reform in the agricultural sector. The project objective was relevant and project
components were prudently downsized at appraisal to better match implementation capacity. A project
preparation facility (PPF) was sensibly included to support project start-up. Identified risks, which included
staff resistance to the reform agenda, inadequate management capacity, delayed structural reform, regional
conflict and ethnic strife, all actually occurred. Provision for manageable risk included a PPF, the
assignment of procurement responsibility to the technical advisory team and stakeholder participation in the
reform process. The evaluation of the Bank's Safeguard Policies was limited to the environment, for which
risk was fairly assessed and mitigation action identified, mostly within the parallel SAL and in the on-going
preparation of a Bank-funded National Environment Action Plan.
Over ambitious reform agenda. While there is much to complimnent in the project design, the final product
was compromised by overly optimistic expectations regarding crucial institutional and legal reforns and an
impractical project time frame. The success of the veterinary reform program was dependent on the
passage of new legislation supporting veterinary service privatization. Similarly, agricultural extension
reform was dependent on the passage of an extension law and restructuring of the existing socialist
agriculture extension system. Although government provided assurances for the timely promulgation of the
new laws, there was little precedent for confidence in such assurances. Not unexpectedly, the country's
cumbersome legal process was fiuther impeded by staff resistance to reform, the rapid tunover of
MAFWE Ministers (7 over the project's 8-year cycle) and slow passage in a parliament overwhelmed with
new legislations. Pre-project stakeholder meetings established support for veterinary privatization,
however, the resistance of a few leading veterinarians prolonged negotiations over the conditions of
privatization, which were finally legislated in July 1998, two years after loan approval. Reform of the
extension law was precipitated by a "centralist" extension management team, which, in the process of
reformn, took the resulting national extension agency out of MAFWE control and resulted in an independent
agency. The extension law was eventually passed in January 1998, but it took a further six months to
complete the statutes of the new organization and an additional 5 months to prepare its book of rules, which
was completed two years after loan effectiveness.
Unrealistic time frame. The project preparation report described a 5-year project, which was reduced to
3.5 years in the white cover SAR While this was associated with a reduction in the number of project
activities and in their complexity, the project remained complex relative to the weak economic and
institutional setting for its implementation. The project document overestimated the implementation
- 3 -



capacity of staff and the readiness of civil society to participate in the project. The SAR and supporting
documentation are silent as to the reason for the 3.5-year project implementation period. Considering the
identified risks and the project's complexity, this time frame was much too short.
Weak civil society. The project anticipated strong stakeholder participation in the management of the
research and extension programs. At the time of project start-up Macedonia had just one small,
quasi-political farmers association, two national commodity associations, a limited number of
socialist-oriented farmer cooperatives, a large number of mostly inoperative local farmer associations and
an indeterminate number of farmer "syndicates" associated with the government-regulated Chamber of
Economy. Overall, social capital (social capital is defined as a cluster of cultural characteristics, which
create and maintain mutual trust and co-operation within a community or social group. Its three dimensions
include trust, associatedness and civicness.) was low, constrained by the limited legal and political
"operating space" and the lack of a tradition of cooperation between civil society organizations and the
private business sector or of effective communication with political parties or local administrations. Project
support for the development of about 40 farmer's associations was therefore appropriate.
Poverty and Gender. The economic consequences of independence from the SFRY led to a significant
increase in the incidence of poverty in the FYRM. It was widely known that poverty was more extensive in
rural FYRM than in urban areas. It continues to be debatable how to reduce rural poverty, but all agree
that one of the main strategic elements must be a resurgent agricultural industry. Another agreed element is
direct transfer payments for elderly and disabled. This project was not a poverty project per se, and aimed
its rural efforts at the agricultural incomes of the population of small, private, mainly subsistence farmers
who farm 70% of arable land in the country - 177,000 in number. The project believed that developing the
institutional base to support these poor, private farm households was the initial priority. Consistent with
this approach, support for the livestock production of these households was emphasized in the project in the
knowledge that women play an especially important part in animal husbandry.
Inconsistent Staff Appraisal Report. Significant differences occur in financial allocations and
procurement caps between the project COSTAB file and SAR tables and between tables within the SAR.
There are also addition errors in various SAR tables indicating the manual revisions of tables to
accommodate changes reached at negotiations.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The rating of achievement of project objectives is satisfactory, as the project has led, despite significant
externalities, to substantial, positive improvement in the provision of technical services to private fanners,
increased private provision of these services and strengthening of government agencies providing public
provision of services to farmers. In one case, however, that of the extension agency, the strengthened
agency will need reorganization to produce services of value to farmers.
With inadequate public extension services on offer, project resources were directed to private-sector
alternatives, leading to the major development of apolitical local and national farner associations
representing 25,000 private farmers and an officially recognized association of private farm advisors
serving the farmer associations. Research financed by the project through 31 competitive grants produced
useful adaptive research results and market innovations have been disseminated through print, web and
demonstration in farmers' fields. Veterinary services have been privatized and substantially expanded, with
104 veterinary practices now registered compared to 33 socially owned veterinary stations at project
start-up, and have led to better service at the private farm level. A private consulting company, owned and
- 4 -



operated by former project consultants, provide financial advisory services to private farmers and local
financial institutions, thus helping to improve credit availability.
Government agencies have been strengthened. The project has improved the collection, analysis and
reporting of animnal disease information and strengthened the government's border sanitary inspection and
laboratory analytical capacity. Through the competitive grant program, it has made headway in redirecting
the efforts of public agricultural research institutions. Livestock and horticultural product market price and
volume information is now systematically available in the mass media through the reporting services of a
market survey system established and funded within the Macedonian Statistical Office.
The project has upgraded equipment and facilities and trained staff at the govemment extension agency.
This provides the basis of a potentially valuable farmer support agency, even though, to date, an ineffective
and politicized management has not directed these resources to providing effective technological support to
private farmers. Thus, the recently elected govemment has the ability to move to create a
stakeholder-oriented agency that would greatly improve performance in meeting farmers' technical needs
largely through a thorough management shake-up.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Project outputs have been mostly realized, though at a much slower pace than was anticipated at appraisal.
Although the extemalities of regional and intemal conflict delayed project implementation, major delays
also occurred at project start-up due to the inadequate legal framework for veterinary and extension service
reform and MAFWE's inexperience in project management. The project was instrumental in drafting new
extension and veterinary legislation and the project management unit was strenthened with new efficient
professional staff.
Agricultural Advisory Services.
Extension Service. This component was revised to accommodate the establishment of the independent
public extension agency (NEA) by the new Agricultural Extension Law. The project outputs remained
essentially unchanged as those anticipated by the SAR. The new law and NEA statutes provided the basis
for reorientation of the old-socialist agriculture extension system to a more market-oriented institution. It
enabled the institution to shed all non-core activities in order to strengthen its capacity to concentrate on
core ones. Project analyses provided the government with an appropriate design that recognized market
demand and competition. The project provided extension staff with technical and financial management
training. They were also trained in the public media campaigns, publishing and web-page development.
As for managment of the NEA, a nine-person National Extension Management Board was established,
including 6 farmer members. Regional Advisory Boards were also established. NEA, unfortunately
suffered from the politicization of agency management appointments, which has led to an isolated,
centralized management structure and disaffected staff and clients. The National and Regional Boards were
established with farmer representatives, but the selected farmers were not representative of the wider
farming community, and the Boards proved largely ineffective in the face of a politicized NEA
management.
Nevertheless, project-financed initiatives within the NEA, including workplace reform (job descriptions and
a performance bonus scheme), privately owned vehicles, a transportation fund, upgraded office, computing
and communications facilities and increased staff capacity, have created a potentially valuable farner
support agency that has regrettably been seriously restrained by management. This strengthening of NEA
enabled NEA staff to initiate 40 cost-sharing programs with farmer associations (next para.). Despite the
-5 -



lack of support from NEA management and old-line staff, NEA staff with the assistance of project TA and
were also able to develop 15 technical intervention packages with farmers, though this fell short of the
planned 40 intervention packages. Feedback from farmers occurred at the local level, and is reflected in
some of the technical packages, but did not rise to the centralized NEA management and affect operations
generally. Growing frustration with the ineffectiveness of the NEA led to the broadening of FA service
contracts to include private sector advisers (as provided under SAR, para. 3.05). NEA income at
project-end from the sale of project sponsored technical packages has been negligible, but private farmn
advisers, now joined under the association Agro-Manager, have continued to expand their advisory
business with FAs. The new government, with a modicum of political will and the support of the national
farmer associations, could, with wholesale management restructuring, create a stakeholder-directed agency
with both the capacity and interest to meet farmers' technical needs. (Some minor changes to the NEA
Statutes could also assist the process.)
Rating: S
Farmer Associations/Groups. At farmer level, the original objective was to support 40 local farmer
associations (FAs) through project supported technical service contracts. During implementation the scope
of project activity was expanded to support the establishment of 5 commodity-based national associations,
4 regional federated farmer associations, and the Federation of Macedonian Farmers (FMF), an apolitical
national apex farmer organization. The project through the NEA ultimately supported 45 FAs, which was a
public and private cooperation. These progressed to 50:50 cost sharing anrangements, but such agreements
progressively failed as farmers became disaffected with the quality of services, and the NEA staff involved
grew dissatisfied with their resulting financial compensation. With the NEA-FA relationship faltering, the
PMU stepped in to create competition by supporting the restructuring of the FA network. In addition to the
problems with the cost-sharing contracts with the FAs, widespread dissatisfaction generally with the quality
and focus of the public extension service, resulted in project resources increasingly being directed to
private-sector alternatives, leading to the registration at project-end of Agro-Manager, a 45-member
association of private farm advisors. The project initiative to strengthen regional, commodity and national
FAs ultimately led to the establishment/integration of approximately 120 local FAs into 7 national
commodity associations and 4 regional associations as well as the FMF, culminating with the registration
in the FMF of 25,000 fee-paying members at project-end. While this far exceeds project targets, the
capacity of the FMF to influence government agricultural and extension policy remains to be tested.
Information concerning the FMF is available at http://www.macedonianfarmers.co.
Rating: HS
Private Veterinary Services.  The project successfully and sustainably privatized the 33 formerly
socially-owned veterinary stations and registered approximately 70 additional private veterinary practices
as well as many smaller, often single veterinarian ambulances. The newly created competition has led to
better quality and more affordable services for farmers. Clauses in the Veterinary Law that provide the
former socially owned enterprises with a 5-year monopoly on publicly funded disease-monitoring work will
soon terminate, and anti-competitive clauses that exclude the smaller ambulances from competing for this
work are expected to be removed in a new law now under preparation. The project sponsored the
establishment of a Veterinary Chamber. So far the chamber has been dominated by publicly employed
veterinarians but this will change as the industry changes and private veterinarians elect their own
candidates.
Rating: S
- 6-



Animal Health Services
Epidemiological and Inspection Services. The project has successfully set up a new Epidemiological Unit in
MAFWE with two competent staff trained abroad under the project at an internationally recognized
institute. Under the project, the Epidemiological Unit developed a computer-based disease recording and
reporting system. Border sanitary inspection practice and Veterinary Institute analysis have also been
strengthened and integrated into the epidemiology program. The unit was able to provide assurance that
the country was free of foot & mouth disease, thus enabling it to regain access to the EU lamnb market.
While this is a substantial achievement, the system needs high-level attention and support. Staffing and
funding of the Epidemiological Unit is barely sufficient, while the Veterinary Institute (VI) has proven an
uneven partner in providing testing services for epidemiological studies. This is partly a reflection of
restricted income caused by the regime of the financial self-sufficiency for the VI, which reports to the
Ministry of Science and Education, not MAFWE, though the latter is its main income source. The need for
restructuring under a new Food Safety administration is indicated, including the development of publicly
owned and funded laboratory facilities.
Rating: S
Agricultural Marketing
Market News Service. The market information program, now fully funded by the Macedonian Statistical
Office, monitors daily prices at 13 retail and wholesale vegetable and fruit markets, 6 livestock markets and
key markets in neighboring countries. Market prices are published weekly on national television while
monthly bulletins (Market Informator) are sold to about 570 subscribers for MKD 140 (US$ 2.0) each.
Plans are in progress for a web-based information service. These outputs meet or exceed SAR expectation.
To date, the demand for market information, from traders, market analysts, donors and institutes has been
sufficient. Farmers, though, still mostly sell in local markets where they are well informed on daily prices,
while traders using mobile phones and the internet can easily source real-time market information from
market-based informers. The information program will therefore need to keep up to date with the
fast-evolving changes in agricultural marketing and information technology.
Horticultural Wholesale Market. This component was delayed pending analysis of EU- and USAID-funded
market studies and was ultimately refocused toward the assessment of private-farmer marketing of high
value horticulture products. This resulted in a valuable analysis of Macedonian horticultural product
marketing systems and future development requirements and is published in CD-ROM format. Associated
workshops were well attended and attracted considerable donor, farmer and processor interest. Follow-up
action by MAFWE has not materialized yet, though, and it is too early to ascertain whether it will and,
stimulate private or public sector investment in improved market infrastructure and services.
Rating: S
Adaptive Research. The project funded 25 competitively awarded applied research programs, of which 24
were completed. Inadequate bid evaluation and research supervision detracted from early research outputs,
but these deficiencies were addressed by the project mid-term and 10 of the applied research outputs are
considered to have contributed significantly to agricultural competitiveness. Additional funding was applied
to a competitive market innovation research program leading to 7 project awards. These were delayed by
the local insurrection of 2000/2001 and subsequently by government budget constraints and none have
reached evaluation stage. Even so, 5 of the 7 projects have produced promising initial outputs. Cost
recovery from income generated by these research projects is proposed to flow to a new applied research
-7-



fund, based within the recently established Agriculture Fund.
Rating: S
Rural Financial Intermediation
Chattel Mortgag-es in Agriculture. Due to delays in project implementation, this activity was covered by
other donor support and was subsequently dropped from the project.
Rating: n.a
Farm Credit Services. The PFSP recruited and trained 10 farm financial advisors to assist farmers and
banks over a two-year period to disburse the USD 2.5 million agricultural credit component of the PSDP.
This was successfully completed with 95.3% of funds disbursed through 56 loans. The farm financial
advisors, trained and employed by the project, subsequently formed VISI, a private agricultural technical
and financial advisory service which continues to work with private farmers and small processors in
developing business plans to obtain loans from commercial banks.
Rating: S
Savings and Credit Associations. This component was scheduled for definition during project
implementation. National Bank policy prevented the establishment of savings and credit associations. Bank
enthusiasm for altematively supporting donor-funded rural Savings House initiatives was not matched by
the govemment, and this component was dropped from the project.
Rating: n.a
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not Applicable
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not Applicable
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project was successful in strengthening the institutional base of Macedonian agriculture. The
privatization of veterinary services and the establishment of Agro-Manager, an association of private farm
advisers, VISI an agricultural financial advisory company and the Federation of Macedonian Farmers, are
important private sector institutional outcomes of the project. Within the public sector, the project
facilitated the establishment and sustainable funding of the MAFWE Epidemiology Unit and the MSO
Market Information Service. The project also supported the establishment of the MAFWE Agricultural
Research Committee (ARC) and the strengthening of the National Extension Agency, though neither of
these institutions has yet demonstrated the degree of stakeholder participation for their longer-term
effectiveness.
The sustainability of the NEA and the ARC are more matters of political will and conmmitment to the
principle of stakeholder participation than inherent flaws in their structure or Statutes. MAFWE has not
been actively involved in research, which has traditionally supervised by the Ministry of Science and
Education, although the Science Law does not prevent it from funding of applied research. The the
legislation for the recently established Agriculture Fund, in fact, provides MALFWE with a mandate to
-8-



support agricultural research as well as assured research funding and includes a mandate to support
agricultural research. Given the dearth of public funding for agricultural research, most research institutes
currently largely pursue quality testing and commercial production contracts rather than research as a
matter of survival. The allocation of a relatively small proportion of the anticipated Agriculture Fund
income to research would could finance the ARC and make a significant contribution to applied
agricultural research in the country.
The Statutes of the NEA provide for farmer Advisory Boards at the regional level and a farmer-dominated
Management Board at the national level. The latter was designed to have full responsibility for the NEA
work plan and budget. Drawing on the reforms achieved by the project, including clear job descriptions, a
performance bonus scheme and substantial improvement in staff capacity, a competent management board
selected with representative stakeholder participation could transform the agency into a truly participatory
body providing a mix of public and private services to the rural community. In particular, the NEA could
support the establishment of the farm data accountancy network required for EU integration and focus
increasingly on environment and rural development issues as Macedonia shifts its agricultural support
measures toward WTO green box interventions.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
S. I Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
(a)    Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency
In 1996, a FMD outbreak closed the important lamb export market and led to the large-scale slaughter of
livestock. MAFWE and farmer focus was diverted by this from the PFSP and project management was
engaged in developing mitigation strategies, partially affecting project start-up. The Kosovo conflict in
1999 and the associated Serbian blockade reduced market opportunities for Macedonian farmers and
delayed delivery of project goods and services, again partially affecting project implementation. The
2000/2001 insurrection in Macedonia created considerable uncertainty, prevented Bank project
supervision, limited access to some project areas and substantially reduced the government's capacity to
address project issues and fund project recurrent costs, significantly affecting project implementatiom
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Over the 8-year project design/implementation period, MAFWE fell under the responsibility of 7 separate
Ministers, substantially affecting project ownership and philosophy. The politicization of NEA
management in 1998 reduced the effectiveness of completed PFSP capacity building programs and
diminished ownership of development concepts agreed at appraisal, substantially reducing opportunities for
stakeholder participation in NEA management. The slow preparation and passage of legislation
underpinning veterinary and extension service reform substantially delayed project implementation. Staff
uncertainty about the outcome of these reforms, particularly within the extension service, but also among
older veterinarians, contributed to these delays. Macroeconomic policies had negligible effect on project
implementation or outcomes and government remained committed to the project throughout its
implementation.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Project implementation capacity was identified as a risk at appraisal and proved to be an early constraint to
project implementation. MAFWE staff had no prior ,experience in Bank project management and few
English-speaking staff to commit to its management. The recruitment of the project manager-designate into
the World Bank exacerbated these constraints. Procurement management was a particular problem, in large
part due to the failure of both the implementation team and Bank supervision (which approved the TORs)
to include procurement support in the technical assistance package as provided for in the SAR (SAR, para.
-9-



3.18). TA was generally used effectively, although project management was initially slow to identify
underperformance and request changes when it occurred. Monitoring and Evaluation of project activities
was unsatisfactory. Monitoring work contracted to a local consultant was of poor quality and was never
completed, the famm-monitoring program was only implemented in the last project year and the planned
project impact assessment was not tendered. Beneficiary participation varied, being particularly weak
where it was most needed, e.g.,within the NEA, but blossomed under the guidance of the PMU, whose staff
sponsored the establishment of both Agro-Manager and the Federation of Macedonian Farmers. While the
MAFWE project management team showed a strong commitment to project success, their initial
inexperience substantially affected project implementation. The subsequent appointment of a professional,
independent PMU to manage the project accelerated project implementation and substantially reduced the
Bank's supervisory role.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The project, which was extended twice, for a total period of 22 months, expended approximately SDR4.97
million or 92 percent of the SDR 5.4 million available credit. The project Credit Account was closed with a
cancellation of SDR 430,122.95 on January 22, 2003. The project extensions reflect, in considerable part,
the unrealistic implementation schedule set at appraisal. Given the identified constraints within the
implementing agency and with the project's complexity, the reduction of the implementation period from 5
to 3.5 years between project preparation and appraisal was inappropriate, even considering the associated
reduction of project activities. Bank confidence in the project manager-designate and some pressure to
disburse quickly appear to have underpinned this choice. The Bank's subsequent recruitment of the project
manager-designate, while strengthening local supervision, substantially diminished MAFWE
implementation capacity. Procurement constraints during early project implementation were in large
measure due to the failure to employ supporting intemational TA as provided for in the SAR.
Regional and domestic insecurity delayed project implementation, in part due to the lack of counterpart
funding during and immediately after the period of domestic insecurity. It is a sign of the government's
commitment to the project however, that it was among the first projects to achieve full counterpart funding
once security retumed.
There were two revisions of the project legal agreement to reflect changes in procurement categories. The
first revision, within which all expenditure categories were adjusted, was primarily in response to the
increased investment and TA requirements of NEA following its establishment as an independent agency,
an event not anticipated at appraisal. An unallocated amount of US$ 350,000, added to the project costs at
loan negotiation, was also allocated with this revision and the US$400,000 allocated for the PPF was
reduced to US$225,826 following the completion of the PPF. The second reallocation, at project end,
involved changes to accommodate final expenditure outcomes, including an increase in the TA allocation
and increased costs for on-farm technology demonstration grants and applied market-innovation research
following the agreed expansion of this program in June 2000. Savings came primarily from the
US$272,712 allocated for the project's rural financial services component which was cancelled due to other
donor activity in this field. Errors in the SAR procurement and expenditure category tables contributed to
the need for some adjustments.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
Overall, the achievements of the PFSP are likely to be sustained. The large number of farmer associations
established with project support are fee-based, federated and focused on raising the quality and
marketability of their products. In that pursuit, they are now supported by private veterinary and farm
- 10-



advisory services and an increasingly well capitalized banking sector is beginning to reach out to rural
areas. The livestock industry is better protected at the border and the epidemiological service is building
strategies for the eradication of tuberculosis and brucellosis in cattle and sheep, for which government and
donor funding has been identified. A market infornation service, integrated into the Macedonia Statistical
Office, is now functioning systematically.
The sustainability of the public extension service and the agricultural research fund is a matter of better
management and political will. Both have capacity, funding, statutes and procedures to ensure continuity
and enable stakeholder participation. The newly established FMF plans to discuss farmer roles in the
management of these institutions with the incoming government and there is reason for optimism that a
more stakeholder-driven institutional framework will emerge from that process than was achievable under
the PFSP.
The IFAD-financed Rural Financial Services Project which is to commence in late 2002 and be managed
by the former PFSP PIU, will provide continuing support to farmer associations, technology development
and the integration of the agricultural market supply chain. It will also have a refinancing facility for bank
lending to rural clients. Other, donor- funded programs in the fields of rural finance, farm accounting and
data network, animal numbering and agricultural policy will further underpin the gains made under the
PFSP.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
(a)    Transition arrangements for the project'sfuture operation
The project has facilitated the emergence of private sector agricultural services and associations, together
with a supporting policy framework and a sustainable base for their growth. In the public arena,
project-developed epidemiological and market information services are integrated into the national budget.
The institutional arrangements for greater stakeholder participation in the management of agricultural
extension and applied research, although established in law, have been negatively affected by remain
vulnerable to political actions and need to be provided with improved management. A range of donors have
programmed additional support for these various related and supporting activities. SIDA is funding
programs for strengthening farmer associations and the farm accounting data network. IFAD is funding a
rurl credit project that will use public and private farm advisors, promote technology innovation and build
farmer-led market chain management programs. The EU is supporting animal numbering and its integration
into the epidemiological program. GTZ is supporting farmner association development and market
integration and a number of national and international NGOs are supporting farmer associations at the
local level. Continuing Bank dialogue, drawing on the recent Agricultural Sector Review, should cover the
full range of priority action recommended in the Review.
(b)    Perfornance indicators for future project monitoring and evaluation
Key performance indicators for impact evaluation will include (i) membership and financial records of the
FMF and Agro-Manager; (ii) the profitability and level of market integration of farmer association-owned
enterprises; (iii) farm income as measured by the farm accounting data network; (iv) the registration of
private veterinarians; (v) government budget and staff allocations for epidemiology and market information
services; and (vi) the level of demnocratic stakeholder participation in the management of the NEA and the
Agriculture Fund.
(c)    Bankfollow-up



Impact evaluation of PFSP outputs should not occur before late 2004 following their consolidation under
the new IFAD financed Rural Financial Services Project. The Bank's recently completed Agriculture
Sector Note should form the basis of bank follow-up of the sector. Areas identified for priority government
action are to make productive the resources in ex- and current AKs and in state forests; expand rural credit
and rural financial institutions; improve the climate for investment and SME development; improve
irrigation and other rural infrastructure; develop and modernize public agricultural institutions; develop and
modernize private agricultural institutions; alleviate poverty by increasing employment and family incomes.
Within these priority areas, possible Bank support could focus on land market reform, agricultural
competitiveness including production technology, food safety and agricultural product market chain
management, irrigation-sector restructuring and reform, and public and private institutional development.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. Lending:
The bank performance in the management of the PFSP project cycle was satisfactory. The project was
identified by an FAO Investment Center (FAO/IC) mission in collaboration with the Macedonian
government in February/March 1993. A second joint FAO/IC - Macedonian government mission prepared
the project in May 1994. There was no overlap in FAO/IC team membership between identification and
preparation, however, the Macedonian government team remained essentially unchanged. The preparation
team identified a series of supporting studies covering agricultural land, market information and rural credit
that were subsequently funded by USAID. The FAO/IC preparation mission team leader was the deputy
team leader of the Bank appraisal mission in April/May 1995. The appraisal mission team leader and the
participating Bank extension and credit specialists made several follow-up visits between appraisal and
loan negotiation for follow-up discussions with Government. The resulting project was closely linked to
govermment's rather thin agricultural development objectives, drew on available bank experience with
agricultural service reform in transitional economies, was consistent with the 1995 CAS, within which the
project was identified and was supportive of policy and institutional reforms in parallel SAL and FESAC
programs. The government consistently exhibited strong ownership of the project. One notable problem in
the project design was the inordinate number of errors in the SAR financial, procurement and disbursement
tables. This appears to have largely resulted from the manual manipulation of COSTAB generated tables
following revisions at loan negotiations.
The appraisal mission substantially reduced the scale and complexity of the project described in the
preparation report, but retained the core elements of the essential reform package in a series of
well-structured, linked activities. This was primarily a response to MAFWE's limited implementation
capacity, but was also influenced by the decision to move a proposed agricultural credit component to the
PSDP, together with Bank management's choice to limit the size and duration of the agricultural loan. The
resulting 3.5-year project time frame, however, was unrealistically short, particularly given that it was at
least partially based on the competence of the project manager-designate, subsequently recruited into the
local Bank office.
A PPF was sensibly included to support the development of the MAFWE project management team and
address legal and otier issues critical to project implementation. The failure to implement a planned
start-up workshop or to ensure the inclusion of the supporting procurement TA into project TA tender
package exacerbated constraints imposed by the short implementation period. Project provision for
monitoring and evaluation was adequate, however, given the weak monitoring and evaluation culture in
FYRM, this component should have been more closely integrated into the project management work
program. Reliance on the 1994 census for financial baseline information proved inappropriate, due to its
- 12 -



late availability and sampling methodology. SAR compliance with Bank safeguard policies, as they stood at
that time, was satisfactory.
Rating: S
7.2 Supervision:
Project supervision was satisfactory, with two supervision missions during each year of implementation,
except in 2001 when the local security situation only permitted a single, brief supervision. Unfortunately, a
FMD outbreak in mid-1996 during the period of PPF implementation and project start-up diverted the first
project supervision mission's attention from project management issues, probably contributing to the
omission of the start-up workshop and procurement TA support. Subsequent supervisions were
appropriate, thorough and resulted in detailed Aide Memoirs and timely, specific follow-up letters to
government. The Bank task manager gave considerable support to the PFSP procurement program through
1998/99, though this might have been better addressed through periodic project employment of an
international procurement specialist, as procurement issues at times strained the Bank-project management
relationship. Although there was a relatively high turnover of task managers, with four over the project's
life, the presence of the Bank's local Agriculture and Environment Officer ensured a continuity of process
and close follow-up, as did the limited turnover of consultants participating in project supervision. Where
alterations to project programs were recommended, the supervision team  prepared detailed
recommendations for their implementation, though government ownership of some of these
recommendations was low. Supervision recommendations for an animal ear tagging program and support
to a non-government micro-enterprise organization, received tepid support from government and were
subsequently dropped. The supervision missions also supported two government requests for project
extension, the decision on the first of which was postponed for 15 months by Bank management pending an
improvement in project implementation and disbursement. This'delay caused considerable anxiety amongst
government and project management, with negative effect, and was of questionable value considering that
slow project start-up was a factor of management inexperience and slow legal reform rather than any loss
of commitment on government's part.
Rating: S
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
The overall rating of Bank perfornance is satisfactory, with the solid supervision performance partially
offset by the failure to build ownership for some recommendations and some weaknesses in project design
and the initial supervision of implementation.
Rating: S
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's participation in project preparation was satisfactory, though they did not play a leading
role in the process. Government experience in the World Bank project cycle and in loan management in
1993/94 was negligible and the project preparation missions spent considerable time, including workshops,
to appraise MAFWE management of the process. The preparation teams enjoyed the full support of
MAFWE and had full access to MAFWE management, including the Minister and to necessary public and
private sector officials and records. One constraint, though largely beyond MAFWE control, was that the
3-year project preparation process was presided over by three different Ministers of Agriculture. Another
issue was that Government withheld from the preparation process its intention to establish an independent
extension agency, a process now known to have been in train by loan negotiations. First detected by the
-13-



Bank during a November 1996 supervision mission, this action seriously delayed project start-up and
partially compromised the project preparation process. While the eventual outcome was satisfactory from
an institutional perspective, though less so in its implementation, it would have been considerably better if
integrated into the design process.
Rating: S
7. S Government implementation performance:
Overall, government implementation performance was satisfactory, though the first two years bordered on
unsatisfactory. The government was slow to process laws concerning extension and veterinary service
reform, largely due to internal staff resistance to change. Stronger leadership by MAFWE management
could have reduced these delays and could also have overcome later blockages to effective farmer
participation in NEA management. This latter, politically charged issue was not addressed over the life of
the project despite several commitments by MAFWE management to do so.
Rating: S
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The project implementation agency was satisfactory, with project management improving markedly over
time. The initial project management team, while dedicated, was inexperienced and did not adequately
exploit mitigating strategies provided under the project, particularly concerning procurement. The
establishment of an independent, government funded, professional PMU in early 1999 substantially
improved implementation performance. Government showed a strong commitment to counterpart funding,
the only shortfall occurring during 2000/2001 due to domestic insurrection.
Rating: S
7.7 Overall Borrowerperformance:
Taking into the account the aforementioned ratings, the performance of the Borrower is assessed as
satisfactory.
Rating: S
8. Lessons Learned
The project provides a series of lessons concerning "ownership", particularly in a society with low social
capital. The apparent majority stakeholder support at appraisal for reform of extension and veterinary
services was subverted by powerful minorities, leading to a two year delay in the passage of legislation
underpinning PFSP financed reforms. These reforms and associated programs were "owned" by extension
staff and MAFWE, but not by a new, centralist extension agency management team. It is clear that
ownership will be constantly challenged in a project overseen by 7 different ministers, 4 Bank task
managers and 2 project managers, operating in a weak agricultural policy environment and affected by the
enormous political instability of Macedonia, especially in the countryside, in the late 1990s. The lessons
include: (i) unforseeable political events can powerfully affect project outcomes, (ii) the project
management team needed to be able, flexible and independent of day-to-day politics (like the second project
management team), (iii) with an able, flexible management team, a satisfactory project outcome is still
possible in a context of great turmoil, and (iv) project adjustments should occur in response to real
government commitments and project management capability, not simply supervision initiatives.
- 14 -



The use of monitoring and evaluation as a management tool is weak in many transitional economies. Multi
dimensional projects such as the PFSP are difficult to monitor, and project objectives when stated in terms
of "strengthening the provision of technology and information" and "improvingfarmers production and
income" are both difficult to measure or attribute cirectly to project inputs. A project monitoring and
evaluation program should be fully described and priced in the design document, preferably including the
cost of a dedicated project M&E officer. Project objectives must be as clear and measurable as possible,
outputs must be designed to contribute to the achievement of each objective and activities to contribute to
each output. Insofar as possible, these should be expressed in measurable terms. Furthermore, in a project
such as the PFSP, with its focus on stakeholder participation and broad capacity building, stakeholders
should participate in M&E activities.
Competitive grants for economic and social development are an effective and increasingly popular
development tool. Unfortunately, they are also open to inappropriate use, particularly in a society where
leadership (academic, community, institutional) is often traditional and inflexible. Competitive grant
management requires strong, independent supervision and regular auditing. Grants for activities longer than
6 months should be released in tranches, preferably on a reimbursable basis with funds handled through
separate sub-accounts to those of the implementing institutions. All competitive grants should be included
in the project's annual audit and grant contracts must make clear provision for the recovery of unexpended
funds.
Farmer organizations must be built progressively from the grass roots in a layered, registered
organizational structure - local, regional, national -- building leadership capacity along the way and
avoiding elite capture at all points, but particularly at the national level. Farmer unions may be
well-advised to employ articulate, trained policy makers, but must always ensure that the elected leadership
remains the authoritative voice of the organization. Their effectiveness requires that they received training
in rural leadership, public speaking, agricultural law, policy analysis and world events affecting local
environment including WTO and other trade agreements. Natural leaders may emerge from the rural
community, but their capacity to effectively engage the national political/economic systems will require the
empowerment of such leadership training supported by sound technical, economic and political advice.
- 15..



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
- 16 -



Republic of Macedonia
Ministry for Agriculture, Forestry and Wa(er Economy
Leninova 2, 1 000 Skopje
tel. 3892 113045
fax. 389 2 230 429
Febnuary 17, 2003
To: Mr Neil Simon M. Gray
Acting Country Director
South East Europe Country Unit
Europe and central Asia rgion
The World Bank
Dear Mr. Gray,
Ref IDACredit 28630 MX (Prvgte Farmer Supo Pric)
With reference to the letter of December 3, 2002, signed by Mr. C.J.Poonman, we have
reviewed the Draft Implementation Report for the Private Farmer Support Project and
our commen   M as follows:
- 17 -



MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FORESTRY AND WATER ECONOMY
PRIVATF. FARMER SUPPORT PROJECT
The Private Farmer Support Project (PFSP) was designed to support the
economic transformation process by strengtheing agricultural support senrices to
private farmers in order to increase their productivity and income. The project placed
special emphasis on instittional and capacity building to ensure that the achieved
outcomes can be sustained and the future reforms are being carried out in a professional
and organized manner.
Despite the risks predictd at the project appraisal which later appeared as a
potential resistance by various public insitutions involved in the project, the
implementing agency has accomplished a significant amount of work making critical
contributions to the reform of public agriculural technology and information services.
Political and security crisis in Macedonia in 2001, and other externalities that
affected project perfonnance impacd negatively on the successful achievement of the
development objectives in the agreed timefuame.
However, the project is highly likely to have a substantial development impact
in the long-term.
It is Government opinion that the PFSP has, during the pefiod of
implementation, achieved the goals set in terms of development of models, methwds and
istruments impoTtant for the development of advisory services, marketing and
mechanisms that can be used to link individual famers with associations of farners.
Two models of advisory services have been developed:
Public advior servie, with the relevant mechanisms already been developed
to enable the establishment of liks between fanners and their organizations, which arm
important preconditions for the enhamcement of the quality of marketing and
production, under conditions of growing demand for standardized products in the local
and interntional markets.
In parallel with the strengthening of the links between the advisory service and
its clients, and with a view to developing a modern insfintion which can be integrated
successfilly in the system of food production, the capacity of the advisory service has
been built to offer relevant solutions so that it can service the technology, management
and marketing needs of its cliants.
In order to create a competitive market place, which will invariably raise the
quality of advisory services offered, a need was identified during the implementation of
the Project for a private advisory service. The Project providod the relevant support for
the establishment and growth of suh a service.
-18 -



This service, with its leadership, management and specialized teams, has
developed its own democrtic and market principles of sustainable development, as well
as the establishment of efficient links with its specified target group.
The Govermnent's expectations from this advisory group arc that it will take an
active paricipation in the transfer and practical application of the latest, up-to-date
technology, innovations, standards and regulations petaining to sustainable food
production, as well as rational and cost efficient utilization of natural. financial and
hwnan resources in the susainable rural development.
With reference to organizing the farmeni, a Federation of Macedonian Farmers
has been established as the highest form of organization of famners in the Republic of
Macedonia. The federation unites 178 associations with a total of 25 000 fairmers.
The Government of RM considers the Federation a seious partner in the
creation of conditions conducive to the development of agriculture as a significant
branch of the economy which will contribute to the faster and successful
implementadon of the refoms associated with food production, as well as to the
minimization of risks in the process of integration of this sector in EUJ.
The stegthening of producion, processing and trade associations are believed
to be an important element in the strategy of increasing the prodw.ion of quality and
competitive agricultural products to be offered in the local and foreign markets, since
they ensure that the producers are given a consistent and meaningful presentation of
their interests and needs and provide then  with valuable services which incrse
productivity, revenues and placement opportmities.
Following the establishment of the epideniological unit within the MAFWE
Veterinary Department PFSP enabled designing of sustainable animal disease
monitoring system and efficient way of controlling. This initiativc has resulted in very
successful results which were also intemationally rwcognized.
MAFWE acknowledged the importance of existing of such a Unit and the necessity for
its further development Having this in place will be step forward in minimizing human
health hazard and hards to the animaJ production and by that increasing farmcrs
readiness for breeding animals and assuring his income.
With support of the PFSP MAFWE has established a O3rant Fund aimed for
financial assistance in transformation of state and establishing of new veterinary
enterprises The Grant supported up to 40% of total investment, and the mwxmum
allowed amount per veterinary enterprise was 15.000 USD. About 100 private
veterinary practices registered with the M:AFWE, some focused on domestic pet
services, to large regional clinics offering comprehensive veterinary services on a
regional basis. The impact of this initiative is seen in broad-based competitive services
available to clients on demand.
Market Information Service is established within the Macedonian Statistical
Office with a computer and analytical capacity to produce and publish information
- 19 -



(bulletins), mass-media outlets and monitors the daily prices at the retail and wholesale
vegetable, fruit and livestock markets in the country.
The Project invested in staff capacity buikling through the years of its
implentation, in hardware, software and database with dcveloped methodology for
monitorng the market and other agricultural sfttistical data.
The Macedoiman Statistcal Ofice has to continue to suppoti the Market
Information Service in order to follow the fluctuations of pnices of the agricultural
products in the markets in the RM and to bring it closr to those in the westem
developed countries. The MIS oooperates and exchanges information with market
services from other countries escially in the Balkan region.
The PFSP has initiated the Agriculture Applied Rescarch Program which has
significantly influenced manner and behavior of researchers in MacedoniaL
The ncw appoch in the agricultural research where adaptive, demonstration
and technology transfer to the end user was implemented; with clear demnd driven and
increasing of profitability to the fanner was the key role in the component. The lesson
learned by the researhcs is the fact that without clear demonstration of better
profitability to the farmers the adaptive research is useless.
In case of Market Innovation Program (MEP), the main outcome is the prove that
firners, processors, and tradr can be organized in common interest in order to
improve marketability of the product. Also, the development component of MIP,
generated suppoct towartis technlogy modernization and sustainable foundatdon of
cooperative based agro-industry Neverteless. the lessons learned in this component
will generate fore coming approach into wupport of the farmers, and help in
developnent of the Macedonian Agricultural Sector.
llhe operation of the World Bank during course of the project realization is
assessed as efficient, useful and supporlive for all instittions that participated in the
project implementation. During the implementation, the project was regularly monitored
by the WB missions, asssing the stats of the project components, assisting the
counterpas  with the defiition, scheduling and budgeting of project program. As a
result of it the Atde-Meoires were produced, giving the suumary of the mission's
findings and recommendations for the future steps.
The World Bank performance bad a great contribution with respect to the
successful completion of the project.
Sin't,cefe
Mi
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
- 20 -



10. Additional Information
This section includes any additional information at the discretion of the Region.
-21 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
,--., *   .;.lndl     i- . 9 *rJcted In                              PSR - |D  *              E ItIaVe;
More relevant, responsive and accountable  Stakeholder managemnent of public extension Stakeholder representation on management
extension service.                   and research delivery                boards, but not democratically appointed or
effective.
Private delivery of agficultural services.  Increased private sector participation in  104 private vetefinary services; 45 member
agricultural service delivery        association of private farm advisors; 25,000
member farmers federation.
Expanded awareness of agricultural prices.  Unspecified                   570 fee-paying subscribers to monthly
bulletin of agricultural commodity prices from
19 markets plus intemational regional
markets.
More efficient marketing of horticultural  Private investrnent in wholesale markets  None
products
Applied research projects responsive to  Functional, sustainable Agricultural  ARC moribund. No sustainable funding
stakeholder needs.                   Research Committee.
Disease surveillance to EU standards  Effective epidemiology program established  Effecbve epidemiology program established
and 10 border sanitary inspection posts  and 10 border sanitary inspection posts
strengthened                         strengthened
Fornmal financial markets accessible and  Private farmers effectively accessing formal Significant improvement in private famier
lacceptable to farmers               credit                                credit access.
Output Indicators:
J . .- 2nd-cato,1MaUlx      -               ProJected In last PSR      il.-  -  ActuaiULatea Estime.      :
Farmners Associations & Groups formed  45                                  120
Number of farner association members  2,200                                25000
Stakeholder participation in NEA     Democratic farmer and agnibusiness   Stakeholder Board established, but filled with
management                           representation on management board   Ministerial appointees.
Farm financial surveys completed     300 per year                         417, only in final project year
Famier cost sharing of extension services  25-50% of costs covered by users.  < 5% of NEA costs covered, however,
extensive contractng of pfivate advisers.
Expanded awareness of market prices  Unspecified                          570 paying subscribers to monthly market
price newsletter
Private investment In horticulture market  Unspecified                    None
Reduction in roadside sales          Unspecified                          Limited reduction through farmer contracts
with agribusiness.
Agricultural Research Council        ARC working effectively and sustainable  ARC moribund. Source of sustainable
financed.                            funding established but not operating
effecively.
Development and adoption of new technology 25 research trials completed and extended to 24 research trials completed and extended.
farmers.                             10 judged to have a significant effect on
competitiveness. 7 market innovation trials
are established and on going.
33 public veterinary stations privatized.  15 private veterinary practices established.  104 private veterinary practices and
ambulances established.
Intemationally acceptable animal disease  Established                     Established
eporting system
Veterinary Chamber                   Established                          Established
Private veterinarians contracted for disease                              Private veterinarians contracted
monitoring                           Private veterinarians contracted
Disease surveillance system established  System established to EU standards.  System established to EU standards.
Border inspection post upgraded      10 posts upgraded                    10 posts upgraded
Chattel mortgage law                 Chattel mortgage law established and used  Cancelled
-22 -



Farm credit advisors appointed for 2 years  6 farm credit advisors appointed  10 farm credit advisors appointed and form
private company on completion of
assignment.
Farm loans approved                  Unspeciried                         57 loans approved to value of approx. USD
2.5 million
End of project
Savings and Credit         To be programmed               Cancelled
Associations established
-23 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
A  . ' t  1  , Co?'ponert  X  .  F - rt.   'Stua Lriest -zPEcent,l;; oft
~~..;                                          Estimate .~~~~ i7~~Erppra-idal,
Project Preparation Facilities                       0.67            0.28           41.2
Agricultural Support Services
Adaptive Research                                    0.84           1.01          120.6
Agriculture Advisory Services                        3.88           2.71           69.8
Private Veterinary Services and Anirna Health Services  1.86        1.93            104
Rural Finance Service                                1.64           0.23             13
Agric. Market Information                            0.76           0.48           62.6
Project Management Unit                              0.52            0.63          125.5
Total Baseline Cost                                  10.17           7.27
Total Project Costs             10.17           7.27
Interest during construction
Front-end fee
Total Financing Required              10.17           7.27
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
-'  o~)'t<t-,,,,,&;,J t;  7}'t^9';.:E)Procurementi ethkdX!E+ -.-
Expend4urs.Categor  X     ICB        -  -i C '              *, tBF           Total Cost
1              .         NCBS'thr.
1. Works                      0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
_(0.00)           (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                      0.00         0.00          2.05         0.00         2.05
(0.00)       (0.00)        (1.65)       (0.00)       (1.65)
3. Services                   0.00         0.00          2.70         0.00         2.70
(0.00)       (0.00)        (2.60)       (0.00)       (2.60)
4. Miscellaneous              0.00         0.00          1.52         0.00         1.52
Training & TA               (0.00)        (0.00)        (1.18)       (0.00)      (1.18)
5. Miscellaneous              0.00         0.00          1.55         0.00         1.55
Research Grant&Vet Fund      (0.00)       (0.00)        (1.05)       (0.00)       (1.05)
6. Miscellaneous              0.00         0.00          2.35         0.00         2.35
(0.00)       (0.00)        (1.42)       (0.00)       (1.42)
Total                      0.00          0.00         10.17        0.00         10.17
(0.00)       (0.00)        (7.90)       (0.00)       (7.90)
-24 -



Project Costs by Procureme nt Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equival nt)
In     d *'                 i ~  Procurem   Me  >;,,  ;         "k_i
Exoendlture-,                                    '~~~~~~~N'B  '-Total Cost. 
1. Works                       0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
,______________________  (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                       0.39          0.00         1.96          0.00         2.35
(0.39)        (0.00)        (1.35)       (0.00)       (1.74)
3. Services                    1.40          0.00         0.89          0.00         2.29
(1.40)        (0.00)        (0.72)       (0.00)       (2.12)
4. Miscellaneous               0.00          0.00         0.04          0.00         0.04
Training & TA                (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.03)       (0.00)        (0.03)
5. Miscellaneous               0.00          1.19         0.59         0.00          1.78
Research Grant&Vet Fund       (0.00)        (1.09)       (0.59)        (0.00)       (1.68)
6. Miscellaneous               0.00          0.00         0.81          0.00         0.81
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.37)       (0.00)       (0.37)
Total                       1.79          1.19         4.29          0.00         7.27
(1.79)        (1.09)        (3.06)       (0.00)       (5.94)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
.  .1   ..  .1     I .'  ..-.                               o r
d t_, C6fn   it;. -Fi!, AppFridsal Estimate  '. _ jAaActuatest stimi                  _   __t__
i -i :'.  , L  . .- - Bank  -Govt.:'  CoF.    Bank -    GOVL,! -CbF. - `Bank' GovtL 'CoF.
Adaptive Research      724.70    119.30            905.80    112.00            125.0  93.9
Priv Vet/Animal Health  1556.60  300.40            1573.40    0.00             101.1   0.0
Rural Finance Service  1056.80   592.20             199.90   219.40             18.9  37.0
Market Information     743.30    20.70             459.60     36.80            61.8   177.8
Extension/Advisory Serv  2757.00  1127.00          2108.10    14.90            76.5    1.3
Project Management     476.30    38.70             403.10     75.50            84.6   195.1
Project Prep. Facility  585.20   88.80             277.80    346.60            47.5   390.3
Total Project         7900.00   2287.00            5937.70   805.20            75.2   35.2
-25.-



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable
- 26 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
() Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty           Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count          Specialty                     Prgress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
02/1993               Ag. Eco,
Credit, Inst.,
Agric.,
Marketing
05/1994          Livestock/lInst
, Land,
Credit,
Research, Ag.
Eco.
Appraisal/Negotiation
03/1995                         Agric, Credit, Livestock, Ag.
Eco., Marketing,
03/1996                         Agric x 2
Supervision
07/1996                         Agric, Vet                        S
12/1996                         Agric x 2                         S            S
06/1997                         Agric x 2                         S             S
11/1997                         Agric x 2                         S            S
04/1998                         Agric x 3                         S             S
01/1999                         Agric. x 2, Credit                S             S
09/1999                     3   Agric. Credit, Procurement        S             S
05/2000                     2   Agric x 2, Proc.                  S             S
10/2000                     2   Agric x 2, Ag. Eco                S            S
12/2001                     3   Agric x 2, Ag. Eco                S            S
06/2002                     3   Agric x 2, Ag Eco                 S             S
ICR
09/2002                          Agric, Ag. Eco                   S             S
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                  Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation    27 FAO/TCI/30
FAO/TCI
Appraisal/Negotiation         10 Bk Stf Wks/2               US$715, 998
FAO/TCI staff wks
Supervision                  32 Stf Wks (field              US$347,364
time only)
ICR                              3 staff weeks
Total                                                     US$ 1,063,362
-27 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
El Macro policies                     O H OSUOM O N *NA
O Sector Policies                     O H OSUOM O N *NA
O Physical                            O H OSUOM O N *NA
LI Financial                          O H *SUOM O N O NA
O Institutional Development           0 H 0 SU 0 M 0 N 0 NA
O Environmental                       O H *SUOM O N O NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction             O H OSUOM ON O NA
Oi Gender                       O H OSUOM       * N O NA
l Other (Pleasespecify)         O H OSUOM O N ONA
Li Private sector development         0 H 0 SU O M 0 N 0 NA
O Public sector management            0 H * SU O M 0 N 0 NA
L Other (Please specify)              O H  OSUOM ON O NA
- 28 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                Rating
I] Lending                                         OHS OS       OU     OHU
El Supervision                                     OHSOS        OLU    OHU
D Overall                                          OHS Os       O U    0 fU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                            Rating
LI Preparation                                     OHS OS       OU     O HU
FL Government implementation perfornance           O HS * s     0 U    0 HU
FII Implementation agency performance              O HS O S     0 U    0 HU
O Overall                                          OHS OS       0 u    O HU
- 29 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1.  "Annual Reports", Private Farmer Support Project, MAFWE.
2.  "Farm Planning" by Your Choice for the Future, MAFWE Bulletin No. 2, Jan.1998.
3.  "Horticulture Marketing Study" by GFA-Agrar, Oct. 2000.
4.  "Web-Site of the farmer Association of Macedonia (macedonianfarmers.com)".
5.  "Research Mission - Inception report 20-30 Jan. 1997," by Dr ir Paul Engel Stoas, Jan. 1997.
6.  "Extension Mission - Inception report 20-30 Jan. 1997," by Wim Beijer Stoas, Jan. 1997.
7. ."Report of a Project Planning Consultancy 26 Feb.-01 Mar. 1997," by RDP, Mar. 1997.
8.  "Support to the Market information system, report on ST-mission, 26 Jan.-09 Feb. 1997," by Dr. Udo
Bremer, GFA Mar. 1997.
9.  "Recruitment and training of credit specialists, report on ST-mission, 02-14 Feb. 1997," by
Bert van Manen, Stoas, Mar. 1997.
10. "Visit report on the study tour for the market information component, report on ST-mission,
26 Jan.-09 Feb. 1997," by Dr. Udo Bremer, GFA, Apr. 1997.
11. "Report of an orientation consultancy on "individual identification of livestock in the Republic of
Macedonia," 13-17 Mar. 1997," by RDP, Apr. 1997.
12. "Workshop on Demand-Orientation in Agricultural Adaptive On-Farm Research, Workshop
Materials, 5-15 May 1997," by Aart van den Broek, Stoas, May 1997.
13. "Third Workshop on Demand-Orientation in Agricultural Adaptive On-Farm Research, 13-22 May
1997," by Aart van den Broek, Stoas, May 1997.
14. "Extension Mission September 1997, 1-6 September 1997," by Wim Beijer, Stoas, September 1997.
15. "Diagnostic Survey Training, October 1997," by Stoas, October 1997.
16. "Report on the training visit in the Macedonia market information systems, 7-15 April1997," by
Dr. Emst August Nuppenau, GFA, October 1997.
17. "Second Workshop on Demand-Orientation in Agricultural Adaptive On-Farm Research, 7-14
November 1997," by Aart van den Broek, Stoas, November 1997.
18. "Training of Trainers Private Farmers Support Programme Macedonia, 22 November 1997," by
Willem Diekerhof, Stoas, Wim Nijwening, Stoas, November 1997.
19. "Report on Veterinary Services Economy, December 1997," by RDP, December 1997.
20. "Support to the market information system, report on ST-mission, 16-22 November 1997," by
Dr. Udo Bremer, GFA, January 1998.
21. "Report on AKIS Workshop," by Lambert van Gils, Stoas, January 1998.
22. "Report of a consultancy on "individual identification of livestock in the Republic of Macedonia,"
8-12 February 1998," by RDP, February 1998.
23. "Training of trainers on diagnostic surveying techniques and extension planning, March 1998," by
Henk Sybenga, Stoas, March 1998.
24. "Development of the Wholesale Market Component, report of the Preliminary Mission, 14-18 April
1998," by Sigrid Giencke, GFA, May 1998.
25. "Report on Workshop Mass Media Campaign," by Resi Matla, Stoas, May 1998.
26. "Manual - Planning Mass Media Campaign," by Resi Matla, Stoas, June 1998.
27. "Manual - Producing Printed Media," by Petra Geraedts, Stoas, June 1998.
28. "Towards a client-oriented agricultural market information service in the Republic of Macedonia," by
Dr. Udo Bremer, Ben Kamphuis, GFA / Stoas, July 1998.
29. "Report on Consultancy in Veterinary Epidemiology, 2-22 August 1998," by Peter D.S. Moorhouse,
RDP, August 1998.
30. "Mission Report Extension Component, September 1998," by John Bonnier, Stoas, September 1998.
31. "Report on the Veterinary Practice Management Seminar, December 1998," by RDP, December 1998.
32. "Draft Technical Assistance Report 1999," by Conrad Graf Hoyos, GFA, February 1999.
- 30 -



33. "Fourth Training Workshop and Monitoring of Research Projects, 21 February-4 March 1999," by
Aart van den Broek, Stoas, March 1999.
34. "Report "Study Tour for Representatives of the Macedonian Veterinary Chamber," 9-22 March
1999," by RDP, March 1999.
35. "Future Role of Farm Planners in the PFSP, report on ST-mission, 20-26 January 1999," by Martin
Reisser, GFA, March 1999.
36. "Procurement, report on ST-mission, 12-23 April 1999," by Erik Hendriks, GFA, June 1999.
37. "Mission Report Extension Component June 1999," by John Bonnier, Stoas, June 1999.
38. "Backstopping, report on ST-mission, 27 May-05 June 1999," by Conrad Graf Hoyos, GFA,
June 1999.
39. "Market Research Study on selected Commodities, report on ST-mission, 19-23 July 1999," by Peter
Street, GFA, July 1999.
40. "Report on Monitoring and Evaluation of Field Studies Conducted by the Veterinary Institute, Skopje,
10-19 October 1999," by RDP, October 1999.
41. "Monitoring of Research Projects," by Aart van den Broek, Stoas, October 1999.
42. "Mission Report Extension Component, November 1999," by John Bonnier, Stoas, November 1999.
43. "Development of a Monitoring and Evaluation System," by Michael Diirr, January 2000.
44. 'New options for a client-oriented agricultural market information service in the Republic of
Macedonia," by Ben Kamphuis, GFA / Stoas, February 2000.
45. "Draft Technical Assistance plan for the year 2000," by Conrad Graf Hoyos, GFA, February 2000.
46. "Horticulture Marketing Study," by Inge Garke, GFA, March 2000.
47. "Mission Report Extension Component, April 2000," by John Bonnier, Stoas, April 2000.
48. "Training on Management for Team-Leaders," by Gerrit Holtland, Stoas, May 2000.
49. "Mission Report Training on Technical Package Development, 17-21 July 2000," by Petra Geraedts,
Stoas, July 2000.
50. "Mission Report Training on Technical Package Development," by Petra Geraedts, Stoas, July 2000.
51. "Mission Report, 3-9 September 2000," by Ijzebrand, Werklman, Stoas, September 2000.
52. "Training on Economic Evaluation in Agricultural Adaptive Research," by B. Wouters, Stoas,
September 2000.
53. "Mission Report Training Course Media Workshop," by Resi Matla, Stoas, October 2000.
54. "Mission Report Extension Component, October 2000," by John Bonnier, Stoas, October 2000.
55. "Development of Technical Advisory Packages for the NEA, 13 February-i March 2001," by G.J.
Staring, Stoas, February 2001.
56. "Seminar on Agricultural Marketing," by Heimo Fleringa, February 2001.
57. "Exploration mission report, 6-14 February 2001," by Ben Kamphuis, Stoas / GFA, February 2001.
58. "Development of Technical Advisory Packages for the NEA, 13 February-I March 2001," by
G.J. Staring, Stoas, March 2001.
59. "FMS - Implementation, 1-10 March 2001 and 16-23 May 2001," by Ben Kamphuis, Stoas,
March / May 2001.
60. "Training Private Advisers, 4-19 May 2001," by G.J. Staring, Stoas, May 2001.
62. "Development of Technical-Economical Advisory Packages for the National Extension Agency,
2nd mission," by G.J. Staring, Stoas, June 2001.
63. "Training NEA Advisers and Private Advisers, 7-26 October 2001," by G.J. Staring, Stoas, October
2001.
64. "Consultancy in Veterinary Epidemiology, 17-23 November 2001," by RDP, November 2001.
65. "Addendum to the Appraisal Report of the Agricultural Financial Services Project," by G.J. Staring,
Stoas, February 2002.
66. "Supporting NEA and Training NEA Advisers," by G.J. Staring, Stoas, April 2002.
67. "FMS-Analysis and Reporting, 7-16 May 2002," by Ben Kamphuis, Stoas, May 2002.
-31 -



68. "Supporting and Training Private Advisers, 26 May-12 June 2002," by G.J. Staring, Stoas, May /
June 2002.
69. "Farm Business Data Macedonia. Provisional Data, 2001 - 2002," by Ben Kamphuis and L. Dimitrov,
Stoas, July 2002.
70. "Supporting and Training Private Advisors, 8 - 16 July 2002," by G.J. Staring, Stoas, July 2002.
- 32 -












IMVAGIING
Report No.:        25154
Type:    ICR



