Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 14913-MK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
PRIVATE FARMER SUPPORT PROJECT
April 17, 1996
Agiculture and Environment Division
Country Department I
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Macedonian Denar
1993          1994         1995          1996(March'
US$1 = Denar          23            43            37            37
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
BORROWER: FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AK - Agri-kombinat
ARC - Agricultural Research Committee
DC - Direct Contracting
DM - Deutsche Marks
EU - European Union
FAO - Food and Agriculture Organization
FESAC - Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit
GDP - Gross Domestic Product
GSP - Gross Social Product
ICB - International Competitive Bidding
IFAD - International Fund for Agricultural Development
IMF - International Monetary Fund
IPM - Integrated Pest Management
IS - International Shopping
LIB - Limited International Bidding
MAFWE - Ministry of Agriculture. Forestry and Water Economy
MES - Macedonian Extension Service
MOF - Ministry of Finance
MOS - Ministry of Science
NBM - National Bank of Macedonia
NGO - Non-Government Organization
NS - National Shopping
PSDP - Private Sector Development Project
PFI - Participating Financial Intermediaries
PFSP - Private Farmer Support Project
PPF - Project Preparation Facility
PSC - Project Steering Committee
SA - Special Account
SA - Savings Associations
SAL - Structural Adjustment Loan
SOM - Statistical Office of Macedonia
SSA - Senior Scientific Adviser
USAID - United States Agency for International Development



STAFlF APPRAISAL REPORT
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
PRIVATE FARMER SUPPORT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Credit and Project Summary  .i
I.  INTRODUCTION   ...............................................   1
II.  SECTORAL  CONTEXT   ......                         .....................1............... 
A.  The Economy in Transformation  ..................................   1
B.  The Agricultural Sector ........................................   2
C.  The Institutional Framework  .....................................   4
D.  Agriculture and the Environment ..................................   7
E.  Rural Financial Services   .......................................   7
F.  World Bank Group Strategy and Rationale for Involvement ..................   7
III. THE PROJECT                         ...................................                                            9
A.  Objectives and Concept ........................................   9
B.  Project Description  ...........................................   9
C.  Project Costs   .............................................    12
D.  Procurement ..............................................    12
E.  Disbursements .............................................    17
F.  Reports and Audits ..........................................   18
IV.  PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION                           .................               ..................    19
A. Project Management . .........................................  19
B. Project Implementation .                .......................................  19
C.  Project Monitoring and Evaluation  ................................   21
D.  Project Supervision .            .........................................   22
V.  BENEFITS AND RISKS   ................. .. ......................    22
A.  Project Benefits  .         ...........................................    22
B.  Project Risks .        .............................................    24
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  ..................  25
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
in April/May 199J. Mission members were Antholt (Task Manager), Uyanik; Smith (FAO) and Pieper, Wrigley,
Boenders (Consultants). Headquarters assistance: Vinod Goel (EMTPS). Peer reviewers: Schillhom (AGRAF)
and Umali-Deininger (SA2AW). Mr. Ricardo Halperin, Acting Division Chief, and Mr. Kenneth Lay, Director.



TABLES
Page
Table 3.1 - Project Cost Summary                                               13
Table 3.2 - Project Financing Plan                                             13
Table 3.3 - Procurement Methods                                               15
Table 3.4 - Summary of Expenditures to be Financed                           17-18
ANNEXES
1.   Organization of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy  27
2.   Project Cost Tables                                                      28
3.   Procurement Plan                                                         31
4.   Estimated Disbursement Schedule                                          33
5.   Project Implementation Plan                                              34
6.   Project Performance Indicators                                           44
7.   Selected Documents Available in the Project File                         52
MAPS
IBRD No. 27344 FYRM: Major Agro-ecological Zones
IBRD No. 27345 FYRM: Districts and Agricultural Institutions



FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
PRIVATE FARMER SUPPORT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:              The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
Executing Agency:      Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy
Beneficiaries:         Private farmers
Amount:                SDR: 5.4 million (US$7.9 million equivalent)
Terms:                 Standard IDA terms: Thirty-five years, including ten years of grace
Objectives:            The project is designed to support the economic transformation process by
strengthening agricultural support services to private farmers in order to
increase their productivity and income.
Description:           The project would fund technical specialists, training and equipment that
would be used to: (i) develop participatory and accountable extension services
through cost-sharing with farmer organizations and reorientation of
government extension; (ii) carry out on-farm adaptive research; (iii) privatize
the veterinary service and enhance government's epidemiology and border
quarantine capabilities; and (iv) establish a market news service and design
a horticulture wholesale market system. The project will also support the
institutional development of financial institutions involved in rural finance,
including of Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs) under the Private Sector
Development Project (PSDP).
Benefits:              Private farmers will be the principal beneficiaries, deriving benefits from
improved support services. Agricultural research and extension is expected
to lead to reduced production costs and increased farm incomes. For example,
adapting known technology to Macedonian conditions can reasonably be
expected to enable a 15% to 30% reduction in herbicide usage worth as much
as US$1 million per year. Farm models suggest that more effective advice on
production technology, market information, animal health services and credit
can boost small, private farmers incomes by 10 to over 50 percent. Better
enzootic disease control and livestock product sanitary inspection will enhance
consumer safety as well help insure continued access to European Union
markets. Pilot Initiatives to shift some of the costs of Government services,
for example, advisory services to the beneficiaries will establish a basis on
which to reduce public expenditures in the range of US$0.7 to 1.4 million per
year. Project benefits will be supported and enhanced by the PSDP project
that is being processed in parallel and which will facilitate farmers' access to
credit.



- ii -
Risks:                 The principal risks are economic and geo-political. Economic risks stem from
the possibility of macroeconomic destabilization and delays in structural
reforms.  However, the Government continues to adhere to its reform
program and contemplates new reform measures including the privatization of
agri-kombinats and further reforms of agricultural price and trade policy. The
reopening of the country's southern border, and more recently the ending of
the Serbian embargo, should help in stimulating trade and private sector
development. The reforms supported by the FESAC, together with on-going
dialogue with the IMF (to extend the Stand-by Arrangement) and the Bank
Group on a proposed SAL should minimize the risk of policy slippage. Geo-
political risks stemming from regional conflicts and ethnic strife in the Balkan
region remain an overhanging risk for any operation of this kind.
Project specific risks relate mainly to potential resistance at the operational
level by various public institutions and services involved in the project to give
up traditional influence and responsibilities. This would be mitigated by an
intensive retraining program and seminars explaining the rationale for the
changes introduced under the project. These are being addressed through
technical specialists already provided by a PPF for start-up activities, and by
early project implementation features. Finally, cost-sharing arrangements in
the provision of advisory services to farmers may encounter poor receptivity
due to past experience with Government. This risk will be mitigated by
developing strong incentives for community participation. The proposed mid-
term review will provide an opportunity to review and change project design
if required.
Estimated Project Cost: (US$'000 equivalent)
LocAL    FOROGN      ToTAL
Project Preparation Facility           294       341          635
Agricultural Support
Services                           3,758     4,110        7,868
Project Management                     273       183          455
Total Base Cost                      4,325      4,173       8,498
Contingencies:
Physical                             245       358          603
Price                                324       358          639
Total Project Cost                   4,900      5,300       10,200



- iii -
Finandng Plan: (US$'000 equivalent)
LOCAL   FOREIGN     ToTAL
IDA                                 2,600    5,300      7,900
Government                          2,300     -         2,300
Total                               4,900    5,300      10,200
Estimated Disbursements:    (US$ million equivalent)
FY                   1997     1998        1999       2000
Annual                 3.00      3.30        1.20       0.40
Cumulative             3.00      6.30       7.50        7.90
Economic Rate
of Return:                Not applicable.
Poverty Category:           Not in the Program of Targeted Interventions
Project ID Number:          MK-PA-10001






FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
PRIVATE FARMER SUPPORT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01   The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia is a landlocked country on the Balkan Peninsula
with a population of about 2 million people and an area of 25,700 km2. With 45% of the population
rurally based, agrarian linkages are strong and help shape the national character. Agricultural production
accounts for about 15% of employment. Though constrained by normal variations in weather, marketing
problems, and the difficult political environment, agriculture has an important place in the national
economy and was the only sector to grow in 1994.
1.02   The proposed Private Farmer Support Project (PFSP) was identified in September 1993
following a February 1993 joint agriculture review mission of IDA and the FAO Investment Center. In
February and May 1994, FAO Investment Center assisted the Government with project preparation.
Following an IDA mission in July 1994, project preparation continued through a Project Preparation
Facility (PPF). Following appraisal in April 1995, a Deutsche Marks (DM) 4 million farm credit
component was included in the Private Sector Development Project (DM 18 million general line of
credit, which is being processed in parallel). The PSDP would be an important source of investment
credit for private farmers interested in expanding operations and improving their productivity.
II. SECTORAL CONTEXT
A. The Economy in Transformation
2.01   Macroeconomic  Adjustment. The  Government has made  encouraging  progress  in
macroeconomic adjustment and structural reforms. In 1994, the Government implemented a set of
comprehensive reform measures including strict budgetary discipline and monetary reforms which brought
greater price stability. Significant progress has been made in normalizing the external debt situation,
enacting basic laws to restructure and privatize the inefficient, socially-owned enterprise and financial
sectors, and in reforming the social safety net. Most foreign trade barriers have been removed. Tariffs
are low, averaging 10% with a large number of zero-rated items. Restrictions that remain apply mainly
to metal and a limited number of agricultural products. A source of price distortion in agriculture are
variable levies mainly for wheat, milk and sugar. Economic reforms planned for 1996 seek to accelerate
the process of financial stabilization and to enhance structural reforms in the enterprise, banking, and
social sectors. The Bank Group intends to support further deepening of the reform process through a
Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) currently under preparation which would address the distortions in the
agricultural sector.
2.02   Macroeconomic Trends. The decline in overall output since 1990 has yet to be reversed,
although the agricultural sector showed nearly 8% growth in 1994. Registered unemployment has
increased to about 20%. On the other hand, inflation, at a monthly peak of 80% in early 1992, declined
during implementation of the second stabilization program to 2% a month by March 1994. For 1995,
the annual rate of inflation is estimated at about 8%. Fiscal management, however, has been a problem.
Growing government expenditures increased fiscal deficits from 3.4% of Gross Social Product (GSP) in



-2 -
1991 to 11.1 % in 1993. Improved government efforts to raise revenues have resulted in a decline of the
fiscal deficit to about 2.4% in 1994. Traditional export markets in the former Yugoslavia and the
Council of Mutual Economic Assistance were lost, and trade further suffered because of the Greek
blockade. Nevertheless, overall exports to non-traditional markets have increased and appear to have
compensated for the loss of traditional markets. The composition of exports has also changed and is
characterized by a decline in manufactured exports while agricultural exports have risen in relative
importance. The prospects for peace in the Region and the lifting of the Greek blockade have
significantly improved the prospects of economic recovery, in which the agricultural sector will play a
vital role.
B. The Agricultural Sector
2.03   The Resource Base. The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia covers 2.57 million ha, of
which about 50% is agricultural land including 662,000 ha of arable land and 640,000 ha of permanent
pasture (principally in mountainous areas); forests cover a further 950,000 ha. The irrigation command
area is 120,000 ha. Irrigated farming presently is restricted to about 50,000 ha because of insufficient
water and breakdown of irrigation infrastructure. Although only modestly endowed with natural
resources, the country has areas conducive to the production of a wide variety of crops, including cereals,
forages, industrial crops and off-season fruit and vegetables. The extensive pasture resources support
traditional sheep farming, a basis for a profitable lamb export business.
2.04   The Importance of Agriculture. In contrast to other sectors, agriculture production has always
been predominantly a private sector activity in the country. The sector's contribution to GSP possibly
understates its importance to the economy, in that 45% of the population lives in rural areas, and their
welfare and incomes are closely linked to agriculture. Farming is expected to assume an increasingly
important role in the medium-term as labor is shed from the industrial sector. In 1994, GSP per worker
in agriculture was estimated at 127% of the country's average in all sectors of the economy.
2.05   The majority of urban population retains close family links with the agricultural sector. Most
farm families live in close-knit village communities. Women play an important role in agricultural
management and production on private farms as members and administrators of agri-kombinats (AKs)
as well as in governmental services (e.g., extension or veterinary). Education levels of farm families are
lower than those of urban counterparts. While there are wide variations, farm families are commonly
seen as risk-averse and conservative. On the other hand, small private farmers have been most agile in
responding to the changing market circumstances associated with the transformation process. Most farm
families have assured food supplies and substantial homes (albeit, sometimes, without running water in
the more remote areas), and are reasonably well mechanized, averaging one tractor per 9.7 ha. Ninety-
three percent of the country's estimated 51,000 tractors are owned by private farmers.
2.06   Agricultural trade constituted about 16% of export earnings -- about US$172 million in 1994,
a sharp decline from 1992 and 1993 levels, when agriculture exports were US$323 million and US$389
million respectively. Food and live animals exports were US$110 million - about 10% of all exports
compared to US$184 million in 1992. Major exports in 1994 were fruit and vegetables (US$70 million),
wine (US$15 million), and meat (US$8 million). However, current trade data should be taken with
caution. In the past, the country was an important supplier of fruit and vegetables, and lamb and (to a
lesser extent) beef to Greece, Italy, and the other Republics of Yugoslavia. The decline in exports is
primarily related to the Greek blockade and UN sanctions on Serbia, but also to the transformation
process in which hard budget constraints on agri-kombinats disrupted the old marketing channels. The



- 3 -
restructuring of the country's financial system, the lack of export financing, and problems securing
working capital (a particular problem for agriculture given the seasonality of the agricultural production
cycle) also present formidable barriers for exporters. The greatest losses in exports have occurred in live
animal and meat exports. High-value vegetable and fruit producers also face an increasingly competitive
market because of higher marketing (transportation) costs and, more recently, appreciation of the Denar.
2.07   The Private Farming Sector in the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia is made up of small
farms. About 70% of arable land, approximately 458,000 ha, belongs to private farmers, consisting of
some 177,000 families owning an average 2.6 ha of land. All agricultural land is fragmented, although
the actual extent of this is not known precisely. Private farms are often highly diversified and grow a
comparatively large number of crops. This is partly due to traditions by which families ensure self-
sufficiency, spread labor requirements, and avert risk. There are notable variations in this pattern, for
example, where farmers specialize in vegetables and/or fruit production and, occasionally, in livestock
fattening and dairying.
2.08   Farms are operated almost exclusively by labor of the extended family, although casual labor may
be employed during peak demand periods (particularly with vegetable production). Where male family
members are employed by the neighboring agri-kombinat or at a local industry, women are often the
primary managers of the family's home-based livestock and vegetable/fruit production units. While the
farming systems are, for the most part, relatively labor intensive, the early to mid-1980s were a period
of over-mechanization for many private farms -- the result of an extended period of subsidized credit,
subsidized farm machinery, and the promotion of mechanization as a "modern" farming practice.
2.09   Farm family incomes, for which little data is available, are derived from both cash and non-cash
as well as from farm and non-farm sources. Cash income arises from three main sources -- the sale of
farm products, cash remittances, and other off-farm earnings. Off-farm social sector earnings have been
important income sources in the past, though they are now reduced substantially due to social sector
layoffs. Pensions, for which all Macedonians are eligible, represent a vital, and reportedly reasonably
good safety net for aged private farmers. Farmers report that annual pensions range from US$500 to
US$1,000 equivalent.
2.10   Agri-kombinats farm about 200,000 ha of farm land, and account for about 25% of primary
production and for 60% of processing and marketing services. There are 217 agri-kombinats with an
average land holding size of 950 ha. The range extends from small intensive enterprises to extensive
farms -- the largest, the Pelagonija Kombinat at Bitola--covers 25,000 ha. AKs are typically organized
into vertically-integrated production and agro-processing complexes engaged in a wide range of activities
including input supply, farming, out-grower production contracts, primary production processing, and
commodity retailing and trading. While they continue to exert strong influence in the agricultural sector,
their long-term economic survival is in doubt. This has been confirmed by detailed analysis of three of
the largest AKs during preparation of the Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit (FESAC)
which revealed major technical and financial problems. Under the Special Restructuring Program of the
FESAC, three of the largest AKs were put into receivership and would be broken up and privatized. The
proposed SAL would support the continuation of privatization of the agri-kombinats.
2.11   The input supply system is being augmented by private trading companies moving into the input
supply market which government policy encourages. As the importance of AKs declined, and given the
relative ease of entry for new business, small private businesses have developed and become important
in the new upstream and downstream agricultural service sectors. Indeed, competition is appearing in



the supply of services to the private farm sector which was not the case before independence. The demise
of AKs is not expected to constrain growth by private farmers. International agro-businesses are largely
absent from the market. In this area the process of transformation is being retarded by the lack of
private-sector investment (in part due to the unavailability of credit for working capital and investment),
and the general uncertainties associated with the Region. New investment is needed in private agro-
business supplying tractors and equipment, seed and fertilizer, and custom services for specialized
equipment.
2.12   Although decreasing, agricultural marketing continues to be dominated by the agri-kombinats.
Overall this inhibits competition and limits alternatives available to farmers. This situation is likely to
persist until completion of the privatization of AKs. No commodity exchange exists, nor is this likely
to be viable until commodity grading improves and production and organization uncertainties are reduced.
Farmers' market access is provided through informal local green markets and sale to social sector
enterprises -- usually under forward contract and, on a limited but rapidly increasing scale, to private
traders. For high-value products for exports, such as off-season vegetables and fruit, there is an
immediate need to develop a wholesale system to replace the agri-kombinats and provide a wholesale
service to the many small vegetable producers and new, private traders.
2.13   There is no formal market research or information service, an activity which in the past had
been provided by federal services of the former Yugoslavia. Near-real-time market information is needed
on prices, volumes, and qualities of product moving through domestic and international markets.
Informed analyses of market trends, opportunities, and outlooks are not readily available. Informal,
casual sources that are currently available usually lack perspective and breadth and are hardly sufficient
to form cropping pattern or investment choices.
2.14 Agricultural subsidies have declined from 23 % of agricultural GSP in 1993 to an estimated 6%,
or about US$50 million, in 1995. However, they still represent almost 90% of Government's agricultural
budget and primarily benefit agri-kombinats. About US$24 million is for price subsidies, US$7 million
for seed subsidies, and US$19 million for credit subsidies (mainly for storage). In 1994, wheat accounted
for 53% of the total subsidies, tobacco for 22%, and milk for 1 1%. While low by Western European
standards, subsidies represent an inefficient use of resources with little economic or equity rationale.
Government intends to continue phasing out subsidies, one of the policy issues to be addressed under the
proposed SAL.
2.15   The Government attempts to manage agricultural foreign trade by tariffs, special import levies
and quotas on imports and exports. Tariffs are generally low and most quotas do not have substantial
effect. The most distortive instrument are special levies on the imports of wheat, milk and sugar. Recent
analysis supported by USAID indicates high nominal protection coefficients for wheat - 2.18, raw sugar -
1.66, refined sugar - 1.37 and cow milk - 1.77, primarily because of the special levies. Changes in these
policies are important for overall efficiency reasons and for access to the World Trade Organization. The
proposed SAL would also address this issue.
C. The Institutional Framework
2.16   The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy employing about 420 staff with
fewer than 20% headquarters-based, is the central organization with administrative responsibility for
agricu!ture, rural development, natural resource management (forestry and fisheries), and the protection



of flora and fauna. Formally, MAFWE consists of three Departments 'Agriculture, Forestry, and
Administration and Legal Affairs' and three Republic Agencies 'Water Economy, Veterinary, and
Agriculture and Forestry Inspectorate (Annex 1).' Since national independence, and due to the change
in financing arrangements, the Macedonian Extension Service (MES) is also part of MAFWE. There is
little difference between Departments and Republic Agencies. The latter have as their prime roles
regulatory and inspection functions. Inspectorate staff are posted to MAFWE branch offices covering
one or more opstinas (municipality) while the small professional staff at the head office is concerned with
policy, legislation, and quality control.
2.17   Agricultural Research comprises six research institutes varying in size from a staff of 18
(Kocani) to 144 (Skopje), and the Faculty of Agriculture, University of Cyril and Methodius, Skopje.
The research establishment employs 540 staff including 216 professionals, 72% with postgraduate
degrees. Overall, the system represents institutional resources left in place following the breakup of the
former Yugoslavia and is larger than the country can sustain and afford. Over the medium-term, a
"strategic plan" is needed for restructuring the research establishment.
2.18   The Ministry or Science (MOS) is responsible for all research. Agricultural research funding
is often allocated to tasks having scientific merit but little relevance to problems and constraints at the
farm level. MAFWE does not participate in agricultural research planning or funding. Some applied
research funded by AKs has nearly ceased. MOS-supported research was primarily for short-term
(usually three-year) projects. MOS also funded some staff at key institutes. Today the bulk of funds
needed to maintain research staff and stations is generated by production activities at the institutes. The
system is not equipped to meet the needs of private farmers in the changing economic environment.
Particularty important is applied research to address the issues concerning soil fertility, e.g., developing
economic response curves for various levels of fertilizer use, pasture/meadow management, integrated
pest management ([PM), conservation tillage, farm management economics of the major cropping
patterns, and the introduction of horticultural varieties with good export potential.
2.19   The Macedonian Extension Service (MES) was first established in 1975 to promote private
agriculture, often in close association with agri-kombinat out-grower programs. MES now comprises
about 140 professionals in some 30 opstina extension centers. Under the former Yugoslav Republic,
MES centers were autonomous, self-managed entities in which the local government shared half the cost
with the Republic's Government. Since national independence, MES is funded from the national budget.
Most extension staff are technically well qualified. Because of the past practice of associating extension
initiatives with various forms of subsidies, e.g., free or highly-subsidized breeding stock, and given the
current tight budget situation, MES today reaches a comparatively small number of farmers. Another
legacy of the previous system is the heavy production and commodity orientation of the old MES.
Consequently, while staff may have an adequate level of technical proficiency, there is little expertise in
farm management and participatory methods of working with farmers. Staff also have limited transport,
equipment, and operating funds.
2.20   The main constraints, recognized by MAFWE, in the current extension system include: (i) the
lack of client accountability; (ii) the lack of effective applied research; (iii) inadequate attention to
production economics and farm management; (iv) insufficient knowledge of farmers' resources and
difficulties; and (v) inadequate operational budget.



- 6 -
2.21   The Macedonian Veterinary Management Unit of the MAFWE employs 78 veterinarians for
control of notifiable disease, sanitation, animal quarantine, and epidemiological work. Field veterinary
services are provided principally through a network of 27 socially-owned, veterinary stations (clinics or
surgeries) established in most opstinas. Stations employ between one and eight veterinarians depending
on opstina size and animal population. Veterinary stations generally are well organized and staffed. They
are supported with some income derived from drug sales and contracted government services and are
supervised by the Macedonian Veterinary Management Unit in the MAFWE. The legislative base for their
privatization is anticipated in 1996. All vaccines and most drugs are imported. Laboratory services are
provided by the Veterinary Institute in Skopje which, through user charges, is largely self-financing.
Overall, the Veterinary Institute offers a comprehensive service to the livestock and livestock product
processing industries.
2.22   Farmers' Organizations. Since 1990, some 300 agricultural associations have been formed,
although many are inoperative and the status of others is unclear. While these organizations were
established under the cooperative law, this law is not consistent with cooperative membership, based on
shared unity of interest. Although deemed to be private sector enterprises, their legal status is unclear,
and, on the surface, they seem to be made up of kombinat members -- with their leadership drawn from
the old management. MAFWE is planning legal changes to clarify, and provide for, regulation of
associations. There is a network of 19 commodity-based Sections within the Association of Agriculture
and Food Industries of the Chamber of Commerce. Agricultural Sections, which are based regionally
and include both farmer and agri-kombinat representation, focused on the major agricultural products of
their regions, Kombinat membership has been compulsory, with the kombinats providing the financing.
There is no registration of farmer "members," nor are they assessed dues. Consequently, private farmers
have had little influence on the AAFI. With the transformation process and the privatization of the agri-
kombinats continuing, the role of the AAFI is likely to fade.
2.23   Several technical assistance programs have been completed or are underway to support reform
in agriculture. The German Government supports the irrigation sub-sector and is preparing a credit
program directed for the re-settlement of German-based refugees. The Netherlands Government is
expected to provide bilateral assistance to agriculture. The International Fund for Agricultural
Development (IFAD) is preparing a regional development project that focuses on remote, resource poor
areas. The Macedonian Center for International Cooperation, an NGO apex organization, is assisting
villages in remote locations with infrastructure development and communications packages on a cost-
sharing basis with support form the Dutch Reform Church.
2.24   USAID has by far the largest program -- about $10 million in grant funds and bilateral programs
-- directly related to the proposed project. Close cooperation has developed during project preparation
among IDA, USAID staff and local counterparts. USAID program includes: (i) the establishment of
a Business Resource Center to assist entrepreneurs to put together business plans, develop privatization
plans and prepare loan applications; (ii) analysis of agricultural price and trade policies; (iii) a number
of veterinarian volunteers through Volunteers in Overseas Cooperative Assistance specifically aimed to
help privatize veterinarian services; (iv) dairy improvement project to help private dairy farmers increase
the production and improve milk quality; (vi) a study of land ownership issues to identify policy options
available to Government, particularly with respect to denationalization of land; (vii) finalization and
analysis of the 1994 census concerning agriculture; and (viii) a pilot supporting establishment of 20 rural,
member-owned, Savings Associations (SAs).



- 7 -
D. Agriculture and the Environment
2.25   Environmental regulation is the responsibility of the Ministry of Urbanism, Construction and
Environmental Protection, as lead Ministry together with MAFWE, the Ministry of Health, and the
Institute of Natural Rarities.  Laws governing environmental management include the Law on
Environment, the Water Law, and the Law for the Protection and Use of Agricultural Land.
Environmental issues relating to agriculture primarily include aspects of water quality and use, land
degradation, agro-chemical use, and agri-kombinat waste discharge.  These issues have economic
relevance as they may affect access to Western markets (particularly for environmentally-clean products).
Legislation, now in draft form, also would address a wider range of environmental issues and better
empower Government to regulate the environment. Land degradation could remain an issue as farmers,
under current economic policies, seek to increase profitable small ruminant production in upland areas.
However, the policy reforms proposed under the SAL would reduce the current attractiveness of small
ruminants in the less productive, more fragile upland areas. Pending development of a national water
development policy, water management would remain an area of concern. With IDA assistance, a
National Environmental Action Plan is currently under preparation and is expected to be finished in the
Spring of 1996.
E. Rural Financial Services
2.26   Village-based savings societies date back to the last century. Money lenders and other informal
systems of mobilizing savings and extending credit also existed. These systems disappeared during the
four decades of state monopoly on banking. With respect to the formal banking sector, the Stopanska
Bank, the bank responsible for all agricultural lending in the past, is currently undergoing restructuring
and privatization. While there are substantial savings in rural and farm communities, savers have
developed distrust of the formal banking system, and, formal financial service for small farmers, rural
residents, and holders of remittances have yet to emerge.
2.27   Private farmers have difficulty in accessing the formal, commercial banking system to obtain
credit: Loans are typically small and the risks associated with farming are perceived to be high.
Compounding the problem are court practices, as well as the underlying legal framework, that are biased
against lenders, particularly when on occasion collateral has to be enforced. Chattel mortgages and
production inputs are not used. Furthermore the newly privatized commercial banks need to develop their
overall asset/liabilities management, risk management and appraisal capabilities, and have few branches
in rural areas. Effective demand for credit from private farmers during transition is expected to be
modest. This is because small private farmers are wary of debt, particularly when banks commonly ask
for two to three times the value of a loan to be backed by land as collateral. Moreover, effective real
rates of interest remain high. Most private farmers rely on self-financing. It is expected that these
conditions would improve as the ongoing stabilization program progresses.
F. World Bank Group Strategy and Rationale for Involvement
2.28   The Government is committed to completing the process of transition to a market economy. The
reform agenda is comprehensive and includes: (i) macroeconomic policies to stabilize the economy; (ii)
enhancing private sector development through privatization and complementary measures to improve the
business environment by reducing the role of the state; (iii) reforming the banking sector; (iv) building
on private sector capabilities to increase agricultural production; (v) modernizing the country's physical
infrastructure; (vi) developing an effective social safety net; (vii) improving public administration; and



(viii) improving environmental management. In agriculture, the Government has substantially reduced
subsidies and introduced legislation to Parliament to denationalize land and privatize the agri-kombinats.
2.29   The Government strategy has been supported by the Bank Group through policy dialogue and
lending program. The Bank Group's Country Assistance Strategy, (Report No. 14379-MK, dated April
19, 1995), which was presented to the Board on May 16, 1995, aims to: (i) facilitate and support the
structural reform and the transformation to a market economy; (ii) contribute to financing balance-of-
payments requirements; (iii) support structural adjustment and development efforts; and (iv) help to
mobilize resources from both official and private sources. The proposed project was identified in the
CAS and fully supports the Bank Group's overall strategy for the country, which recognizes that
agriculture has significant growth potential and that strengthening private sector capability is key to
realizing that potential.
2.30   The initial support to the Government's reform program was provided through the Economic
Recovery Project of US$80 million, which has by now been fully implemented. The centerpiece of the
Bank Group's current operations is the Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit (FY95), which
supports the following measures: (i) comprehensive reform of the banking sector and financial markets;
(ii) isolation of largest loss-making enterprises from bank credit and leading to liquidation or privatization
of major loss makers; (iii) comprehensive privatization program; (iv) special restructuring program for
social safety net program. Three of the 25 large loss-making enterprises targeted are in the agricultural
sector.
2.31   The Bank Group's strategy for the agriculture sector also reflects the country specific
experience gained since the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia joined the Bank Group. As the
Country Assistance Strategy points out, the Bank Group's overall strategy in agriculture would promote
the reduction of subsidies, privatization of the agri-kombinats, shifting more responsibility for support
services to the private sector, and supporting the transformation to a market-lead economy. Under the
proposed SAL. The Government has confirmed its agreement in principle to proceed with reforms
specifically with respect to liberalizing the trade regime, reforming agricultural price policy and
privatizing the agri-kombinats. The Bank Group is also preparing an irrigation project and an agricultural
inputs guarantee operation is under consideration.
2.32   As noted above, the proposed project is fully consistent with the Bank Group's Country
Assistance Strategy. The project is being processed in parallel with the proposed PSDP which aims to
promote growth of the private sector enterprise; facilitate transformation of the credit markets and
introduction of sound banking practices. The PSDP includes DM 4 million to provide loans to private
farmers. Specific measures would be taken to expand the outreach of the participating banks to include
the rural areas. These efforts would be coordinated with an expected USAID pilot project to develop
rural-based, member-owned SAs expected to be completed by early 1998.
2.33   Lessons learned from the Bank Group's earlier projects in the former Yugoslavia and from other
similar projects in the region include: (i) Macedonian private farmers have demonstrated their willingness
and ability to adopt new technology and farming systems, provided these are economically viable; (ii)
private farmers prefer private to social sector marketing channels; (iii) issues of a sound policy framework
for agricultural investment and limited project implementation capacity were not satisfactorily addressed
and this limited the benefits obtained from the projects; and (iv) experience with rural credit projects in
transitional economies has demonstrated that the formal banking system has difficulty in appraisal and
supervision of agricultural loans, in part because of the "cultural" bias within banks against agriculture



- 9 -
and unique aspects of agriculture such as seasonality and weather vulnerability. These lessons have been
factored into the design of the Bank Group's strategy for the sector and of the proposed project.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives and Concept
3.01   Project Objective. The proposed project would support the economic transformation process
by strengthening the provision of technology and information related services to private farmers, thereby
improving their production and income. The project would change mechanisms for provision of technical
services to private farmers and initiate important changes in the public institutions providing such
services.
3.02   Project Justification. Sustained growth in agriculture is feasible and crucial to overall economic
growth. Traditional Macedonian export products such as fruit, vegetables and lamb present viable source
of income for private farmers. The proposed project would improve their access to extension services,
relevant research, credit and animal health. It would support a reduced and better focused public sector
role in agriculture through assistance to the privatization of veterinary services and cost sharing with
farmers for their advisory services. It would support exports through market information services and
improved animal health control. While growth would be private sector led, the public sector would
continue to play a role, albeit redefined, in the provision of agricultural research, advisory services and
market information. The project seeks to rationalize and enhance these functions.
3.03   Design considerations. Sustainability of agricultural support services was a major concern in
preparing this project. Budgetary resources for public sector expenditures are scarce and this is not
expected to change in the near future. The project would support the privatization of the veterinary
services and cost-sharing arrangements with farmers for advisory services. The market news services,
after establishing credibility and reliability, would be sold to media organizations for commercial
publication, thus offsetting the costs of the service to Government. In the longer term, this service is
expected to be privatized. As a result, the project is expected to reduce public expenditures in the
agricultural sector. The project would also help strengthen the accountability and responsiveness of
agricultural support services to farmers. Privatizing veterinary services and shifting some responsibility
for provision of advisory services to farmers gives farmers ownership and enhances the accountability
between them and agricultural advisors. The project was designed with strong participation by the
principal beneficiaries, specifically private farmers, veterinarians and extension agents.
B. Project Description
3.04   The project would be implemented over three and a half years (CY96-99). Project funds would
be used for technical specialists, training, equipment, vehicles, and small support grants. The project
would include the following main components:
(a)    pilot initiatives to develop cost-sharing arrangements with farmer associations, to
decentralize extension management and responsibility for support to farmers, and to
strengthen MES's extension capacity;
(b)    support for applied agricultural research through competitively-awarded contracts;



- 10 -
(c)    support for privatization of veterinary services and development of public epidemiological
and quarantine services;
(d)    development of a market news/information service and planning work for a private
horticulture wholesale market;
(e)    assistance to improve farmers' access to commercial credit and to evaluate the feasibility
of an apex organization for rural, member-owned SAs; and
(f)    assistance to selected commercial banks to improve their capacity to facilitate expansion
of financial services.
Agricultural Support Services
3.05   Agricultural Advisory Services (US$3.32 million base costs). This component would help
identify solutions for more effective provision of advisory services and support pilot initiatives for
improvements in the provision of these services to private farmers. The MES, working with leaders of
farmer groups/associations, communities and/or NGOs would encourage these sort of groups to arrange
for the kind of advisory services they determine would best meet their needs, including the hiring of their
own advisors or contracting with a private firms to provide such services. This initiative does not intend
to replace the MES, but rather is an initial effort to pilot the shifting of some of the costs for advisory
services to the beneficiaries of these services. To do so the MES would establish an Agricultural Advisory
Services Fund (US$0.55 million) to use in entering into cost-sharing agreements with interested farmer
groups. The MES would agree with each group to cost-sharing on a declining scale from 75% in the
group's first year, 65% in its second and third year, 50% in its fourth year and thereafter at a mutually
agreed ratio, but not more than US$6,000 per year to any one group. The MES would also provide a
one-time, start-up matching grant for material deemed appropriate by each group such as office
equipment, etc., on the basis of 1/3 farmer group and 2/3 from the MES, not exceeding US$2,000 per
association. The cost-sharing support from the MES is anticipated to cover costs of advisors, handbooks,
special training programs, office equipment and/or other costs determined appropriate by each particular
group's assessment of their needs. Financing would expand from six pilot initiatives to about 40. More
details of cost-sharing are provided in Annex 5. At negotiations agreement was reached on the guidelines
for cost-sharing between MAFWE and farmer organizations. (para 6.01(a)).
3.06   Thirty MES opstina (municipality) extension centers country-wide would be strengthened through
training, demonstration materials, and the provision of office, audio-visual and electronic mail facilities.
The main long term objective is to assist MES in reorientation toward increased client accountability and
better support for development of farmer association advisory services. MES staff would be eligible for
vehicle loans and reimbursements for field use. Ninety person-months of reorientation training, and six
short courses overseas would be provided. Six of the opstinas would be strengthened by the assignment
of two additional MAFWE staff. The first would be an agronomist to serve as a research extension
coordinator to improve the linkage between MES, opstina staff and applied research activities. The
second would be an agricultural economist to analyze development constraints at the farm level, develop
representative farm models and appraise results of the applied research.
3.07   The project would also strengthen MES capacity for the provision of mass-media materials and
organization of national or regional training programs. Trainers, taught under the PPF with assistance
by an MES advisory services coordinator, would implement a program of reorientation courses for



- 11 -
selected extension staff. Support would be provided for: (i) six-person months of international and 48-
person month of national specialist assistance; (ii) two short-course, fellowships abroad in extension
management; (iii) national technical seminars; (iv) office equipment, vehicles, and audio-visual
equipment; (v) commercial preparation of a series of mass-media extension packages; and (vi) funding
for extension impact studies to be conducted by a commercial firm.
3.08   Adaptive Agricultural Research (US$0.73 million base costs). This component would support
applied research by setting up a competitive research grant fund (US$0.5 million). Research grants/
contracts would be awarded for up to (US$25,000) directed to priority subjects such as integrated pest
management (IPM), animal husbandry, farm management, water use efficiency, conservation tillage,
pasture and range management and evaluation of new horticultural varieties. Other research ideas would
be identified in cooperation with farmers during project implementation.
3.09   Private Veterinary Services (US$0.47 million base costs). This component would support
measures to improve the provision of veterinary services. It would help fund a Veterinary Development
Fund (US$0.3 million) that would provide matching grants to state veterinary staff if they to switch to
private practice. It would also support the Veterinary Chamber, to be legislated under the new Veterinary
Law, through the provision of office facilities and technical specialist assistance with the preparation of
national veterinary protocols. It would also provide funding for training which local institutions, such
as the Faculty of Veterinary Science supported by limited international specialist assistance could provide.
3.10   Animal Health Services (US$1.10 million base costs). This component would strengthen
essential public animal health services of the MAFWE Veterinary Management Unit. This would include:
(i) recruitment of two additional staff and their specialized overseas training in disease epidemiology and
data management; (ii) specialist assistance (six person months) and national specialist assistance (48
person months) to support the development of public animal health program; (iii) provision of essential
office and transport equipment; (iv) animal health studies and strengthening of the Veterinary Institute's
analytical capability; (v) upgrading of Animal Quarantine Services at ten border posts through provision
of sampling equipment and vehicles; and (vi) funding of incremental operating costs.
3.11   Agricultural Market Information (US$0.71 million base costs). This component would support
the development of a market news service with 12-person months of international specialist assistance,
and 48 person months of national specialist assistance, office equipment, subscription services, and
training. It would support the planning and design of a private, wholesale horticulture market for Skopje.
Following market evaluation of its initial impact, SOM would review opportunities for selling near-real-
time market information to commodity traders and mass-media outlets. The SOM would also complete
the analysis of the 1994 census as it relates to agriculture. The analysis of the 1994 census would provide
benchmark information with respect to farmer income and productivity levels. The SOM would be
assisted by specialists to redefine its methodology for agricultural statistical data generation and provided
with the hardware and software for a computer-based compilation and analytical process.
3.12   Rural Financial Services (US$1.50 million base costs). This component would help improve
access of private farmers to commercial credit. It would engage six national specialists for two years to
assist private farmers with farm planning and preparation of loan applications that meet the standards of
private commercial banks. The specialists would be paid a small base salary and bonuses based on the
number of credit applications approved by banks. They would receive five person months of international
specialist assistance and training, which would also be available for credit officers of commercial banks.
International specialist assistance and training would also be available to assist commercial banks (US$0.3



- 12 -
million) expected to participate under the PSDP (para 1.02) strengthen their portfolio management,
appraisal practices, management information systems, lending policies, risk management, loan
administration, supervision and in working with small and medium borrowers. International specialists
assistance would also be available to up-date the underlying legal framework concerning collateral and
court procedures. The project may also support expansion of the rural based SAs. However, the
appropriateness of this SA support would be determined latest by March 1998 by a joint Government and
IDA review of the pilot SA initiative. The project would also provide specialist assistance to draft
enabling legislation to facilitate the use of chattel mortgages and assist in updating court practices related
to lending. The credit would fund two person months and 16-person months of international and national
specialists respectively to assist the MAFWE on legal issues.
C. Project Costs
3.13   Total project costs including contingencies are estimated at US$10.2 million, of which US$5.5
million (52%) is in foreign exchange. Project base costs are expressed in October 1995 prices and
exclude customs duties (from which IDA financed goods purchased by MAFWE would be exempt) and
include taxes estimated at US$1.1 mi]lion, about 11 % of total project costs. Incremental recurrent costs
represent some 17% of estimated project costs. Due to the volatile rate of domestic inflation, both
domestic and foreign costs have been estimated in US dollars. The cost estimates include physical
contingencies of about 7% and price contingencies of about 7%. Price contingencies are based on IDA
projections of 1.52% for 1995, and 1.76% annually for 1996-99. Changes in Denar exchange rates are
expected to compensate for the differentials between domestic and international rate of inflation. Project
costs are detailed in Annex 2 and summarized in Table 3.1.
3.14   Financing Plan. The proposed IDA Credit of US$7.9 million equivalent would finance 77% of
the total project costs. The balance of US$2.3 million equivalent, including taxes and duties, would be
financed by the Government. No direct co-financing or parallel financing is expected, although USAID's
on-going program in agriculture is highly complementary to this project. Financing plan is summarized
in Table 3.2.
3.15   The Ministry of Finance would assure necessary counterpart funding. Adequate funds in
MAFWE's budget have been allocated for 1996. However, since shortage of counterpart funding always
poses a risk for project implementation, agreement has been reached at negotiations on a commitment to
exchange views with IDA by December 1 of each fiscal year on proposed future allocations so as to
ensure that subsequent government budget proposals will be consistent with the needs of the project (para
6.01 (b)).
3.16   Procurement Implementation. Procurement would be the responsibility of MAFWE which has
appointed a Project Manager to coordinate project implementation. MAFWE has already gained some
experience in project management and procurement under the PPF and would be properly staffed. The
General Procurement Notice has been issued in November 1995. A short term Procurement Advisor has
been engaged under a Trust Fund to assist the Project Manager in: (i) the preparation of bid packages
for the procurement of goods and consulting services prior to project Effectiveness; and (ii) providing
further training to the MAFWE staff. As part of the project launch workshop (September, 1996),
procurement issues would be particularly emphasized. During implementation, appropriate procurement
expertise would be engaged by the MAFWE as necessary. To the extent possible, contracts for goods
shall be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost US$250,000 or more for I.C.B. The proposed



- 13 -
procurement methods are summarized in Table 3.3, and details of various packages are provided in the
Procurement Plan in Annex 3.
Table 3.1: Project Cost Summary
Local      Foreign       Total % Foreign    % Total
Exchange  Base Costs
------------- U$, 000-
Project Preparation Facility     294           341         635    54             7
Agricultural Support Services
Adaptive Research                403          324          727    45             8
Agricultural Advisory Services  1,596        1,723       3,319    52            37
Private Veterinary Services      127           343         470    73             5
Animal Health Services           450          691        1,141    61            13
Agri. Market Information         397          314          711    44             8
Rural Fin. Services              785          715        1.500    48            18
Sub-total                       3,758        3,650       7,408    49            83
Proiect Management               273           182         455    40             5
Baseline costs                  4,325        4,633       8,958    52           100
Physical Contingencies           245           358         603    59             7
Price contingencies              330           309         639    48             7
Total Project Cost              4.900        5.300      10,200    52
Table 3.2: Financing Plan
(US$'000)
IDA                 Govt.
Foreign    Local         Local       Total
Goods                           1,600     200            250       2,050
Training                         500       170           180         850
Consulting Services             1,450    1,050           250       2,750
Technical Services                360      145           160        665
Development Support              900       100           550       1,550
Incremental Operating Costs       150     700            850       1,700
PPF Advance                      340      235             60        635
Total                           5 300   2.600          2.300      10.200



- 14 -
3. 17 Procurement of Goods. Procurement of goods would be carried out following World Bank
Group Guidelines: "Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (Procurement Guidelines)," dated
January 1995, was confirmed at negotiations (para 6.01(c) as follows:
(a)   International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Procurement of goods for contracts above
US$250,000 equivalent would be carried out following ICB procedures using standard
World Bank Group bidding documents.
(b)    Limited International Bidding (LIB). One package (US$0.43 million equivalent) for 4x4
vehicles and pickup trucks would be procured using LIB procedures involving bids
requests from major potential suppliers. Although above ICB threshold, use of LIB in
this case is expected to provide better competition and efficiency than a full scale ICB.
(c)   International Shopping (IS). Goods estimated to cost above US$30,000 and up to
US$250,000 equivalent per contract would be procured using IS procedures involving
quotations from at least three suppliers from two eligible countries. Eight packages
ranging from US$70,000 to US$220,000 (aggregate US$1.33 million) for vehicles,
computers and software, copiers and printers, and lab equipment would be procured.
(d)    National Shopping (NS). Goods estimated to cost up to US$30,000 equivalent per
contract would be procured using NS procedures based on comparison of price quotations
obtained from at least three local suppliers. The NS contracts are expected to range
between US$3,000 and US$30,000 (aggregate US$0.20 million) for small lots of
laboratory equipment, computers equipment, office furniture, extension training
equipment, and other office supplies. Given the presence of a number of foreign
suppliers with offices in the country, there is sufficient competition within the country
for the goods to be procured.
(e)    Direct Contracting (DC). Direct contracting would be restricted to items of proprietary
nature (aggregate US$0. 10 million) such as books and journals (US$30,000) and PABX
(US$60,000). The PABX needs to be compatible with equipment of the national phone
company and is a proprietary item manufactured only by the national telephone company.



- 15 -
Table 3.3 Procurement Methods (US$'000)
I.C.B.        Other        N.B.F.       Total
Goods
Equipment                                1,0200                     1,020
(825)                    (825)
Vehicles                                 1,000b                     1,000
(800)                    (800)
Books                                     300                        30
(25)                      (25)
Consulting Services                              2,200d                    2,200
(2,100)                   (2,100)
SA Services                                       550d                      550
(500)                    (500)
Training                                          8500                      850
(670)                    (670)
Tech. Services
Field Trials/Studies                      475f                      475
(335)                    (335)
Mass Media                                190k                      190
(170)                    (170)
Research Grant Fund.                              600h                      600
(500)                    (500)
Ag. Advisory Services                             950i                      950
Fund/Vet. Develop. Fund                           (550)                    (550)
PPF Refund                                        635                       635
(575)                    (575)
Inc. Recurrent Costs                             1,700i                    1,700Q
(850)                    (850)
Total                            10,200                    10,200
(7,900)                   (7,900)
Note: Figures are rounded off. Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by the IDA.
a) National Shopping (US$200,000), Direct Contracting (US$60,000), International Shopping (US$760,000).
b) Limited Intemational Bidding (US$430,000), Intemational Shopping (US$570,000).
c) Direct contracting for books and joumals (US$30,000).
d) Consulting Services in accordance with the Bank Group's "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants."
e) Training to be procured using Consulting Services procedures(US$850,000)
f) Field Trials/Demos (US$120,000), and Studies(US$355,000) to be procured using Consulting Services procedures.
g) National Shopping ($190,000).
h) Competitive research contracts for applied agricultural research (US$600,000).
i) Matching/cost-sharing grants to farmer associations(US$600,000), private veterinary stations(US$350,000).
i) Inc. recurrent costs (US$1.7 million) in accordance with regular Government procedures acceptable to IDA.



- 16 -
3.18   Procurement of Consultant Services. Procurement of consultant services would follow the
Guidelines for Use of Consultants by Borrowers and by the IDA as Executing Agency (Guidelines for
the use of Consultants), dated August 1981 and would follow short listing procedures. Bank Group's
Standard "Form of Contract, Consultant's Services" would be used for all major consultant services
contracts. There would be one major international Technical Specialists contract (US$2.75 million).
Under this contract, the selected consulting firm would be expected to provide international (US$1.55
million) and national specialists (US$0.65 million) and would also include international training (US$0.25
million) and selected domestic training programs (US$0.30 million). As needed, the This selected
consulting firm would also provide procurement specialists with experience in IDA procurement
procedures. In addition, the firm would administer: (i) SA services (US$0.55 million) which would be
procured under a separate contract; and (ii) implement a number of specialized studies (US$0.35 million)
expected to cost between US$15,000 and US$25,000.
3.19   Adaptive Agricultural Research. Research contracts (aggregate US$0.60 million) would be
awarded to qualified eligible research organizations and/or individuals on a competitive basis and based
on ARC defined research guidelines acceptable to the IDA. The ARC would review research proposals
as to their adequacy in meeting the priority research objectives and ability of the responding
institution/individual to be able to carry out the proposed research adequately. A research contract would
generally not exceed US$25,000 equivalent.
3.20   Private Farmer Advisory Services and Private Veterinary Support. Two types of support
(aggregate US$0.60 million) would be available to farmer associations to support the privatization of
farmers services: (i) support from the MAFWE/MES for initial start-up costs on a matching 1/3 (farmer
association), 2/3 (MAFWE) basis not exceeding US$2,000 per association; and (ii) annual cost-sharing
on a declining basis from 75%, 65% and 50% for Years I and 2, 3 and 4, respectively, but not
exceeding US$6,000 per association per year. In addition, support to private veterinary stations
(US$0.35 million) for start up cost of private practice on a 60:40 private/MAFWE basis would be
provided. This grant element would not exceed US$15,000 per station and would be restricted to off-the-
shelf veterinary equipment.
3.21   Savings Associations. The project would provide support (US$0.50 million) for the development
of SAs. This would involve technical assistance and training services which would be procured following
the World Bank Group Guidelines on the Use of Consultants. The specifics of the support for the
Savings Associations would be determined on the basis of a joint MAFWE, NBM and IDA review of the
pilot initiative experience the latest by March 1998.
3.22   Extension and Information Services. Beyond the consultant services (para 3.18), the project
would support technical services for 200 extension demonstrations (aggregate US$120,000) which would
be awarded on the basis of individual contracts with no one contract over US$500. Subscriptions to
market news services (aggregate US$40,000 million) would be done annually following the World Bank
Group Guidelines for National Shopping. Similarly, the production of information and/or training videos
(US$150,000 million) would be procured following National Shopping guidelines. The average
procurement is estimated at about US$10,000 per video.
3.23   Training, As mentioned earlier, international training (US$0.25 million) and a major part of the
domestic training (US$0.3 million) would be part of the management consulting firm's contract (para
3.19). The remaining training services would be contracted to qualified institutions on the basis of short
listing except for small amounts awarded to qualified individuals. They would cover training for opstina



- 17 -
level extension, for private and public veterinarians, and for extension re-training (US$0.11 million).
The largest training course (epidemiology) is estimated to cost US$35,000. All course contents and
training programs would be subject to IDA's prior approval.
3.24  Incremental Operating Costs. The project would finance about half (US$0.85 million) of the
incremental operating costs (US$1.70 million) to be incurred by MAFWE over the life of the project.
Incremental operating costs would include local travel costs, maintenance of vehicles, fuel (which the
Government buys in bulk), and office supplies. The procurement of project items under incremental
recurrent costs would follow standard government procedures requiring multiple quotations for
procurement of goods, which are acceptable to the IDA. Disbursement for incremental operating costs
would decline from 70% initially in 1996 to 40% by 1999. At negotiations, agreement was reached on
the baseline against which incremental costs would be measured, items eligible for IDA financing, annual
disbursement percentages and documentation required (para 6.01 (d)).
3.25  IDA's Prior Review and Monitoring of Procurement. Contracts and related documentation
subject to IDA's prior review and approval would include: (i) all ICB and LIB contracts; (ii) IS contracts
above US$100,000; (iii) first two national shopping contracts; (iv) all direct purchase contracts; (v)
consultant services contracts estimated at US$50,000 or higher, which would specifically include approval
of short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, and evaluation reports; (vii) the terms of
reference of all consultants, employment of individuals, single source selection of firms, key assignments,
and contract amendments including amendments raising the contract value above US$50,000; (vii) course
contents and terms of reference for all training programs and study tours; and (viii) and TORs and
research priorities under Agriculture Research program. MAFWE would promptly inform the IDA of
contract awards and procurement issues, and would maintain- detailed documentation. Procurement
activities not requiring IDA's prior review would be monitored by IDA supervision missions. The
MAFWE would submit to the IDA quarterly procurement progress reports on all procurement activities
being financed under the Project.
E. Disbursements
3.26   The proposed IDA Credit is expected to be disbursed over a period of four years (Annex 4). The
proposed closing date would be September 30, 2000. Disbursements would be made against the
following categories:
Table 3.4: Summary of Exipenditures to be Flnanced
Amount
Category                 (US$'000)    Percentage to be Financed
1.   Goods                         1,600    100%  foreign expenditures;
100% local expenditures (ex-
factory cost); and 50% local
costs.
2.   Consultant, Extension &       2,700    100% a
Information Services &
Training



- 18 -
3.   SA Services                     500    100% "
4.   Development Support Funds     1,200    100% of MAFWE
(a) Adv. Services (US$400)            contribution.
(b) Ag. Research(US$500)
(c) Pvt. Vet. (US$300)
5.   Incr. Operating Costs           800    70% in 1996
60% in 1997
50% in 1998
40% in 1999
6.   Refinancing of PPF              575
7.   Unallocated                     525
Total                        7.900
a) Net of taxes and duties
3.27   Disbursements against contracts for goods above US$100,000 equivalent and for services above
US$50,000 would be made against standard documentation. For contracts below that level, which would
include agricultural research contracts, support grants under Category 4(Grants) and incremental operating
costs under Category 5, disbursements would be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs).
In order to enable the IDA and external auditors to verify disbursement expenditures, MAFWE would
retain disbursement documentation for at least one year following the submission to IDA of an audit
report for the fiscal year in which the audited disbursement were made.
3.28   Special Account. To facilitate project implementation MAFWE would establish, maintain and
operate a Special Account (SA) in DM under terms, conditions and in a bank acceptable to IDA. An
initial SA allocation of DM 0.35 million would be increased to full authorized amount of DM 0.7 million
when cumulative disbursements under the project have reached SDR 0.8 million. This was confirmed
at negotiations (para 6.01(e)). IDA would replenish the SA on a quarterly basis, or when the balance
declines to about half of the initial deposit or the authorized allocation, whichever comes first. Payments
from the SA would only be made for eligible expenditures and would be supported by documents
including a copy of the monthly bank statement of the SA as well as its reconciliation with the SA
transactions. All other applications for direct payment by IDA would be for an amount not less than 20%
of the SA deposit.
F. Reports and Audits
3.29   The Project Manager would be responsible for all project reporting to IDA. Under the Project
Manager's overall guidance, MAFWE's Budget and Finance Department would maintain detailed project
accounts and regularly submit semi-annual statements of expenditure to IDA by the following schedule:
(i) statement for the period of January through June would be submitted by September 1; and (ii)
statement for the period July to December would be submitted by March 1. Project accounts would be
audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. The audit report would cover the project accounts,
Statements of Expenses, and the Special Account. The audit report would be submitted to IDA within



- 19 -
of the end of each fiscal year. Agreement to these arrangements were confirmed at negotiations (para
6.01 (f)).
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Project Management
4.01   The Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy would have overall responsibility for
project implementation. A Project Steering Committee (PSC) with terms and conditions satisfactory to
IDA has been established (and agreed to be maintained during project) to advise the Minister of MAFWE
on project-related matters and to ensure adequate inter-ministerial coordination in project implementation.
The PSC to be chaired by the Minister, MAFWE, would meet quarterly and would include
representatives of the private sector, farmers, SOM, the Ministries of Finance, Science, and
Development, and MAFWE. A Project Manager, has been appointed by MAFWE, who would oversee
and coordinate all project activities. It was agreed at negotiations the Project Manager would have
adequate authority and delegation from the Minister to carry out the day-to-day affairs of the Project
efficiently. These authorities would include issuance of bidding documents, evaluation of bids, placement
of orders, arrangements for training, management of consultants, hiring of "coordinators" payment of
bills, disbursement, etc., within the parameters of the agreed project. The Project Manager would serve
as secretary to the PSC. Day-to-day management responsibility would be devolved to the Department
or Agency head responsible for specific project components, e.g., the MES, ARC, Veterinary
Management Unit, and SOM to whom project coordinators hired under the project would be assigned.
Furthermore, at negotiations it was also agreed the MAFWE would maintain during project
implementation an adequate staff for the Project Manager, satisfactory to IDA (para 6.01(g)). At
negotiations agreement was reached on a project implementation plan presented in Annex 5, (6.01 (h)).
B. Project Implementation
4.02   Project Preparation Facility. The Government has engaged the services of a consulting firm
under the PPF to assist in developing key project components. The consulting firm has held a series of
seminars in rural areas to: (i) familiarize farmers and MES staff with recent developments in extension
delivery; and (ii) develop a study tour program to Poland, Denmark and the U.K. for April 1996 in
which MES leaders and farmer representatives will participate. On return, the participants will be
involved in a national seminar in at which options for progressively transferring responsibility for
management and financing of extension services to communities, farmers' associations, and/or agro-
business will be discussed. The consulting firm is also helping to develop concepts for market news
service in cooperation with the SOM. This part of the PPF activity has completed a diagnostic of SOM's
current capacity and developed an action plan that will enable the MAFWE and SOM provide daily price
information from six domestic horticultural and two livestock markets by July 1996. Initial linkage to
several EU reference markets will be made as well. In addition, an action plan has also been developed
to prepare SOM staff to be able to provide periodic (weekly/monthly) analysis of price trends, for
example. Lastly, the consulting firm has provided to MAFWE's legal staff expert advise on pending
legislation related to denationalization of land, land use, privatization of agri-kombinats and cooperative
law. This service will be available to the MAFWE through the Institute of Eastern European Law,
Leiden, The Netherlands, through September 1996.
4.03   Agricultural Advisory Services. The MES would be responsible for the implementation of pilot
initiatives and country-wide improvements in the provision of advisory services. To assist the MES



- 20 -
Director, a project coordinator for the advisory services component would be appointed whose
responsibilities would include assisting in overseeing the training programs and support the formation of
farmer groups/associations for obtaining agricultural advisory services. The longer term structure and
management of the MES would be studied by a special commission, appointed by the Government
representing public and private sector interests across the agricultural sector. In public and private
hearings, the Commission would consider public and private sector extension roles, opportunities for
MES self-financing/cost-recovery, ways to improve administrative and operational efficiency, and other
reforms. The analysis, satisfactory to IDA, is expected to be completed by June 1997. Further details
on implementation is provide in Annex 5. For 1997, and subsequent project years, the MAFWE would
present annual plans defining cost sharing arrangements, satisfactory to IDA, before any disbursements
are made for the respective year for farmers advisory services (para 6.02(a)).
4.04   Adaptive Agricultural Research. The MAFWE has appointed a Senior Scientific Adviser (SSA)
qualifications satisfactory to IDA, who would administer the research grant program. The MAFWE has
also appointed an Agricultural Research Committee (ARC) whose responsibilities would include
establishment of research priorities and evaluating proposals for funding from the Research Grant Fund.
ARC membership would come from a cross section of individuals with first hand experience with applied
problems and opportunities facing private farmers, as well as to provide a balance between public and
with private sectors. The ARC would be chaired by the SSA. Research contracts to qualified institutions
and individuals that meet the established criteria, and acceptable, to IDA would be made. The MAFWE
would establish by June 30, 1996 and maintain a Research Grant Fund of US$0.5 million equivalent. The
guidelines for awarding research grants were agreed to at negotiations (para 6.01 (i)). For 1997 and
subsequent project years the MAFWE would present annual plans defining priorities, satisfactory to IDA,
before any disbursements are made for the respective year for agriculture research (para 6.02(b)).
4.05   Animal Health Program. The veterinary service privatization program would be managed by
the MAFWE's Veterinary Management Unit in close collaboration with the Veterinary Chamber. The
Veterinary Privatization Fund would be used to encourage public sector veterinarians to privatize. Under
the matching grant program, Government would meet 40% of the costs associated with establishing a
private veterinary practice. At negotiations agreement was reached on the establishment by June 30,
1996, and maintenance of the Veterinary Development Fund with guidelines satisfactory to IDA, for
participation by veterinarians (para 6.01 ()). Private veterinarian in-service training would be provided
under a project financed program designed to provide additional technical, business, and management
skills necessary for a private veterinary practice. The Veterinary Chamber would be responsible for the
selection of courses. The Epidemiological Unit of the Veterinary Management Unit would implement
the epidemiology program. For 1997 and subsequent project years the MAFWE would present annual
plans defining cost sharing arrangements, satisfactory to IDA, before any disbursements are made for the
respective year for the veterinary privatization services (para 6.02(c)).
4.06   Market Information. The Agriculture Department of SOM would manage the development of
the market information service. A Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) has been signed between the
MAFWE and SOM to formalize implementation responsibilities.
4.07   Rural Financial Services. The Project Manager would supervise the overall implementation of
this component. Together with the international farm credit specialist, six farm credit specialists for a
two-year term would be provided to be posted to the six strengthened opstina extension offices (para.
3.13). The Project Manager with the help of management consulting firm would also supervise special
studies (e.g., chattel mortgage). The Consultant, under the direction of the Project Manager, would



- 21 -
work with the National Bank of Macedonia (NBM) to implement the technical assistance and training for
the PFIs under the PSDP. For the implementation of the SA component, the Government, subsequent
to the review of the SA initiative, would present to IDA for review and approval a plan for supporting
strengthening and expansion of SAs before any disbursements are made on this component (para 6.02(d).
Environmental Impact
4.08   No negative environmental impacts are foreseen.  The agricultural research and extension
components are expected to promote more appropriate use of agricultural chemicals, IPM technologies
(in accordance with relevant World Bank Group Guidelines), conservation tillage, and, in general, more
prudent, cost-effective use of agricultural inputs. The market information services components are
expected to make producers and agro-business people aware of particular niche markets in the EU for
"green" products. The project has been placed in environmental category "B. " A National Environmental
Action Plan is being prepared by the borrower and is expected to be completed in July 1996.
C. Project Monitoring and Evaluation
4.09   Monitoring of the project's impact on the private farming community would be carried out
through annual farm monitoring exercises. The evaluation of the agricultural research grant fund would
assess the practical impact of the research findings. In addition, performance indicators (Annex 2) for
each project components would be monitored by the Project Manager. The analysis of the 1994 census
would provide the baseline data for the status of farmers with respect to their income and productivity
levels. It is expected to be available in June 1996. Monitoring of the project's physical inputs
(equipment, vehicles, training costs, etc.,) would be the responsibility of the MAFWE's Project Manager.
The financial indicators would be maintained by staff of the MAFWE's Administrative, Legal Affairs
and Finance Department.
4.10   By July 1998, the MES is expected to commission an independent evaluation of the cost-sharing
advisory services activity under the project. Three key indicators: (i) farmers' opinions concerning the
quality of their advisory services; (ii) MES's support for the farmer groups; and (iii) the support by
private farmers for their own advisory services as measured by the proportion of costs carried by the
farmers themselves. Based on this analysis, the evaluator would make recommendations on future
modifications of this component. The MES in the second, third and fourth project years would
commission an independent survey to evaluate of the effectiveness, from the farmers perspective, of the
MES extension programs. The terms of reference for these surveys would be agreed to with IDA. The
MES would also monitor the effectiveness of the participatory farm system constraint analysis carried out;
staff training under the project; the number and effectiveness of professionally produced video and audio
cassette programs; and numbers of village discussion groups by opstina and their attendance profile over
time.
4.11   The SSA would monitor the agricultural research grants program. Monitoring and evaluation
would consist of economic evaluation of the research findings, an assessment of the suitability of the
results by a sample of potential users of the research results and the adaption of innovations. The Project
Manager would monitor the planning and design work for the establishment of the horticulture wholesale
market. The market news service would be evaluated on the basis of its commercial desirability and use
by commercial TV and radio stations as well as by surveys of readers/listeners.



- 22 -
D. Project Supervision
4.12   A "project launch" workshop is planned for September 1996. Two to three supervision missions
a year are planned with staff input of about 20 weeks the first year, 15 weeks the second year, and 15
weeks in each of the last two years.  Initially, intensive supervision would be required for the
development of a market news service, planning of the private wholesale horticulture market for Skopje,
the national extension program, and forming of partnership between farmer associations and MES.
4.13   A Mid-Term Review, with terms of reference satisfactory to IDA would take place no latter than
March 31, 1998 (para 6.01 (k)). It would focus on progress in formation of farmer associations/groups
for advisory services, the privatization of veterinary services, use and acceptability of the market news
service, measures to improve access of farmers commercial credit and results of applied agricultural
research. The review would evaluate progress and, if warranted, would consider changes in project
design.
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Project Benefits
5.01   Quantifying the incremental benefits of this sort of project is problematic given the institutional
development nature of project activities and numerous non-service factors influencing decision-making
at the farm level. Nevertheless, as approximation, indicative financial and economic farm models were
analyzed during project preparation to assess the likely impact of project activities at the farm level.
Farm modeling of typical private farms in dairy, vegetables, apples and field crops suggest economic
rates of return ranging from 15% to over 50% could be obtained from modest, new technological
packages that would flow from applied research, better advisory services, better animal husbandry and
new investment.
5.02   The proposed project as a whole would have two main benefits. First, private farmers would
receive better support from the various public and private services, which would increase their production
and incomes. Second, this project would pilot initiatives, for example, in advisory and veterinary
services that would establish an experience base to gradually replace obsolete public support services with
private services, thus enabling a reduction in the amount of government funding that is being provided
to the sector for these kind of services. The project is fully consistent with the Country Assistance
Strategy which has identified agriculture as one of the main sectors with promising growth potential.
5.03   Private farmers would be the principal beneficiaries, deriving advantage from more effective
support and advice on production technology, marketing information, animal health services and credit.
The farm models cited above suggest that the family incomes from new innovations including financing,
could result in increases in annual family incomes, using 1994 prices, of US$370 for a 2 ha crop farm
in the Bitola region, US$2,400 for a 1/2 ha. intensive vegetable grower in the Strumica area, US$5,600
for a I ha Resin apple grower that replaces his/her current variety and US$6,600 for a 4 cow dairy
farmer, or increases from 10 to over 50%.
5.04   A  principal benefit from  upgrading the animal quarantine services and improving the
epidemiological capacity would be to assist in maintaining access for Macedonian livestock products to
the EU market. In 1994 that market was worth about US$1 10 million. Two years earlier, because of a
breakdown in border control, large numbers of infected dairy/beef cattle were shipping into and through



- 23 -
the country. This resulted in Macedonian livestock products being denied access to EU markets for one
year, as well as requiring a large, expensive eradication program. The modest, US$1.1 million project
investment in this component, would pay for itself many times over if it only avoided one year of lost
international markets.
5.05   Ex-post analysis of agricultural research typically comes up with high returns to investments in
research. However, ex-ante, it is problematic to predict which research and when the research will
produce the technological innovation(s) which would produce those typical high returns. Nevertheless,
we can estimate, for illustrative purposes, some returns that can be reasonably be expected to flow from
the kind of applied research envisioned for the project. For example, one of the priority research areas
is IPM. Currently about US$3 million (retail) of herbicides (2,4-D, Trifluralin, etc.,) are used on about
100,000 ha of cereals and 10,000 ha of vegetables. It is expected that applied research should be able
to adopt new IPM technology to Macedonian conditions whereby at least a 30 percent savings in herbicide
use per ha could be realized. Still, if only a fifteen percent savings are realized, it would save cereal and
vegetable farmers using herbicides something on the order of US$450,000 annually in production costs
on the same area. This of course would also reduce the potential for residual groundwater contamination
but no value is estimated for this benefit, though it is significant.
5.06   Similarly, conservation tillage, another priority area for research, offers promising returns.
Typically these new tillage practices can increase the effective amount of moisture available to a crop by
20 - 30 percent through increased infiltration (through less runoff) and reduced evaporation. This in turn
should easily enable a 10 percent increase in cereal yields, although in drought years this would be even
higher. In 1994, a dry year, if average wheat yields were 10 percent greater on half of the cultivated
wheat area, i.e., about 58,000 ha, that would have increased wheat production by about 13,000 tons; at
US$130 per ton, that would be worth about US$1.7 million. So, while returns to research can not be
fully assured, the two examples above suggest that even with modest assumptions as to the value of
technological innovations, the returns to investments in agricultural research promise to be substantial.
5.07   Greater involvement of farmers in the provision of support services in which they share
ownership and cost with Government would improve the quality and increase service coverage and better
respond to their needs. MAFWE and MES staff would become better motivated and more accountable
to farmers and be better able to meet the demands of the emerging commercial, family farms. Currently,
a typical MES opstina level office, including a director, three high level staff and two technicians costs
about US$52,000 per year to run, with about US$40,000 accounted for by salaries. If a farmer
organization would take over this function, which is possible, the maximum obligation on the MES would
be US$8,000 in the first year, and US$6,000 thereafter offering a potential savings to the Government
of US$46,000 per year. Success with this pilot and expansion of this model to 30 opstinas implies that
the savings to Government per annum would be on the order of US$1.4 million in 1996 dollars.
However, this project does not suggest total phasing out of MES services in that there is an important,
although redefined role for public support for advisory services. If even half, or US$0.7 million, could
be saved per year, the payback time on this component (US$3.32 million) would be five years.
5.08   SOM would become more efficient in providing market information which would enable farmers,
traders and agro-businesses to respond more effectively to market opportunities. The value of timely,
accurate market information is difficult to estimate, although it is generally agreed that this is essential
for a market economy to work efficiently. (The investment costs for this component is US$0.7 million.)
These services are intended to be sold as they become standard, accepted and producers, traders and
processors learn to depend on them. In the longer-run, it is expected that this service would become a



- 24 -
private sector business. The rural financial services component would provide short-run assistance
(US$0.4 million) to those private farmers that may want to obtain short or medium-term credit during
the first two years of the project. With a 15% return on investment, we could expect that this would
return to those private farmers who take advantage of this credit at least an addition $500,000 of income
in the first two years of the project. More importantly, however, is the building up a client base for the
newly commercialized banks in the agricultural sector, something that would not happen in the absence
of this project given the lack of experience the PFIs have had with private farmers and their general
reluctance to lend to the sector in the first place.
Poverty Impact
5.09   The impact of project activities on poverty reduction in rural areas would be largely indirect.
Poor farmers are located mainly in remote, mountain areas with poor access and only marginal
agricultural potential. In general, private farmers have a more secure economic base than families
dependent on employment in industry. About half of the farmers derive their income from full-time farm
work; the other half supplements farm income with off-farm employment. The project is classified as
a "Not in the Program of Targeted Interventions."
B. Project Risks
5.10   The principal risks are economic and geo-political. Economic risks stem from the possibility of
macroeconomic destabilization and delays in structural reforms. However, the Government continues
to adhere to its reform program and contemplates new reform measures including the privatization of
agri-kombinats and further reforms of agricultural price and trade policy. The reopening of the country's
southern border, and more recently the ending of the Serbian embargo, should help in stimulating trade
and private sector development. The reforms supported by the FESAC, together with on-going dialogue
with the IMF to extend the Stand-by Arrangement and the Bank Group on a proposed SAL should reduce
tie risk of policy slippage. Geo-political risks stemming from regional conflicts and ethnic strife in the
Balkan region remain an overhanging risk.
5.11   Project specific risks relate mainly to potential resistance at the operational level by various public
institutions and services involved in the project to give up traditional influence and responsibilities. This
would be mitigated by an intensive retraining program and seminars explaining the rationale for the
changes introduced under the project. Another risk relates to the relatively large number of small
contracts to be awarded under the project and the difficulty of their close supervision. Procurement
training has been provided already to MAFWE staff. The Project Manager would be responsible for
proper application of procedures. Finally, cost-sharing arrangements in the provision of advisory services
to farmers may encounter poor receptivity due to past experience with Government. This risk would be
mitigated by developing strong incentives for community participation. The proposed Mid-Term Review
would provide an opportunity to review and change project design if required.



- 25 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01   At negotiations the following agreements were reached on:
(a)    guidelines, satisfactory to IDA, for cost-sharing arrangements between the MAFWE and
farmer organizations, including the employment of their own advisory specialists (para.
3.05);
(b)    annual consultations by December 1 each year between IDA and the MAFWE to ensure
that annual government budget proposals are consistent with the needs of the project (para
3.15).
(c)    World Bank Group Procurement Guidelines would be followed (para 3.17);
(d)   the baseline for measuring incremental operating costs to be financed under the project,
eligible expenditures under the category, annual (declining) disbursement percentages,
and required documentation (para. 3.24);
(e)    establishment of a Special Account in DM  under terms, conditions and in a bank
acceptable to IDA (para 3.28);
(f)    maintenance of satisfactory project accounts, and annual audits of project accounts
including SOE and SA, by independent auditors satisfactory to IDA and the audit reports
provided to IDA annually (para. 3.29);
(g)    during project implementation maintenance of the Project Manager and "Project Steering
Committee" with functions, responsibilities and staff satisfactory to IDA (para 4.01);
(h)    a project implementation plan (para 4.01).
(i)    MAFWE to maintain the ARC, SSA and establish by June 30, 1996 a Research Grant
Fund of US$0.5 million with guidelines for the award of research grant contracts,
satisfactory to IDA (para. 4.04);
(j)    MAFWE to establish a private Veterinary Development Fund by June 30, 1996, with
guidelines for awarding matching grants satisfactory to IDA (para. 4.05);
(k)    a Mid-Term Review, with scope and terms of reference satisfactory to IDA, would take
place no latter than March 31, 1998 (para. 4.13).
6.02   Conditions of Disbursements would be:
(a).   by October 1996 and October of each following year the MAFWE would present annual
plans for the following calendar year defining cost sharing arrangements, satisfactory to
IDA, before any disbursements are made for the respective year on Agricultural Advisory
Services Fund (US$0.55 million), (para 4.03).



- 26 -
(b)    by October 1996 and October of each following year the MAFWE would present annual
plans for the following calendar year defining priorities, satisfactory to IDA, before any
disbursements are made for the respective year on the Agriculture Research Grant Fund
(US$0.5 million), (para 4.04).
(c)    by October 1996 and October of each following year the MAFWE would present annual
plans for the following calendar year defining cost sharing arrangements, satisfactory to
IDA, before any disbursements are made for the respective year on Private Veterinary
Development Fund (US$0.3 million), (para 4.05).
(d)   the Government, subsequent to a review of the SA initiative, would present to IDA for
review and approval a plan for supporting the strengthening and expansion of SAs before
any disbursements are made on this activity (US$0.5 million), (para 4.07).
6.03   Recommendation,. With the above agreements and conditions, the proposed project is suitable
for an the IDA credit of US$ 7.90 million equivalent (SDR 5.4 million) to the Former Yugoslav Republic
of Macedonia.



Ministry of Agficulture. Forestry and Water Economy
Deputy Minister
[UnrK Secretaiy
DEPARYENTS                              -tEPU1UC AGENCIES
Agr)culhure      Foiestiy        Adffn. and         Repubilc      Watef Econofny    V-serlerhy        Inspectotat
legal Affairs     Eitenslon                                    1      k A Foresty
Coordinabon
lffig.. river                   p oolicy                   ____
-    pla  ng and    -  indnnlstration            rproaecmonra p.aopS
-crops               nse on                                          water rights                                     - forestiry
- Nvesbkah -n tnn                       - legal affalrs                -cotlt of water             S bordoe        | -ling
and hunting        & legislation                  eutmctko                   inspectonte 
economc & A               - survellance         p  'pisntary
I   technical      I       animal diseases
MINISTRY!BRANCH          ICES IN CrSTINA
EXTENSION SERVICE CENTERS IN OFST1NA                                   . _  _                                            -.-
I u  ~~ ~c                          I            8~~wVaaffim,m~~u1d5dhed0,ds   aha Ifd
.. _ _ .. _ ______ .... __ _._ .. r -   -
o >-



- 28 -                                Annex 2
Page 1 of 3
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
PRIVATE FARMER SUPPORT PROJECT
PROJECT COST TABLES
Table
1.    Expenditure Accounts by Components
2.    Project Components by Year - Totals Including Contingencies



THE FORMER YUOOSLAV REPUn_~DF`
Pdvate Femfer Suppott Project       -Impmve Agriultural Suppet 8tes
Expendttur Accounts by Coponents -
lUSt 0001                              Ptoject                    Agicultural Pxtvste            Ariea       Adc.tugar           Rural           Pyoject                       Phyical
Prnptdon      Adoptive       Advwsory       Votednay       Heatbh        Ma&at            Flnancial      Mnagetment                   Condinencies
fucflty      Reseerb        Services        Services     S.rvcsa     Infonnation        Services        Proranmne       Toet        %       Amnount
1. Investment Costs
A. Goods
1. Vehicles                              68          14             6o2                         220               -                                30         982       10.0       9e
2. Eqdpmnnt
Audiovisual         -                                              200              ,                           ,                  ,              ,        200       10.0        20
Offic Equiprent ard Furniture          ol           8              351             Is          70             26                                77         w80       10.0        at
Laboratory                              -           -                               -        243                                                  -        243       10.0        24
Subtot IEqulpnient                       81           8              651             I r        313              20                                77       1.050       10.0       106
Subtotal Goods                             127          22            1,203             15        633              20                   -           107        2.032      10.0       203
9 Taining
Oversoea trainin                          -                           92                         78              32                   -                       202       10.0        20
IM-country Training                      14                          276            165          30                -                 5                        629      10.0         63
Subtotal Tdnrng                             14           -              387                        10              32                  55                       731       10.0        73
C. Techdcad Assitance
intemational Specialatt /a              238          Do               40                         89             420                560              -       1.427
Local SpectIllstx                       103          s8 8o                            -          B9              86                326            174         921
Subtotl Tehnical Assistance                341         138              126                        177            60S                 986           174        2.347
D Studles                                    -           -                               -         130                                                 -        145       10.0        Is
E. Mra-Mbeda Extension                       -           -                               -           -             35                   -                        3S       10.0         4
F. Study tour                              108           -                                           -               -                  -                       108       10.0         1   1
H. Field Studies                             -        650               164              -           -               -                  -           120         774       10.0        77
1 Fanner Association Cost Shrbg              -           -              470                                          -                                 -        470       10.0        47
K. SAC EstablishmenntFund                                - F u                                                       -                500                       S W00
. Veterinary Pdvstistion Fund                -                                        300                                               -              -        300       10.0        30
Total Investrmnt Cotas                       690         6w0             2,33e           470       , 948             699               1,440           401       7.444        6.2       460
11 Recurrent Coats
A. Steff Slares                              -          41                                                        106                                  -         146
8. local TravelAlowwnc                      I8          10              264              -                           -                 42            13         33S       10.0        34
C. Offieo and Olifce Equlpment OhM           6           6              218              -          36                                   -           20         285        6.0        14
0. VhiclaOper,tion&AMlntonencme             II          I               5tl                        158                                 is             21         729      10.0        73
E. Report PrperatIon                        12           -                               -           -               -                   -             -          12       10.0 
F. Mbcelbnoous                               2                                                                                                                     a -  6  -   8  6.0  0
Towt Recunnt Costs                            46          67              983               -        194             112                 60             64       |,61         8.0       122
Totai BASELIE COSTS                          638          727            3,31S           470        1.141            711               1.500           465        8,960       6.5       582
Physical Contingencies                     29          55               306            47          96              10                  12            27         682
Pdce Continoncies                            8         82               257            37          66              44                 137            33         644        6.9        38
Totia PROJECT COSTS                           674         B44            3,884            564       1.302            764                1,849          615       10,187        6.0      620
Taxex                                      90           70              367              -          65            173                 203           122        1,090       2.8        30
Forign Exchange                           367         379             2.013           406         791             337                 716           213        6,020       7.1       357
\a Macedonbn hicome tax due iwhh 60% dlacountj for nationds of eountrIes wkthout a lsx raciproy agrement with Macedonia. Prdierm costi, estimated at 265 'A of total cost, would be pid locally. 
\b Oportioun *nd Maintenance IO&Mn
o(D 
-h



-30 -                                   Annex 2
Page 3 of 3
THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBUC OF MACEDONIA
Private Ftrnt Suppor Project
Projoat Components by Yo  - inveeunont/Rec nt Cat.
(US4 l0001                                                                 Total* Including Condncencies
1995     1996      1997      1998     1999      Total
A. Projeat Preprtation Faity
Invetrnent Costs                                                        623         -                         623
Rocurrent Costs                                                          51         -         -                 51
Subtotal Projeat Prepwradon Fciity                                        G74                                    8 ,  e74
B. Imptove Agroultutel Support Stvb_e
1. Adaptiv- Reowch
Investment Cots                                               -      139       212       217      200       769
Recurrent Cost                                                -        17        19       19       20        75
Subtotal Adaptive R_oah                                          -      155       231      237   - z20         844
2. Agrioutural Advisory Sia_,.
Inveetment Cots                                               -      910      1,089      401      322     2.722
Recurrent Costs                                                      131       300       361      370      1.1e2
Subtotal Agroulturd Adviary Sevic                                -    1,041     1,388      763      692      3,884
3. Priveto Voternary Servioae
Invetrnent Cost                                               -        97       176      282        -       554
4. PubaI Animal H-alth Servio-e
Investment Costs                                              -      803        14,9      97       24      1,074
Recurrent Costs                                                        35        e3       e4       de       228
Subtotal Public Animal Health Serwvies                           -      839       212      161        90     1,302
S. Market Development
Investment Cots                                               -      348        137      114       45       843
Recurrent Coats                                               -       30         30       31       30       120
Subtotal Mwket Development                                       -      377      17       145       75        784
S. Rural Financial S5rvio_e
Investment Costs                                              -      lS       602       351      z79      1,598
Recurrent Costs                                               -        17        35       18                 70
Subtotel Improve Agnculturad Support Sewvice.                      -    2.e92     Z,52      1,956    1,356     8,517
C. Projeat Management Programme
Investment Costs                                                        199        82       84       87        452
Recurrent Coots                                                          12        17       17       18         63
Subtotal Project Management Programme                                     210        99       102      104       515
Tatal PROJECT COSTS                                                      3,577    2.911    2.058    1.480    10,20a
Total Investment Coats                                                3,284    z.447    1,547       957      8,429
Total Recurrent Costs                                                   292       4e4      511       503     1,771
I



- 31 -                                                 Annex 3
Page 1 of 2
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
PRIVATE FARMER SUPPORT PROJECT
PROJECT PROCUREMENT PLAN
Component/ Package                 Total Cost   Procurement       Invitation     Submission      Signing of     Completion of
US$ 000        Method          to Bid          of Bids        Contract        Package
GOODS  4 X 4s/Pickups                          430            LIB           5 /96            7/96            8/96           10/96
Cars                                  180            IS            5/96                                            10/96
Computers/Software                    170
Copiers/Printers                      130
Lab Equipment                        200
4 X 4s/Pickups                        220                          1/97            2/97            4/97            6/97
Cars                                  170
Computers/Software                    190            .               .               .               .
Copiers/Printers                      70
Extn. Training equipment              35          National      9/96, 2/97,     10/96, 3/97     10/96,3/97      10/96, 4/96
Shopping         2/98,           3/98,           3/98,           4/98
Office Equipment                      30                         6/96,7/97       7/96,7/97       7/96,7197       8/96,8/97
Furniture                             35
Lab supplies                          20             .
Computers/software                    80                        10/96-97-98     11/96-97-98     11/96-97-98     11/96-97-98
PABX MAFWE                            60           Direct          7/96            9/96            9/96            7/96
Contract
Books/Periodicals                     30                           7/96            9/96            10/96           9/96
TECHNICAL SERVICES
Int. Market news services            40          National     8/96,97,98,99   9/96,97,98,99   9/96,97,98,99   10/96,97,98,99
Shopping
Extn.Video production                150                       9/96, 11/96,    10/96,12/96,    10/96,12/96,    12/96,12/97,
11/97, 11/98    12/97,12/98    12/97,12/98     12/98, 12/99



-  32  -                                       Annex  3
P age  2 of 2
Component/ Package                Total Cost   Procurement     Invitation     Submission     Signing of    Completion of
USS 000       Method         to Bid          of Bids       Contact         Package
Research Contracts/grants           600         Short list   7/96,6/97,98,&     NA             NA             9/99
99
Farmer Associations Cost-Sharing    600           NA       7!96,6/97,98,&       NA             NA             12/99
99
Vet. Station develop. Fund          350           NA       9/96,6/97,97,&       NA             NA              6/98
98
CONSULTING SERVICES                         2,200        Short list       4/96           6/96           7/96           12/99
Technical Studies                   355                         96-99
SCA Services                        500                         2/98            4/98           6/98           12/99
Field trials/studies extn.demos.    120        Individuals   9/96,2/97,2/98,    NA             NA        2/97,2/98,2/99,
2/99                                         12/99
TRAINING
Ag. Advisory Services
Opstina Level              110        Short list    9/96, 9/97,        NA             NA             9/97
3/98
Private Veterinarian
Herd Management            18         Short list       2/97                                          7;97
Mastitis Control            17            -            9/96                                          10/96
Int. Parasites             23                          4/97                            5             7/97
Business Operations        18                          9/97                                          12197
Epidemiology               23                          10/96                                         11/96
An. Nutrition              47                       10/96, 7/98                                   10/96,10/98
Vet Practical              35             '         10/96, 4/98                                   4/96, 7:98
Animal Health Services
Epidemiology               35         Short list    9/96, 6i97          .                         12/96i2197
International and domestic training  550       Short list       96-98
programs
Note: Figures are rounded off



- 33 -                                 Annex 4
Page 1
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
PRIVATE FARMER SUPPORT PROJECT
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
(US$ Million)
IDA Fiscal Year                                             Cumulative Disbursements
and Ouarter           Disbursements by Ouarter                by End of Ouarter
1997
1st Quarter                     0.6a                                0 .6
2nd Quarter                      0.8                                 1.4
3rd Quarter                      0.8                                 2.2
4th Quarter                      0.8                                 3.0
1998
ist Quarter                     1.0                                 4.0
2nd Quarter                      1.0                                 5.0
3rd Quarter                     0.6                                 5.6
4th Quarter                     0.7                                 6.3
1999
1st Quarter                     0.3                                 6.6
2nd Quarter                      0.3                                 6.9
3rd Quarter                     0.3                                 7.2
4th Quarter                     0.3                                 7.5
2000
Ist Quarter                     0.2                                 7.7
2nd Quarter                      0.2                                 7.9
a) included refinancing of PPP advance



-34-                                     Annex 5
Page 1 of 10
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
PRIVATE FARMER SUPPORT PROJECT
Project Implementation Plan
Project Preparation Fadlity
1.    The Government has engaged the services of a consulting firm under the PPF to assist in
developing key project components using participatory techniques. The consulting firm is holding a series
of two-day seminars in rural areas to:  (i) familiarize farmers and extension staff with recent
developments and trends in extension delivery systems; (ii) identify possible modalities for farmer
supported and/or private participation in the delivery of extension and information services; (iii) identify
possible initial participants and supporting farmer/agribusiness organizations. Also, the seminars would
help to identify options for progressively transferring responsibility for the management and for financing
of extension services to communities, farmers' associations, and/or agro-business. The seminars would
help to identify private farm leaders and extension professionals for participation in a study tour to
selected countries. Following seminars in rural areas, a national extension seminar would be held to
seek consensus on the most appropriate means of reforming the extension services and the MES. The
consulting firm is also helping to develop concepts for market news service using available information.
It is working with MAFWE's legal staff and local specialists, also funded under the PPF, to review
pending MAFWE draft legislation related to denationalization of land, privatization of agri-kombinats and
other priority regulations. It would also review progress and evaluate initial experience with privatization
of agri-kombinats.
Agricultural Advisory Services
2.    The MES would be responsible for the implementation of pilot initiatives and essential country-
wide improvements in the provision of agricultural advisory services. To assist the MES Director, a
project coordinator for the advisory services component would be appointed whose responsibilities would
include assisting in overseeing the training programs and support the formation of farmer
groups/associations for obtaining agricultural advisory services. MES headquarters staff would cooperate
with consultants and farm leaders in identifying counterparts for pilot initiatives, including the
development of cost-sharing arrangements, satisfactory to the World Bank, with farmer organizations,
facilitate research/extension linkages, provide skill gap based extension training, facilitate information
flow, and contribute to the development of mass media communication materials. MES regional staff
would oversee the implementation of pilot cost-sharing initiatives.
3.     The MES, working with leaders of farmer groups/associations, community leaders and/or NGO
leaders would encourage these kind of groups to take charge of organizing the kind of advisory services
they determine would best meet their needs, including the hiring of their own advisors or contracting with
a private firms to provide such services. While this initiative is anticipated to shift some of the advisory
costs to farmers, the MES would provide incentives to such groups as special training for advisors at no
cost to the farmer groups, but primarily through the establishment of an Agricultural Advisory Services
Fund for cost-sharing arrangements with farmer groups. For cost-sharing specifically, the MES would



-35-                                    Annex 5
Page 2 of 10
agree with each group to cost-sharing on a declining scale from 75% in the group's first year, 65% in
its second and third year, 50% in its fourth year and thereafter at a mutually agreed ratio, but not more
than US$6,000 per year to any one group. The MES would also provide a one-time, start-up matching
grant, on the basis of 1/3 farmer group and 2/3 from the MES, not exceeding US$2,000 per association.
Overall the cost-sharing support from the MES is anticipated to cover costs of advisors, but could also
cover handbooks, special training programs and office equipment and/or other costs determined
appropriate by each particular group's assessment of their needs. Financing would expand gradually from
six pilot initiatives to about 40.
4.    The MES would ensure that results from participative farm system constraint analysis is fed back
to the Agricultural Research Council (ARC), collect regional farm management information, develop farm
models, and monitor the impact of price and cost changes on farm incomes. Opstina-level programs
would principally, through farmer discussion groups, use on-farm demonstrations, and mass media tools.
The village community would become the focal point for opstina level extension agents. NEIS activities
would be overseen by farmers' boards. At the opstina level, farmers would be nominated by local
councils for board positions. Opstina boards would nominate representatives to their respective region,
which in turn would nominate two representatives to the national MES board. Generally, board
appointments would be for two years and board meetings would be held quarterly.
5.    The longer term  structure and management of the MES would be studied by a special
commission, appointed by the Government representing public and private sector interests across the
agricultural sector. In public and private hearings, the Commission would consider public and private
sector extension roles, opportunities for MES self-financing/cost-recovery, ways to improve administrative
and operational efficiency and other reforms. The analysis, satisfactory to the World Bank, is expected
to be completed by June 1997.
6.    A key activity would be training-of-trainers program for MES staff and other selected trainers.
Eligible candidates would have an agricultural degree or diploma, preferably a post-graduate degree in
agricultural economics or farm management, at least two years of field experience, good communication
skills, and some English language skills. The trainers would complete an intensive two-month course.
An essential part of the training would be a course in participatory rural appraisal in at least one agro-
ecological zone and farming system. Four months after the course, the training specialist would conduct
a one-week refresher and evaluation course. Subsequently, a retraining program would be expanded for
MES staff at all levels, organized by the training coordinator. Each two-week course would be for about
10 staff. Each staff member would complete the initial two-week course, followed four weeks later by
a one-week refresher and follow-up seminar. This training would include a practical field exercise
followed by additional training and evaluation. An independent evaluation of the training program would
be conducted in the second year of the program under a contract with terms of reference agreed with the
World Bank.
Agricultural Research
7.    As agreed with MOS, the MAFWE would have overall responsibility for the program. The
MAFWE has appointed an Agricultural Research Committee (ARC) whose responsibilities would include
review and approval of research priorities and in evaluating proposals for funding from the Research
Grant Fund. The MAFWE has also appointed a Senior Scientific Advisor (SSA), under the PFSP, to



- 36 -                                  Annex 5
Page 3 of 10
assist the PFSP Project Manager (PM) in managing and administering day to day activities of the
program. The Ministry would establish the Agricultural Research Grant Fund no later than June 30,
1996. The guidelines for awarding research grants were agreed at negotiations.
8.    ARC membership would come from a cross section of experienced individuals with experience
with applied problems and opportunities facing farmers, as well as to provide a balance between public
and with private sectors. ARC membership would include one representatives from MAFWE, Ministry
of Science, the Faculty of Agriculture, the MES, private farmers (one each representing grain, livestock
and horticultural producers), and a representative of agribusiness. The ARC would be chaired by the
SSA.
9.    The first year of the program are expected to feature seven, broad priority areas, specifically: 1)
Integrated pest management (IPM), 2) Animal husbandry, 3) Farm management, 4) Water use
efficiency, 5) Conservation tillage, 6) Pasture and range management, and 7) Evaluation of new
horticultural varieties. As the program gains experience, the ARC will consider changing economic
circumstances, in particular agricultural trade opportunities, experience with previous adaptive research,
and the findings of the MES diagnostic surveys to modify priority areas as appropriate.
10.   The research envisioned to be carried out under the adaptive research program would be on
applied, practical problems facing farmers and agribusiness. (The program is not intended to fund basic,
strategic research, which is the responsibility of the Ministry of Science.) Adaptive research typical of
projects that could be funded might include the identification of more economic and appropriate level of
herbicides; modification to livestock housing to reduce infectious diseases; identification of new
fruit/vegetable varieties that would fit niche, export markets; new tillage practices and/or tillage
equipment that would evaluate alternative high residue tillage techniques; and farm level cost of
production studies, for example.
Animal Health Program
11.   The veterinary service privatization program would be managed by the Veterinary Management
Unit in close collaboration with the Veterinary Chamber. The Veterinary Development Fund would be
used to encourage public sector veterinarians to privatize.  Under the matching grant program,
Government would meet 50% of the costs associated with establishing a private veterinary practice. Any
veterinarian willing to leave government service and able to fund 50% of his/her costs of establishing a
private practice would be eligible. A limit of US$15,000 per veterinary station' would be established.
Support would be restricted under the matching grant scheme to equipment directly related to income
generating activities such as for disease diagnosis, pregnancy testing, artificial insemination, and
laboratory sample analysis. At negotiations agreement has been reached on the establishment and
maintenance of the Veterinary Privatization Fund by June 30, 1996, with guidelines satisfactory to the
World Bank, for participation by veterinarians.
12.   Private veterinarian in-service training would be provided under a project financed program
designed to provide additional technical, business, and management skills necessary for a private
' Station refers to clinic or surgery.



-37 -                                  Annex 5
Page 4 of 10
veterinary practice. Up to two private veterinarians per veterinary station would have access to an
introductory course in computers, business practices and re related office and data management software
use. The project would also contract for the provision of short courses for private veterinarians on
technical subjects including whole herd health and production management, ruminant and non-ruminant
nutrition, management-related diseases and internal parasites. The Veterinary Chamber would be
responsible for the selection of courses.
13.   The Epidemiological Unit of the Veterinary Management Unit would implement the epidemiology
program. It would contract with the Veterinary Institute for sample analysis, private veterinary stations
for sample collection, herd health monitoring and vaccination campaigns. Work plans would be
developed by the Epidemiological Unit on regional bases in collaboration with MES services. The
Epidemiological Unit would manage programs, analyze and report results, and, in collaboration with
MAFWE, develop associated policy and cost-effective disease control strategies.
Market Information
14.   The Agriculture Department of SOM would manage the development of the market information
service. A MOU between the MAFWE and SOM has been signed to formalize implementation
responsibilities.
Rural Financial Services
15.   The Project Manager would supervise the overall implementation of this component. Together
with the international farm credit specialist, six farm credit specialists for a two-year term would be
posted to the six strengthened opstina extension offices. The Project Manager with the help of
Management Consulting firm would also supervise special studies. The international farm credit specialist
would assist MAFWE's legal staff in reviewing pending legislation. Concerning implementation of the
SA component, the Government, subsequent to a review of the SA initiative, would present to the World
Bank for review and approval a plan for supporting strengthening and expansion of SAs before any
disbursements are made on this component.



- 38 -                                   Annex 5
Page 5 of 10
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
[     Timing     |                        Action                              Responsible
_____   ___________________Par~~~~~~~~~Paty
l_________________                  Project Managanent
10/95       Designate Project Manager                                   MAFWE
11//95      ** Prepare list of Equipment and Vehicle to be procured under  Project
LIB                                                       Manager(PM)
12/95       *Sign TA contract under PPF                                 MAFWE
1/96        *Law (International Specialists{TAEXP}) consultancy on land    PM/Conslt. Firm
de-nationalization, privatization of agri-kombinats and
l ______________    cooperative  law
1/96        *Consultancy on defining options for agroindustry       PM/Conslt. Firm
Privatization (TAEXP)
2/96        *Hire TA Agroindustry Privatization (Technical Specialists  PM/Conslt. Firm
{TALOC))
2/96        *Hire local lawyer (TALOC) to work with international   PM/Conslt. Firm
lawyer
4/96        Establish Special Account for IDA Funds                       PM
4/96        Short List TA firms                                           PM
4/96       Send out LOI for TA Contract                                   PM
4/96        Establish Project Steering Committee                        MAFWE
5/96        **Ilnitiate international shopping for equipment and vehicles  PM
5/96        Issue documents for 1996 LIB and IS for 4X4s, pickups, cars,  PM
computers/software, copiers/printers and lab equipment
7/96       Draft 1996 Work Plan & Budget                                  PM
7/96        Project Launch Workshop                                     PM/IDA
7/96        Evaluate bids for TA Contract                                 PM
7/96        Award TA Contract                                             PM
7/96        Develop 1996 Work Plan for TA Contract                        PM



- 39 -                                    Annex 5
Page 6 of 10
6/96, 10/96,
5/97, 10/97,
5/98, 10/98,
5/99, 10/99    IDA Supervision Missions                                     PM/IDA
10/96, 10/97,    Develop Annual Work Plans and Budgets                         PM
10/98
10/96       Analysis of 1994 Agricultural Census completed               PM/SOM
11/96       Prepare and issue documents for 1997 LIB and IS for 4X4s,      PM
pickups, cars, computers/software and copiers/printers.
2/97        Benchmark informaton on private farmer incomes published     PM/SOM
3/98        Mid-Term Review                                              PM/IDA
4197, 4/98, 4/99,  Annual Audits                                            PM/MAFWE
4/2000                                                                   Accountants
X_____                              Agriu   Marketing
12/95-8/96     Design horticulture wholesale market2                   PM/Fresh Consults
1 - 3/96     *Carry out marketing analysis (TAEXP)                    PM/Conslt. Firm
4/96        *Hire data entry specialists(TALOC)                         MSC3/SOM
4/96        Hire padt time market enumerators (TALOC)                   MSC/SOM
6/96        Appoit M earng Servic  Coordinator(MSC) (TALOC)              PM/SOM
6/96        Initiate daily market news service                          MSC/SOM
9/96, 6/97    Upgrade food quality standards (TAEXP) with RVS           PM/Conslt. Firm
10-11/96, 10-    Agricultural Statistics(TAEXP) consultancy on market   MSC/Conslt. Firm
11/97, 9/98    information generation/sampling
10-11/96,     Data Analyst(TAEXP) consultancy to work on murket        MSC/Conslt. Firm
10/97,9/98    information analysis and reporting
10/96, 6/97, 5/98  Market Information(TAEXP) consultancy on modalities and  MSC/Conslt. Firm
use of media for effective market information dissemination
Agricultural Research
4/96        Establish Agricultural Research Committee           T        PM/MAFWE
2 Funded with Auuria Ttus Funds
I Maret Services Coordinator



- 40 -                                     Annex 5
Page 7 of 10
4/96        Appoint Senior Scientific Advisor (TALOC).                  PM/MAFWE
5/96        Establish Agricultural Research Grand Fund                  PMIMAFWE
6/96        Announce 1996 Research Grants Program                      ARC/MAFWE
6/96        Research Management(TAEXP) consultancy on identification  ARC/Conslt. Firm
and prioritization of research projects
9/96        Revise research protocols (rAEXP)                         ARC/Conslt. Firm
9/96        Award 1996 Research Grants                                 ARC/MAFWE
10/96, 10/97,    ARC and Res./Extn. agronomists identify priority research  ARC/MAFWE
10/98       areas for following year                                                     l
10/96, 10/98,    Provide World Bank for concurrence plans for 1997/98/99      ARC/PM
10/99       respectively
1/97, 1/98, 1/99   Annual research grants program announced                 ARC/MAFWE
3/97, 3/98, 3/99   Award of Research Grants                                 ARC/MAFWE
7/98, 7/99    Independent review of agricultural research grants program    ARC/PM
AgricltUr4al Advisory Services
RepubLic Extension Service
1/96-6/96     *Extension (TAEXP) consultancy on options for organization     MES
and funding of extension programs, in particular utilizing farm
groups
2-3/96      *Regional Extension Worlcshops                                  MES
2/96        *Selection of study tour participants                          MES
4/96        *Extension study tour                                    NEC4/Conslt. Firm
5/96        Establish Agricultural Advisory Services Fund                ASC/MES
6/96        *National Extension Workshop                                 ASC/MES
6/96-3/97     *Commission on agriculture extension to define national      ASC/MES
agnicultual extension strategy
9/96, 3/97    Extension Specialist (TAEXP) consultancy to work with     NBC/Conslt. Firm
commission on extension strategy
4Advisory S%iries Coordinator



- 41 -                                    Annex 5
Page 8 of 10
9/96, 6/97, 6/98,                                                              ASC/MES
6/99        Contract farmer attitude surveys
9/96        Announce staff vehicle purchase program                      ASCIMES
9/96, 7/97    Reorientation tnining                                         ASC/MES
9/96-9/97     Overseas feliowship in extension monogement(2)            NBC/Conslt. Firm
9/96-9/99     Mass media program production                                ASC/MES
10/96, 10/98,    Provide World Bank for concurrence plans for 1997/98/99     ASCIMES
10/99       respectively
4/97, 4/98, 4/99                                                              ASCIMES
In-service training
3/97, 3/98, 3/99   Extension impact evaluation                                ASCIMES
11/97       Evaluation of field staff training                           ASCIMES
7/98        Evaluation of cost-sharing arrangements                      ASCIMES
Strengthened Opsfinas
9/96        Appointment of agriculurl economist and research extension  Director/MES
coordinators
9/96, 9/97     Overseas short courses                                       ASCIMES
9/96        Appointment of Board of Advisors                            Directors of
Strengthened
Opstinas/MES
9/96, 3/97, 9/97,  Contract farm household surveys                             ASCIMES
3/98, 9/98, 3/99,
9/99
IOpsfina
9/96        Appointment of Opstina Boards                                Director of
Opstinas/MES
2/96, 2/97, 2/98,  Design annual field trials/demonstration program           Directors of
2/99                                               .                      Opetin
7/96, 7/96    Reorientation training                                        ASCIMES
Private Veteinarian Sevices
5/96        Establish Private Veterinary Development Fund                   PM          I



- 42 -                                     Annex 5
Page ' of 10
5/96        Submission of revised draft veterinary law                AHSC5/ MAFWE
6/96        Announce cost-sharing agreements for Private Veterinary      MAFWE/
Stations                                                      AHSC
6/96        Completion of Veterinary Code                                MAFWE/
AHSC
9/96, 6/97    Private Veterinarian Practical Training                        AHSC
9/96        Mastitis Control Training                                      AHSC
9/96, 9/98     Training in recent developments in animal nutrition            AHSC
10/96       Establishment of Veterinary Chamber                           MAFWE
10/96       Training in veterinary epidemiology                            AHSC
10/96, 10/98,    Provide World Bank for concurrence plans for 1997/98/99       AHSC
10/99       respectively
3/97        Whole Herd Management Training                                 AHSC
6/97        Internal Parasite Training                                     AHSC
11/97       Computer applications training for private veterinarians      AMSC
Animal Health Soevices
6/96        Appointment of Animal Health Services Coordinator(AHSC),
(TALOC)                                                    PM/MAFWE
6/96        MAFWE Epidemiology Department will recruit epidemiologist
and data management specialist                               MAFWE
9/96        Establish Contract with Veterinary Institute for sample
analysis                                                      AHSC
9/96        Establish Contracting procedures for contracting with private
veterinarians for epidemiology and inspection.                AHSC
10/96, 3/97, 3/98  Veteinary Epidemiologist (TAEXP) consultancy to review  AHSC/Conslt. Firm
design and implementation of epidemiological progamm                        l
10/96, 6/97, 6/98  Mastitis Field Study                                         AHSC
10/96, 6/97, 6/98  Internal Parasite Field Study                                AHSC
11/96, 6/97, 6/98  Food Contamination Study                                     AHSC
11/96       Data systems management (TAEXP) consultancy to review    AHSC/Conslt. Firm
and advise on up-dating management of epidemiological data
'Animal Health Services Coordinator



- 43 -                                    Annex 5
Page 1Oof 10
1/97, 9/97    Six month Veterinary epidemiology course                       AHSC
11/96       Veterinary inspection specialist(TAEXP) to review and advise   AHSC/Conslt. Firm
on management and operation of border inspection practices
12/96, 9/97    Veterinary Inspection Secondment                         AHSC/Consit. Firm
1-2/97       Veterinary Inspection Course                                  AHSC
1/97        Complete Upgrading of 10 Border Inspection Posts             AHSC/RV
Rural Flnancial Services'
9/96-10/96     Farm Credit Advisor(TAEXP)                                PM/Conslt Firm
9/96        Chattel Mortgages in Agriculture                           PM/Conslt Firm
10/96       Identification and training of six regional farm credit    PM/Conslt Firm
specialists(ALOC)
10/96-7/98     Six regional farm credit advisors appointed and working         PM
9/96        Mass media announcements as to the availability of farm         PM
credit advisors to assist private farmers prepare loan
applications
9/96        Training for PFIs under the PSDP                               NBM
11/96       Farm Credit Advisor(TAEXP)                                 PM/Conslt Firm
6/97        Chattel Mortgages in Agriculture                           PM/Conslt Firm
9/97        Draft law on chattel mortgages completed                  PM/Conslt Firm
3/98        Review pilot Savings Associations                            IDA/NBM
*      Uider PPF
With acerawe of procurement advisor funded with trust funds
*+*   PFunded by trust fimds



FORMER YUGOSLAVIA REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
PRIVATE FARMER SUPPORT PROJECT
Project Performance Idicators
Activity                               Input                                Output                                Impact
Agncultural Marketing                                                                                                                                 l
Market News Service                  Specialist assistance, training,      Timely collection and publication of   Expanded awareness of agriculturl
equipment. Total (US$0.6 million)     commodity and livestock market        product prices, market opportunities in
information including prices, quantities  terms of location, prices and quality
and grades moving through domestic    demanded.
markets.
Measurement: Numbers of readers,       4
TV, radio and newspaper publication of  subscribers, viewers. Surveys to
domestic and international market     estimate relative importance of project
information.                         supplied market information to
producers and agribusiness persons.
More transparent buying and selling of
agricultural products.
Horticultural Wholesale Market       Specialist assistance to design       Development plan for horticulture     More efficient and effective marketing
horticulture wholesale market. Total  wholesale market.                     of horticultural products domestically
(US$0.17 million)                                                           and internationally.
Basis established for developing
appropriate regulations.              Measurement:Private investment in
horticulture wholaeale mnmkut
Private investment opportunities in  infrastructure. Number International
wholesale market available to         buyers using wholesale market.
commercial banks and private investors.  Reduction of 'casual roadside buying
and selling of wholesale lots of
l__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  |__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  horticultural  products.
0
cot



Activity                                    Input                                      Output                                     Impact
Adaptive Research                          Competitive research fund; specialist      An Agricultural Research Council made   Working partnership between farmers,
assistance; vehicle; office equipment.     up of representatives of farmers,          agribusiness, extension and the
Total (US$0.8 million)                     agribusiness persons and extension         MAFWE established to define
professionals in place and allocating      agricultural research priorities, allocate
applied research resources.                resources to applied research problems
and in reviewing/evaluating research
A precedence establishing formal           results.
MAFWE support for applied
agricultural research.                     Improved pest management and soil
fertility practices. Better land
New, profitable technological              management practices, e.g.
innovations available for farmers, e.g.    conservation tillage identified.
fertilizer rates, new horticultural                                                     r
varieties, I.P.M. technology,              Measurement:ARC effectively working    Lv
conservation tillage practices, better     and its existence sustained. Research
pasture management practices and           reports and adoption of new
forages, improved on-farm animal           technology/practices by private
management practices.                      farmers.
Precedence for contracting for applied
l ______________________                   _______________________                     agricultu anl  research   established.
OQ 0
( pi
rox
0~
Fh
coD



Activity                                Input                                 Output                                 Impact
Agricultural Advisory Services
Farmer Associations/Groups    Cost-sharing grants. Total (US$0.6      42 farmer associations/groups in       More relevant, responsive and
million)                               partnership with Government for the    accountable advisory services available
provision of advisory services with   to farmers.
members covering 25 to 50 percent of
the costs.                             Process of shifting responsibility from
Govemnment to beneficiaries of
advisory services initated.
Measurement: Farmers continue to
cost-share in support of their own
advisory services.Number of farmer
organizations, number of farmer
members. Value of farmer
contributions.
m pD
ao



Activity                               Input                                Output                                Impact
Macedonian Extension Service   Specialist assistance; vehicles;     Farmer attitude surveys.             Improved client responsiveness and
studies/surveys; office equipment; and                                      accountability.
training. Total (US$0.58 million)     National Extension Advisory Board
made up of farmers and agribusiness   National programming responsive to
persons.                              needs identified at opstina level.
MES providing training and training  More relevant and available generic
materials to farmer groups and opstina   information available for lower level
level field staff.                   agricultural advisors and farmers.
Measurment: National programming
decisions based on feed-back from
farmers. Farmers and opstina advisors >
judgement as to effectiveness of MES
programming and training. Farmers
and Agribusiness persons continue
attendance at Board meetings and feel
they are listen to.
Strengthened Opstinas        Training; mass media materials;        Farm management/household survey      Applied research projects directly
household surveys; office equipment;    base established.                  responsive to farmer, agribusiness and
and vehicles. Total (US$0.28 million)                                       extension identified needs.
Improved research extension linkages.
Measurement: Research projects reflect
Regional Advisory Boards.             demand from strengthened opstinas.
Farmers and agribusiness report
research projects are of direct interest
to them. Continued existence and
functioning of Regional Advisory
Boards. Household/farm management
survey information available.
0o



Activity                               Input                                  Output                                 Impact
Opstina                       Training; vehicles; and field trials.  Opst-na staff using participatory      Improved client responsiveness and
Total (US$0.9 million)                techniques in identifying farmer       accountability. Basis for opstina and
problems and developing annual work    national level extension programs
programs.                             grounded in the nweds of local farmers
and agribusiness needs..
Opstina Advisory Boards.
Measurement: Use made by farmers of
material/information from opstina level
extension officials that resulted from
programming recommendations
generated by on-farm surveys.
Private Veterinr  Services            Training; national specialist assistance;   15 private veterinary practices   Broad-based, competitive veterinary     4
office equipment; training and station  established.                          services available to farmers on        00
development fund. Total                                                       demand.
(US$0.55 million)                      Private veterinarians contracted with for
enzootic disease control programs.     Higher vaccination coverage.
Professionally updated private         Effective professional organization for
veterinarians                          private veterinarians.
Veterinary Chamber Established         Measurement: Farmer surveys to
estimate rate of farmer satisfaction.
Veterinary Chamber in existence and
being supported by member
contributions. Percentage of animals
vaccinated.
Anbnal Health Service
x
0
1h
00



Activity                                Input                                 Output                                 Impact
Epidemiology and regional inspection    Epidemiology program: Specialist      Adequate epidemiology surveillance.    Disease surveillance of sufficient
programu                              assistance; training; laboratory                                               standard to naintain Macedonian
equipment; field studies, vehicles; and   Internationally acceptable animal   access to EU livestock and livestock
office equipment. Total (US$0.86       disease reporting systems.             product markets.
million)
Veterinary Agency contracting for      Measurement:FYR Macedonia
epidemiology and inspection work with  livestock products continues to have
private veterinarians.                 access to EU markets. Reported
disease incidence traceable to external
sources.
Border Inspection                     Inspection Service: Special assistance;   10 Upgraded border check posts.      Effective cross boarder livestock
training; vehicles; and equipment. Total                                      disease control.                        4-
(US$0.26 million)                                                                                                     'o
Measurement:Inspection load and
identification/rejection rate.
PzQ0
ox
0a
-h
oo



Activity                                    Input                                     Output                                    Impact
Rural Financial Intermediation
Chattel Mortgages in Agriculture          Specialists assistance.Total (US$80,000)  Chattel mortgages legally acceptable.       Farmers can use chattel mortgages to
secur loans.
Formal financial markets more
accessible and acceptable to farmers.
Measummt Use of chattel mortgages
in securing loans. Number of farmers
receiving loans from commercial
banks.
Farm Credit Services                      Specialist assistance. Total (US$0.4       Six regional farm credit advisors         Private Farmers effectively accessing
million)                                  available for two years to assist private   the formal financial market for credit.
farmers prepare acceptable loan
applications for commercial bank loans.   Measment: Number of approved
loans to farmers that were assisted by
farm credit advisors.
Savings and Credit Associations           Training, technical assistance, Bank       (To be programmed in late 1997 on         NA
supervision. Total (US$0.55 million)      basis evaluation of USAID supported
l _______________________________         ________________________________            pilot  Savings   A ssociations.
o a
0
0:h
0o



Activity                                 Input                                   Output                                 Impact
Overall
Private Farmer Support Project         International and national specialists  Agricultural support services enhanced,   Private farmer productivity and income
assistance, equipment, vehicles, studies,  namely agricultural extension, market    increased.
training, institutional innovations. Total  news service, horticultural wholesale
(US$10.2 million)                       market, private veterinary services and   Measurement: Farm management
public animal health services.          survey results used to estimates returns
to land, labor and capital as well as
Profitable, new agricultural            TFP and compared with 1994 baseline
technologies.                           farm census data.
L-n
(br
x
0o
0
1h
OD



- 52 -                               Annex 7
Page 1 of 1
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
PRIVATE FARMER SUPPORT PROJECT
Selected Documents Available in the Project File
1.           Private Farmer Support Services Project: Preparation Report
2.           Private Farm Support Project: Identification Report
3.            The 1994 Census of the Population. Households, Dwellings and Agricultural Holdings in the Republic
of Macedonia Act
4.            1994 Statistical Yearbook of the Republic of Macedonia
5.           Rural Financial Intermediation: USAID Financed WOCCU Pilot Program for Savings Associations
6.            Rural Land Study
7.           The Environment: An Initial Assessment
8.           Agricultural Marketing
9.            Farm Models
10.          Agriculture and Natural Resources
11.          Agricultural Research
12.          Agricultural Extension
13.          Veterinary Services
Ap, il 14, 1996



c     FED. REP. OF  YUGOSLAVIA                     j                                                       FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC
"'   ~       our_n1e                   .> to   * J                                                                    OF MACEDONIA
*  Presece  " \.,                            *                                                ~~~~~~~~PRIVATE FARMER
, _- N_     '-.  ,                 GabricoteKoc=ny       _ r*-.        2            ( '   PA LRANKA   \       A     Ky'sMeAdil                                        SUPPORT  PROJECT
N.      !, -                                -.\t .           72           (P9/.            Peleek--- '\gyuedreea               _  B U LG  A R I A           MAJOR AGROECOLOGICAL ZONES
Vr<t-ice   \* r*   /                    LJKUMANOVO: ( .                        |                         t
-< ,,                 VroKmc= *-B'Ie, ,* Pl=ce              * ,  Kumansvo .                  M k'
ft   \ ~ "                                                /                        1Be ~ \ ~ ~ \ak eus 4 { ~Nt  aKeueeRATONO
Tetaot GAS;v*A    SKO;JE                                   .                                                        \                                        Forming
4/                                                                                       KOCANI(   -    "t-k              -                                    -~~~KOPJ
(PROBIST(.P /  KOC(N                                                                         Meunton Areas wit Sinai Scale
stz~ ~ , ,Pskpk V!oi=..     \T OVOvVees   .                                              \..              /Agreerelegicol Sore Beuneeries
'Tro                                                                                       DELC4VO I                                                  Feder,  ducto, Cee en.W.d S.,he-p
5 PJE ~   ~           ~          ~ ~ ''                                   P
.LjI~~54'4~ce &                 .                                              rijete Area
sP_~<0   ;<                     EP trua/Z^r  f  - .>~-  2 -1 VSpt El-etir, Meters
r   GASTIVAR               ._I'                                 K                     GREECE                                        x           *                           Seleeted Cs 
* ^^ ! , XP$ > . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~trp  ,                                          ._8Ag-\ _)X o                                                    M.I.,  O t-
Pht( Veka-ia                                             T Vtova Veles                                                  E                                                      eerCte
A  L B A NI A take r                                                                                                                                                               Nationa ~;    l Cptl    u ,t8 FDR_
Tot'__  1 ,_ ,, \- ;'- LaLv ji|; I! Lnie 1 o 4x r VUGOSRLAVNch.r.1 C.p,t.
1,    rIdMrcacheat  i  BROD)
'\    / se  "N.Q)   rsbl                           \                          ,                                               oTI7TOV VELES                 4       AiRports
Eaorly                                                       Seceendr,y Rea.s.
Vegetables  ~ ~ ~       ~        ~       ~       ~       1> /                         eetables
KI~~~~~~EV6) ~~~~~~RADOVVne                                                                                                                -ayRSd
------ -- Other Railroads
KLSEVO.
on  bs                           Krusonj r<                                   e o                                                                                       - -peticO    BoundariE s
A      O. HR/D:                *                     L             5rly K2ADARS                                                                                          tr    l Boud
ORc                           D  H/          )      t#r  PRILEP   .       /
Aopr                      / ol mGEVGEL                                                                                    ID.
~~s.  t   ~~~~late,siee Cereals                                                                                                    REAUSTRIseAre             ''
C               ~~~~~~~& I dstry Crops                                                                          JASRAt                                    \tcK
r leu*nes                                                                               .                                        .       WHUNGARY
GREECE
ALBANIA                           BT OAEdeea                                                                                                                                                  ., c D
'is~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E E
t~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D~
und use  '  .e1                                      C                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ITALY,--
0. Warld Oak crow  *.,..f  a                                                             . -                                                .4                    TURKEY~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JIUKE
7   ane*raOusi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  1-'  -  ____                                                                                                 2 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GREECE
f   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~3~~~I                              MILES                               R/o
nrr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~01
-ojneA.aor






r   1                                       ,04kl   - ~~~~~~FED. REP. OF  YUGOSLAVIA                /         t-FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC
-       '>o  2        ,                                                    OF MACEDONIA
;i  9   Plesevo  t  -J  >.     =        9                     \                                           PRIVATE  FARMER
FACULTY OFAGRICUnLTURE           TABANOVOB   f          KRIVA     DEVEE AIR              - -1                                    SUPPORT  PROJECT
* \ _ tj UNIVERSITY OF XC> /k-                  I                                                      '_k    ~'    ~     1,AO>. .;Ktv  B U L G A R I A.
CYRIL&  METHODIUS                                KUMANOVO. A          u          - 'ric   n                                                            A       AgricOlturalRnsearcCenters
4               ~~~~~vratn- ~  LCE                                    C    ..Peono 
0  )                                                                     KurncvR an     ,         '    KCAyob'DC )DLCV                                                                 >,0
.  * I         IBe~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~alsasc-'    K--K   .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A- 0-t                                                         o,t
AINSTiTTE N             J                                                             N -.                                       Anma Oantn i         Fui,r.
-1A(SKOPJE)K                                                                                                                     E- '- ( Cieotiisin Meers
jP         T e s o   (:       -\   \'                                -c---,                       ,,S                                                                s -    C
%                                                                                          Dh   -l   bELC' KEOVOP ois  K2ocei  ?  -EL0 .V
(   V S %   t! '   \     / \ \ - i   ' ;   >    > f E i p   @     \ 0  thj s 7 i :     k ;%~ - I - t   I S I T T   2/4                                              S  _  - -  p a t L E l v a o r sn   M e tre s
t~~~~~~~~~~N VDRI                                                                                   D D,0 2,000n|       - 
$ 4ICOLE                         RESE ARCH
\ _ I \ LrlL rd  /~~~~~~~~~ (t                                -                           VINICA                                                       A       x)           
A TGKorce                                                                                                                                                             I /    /  *  Lected Cities
k VAsoctoz/jel                                                                                                    BEk9VO                                          E         LoGf.
D. k                                                             e Ve )                      KTIP
> 1+ Rr n                                                                                                                                                            N Iol Capital
>j         >S = n  rTI TO                       V   V E-/                                                                                                      4 -     A r t   R eads
\/X  .t               ~.f .r    ;                    D                                                            MILL5 Primary Rds
AGjNUJITLME    Sumc NO0---i-OtherRared
V~DEBAR,~.             '5JST*'TLW>CAI                                                                                                                            ------      p~~Ried
~   ~' TOBACO                                                ti    j  ~..-.-4               ~                           - - - - Opstine Boundares
PriIep  j      'likens  ',I                                                                                     nte....ia-a1 B-und-sio
lCTRflfA.  S                                           RJ- -                                                                      5
_\'       HRID    \KAVADARCI                                                         r              tp' b
s /.Z  !'                                                                                                                                                                   ,. . GEV A 
I                                                                                                   GE~~~~~ 
A    j,id         - -  S) 
ALBANIA  A-                                                                                                                       1                                    5'.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AUTI
I                                      GREECE                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HUNGARY/ 
--1-2    Edhessa                                      -.~~~~~~~~~~~~~O14A.M.fRQT'  \ROMANIA
1                                                                                                     VHE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_'RATEVIAS&
-5-5-  r                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FED REP
7'                                                                              Y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~     UGOSFLAVIA,'- C    5SAI 
din,   -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/~~~~1 Kas  2,
i.,~~~~~~~~~roa,inAnd  --  -                                                                                                             ) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GREECE
z                                               0        15        30 KILOMETERS~~   ~  -
0  Ee,str.s~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~01                                                Wt









IMAGING
Report No:       14913 MK
Type: SAR



