Page  1
                                                         CONFORMED COPY
                                                  CREDIT NUMBER 2863 MK
                       Development Credit Agreement
                     (Private Farmer Support Project)
                                 between
                  FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
                               (the Borrower)
                                   and
                 INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                            (the Association)
                        Dated September 24, 1996
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 2863 MK
                      DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated September 24, 1996, between the Borrower and the
Association.
     WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
has requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                     General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications thereto set forth below (the General Conditions) con-
stitute an integral part of this Agreement:
     (a)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     (b)  The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
          "Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise
          agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of
          expenditures in the territories of any country which is not
Page  2
          a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or services
          supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of
          any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of
          goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the
          Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United
          Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the
          Charter of the United Nations."
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective meanings
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "AASF" means the Agricultural Advisory Services Fund to be
established and maintained by the Borrower for the purpose of financing
agricultural advisory services pursuant to guidelines acceptable to the
Association;
     (b)  "Agriculture Research Committee" or ARC means the Committee to
be established and maintained by the Borrower for the purpose of inter
alia, reviewing and approving applied agriculture research priorities
and evaluating proposals for funding from the RGF;
     (c)  "Deutsche Mark" and "DEM" means the lawful currency of
Germany, but if such currency shall be replaced with the European
Currency Unit, then "Deutsche Mark" and "DEM" shall be replaced by
"European Currency Unit" and "ECU" for purposes of the Loan, at the
ratio in effect as of the date of such replacement;
     (d)  "MAFWE" means the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water
Economy of the Borrower;
     (e)  "Project Management Unit" or "PMU" means the unit established
within the MAFWE to coordinate and oversee activities under the Project;
     (f)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation
advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an
exchange of letters dated December 21, 1994 and March 7, 1995 between
the Borrower and the Association;
     (g)  "Project Steering Committee" or "PSC" means the Committee to
be established and maintained by the Borrower within the MAFWE for the
purpose of coordinating the implementation of the Project;
     (h)  "RGF" means the Research Grant Fund to be established and
maintained by the Borrower, for the purpose of providing research
grants to eligible agricultural research projects, based on guidelines
acceptable to the Association;
     (i)  "Saving Associations" or "SA" means the saving associations
established or to be established pursuant to the applicable laws and
regulations of the Borrower;
     (j)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
     (k)  "VDF" means the Veterinary Development Fund, to be established
and maintained by the Borrower for the purpose of privatizing veterinary
services.
                                ARTICLE II
                                The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to five
million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR5,400,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
Page  3
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in Deutsche Marks a special deposit account in a commercial
bank acceptable to the Association on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
     (c)  Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to the
Association the amount required to repay the principal amount of the
Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date
and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the
authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be
canceled.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be October 1, 2000 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30
of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty
(60) days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower
from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as
of June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph
(a) above.  The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied
from the next payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of
this Agreement.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions
of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and
(iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible
currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or
selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
     Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semi-annually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each April 15 and October 15 commenc-
ing October 15, 2006 and ending April 15, 2031.  Each installment to
and including the installment payable on April 15, 2016 shall be one
and one-fourth per cent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of
such principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita,
as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant
1985 dollars for five (5) consecutive years and (ii) the Bank shall
consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association
may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive
Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of
the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repay-
Page  4
ment of installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the
Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet
due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid.
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such
modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in
the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an
annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided
that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not
change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
     (c)  If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association
may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in
paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE III
                          Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agree-
ment, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due dili-
gence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and agricultural practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation to the provision of paragraph (a) of this
Section, the Borrower shall, not later than November 30 of each year,
review with the Association its projected budget allocation for the
Project for the following fiscal year, and make the necessary adjust-
ments to such allocation, if required, to ensure that the same is
adequate with the needs of the Project.
     Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower shall: (a) maintain PMU, PSC and ARC
in accordance with a staffing plan and terms of reference acceptable
to the Association; and (b) not later than June 30, 1996 establish
and thereafter maintain the AASF, RGF and VDF under terms and condi-
tions acceptable to the Association.
     Section 3.04. The Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with a project implementation plan dated March 28, 1996
satisfactory to the Association and subject to such modifications as
the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time.
     Section 3.05 .The Borrower shall: (a) maintain policies and
procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on a con-
tinuous basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of
the objectives thereof;
     (b)  cause the PMU to prepare under terms of reference satis-
factory to the Association, and furnish to the Association on or
about December 31, 1997, a report integrating the results of the
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of
the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof
Page  5
during the period following such date; and
     (c)  review with the Association, by March 31, 1998, or such
later date as the Association shall request, the report referred to
in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and
recommendations of the said report and the Association's view on the
matter.
     Section 3.06. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General
Conditions, and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6)
months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed
for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan
for the future operation of the Project; and
     (b)  afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan.
                                 ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
               (a) of this Section including those for the Special
               Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
               with appropriate auditing principles consistently
               applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
               Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but
               in any case not later than six (6) months after the
               end of each such year, a certified copy of the report
               of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
               such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
               requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Association such other information
               concerning said records, accounts and the audit
               thereof as the Association shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
               paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
               reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Association
               has received the audit report for the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account or
               payment out of the Special Account was made, all
               records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
               and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
Page  6
         (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in
               the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this
               Section and that the report of such audit contains a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
               statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal
               year, together with the procedures and internal
               controls involved in their preparation, can be relied
               upon to support the related withdrawals.
                                  ARTICLE V
                                 Termination
     Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE VI
                 Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is desig-
nated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          Dame Gruev 14
          9100 Skopje
                                   Telex:
                                   51119
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:           Telex:
               INDEVAS             248423 (RCA)
               Washington, D.C.     82987 (FTCC)
                                    64145 (WUI) or
                                   197688 (TRT)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
               THE BORROWER
               By /s/ Ljubica Z. Acevska
                                               Authorized Representative
               THE ASSOCIATION
Page  7
               By /s/ Kenneth G. Lay
                                          Acting Regional Vice President
                                                 Europe and Central Asia
                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
                           Amount of the
                               Credit                 % of
                             Allocated            Expenditures
                           (Expressed in              to be
     Category             SDR Equivalent)            Financed
(1)  Goods                   1,100,000            100% of foreign
                                                  expenditures,
                                                  100% of local
                                                  expenditures
                                                  (ex-factory
                                                  cost) and 50%
                                                  of local
                                                  expenditures for
                                                  other items
                                                  procured locally
(2)  Consultants'            1,850,000            100%
     Services, Extension,
     Information Services
     and Training
(3)  Consultants' Services     350,000            100%
     and Training for
     Part F (d) of the
     Project
(4)  Grants                                       100% of MAFWE
                                                  contribution
     (a)  For Part A of the    250,000
          Project
     (b)  For Part B of the    350,000
          Project
     (c)  For Part C of the    200,000
          Project
(5)  Incremental               550,000            70% in 1996,
     Operating Costs                              60% in 1997,
                                                  50% in 1998 and
                                                  40% in 1999.
(6)  Refunding of              400,000            Amounts due
     Project                                      pursuant to
     Preparation                                  Section 2.02 (c)
     Advance                                      of this Agreement
(7)  Unallocated               350,000
                             _________
           TOTAL             5,400,000
                             =========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
Page  8
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower;
     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
     (c)  the term "Incremental Operating Costs" means the costs, other
than salaries, related to the project implementation, including
vehicles, supplies, other consumables, and support for dissemination of
project related materials.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made: (a) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to
the date of this Agreement; (b) in respect of payments for Category 3,
until the Borrower has presented a plan, acceptable to the Association,
for financing the technical assistance to the SA for the operations in
rural areas, including the eligibility criteria for such SA; and (c) in
respect of payments for Category 4 (a), 4 (b) and 4 (c), respectively,
presented annual plans and cost-sharing arrangements, acceptable to the
Association, for funding of the grants under each of such Categories,
including timetables, eligibility criteria, performance monitoring and
auditing requirements.
4.   The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account
to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent for goods, and
$50,000 for services, under such terms and conditions as the Association
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to support the economic trans-
formation process carried out by the Borrower in the agriculture sector,
through provision of services to individual farmers, to change the
mechanism for the provision of technical services to the private
farming community and to initiate the restructuring of public sector
institutions that provide private technical services to the agriculture
sector.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
A.   Agricultural Support Services
     Provision of grants through the MAWFE for pilot initiatives to
develop cost-sharing arrangements with farmer associations, to de-
centralize extension management and responsibility for the support
provided to farmers and to strengthen the extension capacity of the
republican extension services of the Borrower.
B.   Adaptive Agricultural Research
     Provision of grants through the MAWFE for applied agricultural
research carried through competitively awarded contracts.
C.   Private Veterinary Services
     Provision of grants through the MAWFE for implementation of the
privatization of veterinary services, including: (a) establishment of
Veterinary Development Fund; (b) provision of office facilities for
the Veterinary Chamber of the Borrower and preparation of the National
Veterinary Protocols; and (c) training of private veterinarians.
D.   Public Animal Health Services
     The strengthening of public animal health services of the
Borrower, through: (a) overseas training of local experts in disease
epidemiology and data management; (b) assistance for the development
Page  9
of a national animal health program; (c) provision of equipment and
vehicles for public animal health services of the Borrower, including
the animal quarantine services at ten border crossings; and (d)
strengthening of the analytical capability of the Veterinary Institute
of the Borrower and carrying out of animal health studies.
E.   Agricultural Market Information
     Provision of office equipment and training for an agriculture
market news service and the design and planning for a wholesale
horticulture market to be established in Skopje.
F.   Rural Financial Services
     Provision of: (a) training of private farmers in the preparation
and presentation of loan applications to commercial banks; (b)
technical assistance to banks for improvement and facilitation of
extension of agricultural credit; (c) technical assistance for the
preparation of a draft law on liens, to facilitate the provision of
secured loans to individual farmers against collateral other than
land mortgages; and (d) technical assistance and training to support
the operations in rural areas of the SA.
                                  * * *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                  Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.     Procurement of Goods
Part A:   General
     Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in
January 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this
Section, as applicable.
Part B:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix
1 thereto.
2.   Grouping of contracts
     To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped
into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or
more each.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Limited International Bidding
     Goods including 4 x 4 vehicles and pick-up trucks, estimated to
cost $430,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, and goods which
the Association agrees can only be purchased from a limited number of
suppliers, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.
2.   International Shopping
     Goods estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or less per contract
and $1,330,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping pro-
cedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6
of the Guidelines.
Page  10
3.   National Shopping
     Goods estimated to cost $30,000 equivalent or less per contract
and $200,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the
Guidelines.
4.   Direct Contracting
     Goods which are of a proprietary nature and costing $100,000
equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the Association's
prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Procurement Planning
     Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project
shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.   Prior Review
     With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of
$250,000 or more, each contract under Part C.1 of this Schedule, each
contract under Part C.2 of this Schedule, estimated to cost $100,000
or more, each contract under Part C.4 of this Schedule, and the first
two contracts under Part C.3 of this Schedule, the procedures set forth
in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.   Post Review
     With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.    Employment of Consultants
1.   Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded
in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guide-
lines).  For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be
based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services
issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed
by the Association.  Where no relevant standard contract documents
have been issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the
Association shall be used.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Associa-
tion review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to contracts for the employment of consulting firms
and individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equi-
valent each.  However, said exceptions to prior Association review
shall not apply to (a) the terms of reference for such contracts, (b)
single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) assignments of a
critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Association, (d)
assignments including training plans and programs; and (e) amendments
to contracts for the employment of consulting firms or individual
consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or
above.
                                SCHEDULE 4
Page  11
                              Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1, 2, 3, 4
and 5 set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent
to DEM700,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited
in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule,
provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to
DEM350,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of
SDR800,000.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit
or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the
Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
               shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits
               into the Special Account at such intervals as the
               Association shall specify.
         (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Association the documents
               and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
               this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of
               which replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each
               such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the
               Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
               into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
               shall have requested and as shall have been shown by
               said documents and other evidence to have been paid out
               of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably
request, furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Association shall not be required to make further deposits into
Page  12
the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement;
     (b)  if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Asso-
ciation, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii)
of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished
to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit
of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
     (c)  if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right
of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant
to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
     (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special
commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of
the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by
notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only
after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as
of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule;
or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by
the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund,
as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the
Association such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to
the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
