Document of
The World Bank   FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3225b-YU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
YUGOSLAVIA
A RAILWAY PROJECT IN KOSOVO
March 30, 1981
-Regional Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Yugoslav Dinar (Din.)
US$ 1 = Din. 27.36
Din. 1   US$0.037
Din. 1 Million   US$36,550
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BOAL   -   Basic Organization of Associated Labor
CIF    -   Cost, Insurance and Freight
COI    -   Community of Interest
CRO    -   Council of Republican and Provincial Roads Organization
CYR    -   Community of Yugoslav Railways
GMP    -   Gross Material Product
GTKM   -   Gross Tonne - Kilometer
1CB    -   International Competitive Bidding
LDR    -   Less Developed Regions (of Yugoslavia)
NTKM   -   Net tonne - Kilometer
PKM    -   Passenger - Kilometer
RTE    -   Railway Transport Enterprise
RTO    -   Railway Transport Organization
SAP    -   Socialist Autonomous Province
SAPK   -   Socialist Autonomous Province of Kosovo
SDK    -   Social Accounting Service
SFRY   -   Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
SS & TT-   Signalling and Telecommunications
TU     -   Traffic Units (millions of NTKms - millions of PKms)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
A RAILWAY PROJECT IN KOSOVO
YUGOSLAVIA
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    THE TRANSPORT SECTOR IN YUGOSLAVIA .......................                     1
A.   Geographic Background ................................                     1
B.   The Transport System Over Years ......................                     1
C.   Transport Policy, Planning and Coordination ....              ......      4
II.    THE TRANSPORT SECTOR IN KOSOVO ...........................                      6
A.   Economic and Geographic Background ...................                    6
B.   The Transport System .................................                     7
III.    YUGOSLAV RAILWAYS .......         ................ .                            9
A.   General ........        ............................                      9
B.   The Community of Yugoslav Railways ...........           .. .            10
C.  Organization, Management and Staff ....                   ....            10
D.   Communities of Interest .............         ..                         11
E. Social Agreement on Economic Measures and
Compensation Payments .....            .........................       11
F.   Tariffs ...............................................                  12
G.  Rail Costing Study ...................................                    12
H.   Previous Railway Projects  .....            .......................      12
IV.    RTO PRISTINA .............................................                     13
A.  General         .......................     .......................       13
B.  Management,  Staff and Training ..........          ..     ...........    14
C.  Railway Facilities  ................        ..      .................     15
D.  Operations  ....... ...............            .....................      16
E.   Traffic ........ ...............           .......................       18
F.   Tariffs         ........................... ...................          18
G.  Accounting and Audit ...............          ..     ................     18
V.    THE INVESTMENT PLAN AND THE PROJECT ......................                    19
A.  RTO Pristina's Investment Plan .......................                    19
B.  The Project ..........................................                    21
C.  Cost Estimates .......................................                    24
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in February
1980 composed of Messrs. D.E. Wasscher (Engineer), J.C. McCombie (Financial
Analyst) and T. Pankaj  (Economist).
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)                                                 Page No
D.  Financing Plan .......................................               24
E.  Disbursement .........................................               25
F.  Lending Arrangements .................................               26
G.  Implementation .......................................               26
H.  Employment             ...........................................   26
I.  Procurement and Action Plans .....          ....................     27
VI.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION .......................................               28
A.  General ........ ...............         ........................    28
B.  Railway Traffic Analysis .............       ..     ...............    29
C.  Traffic Projections ...................................    30
D.  Economic Return and Sensitivity Analysis ..............    33
VII.    FINANCIAL EVALUATION .......................................    38
A.  Past Financial Performance ............................    38
B.  Forecast Performance ..................................    40
C.  Sensitivity ...........................................    43
VIII.  RECOMMENDATIONS ....... ..............           ......................    44
ANNEXES
1   Investment Plan and Three Year Project .................         ...    46
Table 1  - Investment Plan 1981-85 ........................    49
Table 2  - Three-Year Project 1981-83 .....................    50
Table 3  - Cost Estimate - Kosovo Junction ....            ............    51
Table 4  - Cost Estimates - Signalling & Telecommunication               52
Table 5  - Project Implementation Schedule ....            ............  53
Figure 1 - Proposed Layout for Kosovo Junction ....           ........    55
2   Action Plans and Operational Plans .....           ...................    56
Table 1  - Selective Operating Statistics, 1979 ....           .......    58
Table 2 - Planned Procurement of Traction and Rolling
Stock ........................................    59
Table 3  - Operational Data and Targets ...................    60
Table 4  - Financial Data and Targets .....................    61
3   Explanatory Notes on Traffic Increase .....................    62
Table 1  - Detailed Traffic Projections ....................    65
4   Summary of the Economic Cost and Benefit Streams of the
Project ......................................    66
5   Financial Data - Assumptions Used in Financial Projections.    67
Table 1  - Income Account and Forecasts 1979 to 1985 ......              68
Table 2  - Internal Resources and Financing Plan ....           ......    69
Table 3  - Cash Flow and Forecasts-1979-to 1985 ....-4........    70
Table 4  - Balance Sheet and Forecasts 1979 to 1985 .......    72
6   Related Documents and Data Available on Project File   .......    73



Table of Contents (Continued)                                     Page No
CHART Cl - RTO Pristina Organization .............................   74
MAP - IBRD 13136 R - Yugoslavia - Transport Infrastructure .......
IBRD 15417 - Kosovo - Transport Infrastructure



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
A RAILWAY PROJECT IN KOSOVO
YUGOSLAVIA
I.  THE TRANSPORT SECTOR IN YUGOSLAVIA
A. Geographic Background
1.01     Transport is a-dynamic sector in the Yugoslav economy and plays a
pivotal role in the economic development of the country. Yugoslavia's
location, bordering seven countries and with access to the Adriatic Sea,
makes it also an important crossroad for European and Middle East traffic
(Ref. Map No. IBRD 13136R).
1.02     Yugoslavia's topography, with its broad valleys in the northwest
to southeast corridor, and its steep southern and coastal mountains, has
however caused major imbalances in its regional development, the redressal
of which has been one of the preoccupations of recent Yugoslav planning.
The topographic features, aided by other historical factors, have resulted
in a relatively high level of economic development in the northwestern part
of the country, while the regions to the south, with the difficult terrain,
have remained underdeveloped in their transport network, interregional con-
nections and economic activities. One important objective of Yugoslavia's
transport investments in recent years has therefore been the opening up of
these Less Developed Regions (LDRs, officially defined as comprising the
regions of Kosovo, Macedonia, Montenegro and Bosnia-Herzegovina), in order
to strengthen their integration with the rest of the country, and to accel-
erate their economic development.
B. The Transport System Over Years
1.03     Yugoslavia has an extensive and diversified transport system, of
which roads and railways, carrying, respectively, about 70% and 20%, of the
total traffic, are the backbone. The transport network comprises about
110,000 km of roads, 9712 km of rail lines, 7 main ports, 15 airports (of
which ten handle international flights) and a sizable network of inland
(the main one being the Danube) and coastal waterways. Pipelines have come
into increasing use in recent years.
1.04     Over the past two decades, Yugoslavia has enjoyed an impressive
record of economic development on a par with other southern European market



-2-
economies. During the seventies, the growth rate in gross material
product 1/ rose to nearly 7% per annum. Per capita incomes have more than
tripled since the mid-1950's, and absolute poverty has been eradicated. A
major force behind this rapid economic development has been the significant
growth of industry and services. Increasing economic activity and personal
incomes led to a rapid growth in transport demand. Between 1960 and 1980,
total freight traffic grew at about 6% per annum and total passenger traf-
fic by about 10% per annum as indicated below (Table 1.1).
1.05     During the seventies, freight traffic (ton-km) on railways in-
creased by about 3% per annum compared to an increase of about 10% per
annum on highways, while passenger traffic on railways remained practically
unchanged in contrast with an increase of about 11% per annum on highways.
As a result, road transport has emerged as the dominant carrier. The
railways, however, continue to play a crucial role as the main carrier of
bulk materials needed by key industries and the carrier of about 35% of
total freight. River transport has retained an important and competitive
place, carrying about 9% of total freight traffic. The ports have more
than doubled their cargo handling since the early 1960s and currently
handle more than 25 million tons per annum.
1.06     The position of railways is expected to improve significantly in
the near future. Already, during 1976-79, railway freight grew at 7.3% per
annum, compared to 3% during 1970-79. Further improvement is likely in
future. Compelled by the energy crisis and the need to cut the import bill
on energy, and in view of railways' generally higher energy efficiency and
its greater reliance on domestic energy sources (increasingly, electricity,
based on local coal) compared to road transport which depends entirely on
imported oil, Government is emphasizing development of the railway system
so as to make it more efficient and competitive. In order to curb use of
imported oil, Government has recently imposed restrictions on use of pas-
senger cars on certain days of the month. Moreover, the steep increase in
oil prices, itself, through the mechanism of the market, makes railway use
relatively more competitive than before. 2/
1/  Gross Material Product (GMP) or Social Product excludes 'non-
productive' (in Yugoslav terminology) services such as education,
health, administration, defense and other public services. Gross
Domestic Product is approximately 14% higher than GMP.
2/ Retail prices on diesel fuel in Yugoslavia increased from 3.9 Dinars/
litre in December 1977 to 16.4 Dinars/litre in July 1980, reflecting
higher import prices, higher internal taxes and the substantial
devaluation of the Dinar in June 1980. Gasoline and diesel prices are
not subsidized in Yugoslavia. Of the diesel retail price in late 1980,
42% represented internal taxes and levies, while the rest covered
import prices and distribution costs.



Table 1.1: GROWTH OF FREIGHT AND PASSENGER TRAFFIC 1960-80
Freight Traffic
(billion ton km)                                                      Passenger Traffic
Maritime            Road                                             (billion passenger km)
Inland                Trucking      Own /1    Total               Road         Air                   Total
Year    Kail  Waterway   Coastal   Enterprise   Account   Freight   Rail   Bus   Car   Domestic   Others   Passenger
1960    15.2      2.0       0.4           1.0         2.0       20.6    10.4   2.8   1.3        0.1        0.4         15.0
1965    18.0      3.3       0.4           3.1         5.2       30.0    12.8   6.0   4.5        0.5        0.2         24.0
1970    19.3      4.4       0.3           6.7        11.1       41.8    10.9  14.1  18.4         1.3       0.2        44.9
1975    21.6      5.5       0.4          10.5        17.5       55.5    10.3  25.9  37.1         3.8       0.1         77.2     :
1978    23.4      5.9       0.5          16.9        24.2       70.9    10.4  28.7  51.5         4.7        0.2        95.5
1980/2  27.5      6.2       0.5          21.0        22.0       77.2    10.4  32.0  62.0         5.5       0.2        110.1
/1  Excluding freight carried by vehicles owned by private individuals.
/z  Estimate.
Source; Federal Bureau of Statistics and Mission Estimates
Decemoer 1980



-4-
C. Transport Policy, Planning and Coordination
1.07      Since the mid-1960s, the Yugoslav economic system has been in-
creasingly characterized by decentralization of decision-making with enter-
prises operating under workers' management in a market-oriented economy.
Principal governmental responsibility for transport was transferred during
the late 1960s from Federal to Republican and Provincial authorities. The
Federal Secretariat for Transport was replaced in 1975 by a Federal Commit-
tee, whose Chairman and Vice Chairman are Federal officials, and whose
other members are the Republican and Provincial officials responsible for
transport. This committee has a largely coordinating function. Much of
governmental responsibility has been transferred to Communities of Interest
(COIs), which consist of one or more transport enterprises and their users;
normally, a COI covers only one Republic or Province. Transport enter-
prises, including the railways, are generally constituted as associations
of Basic Organizations of Associated Labor (BOALs), each consisting
typically of a few hundred workers. The BOALs are the prime sources of
authority in the enterprise, and enjoy a large measure of autonomy.
1.08     Until 1976 there was no overall, clearly stated transport policy,
although the basic rationale for such a policy has been implicit in the
country's main economic principles: free choice by users and competition
in a market economy among autonomous transport enterprises. In late 1976,
however, with a view to creating the necessary conditions for integrated
development of transport, the Federation, the Republics and the Autonomous
Provinces mutually agreed to establish a long-term transport policy for the
country along the above principles. Since then considerable progress has
been made in this direction, and the authorities have concluded Social
Agreements on the various aspects of future transport policy. According
to these Social Agreements, the Government's principal objectives for the
transport sector are: (i) to build up a transport infrastructure in sup-
port of the developments taking place in other sectors of the economy; (ii)
to develop the various modes of transport as an integrated network and in
such proportions and combinations as will meet the total needs of the
economy at minimum cost to the community; (iii) to open up less-developed
regions and foster interdependence and economic integration of the regions
of the country; (iv) to provide the national network with adequate facili-
ties for connection to the networks of neighboring countries; and (v) to
rationalize the use of energy in transportation and to reduce the negative
effects of transportation on environment.
1.09      The transfer of authority to the grass roots agencies and trans-
port organizations has increased the number of decision-making bodies, and
has made countrywide transport planning and coordination more difficult.
In supporting transport infrastructure development, the Bank has emphasized
the need for improving coordination between subsectors at regional and
national levels as well as the need for developing adequate institutions
and an appropriate policy framework. At the national level, the Bank has
encouraged and supported the establishment and strengthening of important
advisory and coordinating institutions. Notable among these are the



-5-
Federal Committee for Transport and Communications, which oversees the
total transport picture in Yugoslavia, the Council of Republican and
Provincial Roads Organizations (CRO), which deals with nationwide standard-
ization of engineering and design criteria in the highway subsector, as
well as other matters such as highway safety, and the Community of Yugoslav
Railways (CYR) which deals with overall issues of the railways.
1.10     As an essential instrument for the Bank's continuing dialogue on
the question of subsector coordination with the various national and
regional authorities, the Eighth Highway Project (Loan 1377-YU, 1977)
included two complementary studies on road user charges and rail costs.
Both these studies are now complete. However, because of recent fuel price
increases the Road User Charges Study is being updated; early findings of
this study confirm that, in some Republics and Provinces, larger vehicles
are paying somewhat less in user fees than the costs allocated to them for
highway construction and maintenance. In accordance with the Loan Agree-
ment (Loan 1377-YU), the Federal Committee for Transport and Communica-
tions, in consultation with the Bank, will determine, after updating is
completed, what steps need to be taken to implement the recommendations of
the study. The rail costs study proposes introduction of a comprehensive
uniform costing system which will provide data for tariff and investment
decisions as well as for cost control; the proposed accounting code is
presently under consideration by the RTEs (see also para. 3.09).
Previous Bank Loans
1.11     So far, the Bank has made 20 loans for the Yugoslav transport
sector, totalling US$1193 million equivalent. These include six loans
totalling US$362 million for the railway subsector; four of these were for
investments on modernization, one loan was for the construction of the
Belgrade-Bar line, and one for reconstruction following the 1979 earthquake
in Montenegro. The last OED Project Evaluation Report available for a
railway project in Yugoslavia is that for the Second Railway Project and
is dated October 1974. This was .a very ambitious project (including elec-
trification of main lines, signalling and telecommunications, and construc-
tion or modernization of six major marshalling yards). The OED report
criticized the project for its size and complexity and for a lack of
adequate project preparation. A main recommendation was that future
projects should include a well defined action plan covering technical,
financial and institutional aspects (see para. 5.20). Although the Third
and Fourth Projects also experienced delays and financing problems rail
capacity and efficiency have increased and there has been good progress in
improving investment planning and execution and in strengthening CYR's
coordinating role (see also paras. 3.10 to 3.14). The advent of Communi-
ties of Interest and Compensation Payments (paras. 3.06 and 3.07) has also
greatly improved railway finances. The proposed project for Kosovo, which
focuses on a major railway priority of strengthening the weakest link in
the railway system, namely the RTO Pristina, would be the Seventh Railway
Project. Another railway project which would assist the overall Yugoslavia
railway system in its crucial and continuing modernization efforts is now
under preliminary preparation.



-6-
1.12     In the highway subsector, twelve loans have been made totalling
US$650 million. In general, no major problems have been encountered.
Another highway project is envisaged to continue the initiatives taken
under the first sector loan (April 1979) to develop regional and feeder
roads.
1.13     The Bank has also made two loans for pipeline projects (US$108
million). These projects, after some delays due to procedural and other
implementation difficulties, are expected to be completed by 1981.
1.14     In the ports subsector, two loans have been made (US$94 million)
for the Port of Bar. The first project was nearly completed, without
major cost overruns, when it was severely damaged by the 1979 earthquake.
Rehabilitation is now underway through a second project: an Earthquake
Rehabilitation Port Project. A ports subsector survey is being carried out
with the Bank's encouragement. The study is being conducted by local
consultants financed by the Yugoslavian Association of Seaports and it is
expected that the study would establish clear priorities for future port
development and would help rationalize port investments by different
Yugoslav regional authorities.
II. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR IN KOSOVO
A. Economic and Geographic Background
2.01     The Socialist Autonomous Province of Kosovo (SAP Kosovo) is
legally affiliated with the Socialist Republic of Serbia within the
Yugoslav Federation. In the economic sphere, however, the Province has a
status which is equivalent to that of a Republic. Kosovo has an area of
10,877 km2, and a population of about 1.5 million. It is a land-locked
region surrounded by mountainous ridges rising to about 2,500 meters. A
central north/south ridge divides Kosovo into two subregions of roughly
equal size and population: the Kosovo basin in the east and the Metohija
basin in the west. Only the river gorges in the north (from Kraljevo and
Belgrade) and the south (from Skopje) and the pass in the east (from Nis)
offer railway and all-weather road connections. These three major routes
all lead to the Kosovo basin, while the Metohija basin has only one rail
and all-weather road connection linking it to the rest of Kosovo (see Maps
Nos. IBRD 13136R and IBRD 15417).
2.02     Partly due to the isolation caused by the difficult terrain, and
partly due to the other historical and economic factors, Kosovo remains
today the poorest and least developed region in Yugoslavia. It has the
highest population density in the country, as also the highest population
growth rate (2.6% per annum compared to 1% for all Yugoslavia), and the
lowest per capita income which is only about one-third of the national
average. For these reasons, Kosovo is part of the officially designated
Less Developed Regions (LDRs), which receive special attention in



-7-
channeling national and external assistance (see para. 1.02). A major
policy objective in Yugoslavia's economic planning in recent years has been
to transfer income from the richer regions, through Federal budget and
special funds, to the less developed regions to accelerate their develop-
ment and to achieve more balanced regional growth in the country.
2.03     Under this policy of removing regional disparities, the 1976-80
medium plan for Yugoslavia aimed at the highest regional Gross Material
Product (GMP) growth of 9.5% per annum for Kosovo, as against 6.9% for all
Yugoslavia; similar objectives are envisaged also under the forthcoming
1981-85 Plan. The priority accorded at national level to promoting
Kosovo's economic development is reflected in its large and increasing
receipt from the "Federal Fund for Accelerated Development of the Less
Developed Republics and Kosovo", which provides credits for investments at
concessionary terms: during 1976-80, 37% of the Fund's resources, the
largest share, was allocated to Kosovo, amounting to about 60% of the
planned investments in Kosovo.  Moreover, special laws have recently been
promulgated to encourage enterprises in the developed regions to undertake
joint ventures in the LDRs. The World Bank and other international agen-
cies also have assisted in the faster growth of these regions, particularly
of Kosovo, on a priority basis. Recent Bank projects with special focus
on Kosovo's development include the Second, Third and Fourth Industrial
Credit Projects (loans made in 1976, 1978 and 1980), two highway loans
(loans made in 1977 and 1978), and the Metohija Multipurpose Project (loan
made in 1977). The special measures and policies to assist Kosovo men-
tioned above have resulted, among other things, in the ongoing development
of a capital-intensive mining and metallurgical complex in Kosovo, utiliz-
ing its abundant mineral resources, and generating significant traffic
growth particularly for the railway system.
B. The Transport System
2.04     The transport network in Kosovo consists of about 3800 kms of
roads, 333 kms of railways and one airport. Of the national network,
Kosovo's roads form only about 4%, and its railways about 3.4%. Network
density is about 0.35 km/km2 for roads, and 0.03 km/km2 for railways,
both much lower than the national average. Only one third of the roads
have modern paving, and only about 460 km of roads are interregional. Road
vehicles in Kosovo are only about 27 per 1000 inhabitants, compared to a
national average of 93. The rail system has 54 stations; the rail lines
cover 14 out of the 22 communes of SAP Kosovo, as they run north to south
and east to west, intersecting at Kosovo Polje.
2.05     In contrast with the national picture, where road is the primary
means of transport, rail is the primary carrier of freight in Kosovo. In
1979, in terms of tonnage, the railway carried about 2.9 million tons of
freight originating or terminating in Kosovo, amounting to more than 70% of
all freight traffic carried by public transport; this is because Kosovo's
freight traffic is mostly in bulk commodities moving over long distances,
and is thus oriented towards railways.



-8-
2.06     Transport policy and organization in Kosovo follow the national
pattern. In the case of highway administration, the main responsibility is
now centered in the Province, with the Federal Government playing a role
limited to common policy and regulatory matters such as the control of
vehicle weights and dimensions, road safety and international aspects. At
the Provincial level, physical planning and administration of the road
system (outside the boundaries of communes, i.e., urban and municipal
areas) is handled by the Provincial Road Organization, governed by a Board,
whose members represent various groups, each with interest in roads. An
Executive Board, elected by the Board members, is responsible for day-to-
day administration and for preparing proposals for development, which are
then cleared through the Provincial planning machinery and submitted for
approval to the Provincial Government. Purely local roads are under the
jurisdiction of local communities which have special departments for this
purpose. In the case of railways, the network is run by RTO Pristina,
which is an autonomous body; its investments and tarift policies are being
regulated within the national framework through the agency of the CYR.
A Community of Interest for railway users has been set up in Kosovo (see
para. 3.06). Further details of Kosovo's rail system are presented in
Chapter 4.
Main Issues in the Subsector
2.07     Compounding the difficulty ot interregional connections arising
from its difficult terrain, Kosovo has also serious problems of acces-
sibility within the region, with many rural communities having no all-
weather road or any road connection at all. Such inadequate communications
impede the process of breaking the circle of backwardness, overpopulation
and poverty. Overall, Kosovo's transport network is inadequate both in
terms of capacity and coverage, and its expansion through additional
investments and through measures for improving efficiency constitutes the
most pressing requirement and priority in the subsector. This is also a
major priority for Yugoslavia, since Kosovo has vast mineral resources and
produces 30-40% of the major minerals in Yugoslavia, and also in view of
the major national objective of strengthening national integration through
the accelerated development of LDRs including Kosovo.
2.08     To remedy this situation, Kosovo has recently taken two major
initiatives. The first is with regard to road development. A systematic
study for preparing a road master plan was completed in 1978, with Bank
financing, and a major road investment program for 1979-85 based on this
master plan was adopted by the Provincial authorities and is now under
implementation. The capital investments proposed amount to about US$215
million, mainly for the construction of 465 kms of roads of which 148 kms
are interregional and the rest regional roads, mainly feeder roads. The
program also includes maintenance and improvement of existing roads. The
Bank's Tenth Highway Project for a Highway Sector Loan (Loan No. 1678-YU)
covers financing for the initial 3-year slice of this program. This
proposed road program is designed to meet expected traftic increases in
agricultural and agro-industrial products, general consumption articles
and, to some extent, in construction materials and industrial proaucts
involving short hauls.



-9-
2.09     The second major initiative taken by Kosovo is in preparing the
proposed railway project addressing the major capacity bottlenecks in
Kosovo's rail system. The project is coordinated with the ongoing road
project, to ensure that there is no wasteful duplication of capacity. In
view of the continuing thrust for the accelerated development of Kosovo
through the rapid development of its mineral and industrial potential, the
Federal and Kosovo authorities expect a major increase in demand for rail-
way transport and are concerned that the present rail facilities, many of
which are worn out and obsolete, would become a major constraint on
Kosovo's development. Kosovo's railway system, which became autonomous
only in 1978, has received little development assistance in the past, and
currently remains the weakest part of the Yugoslav rail network, needing
not only urgent strengthening of its physical capacity to meet present and
expected needs, but also strengthening of its institutions. The proposed
project would address these high priority issues.
III. YUGOSLAV RAILWAYS
A. General
3.01     Railway organization in Yugoslavia reflects the system of govern-
ment with eight separate and independent railway enterprises (RTEs) 1/ each
serving a republic or province, each named after its capital city, and
together forming a rail network of 9712 km. Until 1978, there were only
five RTEs but in that year, RTE Belgrade, whose network had covered Serbia,
Montenegro, Vojvodina and Kosovo, was split into four separate RTEs, each
serving its own republic or province. The RTEs vary greatly in size, the
largest being RTEs Zagreb and Belgrade, serving Croatia and Serbia respec-
tively, with a combined route length of 4552 kms and carrying 51% of all
traffic. The smallest are RTEs Skopje, Titograd and Pristina serving
respectively Macedonia, Montenegro and Kosovo and carrying only 6% of total
traffic. In 1979 the railways carried 88 million tons of freight and 108
million passengers, about 80% of the freight traffic being in bulk commodi-
ties. Traffic growth over the three-year period, 1976-79 has averaged 5.3%
per year (7.3% for freight traffic) and exceeded the forecast given for the
Fifth Yugoslav Railway Project.
1/ Some of the railways are Railway Transport Enterprises (RTEs) while
some, including Pristina, are Railway Transport Organizations (RTOs).
There is no significant difference in the status of RTEs and RTOs. For
convenience they are referred to collectively in this report as RTEs
while Pristina is referred to as RTO Pristina.



- 10 -
B. The Community of Yugoslav Railways
3.02     Three quarters of rail traffic in Yugoslavia is inter-enterprise
so that operations are highly interdependent. RTEs have by law established
the Community of Yugoslav Railways (CYR), in effect an agency of the RTEs,
which serves as a forum for common decisions and as an executing agency for
joint operations (e.g., timetables, wagon utilization, revenue distribu-
tion, planning methodology and inputs to Government planning). It has a
well qualified professional staff and represents RTEs at Federal and inter-
national levels, sets safety and technical standards, and provides tech-
nical aid and advice, particularly to the smaller and less developed RTEs,
including assistance with technical and economic studies and preparation of
investment plans.
3.03     CYR fulfills a very useful planning and coordinating function and
was the borrower for the Bank's Fourth and Fifth loans with responsibility
for reporting on the projects and coordinating technical assistance. As a
condition of effectiveness for the proposed loan, RTO Pristina will enter
into an agreement with CYR to provide technical assistance in procurement
and reporting.
C. Organization, Management and Staff
3.04     Each RTE consists of an association of BOALs (para. 1.07).  BOALs
engaged on purely railway activities must by law join together in the RTE
while BOALs covering activities only partly related to the railways have a
looser form of association and are not part of the RTE. A typical RTE has
a director general and three to five assistant directors. Management is
appointed by and is responsible to a workers' council. Management of the
RTEs has always been technically competent in traditional railway dis-
ciplines and it has been strengthened in recent years in planning and
marketing. However, a considerable disparity exists in management strength
and capability between the old and well established RTEs and certain of the
smaller and newer RTEs which were formed in 1978 from the former RTE
Belgrade.
3.05     Between 1965 and 1976 numbers of staff reduced by nearly 18,000
to 118,400. Further reductions were slowed after this time by a series
of train accidents which resulted in more stringent medical standards for
operating staff and in restrictions on overtime work. However, staff
numbers were further reduced to about 115,600 at the end of 1979, due to
modernization of facilities and to closure of uneconomic lines. Staff made
redundant, who have no alternative employment to go to, may not easily be
discharged in Yugoslavia. Staff savings are therefore achieved only
slowly, by means of natural wastage, by retraining schemes or by special
arrangements with the Government for early retirements. While staff
savings have been made, the staff target of 108,500 by the end of 1980,



- 11 -
which was agreed for Yugoslav Railways under the Fifth Project, now appears
unlikely to be achieved but this is at least in part due to the higher
than forecast traffic which the railways are now carrying. Productivity,
measured as thousands of traffic units per member of staff, rose from 261
in 1976 to 311 in 1979. Targets under the Fifth Project were 293 in 1978
and 342 in 1980.
D.  Communities of Interest
3.06     Much of Governments' responsibilities for railways has been trans-
ferred to Communities of Interest (COIs) in each Republic or Province, each
including a RTE and its users. The COIs constitute a direct link between
the railways and the economy and are responsible for the development and
implementation of railway policies covering traffic, financing and invest-
ment plans. The railways' current budgets and investment programs are
submitted to the COI for its approval before the beginning of each year.
Since COI members provide the bulk of the funds for compensation payments
to the railways (para. 3.07) and much of the funds for investments, there
is a strong incentive for the COIs to seek improvements in the railways'
efficiency. A COI has been formed for RTO Pristina and the review and
acceptance by the Assembly of Kosovo of its Self Management Agreement will
be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan.
E. Social Agreement on Economic Measures and Compensation Payments
3.07     A Social Agreement on Economic and Other Measures to Provide
Normal Economic Conditions for Railways (SAE) was signed by the Federal
Republic and Provincial Governments in June 1977 with the aim of restoring
financial viability to the railways. Its most important provision was for
monthly payments (termed compensation payments by the Yugoslavs as being
compensation for tariff increases withheld) to be made to the railways to
supplement tariff revenues and to replace the former policy of subsidy by
reimbursement of deficits which left the RTEs permanently short of working
capital. The scale of compensation payments for each RTE is fixed a year
in advance in order to facilitate planning and financial discipline but
payments vary with traffic volume and operating efficiency, and provide an
incentive for the railways to pursue efficiencies. An objective pursued
under the terms of the Fifth Loan Agreement (Loan Agreement section 4.02,
Subsidiary Agreement Section 5.05) was the gradual reduction of these pay-
ments by means of increases in tariffs (para. 3.12). It is intended that
the present Social Agreement, which covered the period to the end of 1980,
will be replaced by a new agreement which is now being debated by the
Federal Council, to cover the years 1981-85. Meanwhile, the provisions of
the old Social Agreement relating to compensation payments remain in force
for each RTE.



- 12 -
F.  Tariffs
3.08     Inter-enterprise freight rates are controlled by the Federal
Government and uniform rates have been fixed for all RTEs. 1/ Passenger
fares are fixed by Republics and Provinces. The freight rates are a
maximum which may not be exceeded but RTEs are free to lower rates if they
wish. Freight commodities are grouped into five classes covered by
standard rates which are increased sharply for less than car loads.
Although the Govern- ment, in recent years, has authorized considerable
annual tariff increases, these have been insufficient to counter growing
levels of inflation and compensation payments have consequently risen
(para. 3.12).
G. Rail Costing Study
3.09     Under the provisions of the Eighth Highway Project, a rail costs
study was carried out by consultants to establish a uniform costing system
for all RTEs. A separate consultants' study of road user charges was
also made. An objective of the studies was to provide a sound basis for
road/rail pricing and to enable pricing distortions to be detected and
eliminated. The consultants' report and proposals concerning the rail
costs study were accepted and approved (subject to certain modifications)
by CYR and the RTEs in the second half of 1979. The proposed rail costing
system takes account of the complex arrangement of separate and independent
industrial units in the form of BOALs which charge for their services to
one another and which together make up the RTEs. The study is comprehen-
sive and provides, inter alia, for the determination of costs of services
by line, commodity and type of service. The modified accounting code is
now being considered by the RTEs and CYR is under pressure from the Bank to
speed the implementation of the system at all RTEs. An assurance has been
obtained that action will be taken for its implementation at RTO Pristina
before the end of 1981.
H. Previous Railway Projects
3.10     Since 1963 the Bank has assisted Yugoslav Railways through six
projects with loans totalling US$362 million of which the last, signed in
November 1979, was for US$14 million for restoration of earthquake-damaged
facilities of RTO Titograd in Montenegro.
3.11     The Fourth Project (Loan 1026-YU; July 1974; US$93 million)
financed the completion of investments from an earlier modernization
1/ RTO Pristina is now an exception and no longer applies the uniform
freight rates (para. 7.03).



- 13 -
program in all RTEs as well as related investments needed to maximize
benefits. The investments, which were complex, were delayed for a while by
anti-inflationary measures taken by the central Government which limited
investment funds, but all should be completed in the first half of 1981.
The Fifth Project (Loan 1534-YU; April 1978; US$100 million) includes works
in all eight RTEs and assists track overhaul ano electrification as part of
the railways' 1976-80 investment plans as well as technical assistance and
staff training.
3.12     While physical progress under the Fifth Project is generally
satisfactory and operational efficiency has improved, difficulties have
arisen in relation to financial covenants which required the railways as a
whole to increase tariffs at least sufficiently to reduce compensation
payments from 22% of total operating revenues in 1976 to 15% in 1980.
Although substantial annual tariff increases have been made during this
period these have been insufficient to combat unexpectedly high inflation
and compensation payments rose to 26% of revenues in 1979. This matter is
currently under review with the Government and CYR who have been informed
that processing of a further general Yugoslav railway project will depend
upon a satisfactory outcome of the review and upon agreement upon revised
and realistic targets for the early reduction of the present level ot
compensation payments.
3.13     Institution-building features of the Fourth Project which were
progressed through the implementation of comprehensive action plans have
been successful in particular in sensitizing the railways to market
pressures and in improving planning. Similar objectives being pursued
under the Fifth Project are for the extension and improvement of CYR's
centralized planning and coordinating function and for the improvement of
electric locomotive maintenance capability.
3.14     A concept which the Bank has stressed and which has been adopted
with success by the Yugoslavs under both the Fourth and Fifth Projects is
that of the Project Officer who is appointed by the RTE to take overall
responsibility for all aspects of a group of related investments. The
appointment of Project Officers has proved of particular benefit in the
Yugoslav context where responsibility for executing investments has
traditionally been shared by different BOALs, and Project Officers will
again play an important role in the proposed project (para. 4.05).
IV. RTO PRISTINA
A. General
4.01     RTO Pristina, formerly part of RTE Belgrade, became a separate and
independent RTO in March 1978. The RTO is a Working Organization consist-
ing of five BOALs responsible for traffic, traction and rolling stock,
civil engineering, electrical and mechanical, and housing and social



- 14 -
activities, together with a Working Community which deals with planning,
personnel, finance and technical and commercial affairs and provides
general management (see Chart Cl).
4.02     RTO Pristina's network consists of 333 single track, standard
gauge (1.435 m), route kms, much of which is in mountainous terrain with
steep slopes and sharp curves. The network consists essentially of two
lines, one north-south and one east-west, which cross at Kosovo Polje, and
one branch line. The north-south line connecting Kraljevo in Serbia with
Skopje in Macedonia is the more important of these and serves as an alter-
native route to the main line Belgrade-Nis-Skopje if this international
electrified line has insufficient capacity or is blocked. There are also
numerous industrial sidings, most of which are equipped with their own
shunting locomotives.
B. Management, Staff and Training
4.03     RTO Pristina is headed by a General Manager, who is assisted by
two deputies who are responsible for different sections of the Working
Community. Reporting directly to the General Manager are the managers of
the five BOALs. The RTO and each of the BOALs has a workers' council,
which appoints senior management and to which management is responsible.
4.04     Management and decision making are complex processes with exten-
sive interactions between management and workers' councils. Because RTO
Pristina is a relatively new and, by railway standards, small organization,
it needs and receives assistance in planning, design, signalling and tele-
communication and other specialized fields. Much of this assistance comes
from CYR and RTE Belgrade and some from outside organizations such as the,
Institute of the Faculty of Transport at Belgrade. A need exists, however,
for the strengthening of the RTO's managerial and planning capabilities.
This need has been illustrated by difficulties in obtaining adequate and
consistent data during the appraisal process, by continuing problems in
freight operations, and by major cost overruns on track overhaul under the
Fifth Project. The RTO's management is handicapped by poor communications
resulting from the accommodation of RTO headquarters staff in several
separate locations around Kosovo Polje. Although a central headquarters
building is to be built, this will be initiated after 1985.
4.05     The strengthening of the Planning Department by two additional
posts of an engineer and an economist, who should be in post within six
months of loan signing, has been agreed with the RTO. Terms of reference
were also agreed for a study to be undertaken for the improvement of man-
agement and organization of the RTO; consultants for the study are to be
appointed by January 1982. Terms of reference were also agreed for consul-
tancy assistance to be obtained for planning and controlling freight opera-
tions; consultants are to be appointed also by January 1982. The RTO addi-
tionally will adopt and implement a system of project management including
the appointment of two special officers.



- 15 -
4.06     During the period 1981-1985, modernization of locomotives, rolling
stock, tracks, yard and signalling will have a major impact on staff. The
switch to diesel traction will require more highly skilled train and main-
tenance crews but fewer in number. The new long-welded track, which will
permit higher speeds and axle loads, will require less maintenance which
can be very efficiently mechanized. A modern electrical signalling system
together with good communications will enable the RTO to improve its train
service substantially with fewer operatives. A new yard with switches
controlled and operated electrically from signal boxes will enable the
shunting process to be substantially improved with reduced manpower. All
of these investments will result in a great improvement in operational
efficiency but it will be necessary that they be accompanied by a carefully
prepared and coordinated manpower plan, which should contain provisions for
identification of staff surpluses and shortages and for retraining of staff
and improvement of existing skills. Normal wastage should result in the
achievement of much of the staff savings projected by the RTO, which are
necessary to achieve the full benefits of the investments; but the coopera-
tion of provincial and municipal authorities may also be needed to ensure
that staff made surplus by modernization, who cannot be usefully employed
in the RTO, can be transferred to employment elsewhere. Although unemploy-
ment in Kosovo is high, particularly among unskilled labor, because of the
basic industrial experience of the surplus staff, their re-training and
re-employment should not present insurmountable difficulties. The RTO's
forecast is for a 13.5% reduction from the present total strength of 2572
to 2227 in 1985. Assurances were received that (i) the RTO will use its
best efforts to achieve the forecast manpower savings, (ii) that as part of
its action plan (see para. 5.20) the RT0 will, with the assistance of CYR,
within nine months of loan signature, prepare a comprehensive manpower plan.
C. Railway Facilities (See Map)
Track
4.07     The tracks of the north-south line were renewed in 1978 as part of
the Fourth Project and tracks of the Kosovo Polje-Metohija-Pec line and
part of the Metohija-Prisren line are presently being renewed with 49 kg/m
rails under the Fifth Project. All renewal is with long welded rails, new
ballast and wooden sleepers. Maximum speed is 100 km/h and axle load is 22
tons. The line Kosovo Polje-Nis still has 35 kg/m rails and axle load is
only 16 tons. Track renewal included simplification of the layout of
stations and sidings to facilitate installation of modern signalling and
the opportunity was also taken to extend tracks in certain stations to meet
the increased traffic demand which is forecast. Steep gradients and sharp
curves impose train tonnage limitation on certain parts of the network.



- 16 -
Signalling and Telecommunications (SS & TT)
4.08     At present RTO Pristina has no modern signalling system, all lines
being equipped with an obsolete mechanical system, which is old and diffi-
cult to repair. Its telecommunication system is also old and unreliable.
To improve safety and operational efficiency both systems need to be
replaced with modern equipment.
Locomotives and Rolling Stock
4.09     The RTO's locomotive and rolling stock fleet at the end of 1979 is
shown in Annex 2. The inefficient steam locomotives which provided half
the traction power in 1978 and nearly one third in 1979 are being replaced
with diesels and will be phased out of service. Coaching stock has been
supplemented by the acquisition of 23 used coaches from RTE Sarajevo. The
fleet of rail buses is over age and unreliable and is to be taken out of
service. RTO Pristina has about 1,470 freight cars, many of which are
old and of low capacity. During the 5-year plan 180 new cars will be
purchased and about 160 cars over 40 years old will be scrapped. Despite
the purchase of larger capacity freight cars and of planned improvements in
wagon turnaround time RTO Pristina will still be short of freight cars at
the end of the project and plan periods and will be a net borrower of cars
from the other RTEs.
Freight Terminal
4.10     The present freight yard is old and has an inefficient layout.
Capacity of the yard is insufficient for present and forecast traffic and
extension is not possible because of neighboring housing. A description of
the present yard and plans for the new yard are shown in Annex 1.
Workshop Facilities, Other Facilities
4.11     Workshop facilities are old and inadequate and consist of a steam
locomotive shed and an open air pit for inspection of diesel locomotives.
Most diesel locomotive repair is undertaken outside Kosovo. A new diesel
locomotive depot which is to be built as part of the project will be
capable of carrying out all but major overhauls and will improve locomotive
and rolling stock availability and will facilitate improved scheduling and
utilization of both rolling stock and train crews. Part of the old steam
locomotive shed will be rebuilt and used for maintenance of electrical and
permanent way mechanical equipment.
D. Operations
4.12     Annex 2, Table 1 gives a summary of RTO Pristina's operating
statistics for 1979. The appraisal mission found many inconsistencies in
the operational data initially supplied, especially in data dealing with



- 17 -
freight operations. The overall picture of operational control and
performance is poor and with the help of technical assistance, many
improvements will need to be made during the project period to take full
advantage of the proposed investments.
Freight Operations
4.13     The main operational difficulty is with freight where the yard
in Kosovo Polje is the major bottleneck. The yard is worn out, has an
impracticable layout and has insufficient capacity. However, on-line
operations are also poorly performed. The following table shows delays of
freight trains during representative months of 1978 and 1979 with minimum
and maximum delays:
Number of Freight Trains Delayed During the Months
of February and October 1978 and 1979
Number of Trains Arriving        Number of Trains Departing
at Yard                         From Yard
More Total of                     More Total of
Minutes late   than trains        Minutes late   than trains
0-10 10-20 20-30  30  delayed   0-10 10-20 20-30  30  delayed
1978 Feb.       167  139    79    75    460       233  176   131    80    620
Oct.      193  148   137   128    606        213  213   292   192    696
1979 Feb.       149  141    81    84    455       223  189   139    76    627
Oct.      161  143   187   143    636        284  207   348   202   1039
Total numbers of trains scheduled in February 1978 was 1300, in October
1978 was 1940, in February 1979 was 1350 and in October 1979 was 1965.  The
percentage of trains on time in February 1978 was 17%, in October 1978 was
19%, in February 1979 was 20%, and in October 1979 was 15%. The table
shows that after the shunting process in the yard, about 50% of trains
depart with additional delay.
4.14     The main reasons for the delays in arrivals are the poor perform-
ance of steam locomotives, the lack of modern signalling and telecommunica-
tions and insufficient number of locomotives and rolling stock. Lengthy
loading and unloading processes by shippers is also a contributory factor.
The extra delays departing from the yard stem from the poor yard layout and
the lack of capacity. An example is the shunting process on the Pec side
of the yard which is carried out on the main line and which therefore has
to stop whe.never traffic is using the line. Such substantial delays as are
presently experienced make proper scheduling of locomotives, freight wagons
and train crews quite impossible. All these resources are therefore at
present inefficiently used.
4.15     Several possible methods of improving the situation in the interim
period before the new yard is available were discussed with the RTO. These
included additional use of neighboring yards at Kraljevo and Nis in Serbia



- 18 -
and at Skopje in Macedonia as well as increased use ot unit trains which
would not need the services of the yard (at present only a small proportion
of coal and bauxite traffic is by unit trains; though there is scope for
increasing numbers of unit trains, the diversity of the origins and
destinations of a good part of the traffic, including bulk commodities,
imposes limitations on the use of unit trains).
E. Traffic
4.16     In 1979 total volume of freight traffic in RTO Pristina was 246
million ton km, consisting of 1.8 million tons of originating traffic and
1.1 million tons of inward traffic. Most of the traffic consisted of bulk
commodities moved over long distances and related to the mining, metallurgy
and chemical industry complexes in Kosovo. Passenger traffic in 1979
consisted of about 4 million passengers, who traveled 163 million passenger
km, the traffic being mainly over short distances. Floods, which washed
away from 5.5 km of the north/south line at the Macedonian border in
November 1979 and which prevented direct traffic to and from Skopje until
the following August, prevented traffic growth in 1980. Further details of
RTO Pristina's traffic and traffic projections are presented in Chapter 6.
F. Tariffs
4.17     Inter-enterprise freight rates are controlled by the Federal
Government and have been uniform in all RTEs while passenger fares are
fixed by Republics and Provinces. While a common national tariff has
obvious commercial attractions, it also has disadvantages in the Yugoslav
situation where RTE's operating costs vary widely because of different wage
levels, varying traffic densities and different levels of operating etfi-
ciency. This became very apparent after the creation of the small RTOs
whose traffic densities are low and whose unit operating costs are high.
After Bank criticism, a special 33% freight tariff increase was approved
for RTO Pristina in April 1980, in addition to the increase of 16%, applied
to all RTEs. Further tariff increases for all RTEs of 10% for freight and
12% for passengers were made during November 1980. Tariffs still remain
well below costs, however, and further real increases will be needed to
accompany cost reductions to remedy this position (paras. 7.06 and 7.07).
The introduction of the costing system (para. 3.09). should provide RTO
Pristina with valuable information relating freight rates to costs.
G. Accounting and Audit
4.18     The RTEs' accounts are kept to a good standard on a uniform
Government-prescribed basis. Although the books of account are processed
locally on modern electric accounting machines, use is also made ot the RTO



- 19 -
Belgrade computer centre for a number of purposes including the maintenance
of fixed asset records, loan register and stores inventory. Depreciation
rates are adequate for the various categories of railway assets. Assets
are subject to an annual revaluation, based on replacement costs, using
coefficients obtained from price indices of the Federal Institute of
Statistics. Book values of fixed assets are thus maintained at realistic
levels and depreciation plays a proper role in internal funds generation.
Although staff are well experienced in traditional accounting practice they
are not as familiar with concepts of cash flow and some external training
for senior finance staff would be arranged under the project.
4.19     RTO Pristina's accounts, and the separate accounts of each BOAL,
are subject to audit by the Social Accounting Service (SDK), in the course
of which a considerable amount of detailed work is carried out in verifying
that the accounts are properly kept in accordance with the prescribed
accounting code. Because SDK has not so far had the capacity to perform an
audit such as is normally required by the Bank of its borrowers for an
organization as large as the railways, it has so far been sending to the
Bank, in respect of each RTE, a more limited form of annual audit certif-
icate. However, SDK's capacity for a full audit has been strengthened with
the aid of consultants through a Bank-sponsored training scheme and it is
now expanding the scope of its audit of the RTEs. Assurance was obtained
at negotiations that RTO Pristina will have its accounts audited in accord-
ance with sound auditing principles by the SDK or another competent and
experienced independent auditing organization and that the certified
accounts together with the auditors' reports will be submitted to the Bank
within six months of the end of each year.
V. THE INVESTMENT PLAN AND THE PROJECT
A. RTO Pristina's Investment Plan
5.01     RTO Pristina's Investment Plan (Annex 1, Table 1) covers the
period 1981-1985 and is part of Kosovo's Provincial Development Plan.
Total proposed investments for the five year period amount to Din. 2764
million (US$101.0 million). Included in 1981 is the completion of a
capital overhaul investment from the previous plan period (balance remain-
ing Din. 130 million, US$4.8 million) which is financed from Loan 1534-YU
under the Fifth Bank Project. Total proposed investments for the plan
period, excluding this carry-over, amount to Din. 2634 million (US$96.3
million) with a foreign exchange component of Din. 1314 million (US$48.0
million). The three year project (Annex 1, Table 2) covers investments
1981-83 totalling Din. 1827 million (US$66.8 million) with a foreign
exchange component of Din. 925 million (US$33.8). The Bank's US$34.0 mil-
lion loan would finance the modernization of signalling and telecommunica-
tions on the line Lesak-Kosovo Polje-Djeneral Jankovic and at Kosovo Polje
Junction, the purchase of about 40 freight cars, and technical assistance
and training. The loan represents the total estimated foreign exchange
cost of the project.



- 20 -
5.02     The principal objective of RT0 Pristina's Investment Plan is to
modernize railway facilities in Kosovo in order to improve efficiency,
capacity and the competitive position of the railway. A substantial
increase in demand for freight traffic will arise in Kosovo as a result of
the development of its mineral and industrial potential but the following
constraints which hinder efficient rail operations presently exist:
(a) Motive power and rolling stock capacity are insufficient, old
equipment must be replaced and the use of inefficient steam
locomotives eliminated.
(b) Layout and location of the marshalling and auxiliary facilities
in Kosovo Junction are inadequate to meet the requirements of
increasing traffic.
(c) Maintenance facilities for locomotives are old and built for steam
and must be renewed for diesel locomotives.
(d) Freight loading and unloading facilities are inadequate for
present and forecast traffic. These, together with the platforms
in Kosovo Polje station, should be modernized to improve the
efficiency of the railways.
The proposed project is designed to help remove these constraints (see
paras. 5.08 to 5.12).
5.03     As a result of Bank advice, the original plan was reduced by about
Din. 150 million by postponing to the period of the next investment plan,
the construction of a new station building in Kosovo Polje and acquisition
of a motor train and seven coaches. Also at the suggestion of the Bank,
modernization of signalling and telecommunications on the line Podujevo-
Kosovo Polje-Pec has been postponed by two years and will be carried out
after the proposed SS and TT investments on the main line Lesak-Djeneral
Jankovic. A more modest design for the diesel depot than originally
planned will also result in a cost saving of about Din 100 million. These
changes contribute to a more balanced investment plan, as well as better
project preparation, and should help in easing problems of manpower
planning.
5.04     The principal components of the Plan are:
Percentage
Din. Million   US$ Million   of Total
Reconstruction of Kosovo Junction            580.4            21.2         22
Signalling and Telecommunications            685.8            25.1         26
Traction and Rolling Stock                   400.0            14.6         15
Integrated Transport (para. 5.11)             28.2             1.0          1
Subtotal                                 1694.4             61.9         64
Contingencies                                939.4            34.4         36
Total                                       2633.8            96.3        100



- 21 -
5.05     The Investment Plan as now proposed is adequate to achieve the
objective outlined above (para. 5.02) and the components are economically
justified. Achievement of the objective will be measured by means of
agreed operational and financial targets to be included in an Action Plan
(para. 5.20). Feasibility studies for the major components of the project
were prepared by the RTO with the assistance of the Design Institute ot CYR
and the Institute of the Faculty for Transport in Belgrade.  Increasing
traffic will require that the RTO continue to be a net borrower of freight
cars from the other RTEs and it has been agreed that CYR and the RTO will
use their best endeavors to facilitate this arrangement. An assurance was
obtained that, except as the Bank otherwise agrees, the RTO will implement
its Investment Plan. The approval of the Investment Plan as submitted to
the Bank, and of its related Financing Plan (para. 5.14) by the RTO and all
concerned authorities will be a condition of loan effectiveness.
B.  The Project
5.06     The proposed project comprises the 1981-1983 slice ot the Invest-
ment Plan. In helping improve the operating capacity and efficiency of the
rail network in Kosovo, which is the weakest part in the Yugoslav railway
system, the project follows on from the ongoing Fifth Yugoslav Railway
Project and has benefits not only for Kosovo but for the economy of the
whole country.



- 22 -
5.07     The three-year project is summarized below:
Percent-
age ot
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Total
----Din. millions---- ----------Ub$ millions-------
Reconstruction Kosovo
Junction:
Passenger station           22.0      9.4    31.4    0.8       0.4     1.2    1.7
Freight yard               126.7    84.4   211.1    4.6        3.1     7.7   11.4
Diesel shunters              7.5    22.5    30.0    0.3        0.8      1.1    1.6
Diesel depot               101.6    41.5   143.1    3.7        1.5     5.2    7.8
SS & TT                     53.7    99.8   153.5    2.0        3.6     5.6    8.3
Lighting                     7.9      3.4    11.3    0.3       0.1     0.4    0.6
Subtotal                    319.4   261.0   580.4   11.7        9.5    21.2   31.4
SS and TT:
Lesak-Djeneral Jankovic  167.4   310.9   478.3    6.1    11.4    17.5   25.9
Kosovo Polje-Pec (Prep.)   6.2        6.9    13.1    0.2       0.3     0.5    0.7
Rolling Stock;
Motor trains                29.8    69.6    99.4    1.1        2.6      3.7    5.4
Freight wagons              27.8    27.8    55.6    1.0        1.0     2.0    3.0
Integrated Transport          7.1      7.1    14.2    0.3       0.2     0.5    0.8
Subtotal                    557.7   683.3  1241.0   20.4    25.0    45.4   67.2
Contingencies - Physical   49.2    56.4   105.6    1.8          2.1     3.9    5.8
Price     295.2   184.9   480.1   10.8        6.7    17.5   26.0
Total                       902.1   924.6  1826.7   33.0    33.8    66.8   99.0
Technical Assistance
and Training                 5.5    13.7    19.2    0.2        0.5     0.7    1.0
Grand Total                 907.6   938.3  1845.9   33.2    34.3    67.5  100.0
Reconstruction of Kosovo Junction
5.08     The reconstruction of Kosovo Junction follows recommendations
resulting from a consultants' study. Its principal components will be a
new shunting yard and a diesel locomotive depot. The present yard is old,
is restricted in space, and has insufficient capacity even to handle exist-
ing traffic which results in much double shunting, as well as shunting on
the main line. Congestion causes many delays. The construction of the new
yard was chosen as the optimal solution to the problem by the consultants'
study after considering alternatives including increased use of yards in
RTEs Belgrade and Skopje together with the existing Kosovo yard. The new
yard with a better layout, additional tracks, and two diesel shunting locos
will enable the shunting process to be carried out efficiently and with
less damage to loads and will also increase capacity. It will also avoid
delays to unit trains and transit trains which are caused by the present
congestion. Main tracks and switches will be protected by an electrical



- 23 -
signalling system and satety will be greatly improved. The reconstruction
will also include the provision of two platforms for the passenger station.
5.09     No diesel depot at present exists in Kosovo and the replacement ot
steam by diesel locomotives makes provision of a diesel depot for servicing
the locomotives essential. The old steam depot is badly located and is
unsuitable for diesel locomotive servicing and will be modified to be used
as maintenance shop for permanent way equipment. A fleet of about 20
locomotives will use the new depot for daily inspections and for weekly,
monthly and quarterly maintenance schedules; the new depot should help
ensure a high standard of locomotive availability and more efficient train
scheduling. Agreement was reached at negotiations on reductions in the
size and cost of the planned depot.
Signalling and Telecommunications
5.10     RTO Pristina has an old mechanical signalling system for which
spares are now unobtainable and which is below modern safety standards.
Following the recommendations of a study by consultants, the main line
Lesak-Djeneral Jankovic, which at present has an annual load of about 7
million gross tons, is to be equipped with a modern electrical signalling
system with automatic block between stations. Together with an efficient
telecommunications system, which is also to be provided, this will increase
train speeds and safety standards and also reduce train delays and the
presently excessive maintenance costs of signalling. The installation on
the line Kosovo Polje-Pec-Prizren of an electrical but less sophisticated
signalling system is planned to tollow in 1984-85.
Rolling Stock and Integrated Transport
5.11     Traction capability has already been greatly improved by the
receipt during 1980 of six new diesel locomotives from Canada and of five
used diesel locomotives made surplus by electrification at RTE Sarajevo.
Rolling stock acquisitions under the project will consist of four diesel
motor trains and of freight wagons to replace wagons over 40 years old,
which are no longer able to be repaired. Targets for utilization of
traction and rolling stock were agreed at negotiations (Annex 2).
Integrated transport investments will be mainly in forklifts and pallets
and cranes.
Training and Technical Assistance
5.12     The project investments together with the recent acquisitions in
traction should enable a substantial improvement to be made in both freight
and passenger operations. Close cooperation from neighboring RTEs will be
necessary to handle the forecast traffic until the new facilities are
available, and assistance from the other RTEs will also be needed to make
good RTO Pristina's shortage of freight wagons. A critical need, however,
is for training and technical assistance to improve managerial and opera-
tional capability. The project provides for a study of information systems



- 24 -
and management organization to be carried out by consultants anu tor recom-
mendations to be made for their improvement. Provision is made also for
technical assistance to be received in planning and control or freight
operations in order that maximum benefit may be gained from the proposed
investments in new rolling stock. yard improvements ana signalling. CYR
will assist in manpower planning and in determining training needs while
training for managers and specialists wiLl also be funded from the loan.
It is estimated that consultancy assistance will total about thirty five
man-months at a cost (including per diem and local travel) or about
US$10,000 per month. The program of training will include training for
senior and middle management ot operating, technical and tinancial depart-
ments and also training for technicians ana staff for the switch to diesel
traction. It is expected that training will total about 400 man-months. A
detailed training program will be prepared with the assistance of the
consultancy studies included under the project; terms of reterence tor the
studies were discussed and agreed during negotiations.
C. Cost Estimates
5.13     The cost estimates (Annex 1) which have been prepared by RTO
Pristina with assistance of CYR and the Institute of the Faculty ot Trans-
port in Belgrade are based on detailed engineering. The estimates incluae
import duties and minimal local taxes. In calculating the foreign exchange
component, items have been assumed to be imported only where there is a
high probability that contracts will be placed abroad. Examples are
signalling equipment and components for rolling stock. Where the source
of supply is uncertain it has been taken as domestic and an estimate of
indirect foreign costs made, based on similar previous projects. Physical
contingencies of 10% have been included for all items except traction and
rolling stock. Estimates are based on mid-1980 prices and take into
account the 1980 devaluation of the dinar. Price contingencies have been
estimated separately for local and foreign cost elements using intlation
rates forecast for Yugoslavia. 1/
D. Financing Plan
5.14     Of the total project cost ot Din. 1846 million (US$67.5 million)
the local currency cost is estimated to be Din. 908 million and the foreign
currency element Din. 938 million (US$34.3 million) or 51% of the total.
1/ Rates used are:
1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
-------------------%-------------------
Local               30      18     14      12     10      10
Foreign             11      10     10      10     10      10



- 25 -
It is proposed that the Bank provide a loan of US$34 million. The Bank
loan would finance investments in signalling and telecommunications on the
line Lesak-Djeneral Jankovic and at Kosovo Junction, freight cars and tech-
nical assistance and training, and would represent the whole of the esti-
mated foreign currency costs of the project. The balance of local costs
will be met by the Provincial Government, which sees the railways' role as
critical to the future development of Kosovo and which has given an assur-
ance that it will make available the finance required for the project.
Internal resources of RTO Pristina would be sufficient to provide only 12%
of project costs. The proposed financing for the project is summarized
below:
Din. million    US$ million
Internal Funds /a                        214               7.8
Grants and Loans                         648              23.7
Suppliers' Credits                        55               2.0
IBRD Loan                                929              34.0
1,846              67.5
/a Less debt service, working capital and other current requirements.
E. Disbursement
5.15.    It is proposed that disbursement be made by financing 95% of the
costs of signalling and telecommunication installation on the line Lesak-
Djeneral Jankovic and for the yard in Kosovo Polje (US$31.3 million), by
financing 80% of the cost of the freight cars (US$2.0 million), and by
financing in full (US$0.7 million) technical assistance and training. The
signalling and telecommunications investments and the freight cars would be
suitable for international competitive bidding and would be so procured.
Most of the remaining items in the project are relatively small or are made
up of small components and are unsuitable for ICB. The foreign exchange
component of the project, equals the total of the proposed Bank loan.
There are no other anticipated foreign loans or suppliers' credits. A
schedule of estimated disbursements is as follows:



- 26
Cumulative
Disbursements         Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year        During Quarter       at end of Quarter
and Quarter           (US$ Million)          (US$ Million)          Percentage
1982
December 31, 1981             2.0                     2.0                    6
March 31, 1982                3.5                     5.5                   16
June 30, 1982                 4.0                     9.5                   28
1983
September 30, 1982            4.0                    13.5                   40
December 31, 1982             4.0                    17.5                   51
March 31, 1983                3.5                    21.0                   62
June 30, 1983                 3.5                    24.5                   72
1984
September 30, 1983            3.5                    28.0                   82
December 31, 1983             3.5                    31.5                   93
March 31, 1984                2.5                    34.0                  100
F. Lending Arrangements
5.16     The proposed loan would be guaranteed by the Federal Government
and would be made to RTO Pristina for a fifteen-year period including three
years of grace.
G. Implementation
5.17     RTO Pristina will be responsible for execution ot the project.
Technical assistance and staff training will be made available through CYR,
which will be responsible for the loan administration. Undertakings have
been given that the CYR panel set up for the administration of the fourth
and fifth project will be strengthened, that consultants for technical
assistance and staff training will be employed in accordance with the Bank
guidelines, and that qualified counterparts will be appointed. A schedule
for implementation of project items which has been agreed with CYR and RTO
Pristina is shown at Annex I, Table 5.
H. Employment
5.18     The anticipated results of the project in terms of eventual statt
savings are discussed at para. 4.06. It is estimated, however, that over
1,500 man-years of work, mainly civil works, will be provided in Kosovo in



- 27 -
carrying out the project. In facilitating the planned industrial expansion
in Kosovo, the indirect effects of the project upon employment will be
positive.
I. Procurement and Action Plans
5.19     The contracts for the signalling and telecommunications and for
the freight cars would be placed by ICB in accordance with the Bank's
procurement guidelines. Domestic firms would be permitted to participate
in the bidding and would be accorded a preference of 15%, or the customs
duties, whichever is lower for supply of equipment. The whole of the loan
other than the portion for technical assistance and training would be
disbursed against these contracts. The agreed procurement timetable is
contained in the implementation schedule at Annex 1, Table 5.
Action Plans
5.20     Besides the RTO, its BOALs and COI, railway decisions may involve,
SFRY and the Provincial Government as well as organizations such as the
Chamber of Economy. This led, under the Fourth and Fifth Projects, to the
establishment by CYR and each RTE of comprehensive Action Plans which are
an important instrument for reaching a common understanding by all con-
cerned on objectives and responsibilities, and on the measures and time
required for their achievement. The Action Plans are an important means of
extending its planning process. They address themselves to improvements in
organization, planning, investments, marketing, productivity, information
systems, finance, Government support and staff training. RTO Pristina
Action Plan will specify actions to be taken to achieve agreed produc-
tivity, operational and financial targets. Appropriately updated these
Action Plans have a continuing role to play in the development of RTO
Pristina and the approval by the RTO and the authorities concerned of an
Action Plan as submitted to and agreed by the Bank will be a condition of
effectiveness of the loan (see Annex 2).
5.21     As part of its Action Plan, RTO Pristina has prepared Operational
Plans to improve the utilization of its rolling stock and to serve as a
basis for procurement, renewal and scrapping of traction and rolling
stock. CYR has prepared general plans for the whole network covering
signalling, telecommunications, data processing and integral transport.
In general, the plans have been well prepared, but some improvements are
needed. It was confirmed at negotiations that the RTO will:
(a) continue to update and implement its Operational Plans in
collaboration with CYR;
(b) elaborate in particular the Operational Plans on freight traffic
operations on the basis of terms of reference agreed with the
Bank, and with technical assistance as required; and



- 28 -
(c) develop a training program with consultancy assistance and in
collaboration with CYR.
VI. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. General
The Economic Case for the Project
6.01     In general terms, the economic case for the proposed project for
Kosovo's railway development rests on three grounds: (i) it is a priority
investment for the less-developed Kosovo Province since the backbone of its
economic development is exploitation of its abundant mineral resources
generating long-distance bulk traffic for which railway provides the most
economic means; (ii) it is a priority investment for the whole Yugoslav
economy since it would help fulfill in part its strategy of import sub-
stitution in fuel by assisting in coal transport, its strategy for exports,
as well as its high priority objective of faster economic growth for the
Kosovo region, which is the least developed in Yugoslavia; and (iii) it is
a priority investment for the Yugoslav transport sector and particularly
for the Yugoslav railway system, since Kosovo's rail facilities, coming
under a newly-formed RTO, constitute the national railways' weakest part at
present, in terms of obsolete equipment, inadequate capacity, and the need
for improved management.
Kosovo's Accelerated Industrial Development and Its Impact on Railway Demand
6.02     As indicated in Chapter 3, under Yugoslavia's national policy of
reducing regional income disparities, the Kosovo region receives special
attention in terms of resource transfers for investments and other incen-
tives for faster development. The twin national priorities of faster
regional growth of LDRs and of accelerated development of domestic energy
production and other basic industries have together provided for Kosovo a
planned massive boost to its mining, electric power, chemicals, construc-
tion materials and metallurgy industries for which it has abundant natural
resources. Though new light industries, which are less capital-intensive
and have greater employment potential, are also being developed, partic-
ularly through the 1981-85 Plan, the main focus continues to be on the
above basic industries.
6.03     The 1976-80 Plan aimed at a 12% annual increase in Kosovo's
industrial production, the highest in Yugoslavia, and the 1981-85 Draft
Plan envisages about the same level of growth. Though the actual perform-
anre has been somewhat slow due to delays in project implementation, and
due to the major problems of inflation and balance of payment difficulties
faced by Yugoslavia. Kosovo's average industrial growth in the first four
years of the Plan was about 9%, which was about 2% higher than the national



- 29 -
average. Many of the delayed industrial projects under the 76-80 Plan are
expected to be completed by 1981 or 1982. Such accelerated development of
basic industries, which produces surpluses for supply to other parts of
Yugoslavia and abroad, has now created a pressing need for developing the
railway facilities in Kosovo, since the traffic involved is predominantly
in bulk commodities, moving over long distances where railways enjoy
special cost advantages. Inadequate and obsolete rail facilities in Kosovo
have already become a bottleneck in accepting the traffic offered to the
railways. Since the continued expansion of Kosovo's main industries
depends on adequate railway capacity, the 1981-85 Draft Plan for Kosovo
gives high priority for railway investments. The proposed Bank-financed
project would support this important objective of modernizing and expanding
Kosovo's railway system.
B. Railway Traffic Analysis
The Traffic Base
6.04     Kosovo has vast mineral deposits in lignite, nonterrous metal ores
(zinc, lead, chromium, ferro silicium, nickel, bauxite, magnesite), and
minerals suitable for cement production ("tuff" and lignite, for example).
About 35-50% of Yugoslavia's production of these minerals is concentrated
in Kosovo. Major industries have been developed around these resources,
which includez lignite mining, thermal power generation based on lignite,
mining and production of semi-processed nonferrous metal ores (lead, zinc,
chromium, nickel), bauxite mining, production of cement, sulphuric acid,
batteries, phosphatic fertilizers, nitrogenous fertilizers based on gasi-
fied coal, metal industries for producing steel pipes, automobile parts,
and electrical appliances. These industries, being highly energy-
intensive, benefit from Kosovo's lignite-based thermal power production.
Many of these industries were started in the 1960's, with their diver-
sification and expansion in the 70's, which will continue in the 1980's.
In addition, Kosovo has a developed textile industry (yarn, garments,
polyester fiber), and recently started food processing industries (sugar,
meat canning, fruit and vegetable processing), which are also under expan-
sion. Overall, industry contributes the largest share of Kosovo's GMP,
about 37%, followed by agriculture. Two major industrial enterprises
("Kombinats") dominate the basic industries: Kombinat "Obilic" (for
lignite, power, nitrogenous fertilizer, nickel, etc.), and Kombinat
"Trepca" (for zinc, lead, bauxite, copper, phosphatic fertilizers, acids,
batteries, etc.). Most of Kosovo's industrial production is oriented
towards exports abroad or to other parts of Yugoslavia, and almost all the
major industrial sites are connected to the railway system through the
industries' own railway sidings.
Present Traffic
6.05     Recent traffic data of RTO Pristina for 1978 and 1979 are pre-
sented in Annex 3. Since RTO Pristina was formed only in 1978, reliable



- 30 -
data for the Pristina part of the Yugoslav railway system are not sepa-
rately available for the period prior to 1978. Of the two years' actual
data available (1978 and 1979), 1979 was not a representative year since
some of its traffic was adversely affected by the dislocations caused by
floods from November 1979, which interrupted the Kosovo Polje-Skopje line
until about August 1980. This reduced Pristina's 1979 traffic volume by
about 3-4%, though the 1979 actual traffic tonnage was still about 4%
higher than the 1978 level. The interruptions due to the floods during the
first eight months of 1980 also depressed Pristina's 1980 traffic during
this period with the result that 1980 net tonnage is estimated to be about
4% less than in 1979. The figures show that the tonnage handled consisted
largely of originating traffic (1.8 million tons in 1979) consisting of
minerals and other bulk commodities, while the inward traffic (1.1 million
tons) mainly included bulk items like fertilizer raw materials, construc-
tion materials, steel sheets, petroleum products and many miscellaneous
commodities.
6.06     RTO Pristina's passenger traffic consisted of about four million
passengers and 165 million passenger-km in 1978, the traffic declining in
1979 due to the dislocations from the floods. Passenger traffic is mostly
short distance, consisting of considerable commuter traffic to and from the
mining and industry complexes, and other local traffic. The relative
underdevelopment of bus transportation in Kosovo has been an important
factor influencing the share of passenger traffic for the railways.
C. Traffic Projections
6.07     Projected freight and passenger traffic of RTO Pristina is
summarized below (Table 6.1) and detailed commodity-wise projections with
explanatory notes are given in Annex 3. The main assumptions used for the
projections are discussed in the next section.
Freight Traffic Projections: Main Assumptions
6.08     Freight traffic projections up to 1985 are primarily based on
likely traffic to be generated by major mining and industrial expansion
programs currently firmly in progress mainly based on data received from
the enterprises concerned. It has been verified with the Planning and
other authorities in the Kosovo Provincial Government that the industrial
expansion programs are actually in progress as part of the 1976-80 Plan
and, where their completion period extends beyond 1980, will be continued
under the 81-85 Plan. The Kosovo Executive Council recently announced that
these ongoing major investment projects would not be adversely affected by
the recent economic stabilization measures and resulting curtailment of
investments. The Bank mission had detailed discussions with the leading
mining/industrial firms undergoing expansion, and is satisfied that the
projections presented here are realistic. Only a part of the new traftic
is assigned to railways, depending on present traffic patterns, expected



- 31 -
traffic origins and destinations, and likely distances. The major new
industrial sites have already completed or are completing additional rail-
way sidings at their own expense to serve the expected new traffic. To
make the estimates conservative by allowing for slippages in project com-
pletion and possible larger shares for road transport, the firms' estimates
of additional traffic have been discounted by about 40-45% in the projec-
tions presented here. For example, while the firms' estimates showed that
their combined railway traffic (which was about 1.3 million tons in 1979)
would increase by about 3.1 million tons in 1983, and by 3.8 million tons
in 1985, the estimates presented in this report assume an increase of only
1.6 million tons and 2.2 million tons respectively for the same years.
Table 6.1: SUMMARY OF TRAFFIC PROJECTIONS
Annual Growth Rates
1978  1979  1983 /1  1985  1990  1979-1985 1985-1990
(a) Freight Traffic /2
Tonnage handled (000 tons)
(i)  From major firms       1161  1326  2885       3445  4140      17.2        3.7
with ongoing
expansion programs
(ii)  Others                 1642  1590  1665       1705  1810       1.1        1.2
(iii)  Total                  2803  2916  4550       5150  5950       9.9        2.9
Average distance within        87.8  85.0  92.5       94.0  94.0       1.7         -
RTO Pristina (ton/km)
Total ton-km (net)             246   248    421       484   559       11.8        2.9
(million units)
(b) Passenger Traffic
Passengers (000)              4005  3842   4380    4475  4715
Average distance within       41.2  42.4   42.0    42.0  42.0
RTO Pristina (pass-km)
Total pass-km (million)        165   163    184    188   198           2.4        1.0
(c)  Total traffic units       411   411    605    672   757           8.5        2.4
/1  The first year after completion of the proposed project.
/2 See Annex 3 for commodity details.
Source: RTO Pristina and mission estimates.



- 32 -
6.09     Apart from the above traffic relating to the major industries
under expansion, all other freight traffic, inward and outward, relating to
other industries, agriculture and general consumption, which totaled about
1.6 million tons in 1978 (the 1979 traffic was slightly less due to the
impact of floods) is assumed to increase only marginally, at about 1% per
annum, which is a very conservative assumption. The total traffic during
1985-90 is assumed to increase by a modest 3% per annum.
6.10     The projections discussed above (see Table 6.1) amount to an
annual growth rate of 11.8% in the traffic ton-km carried by Kosovo
railways during 1979-85, and about 7.5% during 1980-90; as against these,
the growth rate of all-Yugoslav rail traffic during 1976-79 was about
7.3%. The higher rate projected for Kosovo railways is justified in terms
of the specific mining and industrial projects underway and the resulting
increase in bulk traffic discussed earlier (see also sensitivity analysis,
para. 6.27). The 11.8% annual increase during 1979-85 represents a tonnage
increase of about 2.2 million tons; most of this increase is accounted for
by a few items as follows: lignite (0.7 million tons), nickel ore (0.3
million tons), pyrites (0.15 million tons), fertilizers and raw materials
(0.25 million tons), lead, zinc, zincified sheets and steel pipes (0.2
million tons), cement (0.25 million tons), and other items (0.35 million
tons). Further details on these items are presented in Annex 3.
6.11     The increased railway traffic projected above would not conflict
with the ongoing development of roads and road transport in Kosovo because
(i) the main emphasis of Kosovo's road development plans is on improving
accessibility of remote areas, and (ii) where regional roads are being
developed their capacity expansion has been based primarily on products
of agriculture, agro-industries and other light industries and general
consumption articles, but only marginally on minerals and other items which
move by bulk. The following factors strengthen the economic case for the
choice of railways in carrying the projected traffic: (a) most of the
projected railway traffic is in bulk, in full wagon loads and train loads,
with an increasing role for the economical unit trains (full train loads
between dispatching and receiving points), and is carried over long
distances (average exceeding 300 km); (b) the mining and plant sites have
added their own railway sidings for facilitating direct mechanized loading
of trains for the new traffic, which also signifies their willingness to
use the railways; (c) partly due to existing bottlenecks, the main railway
infrastructure in Pristina is currently only lightly used (see also paras.
7.03 and 7.04) and more intensive use would bring down unit costs; (d)
studies in Yugoslavia have shown that in terms of both financial and
economic costs, railway would be generally cheaper than road transport for
distances above 100 km in cases where cargo in bulk is directly loaded into
trains at plant sites thus avoiding a possible road-rail transshipment.
Passenger Traffic Projections
6.12     About one-third of the existing passenger traffic is passenger-km
comes from commuter traffic between Kosovo Polje and the industrial/mining



- 33 -
centers of Zvecan, K. Mitrovica and Drenica involving about 1800 workers
each way every day. These commuter trains are contracted by the industrial
enterprises (which employ about 7000 workers daily) with the Pristina RTO.
Traffic projections assume that about 600 additional workers per day would
use the commuter trains by 1985, on completion of the mining/industrial
expansion programs, the bulk of this increase coming by 1983. This would
explain about 17 million pkms out of the projected increase of 23 million
pkm; the rest of the increase comes from a marginal (about 1%) annual
increase assumed for the remaining passenger traffic, undertaken for
business and pleasure.
D. Economic Return and Sensitivity Analysis
(i) Methodology and Main Assumptions
6.13     The estimation of economic return from the project, summarized
below, is based on an analysis of the economic costs and benefits relating
to each major component in the project. The main components separately
studied are: (a) modernization of signalling and telecommunications on the
main line Lesak-Djeneral Jankovic (accounting for 39% of the total project
cost including physical contingencies, in constant 1980 prices); (b) the
Kosovo Junction reconstruction covering freight yard facilities and
passenger facilities (35% of total project costs); (c) the construction of
a diesel locomotive depot in Kosovo Polje (12% of total project costs); and
(d) the rolling stock investments during the project period (11% of project
costs). No separate analysis was made for the investments on integrated
transport and the initial costs for starting the SS & TT project on the
main lines Kosovo-Pec-Prizren (3% of total project costs); however these
costs were included, without quantifying their benefits, in the calculation
of the economic return from the total project.
6.14     The main detailed analysis necessary for the economic calculations
was prepared through feasibility studies for the major components, con-
ducted by CYR and the Institute of Transport Studies, Belgrade. These
studies were updated by the Bank in the light of discussions with the
officials of the CYR, the Institute, and the RTO Pristina.
6.15     Both costs and benefits were analyzed in terms of economic costs
expressed in border prices, reflecting mid-1980 price levels. As a first
step in estimating basic economic costs, the price contingencies were
excluded from the financial costs shown in Annex 1, Table 2. To derive
border prices of the resulting project costs, all identifiable import
components were evaluated at their CIF prices which excludes import duties;
the remaining items were converted into border prices by applying to
domestic prices the border price conversion factors for Yugoslavia esti-
mated by the Bank. For each project component, an appropriate mix of the
conversion factors for investment goods, construction workers and wages
were used. In the case of project benefits, the estimated CIF prices were



- 34 -
used for identifiable imports (as in the case of locomotives or freight car
investments saved), while, for the remaining items, the standard conversion
factor estimated for Yugoslavia was used.
6.16     The analysis assumes a project life of 25 years, from the comple-
tion of the project which is expected in 1983; where appropriate, realiza-
tion of project benefits was staggered according to the project completion
schedule. Benefits from major identifiable labor savings were further
staggered over three years, to reflect possible time-lags in fully
reabsorbing the productivity of the staff rendered surplus. Indirect labor
savings of the reduced operating costs identified as project benefits were
not similarly staggered, but a sensitivity analysis showed that an adjust-
ment for this would reduce project return only marginally (by about 0.4
percentage point). No increase in project benefits has been assumed beyond
1995, and only marginal increases are assumed during 1990-95.
(ii) Project Benefits Under Main Project Components
(a) Modernization of SS & TT on Lesak-Djeneral Jankovic Line
6.17     The main benefits from this project would be to reduce the high
incidence of train delays caused by the deficiencies of the present system
(see para. 4.13), and to improve train speeds by removing speed restric-
tions imposed by the existing system.  These factors would improve turn-
around of trains and result in savings in the number of locomotives,
freight cars and passenger cars needed to cope with future traffic; savings
would also result from avoiding future maintenance costs related to these
locos and rolling stock.  In addition, there would be savings in fuel costs
of trains due to fewer stoppages and slow-downs, and in train-crew costs
due to the improved turnaround. Other benefits quantified are the avoided
replacement costs that would have been necessary for the existing system,
reduced operating and staff costs for the new system compared to the
present mechanical system, savings from avoided accident damages to rail
property and road vehicles, and from avoided delays to road vehicles at
railway crossings which would be automated under the proposed system. The
benefit estimates are primarily based on data relating to the project
entity, and partly on data from similar projects on other RTEs suitably
adjusted to reflect the conditions in RTO Pristina.
(b) Reconstruction of Kosovo Junction
6.18     The main item under this component (see para. 5.08) is the recon-
struction and expansion of the freight yard. (The economics of the diesel
depot is examined separately in para. 6.20 to 6.21 below.) The present
freight yard, which is old and has many constraints resulting from an
inadequate layout, is extremely congested, involving about 85% double
shunting, shunting on the main lines and an avoidable delay of about 10
hours per wagon for the 400 wagons using the yard. According to the
assessment of the Bank staff and of a freight yard consultant employed by
the Bank, the present yard, even with operational improvements, could
physically handle only about 10% more traffic than its present level, this



- 35 -
too at the cost of increased wagon delays, thus requiring relocation ot the
old yard to expand capacity and to provide modern facilities.
6.19     The traffic originating in or destined for RTO Pristina and
needing marshalling operations at the Kosovo Polje yard is expected to
increase from 1.9 million tons in 1979 to about 2.8 million tons in 1985;
this excludes the growing traffic in unit trains (which does not need
marshalling in the Kosovo Polje yard) which is expected to increase from
0.4 million tons in 1979 to about 1.5 million tons in 1985. As it would
not be physically possible to handle the expected higher traffic in the
existing yard, various feasible alternatives for handling the increased
traffic were examined, such as use of road transport and the re-routing of
the traffic through other marshalling yards. The least-cost alternative
(the "without project case") determined after studying various possibili-
ties, was doing part of the future yard operations in two other yards in
the area, namely, Trubarevo (Skopje RTE) and Popovac (Belgrade RTE), with
the present Kosovo yard handling only part of the future traffic in keeping
with its capacity constraints. The re-routing of part of the traffic
through alternative junctions was estimated to result in longer train-runs,
equivalent to about 144 million net tons-kms of traffic in 1985. The
variable operating costs (mainly cost of traction fuel and loco and wagon
maintenance costs) for handling these additional tons-kms in the absence
of the project, are taken as the main annual benefits from the project.
Savings in capital costs include the avoided investments for buying loco-
motives and freight cars for hauling the above extra traffic, and some
infrastructure investments needed in Trubarevo and Popovac Junctions under
the alternative considered.
(c) The Diesel Loco Depot
6.20     The proposed diesel loco depot is in replacement of the existing
steam loco shed. It is essentially the last part of the investments for
the dieselization project in RTO Pristina under which the RTO completed,
during 1980, retirement of its old steam locomotives; the proposed loco
shed is in fact already justified in terms of the benefits in switching
from steam to diesel locos. The RTO's present diesel loco fleet of 20
units is recently acquired, about half of it added in 1980. At present
there is only an open-air pit for servicing the diesel units; in the past,
the diesel loco fleet was much smaller and was being serviced at depots in
Belgrade or Skopje, under the Belgrade/Skopje RTEs. For the larger new
fleet which will further grow to 26 units by the addition of six diesel
motor trains for passengers during 1981-85, it is operationally essential
to provide regular maintenance and repair facilities at Kosovo, as was the
case in the past for steam locomotives.
6.21     In the present analysis, benefits from the depot project have been
notionally assessed in terms of the avoided costs in sending the diesel
units for servicing to Belgrade (390 km) or Skopje (120 km) notwithstanding
the fact that these depots do not have sufficient spare capacity to handle
the new workload without delays. About 50% of the service-trips are



- 36 -
considered not wasteful in the sense that the locomotives can pull schea-
uled trains during the service visits. The avoidable extra costs include
traction costs for the remaining trips when the units would run 'light'
(idling), which is a recurring cost, and therefore a recurring saving due
to the project. A more significant saving is in avoiding the wastage of
time (and resulting waste of capacity) involved in visiting the distant
depots (for the light movements only) and the time spent in waiting for
servicing at the depots since the alternative depots would be practically
fully utilized in future. It is estimatea that a minimum 40 service-visits
per unit per year (for scheduled weekly, monthly and quarterly maintenance
and for some unscheduled work) would be required. The avoided cost of buy-
ing additional locomotives and motor trains for making up the resulting
loss of capacity is the major quantified benefit from the proposed invest-
ment.
(d) Rolling btock Investments Under the Project
6.22     The new rolling stock proposed to be bought under the project
(about 40 freight cars and 4 motor trains for passengers) would enable
handling more traffic, thus utilizing more fully existing railway invest-
ments. In part, these new additions are for replacing about an equal
number of old freight cars and passenger rail buses which have much less
capacity and are too expensive to repair (needing about 60-80% of the price
of new units for reconditioning them); the additional capacity of the new
units would also help the Pristina railways in meeting the rolling stock
capacity shortage faced by them (see para. 4.09). The economic benefits
from the acquisition of new rolling stock under the project are assessed in
terms of the comparative costs of using road transport as the next best
alternative; this is justified in view of the higher comparative cost of
the alternative of reconditioning the units to be scrapped.
6.23     The traffic that can be carried by the new rolling stock is taken
as the base for calculating the project benefits. The railway transport
costs include, in addition to the capital costs for acquiring the freight
cars and passenger cars, some complementary costs on locomotives as well as
the railway traction costs (fuel, crew and current maintenance). The
computation of road transport costs covers capital and operating costs for
the trucks. The railway operating costs were taken from RTO Pristina's
actual data which was updated to 1980, and the basis for road transport
costs was the recent estimates made by consultants in connection with the
road master plan studies for Kosovo, updated to mid-1980. The ditference
between total road transport costs and the rail operating costs were
treated as benefits from the proposed investments.
Other Benefits and Main Project Beneficiaries
6.24     No benefits have been quantified for the passenger facilities
(costing about 35 million dinars) though their costs have been included
under the Junction reconstruction project (para. 6.18). The main benefits
in this case are additional safety and passenger comfort. Other unquanti-
fied benefits relate to integrated transport and the initial investments



- 37 -
for SS & TT on other lines (see para. 6.13). The main beneticiaries trom
the overall project would be a number ot industrial enterprises whose
expansion would be tacilitated by the adoitional rail capacity; the project
would also benefit and strengthen the RT0 Pristina. Under the Yugoslavian
economic system, the benetits would generally tilter down to the workers
managing the related enterprises. A major social benefit trom the project
would be in assisting the regional development of the unaerdevelopec1
Kosovo, thereby helping in reducing the income disparities between the
poorer Kosovo region and other regions of Yugoslavia.
(iii) Summary of the Rate of Return Calculations
6.25     A summary of the cost and benefit streams of the total project and
its main components are presented in Annex 4. The cost data in the Annex
cover all cost-streams relating to the economic analysis of major project
components discussed above, and includes project investments and some
operating costs. In some cases, only incremental operating costs over the
"without project alternative" have been included. The cost figures also
include the residual investments on 'other items' whose benefits have not
been quantified.  The benefit streams presented in the Annex cover benefits
computed for each of the major project components.
6.26     Detailed economic return analysis of the total project and its
major components indicates that the overall project and each ot its
components yield high rates of return, as shown below:
Item                                          Internal Rate of Return
(a) Modernization of SS & TT on Lesak-
D. Jankovic Line                                           17.0%
(b) Kosovo Junction Reconstruction
(treight yard & passenger facilities)                      31.0%
(c) Construction of Diesel Loco Depot in
Kosovo-Polje                                               40.0%
(d) Rolling Stock Additions                                    22.0%
(e) Total Project
(including some cost elements for which
no benefits have been quantified)                          22.0%
(iv) Economic Return from RTO Pristina's 5-Year Plan Investments
6.27     In addition to the project components discussed above, the Plan
investments include (a) acquisition of additional rolling stock (costing
245 million dinars in base costs without price contingencies); and (b)
completion of the SS & TT modernization project for the Kosovo-Pec-Prizren
Lines (costing 214 million dinars, excluding price contingencies). Of



- 38 -
these, since item (a) is an extension of the rolling stock addition unaer
the project, and since rolling stock would continue to be in shortage in
future, the rate of return would be similar to the project investments for
this item, viz about 22%. For item (b), a feasibility study prepared by
CYR, which is acceptable, indicates a rate of return of above 14%. The
overall investment program under the RTO's 5-year plan therefore, is
economically well justified. The items spilling over from the previous
Bank loan to the first year of the current 5-year plan (about 130 million
dinars, see Annex 1, Table 1) have already been economically justified as
part of the previous project.
(v) Project Sensitivity Analysis and Risks
6.28     Since traffic growth is an important factor in project benefits,
the sensitivity of the economic return to variations in traffic growth has
been analyzed. The annual traffic growth assumed in the base case (11.8%
during 1979-85 and 3% during 1985-90) already allows for about 40% short-
fall in achieving the planned targets of industrial enterprises (see para.
6.08). Tests show that even if the annual traffic growth during 1979-85
was only 7% (lower than the average growth of 7.3% during 1976-79 in all
CYR), the project's economic return would still be about 15%. Other
sensitivity tests show that a 20% increase in costs would reduce the over-
all project return from 23% to 16%, while a 20% decline in benefits woula
reduce it to about 14.0%. Another test shows that the overall benefits
will have to decline by about 26%, or the project costs will have to
increase by 36%, for the project to yield a minimum 12% return. However,
in view of the fact that cost estimates are based on detailed engineering,
and traffic estimates are based on conservative assumptions, the chances
for the above order of variations materializing are remote.
6.29     There are no major risks associated with the project or its imple-
mentation. Though RTO Pristina is a new RTO and lacks experience in imple-
mentation of major investments, provision is made under the project for the
strengthening of the RTO's management capability and for the appointment of
project officers to take responsibility for all aspects of implementation
of major project components (para. 4.05). Moreover, CYR, which has ample
experience of previous Bank projects would be actively associated with this
project (para. 5.17) thus minimizing any risks involved in carrying out the
project.
VII. FINANCIAL EVALUATION
A. Past Financial Performance
7.01     The income account for RTO Pristina's first full year ot operation
in 1979, which is shown at Annex 5, Table 1, is summarized below:



- 39 -
Din. Millions      Ub$ Millions
Operating Revenue
Tariff revenue                          371              19.6
Compensation                            200              10.5
Total                             571               30.1
Operating Expenditure
Working expenditure                     515              27.1
Depreciation                            144               7.6
Total                             659               34.7
Net revenue (loss)                         (88)              4.6
Interest                                    11               0.6
Net income (deficit)                       (99)               5.2
7.02     Because RTO Pristina is a small railway network, covering diffi-
cult terrain, operated with obsolete equipment, its costs are high.
Revenue, however, stemmed from a uniform tariff, applicable to all RTEs in
Yugoslavia, many of which have far higher traffic volumes and operating
efficiencies than RTO Pristina. As a result, in addition to its tariff
revenues, RTO Pristina needed external funds of Din. 299 million (US$15.7
million) by way of compensation payments (para. 3.07) and reimbursement of
deficit to balance its income account in 1979. The following table
compares some 1979 statistics and unit costs for RTO Pristina with those
for the Yugoslav network as a whole:
(2)            (3)
(1)        RTO              %
CYR      Pristina       (2) to (1)
(a)  Line Length (kms)                         9,712           333          3.4
(b)  Staff numbers                           115,637        2,574          2.2
(c)  Traffic units (TUs) (millions)           36,059          411          1.1
(d)  Staff per km of track                         11.9          7.7      65
(e)  TUs per km of track (millions)                 3.7          1.2      32
(f)  TUs per staff member (millions)             312          159         51
(g)  Wages per TU (Din.)                            0.31         0.57    183
(h)  Fuel costs per TU (Din.)                       0.04         0.12    300
(i)  Other working costs per TU (Din.)              0.33         0.56    170
(j)  Depreciation per TU (Din.)                     0.19         0.35    185
(k)  Operating costs per TU (Din.)                  0.87         1.60    184
7.03     The traffic density figures ((e) above) show the present low
utilization of RTO Pristina's network, which is a principal factor contri-
buting to its high unit costs. The very large disparity in fuel costs is
due to the use of the old steam locomotives and to the difficult terrain,



- 40 -
wtnich limits train size, ana reflects also inefficient train operation as
described in para. 4.13.  After strong representations from the Bank, a
special 33% treight tarilf increase was agreed by Federal authorities for
KTU Pristina in 1980 in adcition to the country wide increases of 16%
treight and 187. passenger of April 1980, and 10% freight and 12% passenger
or NovemDer 1980.
B. Forecast Performance
income Account
7.04      Forecast Income Accounts for RTO Pristina for the years 1980 to
1985, together with the principal assumptions on which they are based, are
shown in Annex 5. The Income Accounts are summarized below:
bummary of Forecast Income Accounts
1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
_________------Din Million--
Operating Kevenue
Tarift Kevenues                 446      711     921    1127    1379    1613
Compensation                    340     261      196      224      118       45
lotal                     786      972    1117    1351    1497    1658
Operating Expenditure
Working Expenditure             579      677      775     919    1025    1149
Depreciation                    168      198     239      282      320      355
Total                     747      875    1014    1201    1345    1504
Net Kevenue (loss)                   39       97      103      150      152     154
Interest                             39       97      103      150      152     154
Net Income                            _        -        -        -        -        -
Compensation as a proportion
ot total operating revenue        43%      27%      18%      17%       87.     3%
uperating ratio (including
compensation)                     95%      90%      91%     89%      90%      91%
Assurance has been received that the KTO will use its best endeavors to
achieve the forecast operating ratios.
7.05     Tratfic figures tor 1980, and consequently revenue, have been
severely reduced by tne flood damage which prevented direct rail service
between Kosovo and M4acedonia ana the south for eight months from November
1979 to August 1980. Meanwhile, costs rose, partly because of the disloca-
tion caused by tne ilooding but also because of the high rate of inflation
whicn the country suffered. It is estimated that compensation payments of



- 41 -
Din 340 million will be necessary to make good the gap between tariff
revenues and expenditure for 1980. 1/
7.06     The position after 1980 should improve substantially.  Operational
capability will rise and maintenance costs will be reduced by the doubling
of the diesel locomotive fleet in the second half of 1980 which will be
followed by the phasing out of the old steam locomotives. Track overhaul
carried out under the Fifth Bank project during 1979 and 1980 will also
reduce maintenance costs and will permit higher speeds and axle loadings.
These investments, followed by those of the project, are expected to reduce
unit operating costs in constant terms by about one-third over the five-
year plan period 1981-85. Because of the present substantial imbalance
between costs and tariff revenues, the projected cost reductions by them-
selves will not be sufficient to reduce compensation payments to an accept-
able level during the plan period and tariff increases in real terms will
therefore be necessary.
7.07     The projections of income shown in the table above and in Annex 5,
Table 1 are based on the assumption that annual tariff increases will be
made over the five-year period, which exceed by at least 5% the increase in
unit operating costs of the previous year with a minimum tariff increase in
any one year of 10%. Together with the forecast cost savings, this should
have the result of reducing the level of compensation payments to 17% of
operating revenues by 1983, the end of the project period, and to 3% of
operating revenues by 1985. Although the tariff increases should have this
overall cumulative effect, the increases should be selective and should
utilize the data available from the costing study (para. 3.09).
7.08     Assurances, under the Fifth Project, were given by Federal,
Republican and Provincial Governments of their intention of reducing and
eventually of eliminating compensation payments. However, targets agreed
with the Bank under the Fifth Railway Project for a progressive reduction
in the level of compensation payments at all RTEs have not been achieved
(para. 3.12). The Bank has therefore requested that a study be made of the
compensation issue so that a clear statement may be made of future compen-
sation policy against the background of the country's Social Plan for
1981-85. A formal letter has been received from CYR agreeing to forward to
the Bank proposals for the reduction and ultimate elimination of compensa-
tion payments in order to determine with the Bank, before September 30,
1981, what proportion of compensation is appropriate for each RTE and how
it shall be reduced.
1/ Provisional traffic figures for 1980 which are lower than forecast
indicate that compensation may be as high as Din. 380 million or 48% of
total revenue.



- 42 -
Cash Flow
7.09     Estimates of cash flow for the project depend to a great extent
upon grants and low interest loans to be made by the government. These are
necessary during this period while the RTO is endeavoring to build up its
traffic revenues, reduce its costs and reduce its dependence on the compen-
sation payments. Internal Resources and Financing Plan for the project
period and for the five-year plan period are summarized at Annex 5, Table 2
while cash flow figures from 1979 to 1985 are shown at Annex 5, Table 3.
7.10     Gross internal resources, which include compensation payments,
comprise 40% of cash availability for the project and rise to 48% for the
longer period of the 1981-85 Investment Plan. Net internal resources will
finance a share of investments averaging 12% for the project as a whole.
The balance of project finance will come from the Bank loan (51%), govern-
ment grants (32%), and other loans and suppliers' credits (5%). RTO
Pristina's borrowings from the Provincial Government through the Bank of
Kosovo will come from funds made available to Kosovo from the Federal Fund
for Less Developed Regions and are expected to carry an interest rate of 4%
to 5%.
7.11     Debt service coverage from internal funds averages 1.4 for the
project period and is estimated to remain at this level for 1984 and 1985.
That debt service coverage is not forecast to rise during this period of
increasing tariff revenues is due to the intended parallel reduction in
compensation payments. In order to protect RTO Pristina's cash flow posi-
tion during the implementation period of the project, it was agreed during
negotiations that the RTO will not, without the prior approval of the Bank,
undertake in any one year investments beyond those included in the project
in excess of US$3.0 million equivalent.
7.12     Agreement was also reached at negotiations that, unless otherwise
agreed with the Bank, RTO Pristina will not incur debt beyond debt limita-
tion ratios 1/ of 1.2 for the years 1981 and 1982 and 1.4 thereafter.
Balance Sheet
7.13     Balance sheet for 1979 and forecasts for 1980 to 1985 are shown at
Annex 5, Table 4, while summarized figures for 1979 and 1983 (the end of
the project period) are shown below:
1/ Current gross internal resources divided by maximum future debt service.



- 43 -
Summary of Balance Sheet
1979 Actual   1983 Forecast
--------Din Million--------
Fixed Assets (net)                     1883             4232
Other Assets (net)                      239              462
Total                            2122              4694
Debt                                    856             2170
Equity                                 1266             2524
Total                            2122              4694
Debt Equity Ratio                     40/60            46/54
Return on Net Fixed Assets               -                 4.1
7.14     The increase in fixed asset values reflects the effect of annual
asset revaluations as well as of the investment program. The ratio of
current assets to current liabilities is satisfactory as is also the ratio
of cash to cash working expenses, which averages 6% through the project.
Of RTO Pristina's total debt of Din 856 million at the end of 1979, Din 700
million was owed to the Government and Din 90 million to the Bank, while
the balance consisted of Bank loans and suppliers' credits for rolling
stock acquisitions. Because of the considerable amount of capital to be
received by way of grants, it is estimated that the debt/equity ratio will
not exceed 46/54 during the project period and will reduce to 38/62 by
1985. Return on Net Fixed Assets (which relies upon the compensation pay-
ments) is estimated at 3.8% over the project period.
C. Sensitivity
7.15     The forecasts are sensitive to traffic growth and to tariff
increases. The table below shows the effect upon compensation payments
(assuming compensation payments are increased to cover the difference
between operating revenues and operating expenditure plus loan interest) of
(i) only half the forecast growth in traffic being achieved; (ii) only half
the forecast increases in tariffs being made; and (iii) both of these
eventualities occurring.



- 44 -
1981        1983         1985
Forecast as at present:
Compensation (Din million)             261.0        223.9        45.2
Comp. as % of total revenue             27%          17%           3%
If half forecast traffic growth:
Compensation (Din million)             306.5        383.3        325.7
Comp. as % of total revenue             32%          30%          21%
If half forecast tariff increases:
Compensation (Din million)             347.6        453.2        511.8
Comp. as % of total revenue             36%          33%          31%
If both above eventualities:
Compensation (Din million)             367.5        546.0        642.9
Comp. as % of total revenue             38%          42%          41%
7.16     Economic developments in Kosovo, which will increase the demand
for rail traffic as well as the Yugoslav Government policy of developing
rail transport support the view that the traffic forecast is realistic
(para. 6.08). Real increases in tariffs are essential to reduce the
present high level of compensation payments, which the Government has
stated to be its aims. Agreement that adequate tariff increases would be
made was obtained at negotiations.
VIII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01     During negotiations agreement was reached with SFRY, SAPK, CYR and
RTO Pristina on the following main issues:
(a) all necessary actions will be taken to reduce levels of compensa-
tion payments to targets which will be agreed between the Bank,
RTO Pristina and CYR by September 30, 1981 (para. 7.08);
(b) RTO Pristina will implement its Investment Plan. The RTO will
adopt and implement a system of project management including the
appointment of two special officers (para. 4.05);
(c)  the RTO will not, without prior approval of the Bank, undertake
investments, beyond those included in the project, in excess of
US$3 million in any one year (para. 7.11); and
(d)  the RTO will use its best endeavours to achieve the agreed finan-
cial targets and to attain the technical targets agreed for its
Action Plans including its Operational Plans and to achieve the
manpower savings which should result from its manpower plan
(paras. 4.06, 5.20, 7.04 and 7.12).
8.02     The following will be conditions of effectiveness of the proposed
Bank loan:



- 45 -
(a) the ratification by the Assembly of Kosovo of the Self Management
Agreement for the Community of Interest for RTO Pristina (para.
3.06);
(b) the completion of the agreement between CYR and RTO Pristina for
CYR to render technical assistance to the RTO (para. 3.03);
(c) the approval by the borrower and the authorities concerned of RTO
Pristina's Investment Plan, Financing Plan and Action Plan (paras.
5.05 and 5.20); and
(d) the assurance of financial assistance from Kosovo (para. 5.14).
8.03     Based on the above agreements, the project is suitable for a Bank
loan to RTO Pristina of US$34 million for 15 years including a three-year
grace period.



- 46 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
A RAILWAY PROJECT IN KOSOVO
YUGOSLAVIA
Investment Plan 1981-85 and Three-Year Project 1981-83
General
1.       Details of estimated expenditure for the Investment Plan 1981-85
and the Three-Year Project 1981-83 are shown at Tables 1 and 2 of this
annex. Cost estimates based on detailed engineering for the main items in
the project (reconstruction of the junction, and signalling and telecom-
munications on the main line) are shown at Tables 3 and 4. A project
implementation schedule is at Table 5. An outline plan of the new junction
layout is shown at Figure 1. The main components of the project are dis-
cussed below.
Kosovo Yard and Related Works (Figure 1)
2.       The main components of the reconstruction of the Kosovo Junction
are a new shunting yard, a diesel locomotive depot, changes in the track
layout in front of the passenger station to build new platforms after the
old yard is replaced by the new one, and the renovation ot an old steam
shed to serve as maintenance shop for electrical engineering and mechanical
permanent way equipment and procurement ot two diesel shunters. Improve-
ments in integral transport are also part of this plan. At a later stage
stabling tracks, with an automatic car wash for coaches, are planned, and a
new station building with probably a new office building to house the man-
agement of the RTO.
The Yard (Table 3)
3.       The present yard opposite the passenger station has insufficient
capacity to handle the forecast growth in traffic and its layout is ineffi-
cient. It is not possible to extend the yard or to effect improvements in
its layout because it is bordered by a housing complex and by the station
building. The capacity of arrival and departure tracks is also limited and
these tracks are used by freight trains arriving and departing from the
yard and by all thioughtrains (unit trains, transit trains and passenger
trains). Another handicap is the use of the main line to Pec for shunting
operations, which means this process is constantly interrupted. A study of
different alternatives undertaken by the Institute of the Faculty of Trans-
port resulted in the selection as the most favorable of a location about 1
km south, next to the line of Skopje (see Figure 1). The main tracks and
switches will be operated and protected by an electrical signalling system
and operated from three signal boxes, two of the boxes will also manage the
shunting process.



- 47 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2
4.       Comparison of Old and New Yard
---Old Yard---     ---New Yard---
Total              Total
length             length
Number  (meters)   Number  (meters)
Arrival/departure tracks                   3 /1   2169         5      4000
Shunting tracks                            6      4317         7      6000
Tracks for empty wagons                    1       586         2      1600
Other tracks (crippled wagons,
excess wagons etc.)                      1       941         2      1400
Total                               11       8013       16      13000
Switch handling                        Manual                 Electrical
Signalling                             None                   Electrical
Maximum capacity                         850 /2               Over 1500 /2
Processing time (including             15 hours               9 hours
time spent on arrival/
departure tracks
/1 Total arrival/departure tracks for passenger and freight is 5 used for
all types of traffic.
/2 In the old yard most wagons are shunted twice, this will be
substantially reduced in the new yard. New yard can be extended if
necessary. 1500 is an estimate.
Major benefits from the new yard can be expected for the economy of Kosovo
as well as for the RTO. The yard will enable the RTO to carry the forecast
growth in traffic and will ensure a much better and faster shunting process
which will result in car and crew savings and less damage to the car
loads. Improvements in handling passenger trains and freight trains on the
departure and arrival tracks can also be expected because of the increased
capacity and the modern signalling.
Maintenance Facilities
5.       The replacement of steam by diesel locomotives makes it necessary
to have a well-equipped diesel depot. A fleet of about 20 locomotives and
six motor trains will use the facilities for daily inspection and for
scheduled weekly, monthly and quarterly maintenance. Close cooperation
with the traffic department will be necessary to obtain a maximum utiliza-
tion of available locomotives. Without the depot, servicing and repairing
the locomotives outside the RTE would result in a very substantial lowering
of locomotive availability and utilization. It is also normal practice
that depot staff function as the emergency crew for derailments and colli-
sions and also for fuelling the diesel locomotives and diesel motor
trains. The old steam locomotive depot is too old and its design is not



- 48 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3
suitable for the diesel locomotives. Inspection and repairs to diesels are
at present carried out over an open-air pit without adequate equipment
which is not an acceptable alternative. The new depot will be built in the
triangle between the lines to Skopje, Pec and the yard.
Other Facilities and Integrated Transport
6.       Part of the old steam-shed will be rebuilt to serve as a main-
tenance shop for mechanical permanent way equipment and for electrical
equipment. The availability of electrical maintenance facilities will
become of more importance after the installation of modern lighting in the
station and the yard while mechanized maintenance of the long welded track
resulting from the capital overhaul under the Fifth Project requires a
facility for maintaining the equipment. Part of Yugoslav Railways' market-
ing plan consists of improving the loading and unloading services and
offering a special door to door freight service. The integral transport
plan consists of using pallets, forklitt trucks, cranes and trucks. For
the use of all these services the customer is suitably charged.
Rolling Stock (see Annex 2)
7.       The operational plans for traction and rolling stock show intended
acquistions and scrappings by years. Freight cars over 40 years old will
be scrapped and about 180 new cars purchased over the plan period, about 40
of them within the project period. Old and inefficient rail buses will be
replaced by modern diesel motor trains. Steam locomotives will be phasea
out by 1981. The numbers of traction and rolling stock, with the exception
of freight wagons where use of other RTEs cars will be necessary, will be
sufficient to carry the forecast traffic.
Signalling and Telecommunications (Table 4)
8.       At present Pristina does not have any modern signalling or tele-
communication systems. The mechanical signalling system is below safety
standards and is worn out. The telecommunication system is old and unsuit-
able and should be replaced. Within the three-year project period the line
Lesak-Djeneral Jankovic will be installed with a modern signalling system
operated from 18 signal boxes with automatic block between the stations.
This system will enable the line to meet requirements for increased traffic
and will also make it suitable as an alternative for the important
Belgrade-Nis-Skopje sections. Table 4 shows a detailed cost estimate. The
benefits of the investment will include increased line capacity and speeds,
higher safety standards, and additional benefits to the economy because of
reduction of waiting time after installation of train-activated equipment
at level crossings. Staff reductions will also be achieved. After comple-
tion of the installation of SS/TT on Lesak-Djeneral Jankovic the line
Kosovo Polje-Pec and Merohija-Prizren will be equipped with a simpler SS/TT
system suitable for the lower traffic density. The main difference will be
the lack of automatic block between stations and more than one track being
served by one departure signal. Central Traftic Control (CTC) will contri-
bute to staff savings.



-49                                                                  A      INEX  1
Table 1
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
A RAILWAY PRODECT IN KOSOVO
YUGOSLAVIA
RTO PRISTINA
FIVE YEAR INVESTMENT PLAN 1981-85
(DIN MILLIONS- COLUMN 1-B)
1981       1982       1983        2984       1985     T0781-85   TOT81-85   TOTB1-85   TOT71-85  TOT81-85   TOTi8-85        FEX%
LOCAL     FOREIGN     TOTAL      LOC-USSN  FRN-USSM   TOT-USSM
A.  COMPLETION OF 1976-80 PLAN
1.   CAPITAL GVERHAUL
KOSOVO POLJE. PEC                   99.5                                                     59.7       39.8        99.5        2.2        1.5        3.6        40.0
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES              10.0                                                      6.0        4.0        10.0        0.2        0.1        0.4
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                 20.5                                                     15.9        4.6       20.5         0.6        0.2        0.7
SUBTOTAL WITH CONTINGENCY          130.0                                                     81.6       48.4       130.0        3.0        1.8        4.8
8.   1981-85 INVESTMENT PLAN
1.    RECONSTRUCTION
RECONSTRUCTION OF KOS.JCT.          70.0      184.9      325.5                              319.4      261.0      580.4        11.7        9.5       21.2        45.0
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCY                 7.0       18.5        29.5                              31.2       23.9        55.0        1.1        0.9        2.0
PRICE CONTINGENCY                   14.5       71.3       171.5                             177.9       79.4       257.3        6.5        2.9        9.4
SUBTOTAL WITH CONTINGENCY           91.5      274.7       526.6                             528.5      364.3      892.8        19.3       13.3       32.6
2. 140 KM SIGN & TELECOMM
LESAK-OJ. JANKOVIC                  75.0      262.4       140.9                             167.4      310.9      478.3         6.1       11.4  .    17.5        65.0
PHYSICAL CONIINGEENCY                7.5       28.2        14.1                              16.7       31.1       47.8         0.6        1.1         1.7
PRICE CONTINGENCY                   12.6       94.7       67.9                              89.2        80.0       165.2        3.1        2.9        8.0
SUBTOTAL WITH CONTINGENCY           95.1      373.4      222.9                              269.3      422.0      891.3         9.a1      15.4       25.3
3. 110 KM SIGN S TELECOMM
KOSOVO P-PEC-PRIZREN                                       13.1       88.9      105.5        97.5      110.0      207.5         3.6        4.0        7.6       53.0
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCY                                        1.3        8.9       10.6         9.8       11.0       20.9         0.4        0.4        0.8
PRICE CONTINGENCY                                           8.8       61.4       91.7       94.9       68.0        159.9        3.5        2.4        5.9
SUBTOTAL  WITH CONTINGENCY                                 21.2      159.1      207.8      202.2       185.9      388.1         7.4        6.8       14.2
4. ROLLING STOCK
t6 DIESEL MOTORTRAINS              49.7                  49.7        49.2                  44.6       104.0      148.6         2.6        3.8        5.4       70.0
279 FREIGHT CARS                    23.5       16.0       16.1        98.9       97.0      129.7       125.7      251.4         4.8        4.6        9.2       50.0
TOTAL                               73.2       16.0       65.8       148.0       97.0       170.3      229.7      400.0         6.2        8.4       14.6       57.4
PRICE CONTINGENCY                   21.3        5.2        28.8       91.1       77.7       223.8       90.5      214.1         4.5        3.3        7.8
SUBTOTAL WITH CONTINGENCY          84.5       21.2       94.6       239.1      174.7      293.9       320.2      614.1        10.7       11.7       22.4
5. INTEGRAL TRANSPORT
INTEGRAL TRANSPORT                   3.6        4.7        5.9         7.0        7.0        14.2       14.2       28.2         0.8        0.5        2.0       50.0
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCY                 0.4        0.5        0.6         0.7        0.7         1.4        1.4        2.8         0.1        0.2        0.1
PRICE CONTINGENCY                    0.7        2.7         3.1        4.9        6.2        10.5        6.0        16.6        0.4        0.2        0.6
SUBTOTAL WITH CONTINGENCY            4.6        6.9        9.6        12.6       13.9       26.0        24.6       47.6         1.0        0.8        1.7
TOTAL 1981-85 INVESTMENT PLAN
TOTAL                              221.8      468.0       551.2      243.9      209.5       768.7      925.7      1694.4       28.1       33.8       61.9
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCY                14.9       45.2        45.5        9.6        1t.3       99.1       67.3       126.4        2.2        2.5        4.6
PRICE CONTINGENCY                   39.0      262.9       278.1      157.3      175.6       492.2      320.9      613.0        28.0       12.7       29.7
TOTAL WITH CONTINGENCY             275.7      676.2      874.9       410.8      396.3      1319.9     1314.0     2633.9        49.2       48.0       96.3        49.9
COMPLETION 1976-80 PLAN            130.0                                                    e826        48.4       130                     1.8        4.6
GRAND TOTAL                        405.7      878.1       874.9      410.9      396.3      1401.5     1362.4     2763.9        51.2       49.8      102.0       49.3
....-....- ......              -       ...  ....           ...... ......... .......= ..  ......  .               .....



-50 -                                                        ANNEX 1
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT                     03/10/81                     Table 2
A RAILWAY PROJECT IN KOSOVO4:7P
YUGOSLAVIA
THREE YEAR PROJECT 1981-83
(DIN MILLIONS-COLUMN I - 6)
1981        1982         i983      1981-83     1981-83       1981-83   TOTal-83   TOTal-83   T0T81-83           FEX%
LOCAL      FOREIGN      TOTAL       LOC-US$M   FRN-USSM   TOT-USIM
I. RECONSTRUCTION OF KIOS.,JCT
PASSENGER STAT-ION                                                  31.4        22.0          9.4        31.4          0.8          0.3         1.1        30.0
FREIGHT YARD                               60.0        59.4         51.7       126.7         84.4       211.1          4.6         3.1          7.7        40.0
DIESEL SHUNTERS                                                     30.0         7.5         22.5        30.0          0.3          0.8         1.1.       75.0
DIESEL DEPOT                               10.0        62.5         70.6        101.6        41.9       143.1          3.7          1.5         5.2        29.0
SIGNALING & TELECOM.                                   23.0        130.5.       93.7         99.8       153.5          2.0         3.8          5.6        65.0
LIGHTING                                                            11.3         7.9          3.4        11.3          0.3         0.1          0.4        30.0
SUBTOTAL                                   70.0       94.9        325.5       219.4        261.0       580.4         11.7         9.5         31.2
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCY                        7.0         18.5        29.5        31.2         23.9        55.0          1.1         0.9          2.0
PRICE CONTINGENCY                          14.5        71.3        171.5       177.9         79.4       297.3          6.5         2.9          8.4
SURTOTAL WITH CONTINGENCY                  91.5       274.7        926.6       528.9        364.3       892.5         19.3         13.3        32.6
2. l4O KM SIGN A TELECOMM
LESAK-OD. JANIOVIC                        75.0       262.4        140.9       167.4        310.9       478.3          6.1        11.4         17.5        65.0
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCY                        7.5        26.2         14.1        16.7         311         4.061117
PRICE CONTINGENCY                          12.6        94.7         67.9        95.1         80.0       169.3          3.1         2.9          6.0
SURTOTAL WITH CONTINGENCY                  95.1       373.4        222.9       269.3        422.0       691.3          9.9         15.4        25.3
3. 110 KM SIGN &~ TELECOMM
KOSOVO P-PEC-PRIZREN                                                13.1         6.2          6.9         13.1         0.2         0.3          0.5        53.0
PHYSICAL CONTIN4GENCY-    1.2                                                    0.6          0.7          1.3                                  0.0
PRICE CONTINGENCY                                                   -6.8         4.2          2.6         6.8          0.2         0.1          0.2
SUBTOTAL  WITH CONTINGENCY                                          21.2         11.0        10.2        21.3          0.4         0.4          0.8
4. ROLLING STOCK
4 DIESEL MOTORTRAINS                       49.7                     49.7        29.8         69.6        99.4          1.1         2.5          3.6        70.0
40 FREIGHT CARS                            23.5         16.0        16.1        27.8         27.8        55.8          1.0          1.0         2.0        50.0
---  -  - - - -  - - -      - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  -     - - - - -    - - - - - - - - - -      - - - - - - - - - -
TOTAL                                      73.2         16.0        65.9        57.6         97.4       155.0          2.1         3.6          5.7
PRICE CONTINGENCY                          11.3         5.2         28.9        24.3         21.0        45.3          0.9         0.8          1.7
--  -  - - - -  - - -      - - - - - - - - - -      - - - - - - - - - -      - - - - - - - - - -      - - - - - - - - - -
SURTOTAL WITH CONTINGENCY                 54.5        21.2         64.5        91.9        118.4       200.3          3.0         4.3          7.3
5. INTEGRAL TRANSPORT
INTEGRAL TRANSPORT                          3.6         4.7          5.9         7.1          7.7        14.2          0.3         0.3          0.5        50.0
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCY                        0.4         0.5          0.6         0.7          0.7         1.4                                   0.1
PRICE CONTINGENCY                           0.7          1.7         3.1         3.6          1.6         5.5          0.1         0.1          0.2
SURTOTAL. WITH CONTINGENCY                 4.6         6.9          9.6        11.4          9.7        21.1          0.4         0.4          0.8
GRAND TOTAL
TOTAL                                     221.6       468.0       551.2        557.7       693.3       1241.0         20.4        25.0         45.4
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCY                       14.5        45.2         45.5        49.3         56.3       105.6          1.8         2.1          3.9
PRICE CONTINGENCy                          39.0       162.9        278.1       265.2        184.9       480.1         10.8         6.8         17.8
GRAND TOTAL WITH CONTINGENCY             275.7       676.1        874.9       903.1        924.6      1826.7         33.0        33.8         86.8        50.6



-51 -                          ANNEX 1
Table 3
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
A RAILWAY PROJECT IN KOSOVO
YUGOSLAVIA
Investments in Kosovo Junction
Cost Estimate Based on Detailed Engineering
(1980 prices)
Din. Million
1. Reconstruction of Passenger Station
(a)  Superstructure                                   28.5
(b)  Equipment                                         2.9
Total                                       31.4
2. Freight Marshalling Yard
(a)  Earth works                                      54.4
(b)  Superstructure                                  128.4
(c)  Expropriation                                    10.8
(d)  Buildings                                        17.5
Total                                     211.1
3. Diesel Depot
(a)  Earth works                                      26.5
(b)  Superstructure                                   36.2
(c)  Expropriation                                     5.9
(d)  Buildings                                        52.4
(e)  Installations and other                          22.1
Total                                     143.1
4. SS and TT Equipment
(a)  TT equipment                                     64.6
(b)  SS equipment                                     88.9
Total                                    153.5
5.  Lighting                                                   11.3
6.  Two Diesel Shunters                                        30.0
Grand Total                               580.4



- 52 -
ANNEX 1
Table 4
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
A RAILWAY PROJECT IN KOSOVO
YUGOSLAVIA
Signalling and Telecommunication Investments
on Lesak-Djeneral Jankovic Line
Cost Estimate Based on Detailed Engineering
(1980 prices)
Din. Million
1.  Signalling equipment                                      241.8
2.  Telecommunication equipment                               176.0
3.  Buildings for installation of equipment                    22.0
4.  Maintenance workshop in Kosovo Junction                    15.0
5.  Buildings for maintenance of SS & TT equipment             19.4
6.  Power supply equipment                                      4.1
Total                                      478.3



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
YUGOSLAVIA
A RAILWAY PROJECT IN KOSOVO
Project Iplementation schedule
a. Me.a. p.s Ju.u. Au. Se    .No. De.   J . Fe. Ma. Al.M.J.        u  Se. O0  No  De.    aFeMs p.a.Ju.U.AuSe                                    .NoDe
eight Yard                                                                                                                                                                                Se.
Civil Works: 
Preparation of documents
Tenders, bid evaluat. and award
____    Implementation                                    _                                                       --                                             '                                           i_
Preparation of documents
Tenders, bid evaluat. and award
Supply of Equipment 
Testing_                                                                                                                                                                    _
seer Station 
Cii  Wrs:
Preparation of documents                                                                                                           _
Tenders, bid evaluat. and award
Implementation
SS + TT:
preparation of documents
Tenders, bid evaluat. and award                                            __            ____                                              ------
SuPPlY of d4uipment                                         II                                                                                                         ___
Installation                                            II                                                                                                                      
Preparation of docennt
cumexnents ~ ~ ~ ~    ~         ~          ~         ~         ~          ~        ~         ~        ~        ~        I
Tenders, bid eveluat. and awardI



--  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~                  ~-----------                      ----------9 9 2   ----   ----                                                  ------I----   183--
Ja. Fe. Ma. kp. Ma. Ju. Tu. Au. Se.  c,No. De. J.F.M.A.N.  Ju. J . Au. Se. Dc.No. De.  .    Fe. Na- p. Ma. Ju.  u.A.S.                                 .N.De.I
SI+TT Lesak-D.Jankovie                                                                                                                                                            i1           7
Tenders, bid evaluat. and awardI 
Supply of Equipment                                                      ~4                                                           .~~I
Testing                                                                       I_--        ~::Zz  
F -eight Care
Preparation of documents                          t
Tenders, bid evalU4t. and award
___ Supply                                                                                -         -      -
a)esel Motor Trains (4)
Preparation of documents
Tenders, bid evaluat. and award
Supply
B esel Shunters (2
Preparation of documents
___ Tenders, bid evaluat. and award 
supply
lItestrated Transport
preparation of documents
____ Tenders,_bid evaluat. and award
Supply                                                        I                                                .      -                                    4- -                        --      -     -     4
-~~~~~~ I~~~~



LAYOUT PLAN FOR THE
RECONSTRUCTION OF THE KOSOVO P6LJE  JUNCTION    *
Priitina
-r             ~~~~~~Pass %nnger
Track maintenance workshop                                                     FxcigLt statiO
Electric engineering workshop
P.c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Prizren
Figure  3.
PEC
Note: Track maintenance workshop is the old steam
1o0o defpot.   F--



- 56 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
A RAILWAY PROJECT IN KOSOVO
YUGOSLAVIA
Action Plans and Operational Plans
1.       The Action Plans for the Fifth Project covered the following
matters for all RTEs including RTO Pristina, for the period up to 1980:
(a) measures needed to attain financial targets;
(b) measures necessary to achieve annual technical targets;
(c) manpower plans covering departmental and section requirements,
re-training needs, planned wastage and recruitment, and plans for
attaining productivity targets;
(d) studies for actions on uneconomic lines;
(e) execution of a study for electric locomotive maintenance;
(f) operational plans for signalling and for telecommunications, for
rolling stock and traction, for capital overhaul of track, for data
processing and for integral transport.
RTO Pristina's updated Action Plan, dated April 1979, is in accordance with
the requirements of the Fifth Project and its targets and plans, which cover
the years 1978, 1979 and 1980 can be extended to cover the years up to 1983.
2.       A detailed Operational Plan for freight transport should be
introduced to improve the efficiency of the system, to assure sufficient
capacity to carry the forecast increase in traffic and to give a better
service to shippers. This plan should cover the following:
(a) Scheduling of freight trains and planned use of the old yard in
Kosovo for the period until the new yard is in operation. The
planning should be based on:
-time needed for loading/unloading by shippers
-requested time by shippers for forwarding and pick up of wagons
from sidings
-adequate use of reception tracks in Kosovo Polje
-adequate use of yard facilities in Kosovo Polje



ANNEX 2
Page 2
-capacity of lines in Pristina
-optimum use of unit trains
-optimum use of traction and crew
-improved turnaround time of wagons
(b) Follow up and evaluation of the operation of the schedule. We know
that at present there are many constraints in the capacity of the
yard and that many trains are delayed. The scheduling and planning
outlined above must be a compromise taking all factors into account
and it is vitally important that the actual timing of the freight
process and the experience of the shippers is followed up and
recorded. It is necessary to analyze the freight process, find the
weak spots and find solutions to reduce delays. The following data
should be collected and analyzed on a daily basis:
-number of wagons for trains loaded/unloaded
-timetable delays from loading/unloading stations, up to arrival at
reception tracks in Kosovo
-departure from arrival tracks to shunting tracks of the yard
-departure from shunting tracks to departure tracks
-timetable delays after departure up to arrival at stations or
border of the RTE
3.       Based on the traffic forecast, a list of possible unit trains has
been made. This type of train is very efficient and needs no shunting.
Unit trains have been listed where quantities of 200,000 tons per year or
over from one station to another are forecast. Seasonal peaks and other
reasons may entail that from time to time the wagons will be hauled by
normal pick up trains but the aim should be to carry as much freight by unit
trains as possible. Sometimes, it may be possible to combine two unit
trains into one. The timetable should show the train path (sometimes
facultative) for all unit trains planned for the timetable year. A close
follow up of this type of traffic is necessary to improve scheduling as the
year goes on and for the planning of the following year. An Operational
Plan for unit trains should include:
-forecast for following year of major commodity flows
-identification of possible unit trains
-provision for contact with suppliers regarding required times of
departure and arrival
-provision for contact with neighboring RTEs for regarding time-
tables.



- 58 -                             ANNEX 2
Table 1
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
A RAILWAY PROJECT IN KOSOVO
YUGOSLAVIA
RTO Pristina
Selected Operating Statistics for 1979
Length of Line (kms)                                   333
Traffic:
Pass.-Kms (mil.)                                    163
Net ton kms (mil.)                                  248
Pass. GTKms (mil.)                                  238
Freight GTKms (mil.)                                589
Total GTKms (mil.)                                  827
Total GTKms per km of track (m ton)                   2.49
GTKm by type-of traction:
Steam (mil.)                                        228
Diesel (mil.)                                       570
Self propelled (mil.)                                29
Traction stock:
Steam locos                                          22
Availability %                                       72
Diesel locos                                         13
Availability %                                       72
Railbuses                                             9
Availability %                                       58
Rolling stock:
Pass. coaches                                        49
Capacity (thous. seats)                            3154
Availability %                                       82
Freight cars                                       1482
Capacity (thous. tons)                               43.5
Average car capacity (tons)                          29.3
Availability %                                       86.2
Loco km per loco day available:
Steam                                               196
Diesel                                              320
Railbuses                                           411
Turn round time for freight cars (days                   3.6



- 59 -
ANNEX 2
TabIe 2
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
A RAILWAY PROJECT IN KOSOVO
YUGOSLAVIA
RTO. Pristina
Planned Procurement of Traction and Rolling Stock
Total     Total      Total
1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1981/83   1981/85   1980/85
Diesel Mainline
Locomotives             11      -      -       -      -       -        -                     11
Diesel Multiple
Units                   -       2              2      2       -         4         6           6
Passenger Cars           23      -      -       -      -       -         -         -          23
Freight Cars             23    17       11    11      70       70      39        179         202
Source:   RTO Pristina



- 60 -
ANNEX 2
Table 3
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
A RAILWAY PROJECT IN KOSOVO
YUGOSLAVIA
Operational Data for 1979 and Targets for 1981, 1983 and 1985/1
1979     1981     1983      1985
Availability of diesel locomotives                 72.0     72.0      83.0     84.0
Engine km per day per available loco (km)         320.0    330.0    340.0    350.0
Availability passenger coaches %                   82       82        82       82
Km per day available:
2 axle                           300      300       300      300
4 axle                           300       350      350      350
Seat occupancy %                                   52       52       52        52
Availability of motor trains %                      -        -        85       85
Km per day available                                -        -        400      400
Availability of freight cars                       85       85                 89
Net ton-km per ton capacity per year (000)         4.6      6.0       6.4      7.3
Tons handled in freight yard (000)               1,900    2,100    2,500    2,800
Tons hauled by unit trains (000)                    268      500    1,300    1,500
Wagon turnaround time (days)                       3.6      3.6       2.9      2.7
Freight train delays per month:
Yard arrivals:
10-20 minutes                 145      130       100       50
Over 20 minutes               250      150       100       50
Yard departures:
10-20 minutes                 200      130       100       50
Over 20 minutes               380      150       100       50
Number of staff at year-end                       2,572    2,498    2,378    2,227
Productivity of labor (traffic units
(thousands) /employee)                            159      189      254       302
/1 The targets will be reviewed and subject to revision at negotiations.



- 61 -
ANNEX 2
Table 4
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
A RAILWAY PROJECT IN KOSOVO
YUGOSLAVIA
Financial ratios for 1979 and Action Plan Targets for 1981, 1983 and 1985
1979     1981      1983      1985
Operating Ratio                  115       90        89        89
Compensation as percentage          1/        3/         31      3./
of Operating Revenue            35-      3         22.5_    1
Working Capital Ratios:
Operating Cash              362/       5         5.5       6
Other Working Capital        4_/      15        17.5     20
*1/ Compensation was 35% of Operating Revenue but if the refund of the residual
deficit is added to both the compensation total and the operating revenue
then the percentage becomes 45%.
2/   Disproportion between cash and other working capital at end of 1979 due to
late adjustment of assets with RTE Belgrade.
3/   These are interim targets agreed at negotiations pending the study and
review of compensation targets which is to be carried out (para. 7.08)
and will be the subject of a supplemental letter.



- 62--                           ANNEX 3
Page 1
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
A RAILWAY PROJECT IN KOSOVO
YUGOSLAVIA
Explanatory Notes on Main Traffic Increases
Detailed commodity-wise traffic projections for the RTO Pristina
are presented in Table 1 of this Annex. As shown therein, the projected
increase of about 2.2 million tons in Pristina's railway traffic between
1979 and 1985 consists mainly of increases in: lignite (0.7 million tons),
nickel ore (0.3 million tons), fertilizers and raw materials (0.25 million
tons), metal and metallurgy products (0.2 million tons), cement (0.25 mil-
lion tons), and others (0.35 million tons). The increases projected here
are much less than the estimates provided by the various mining and indus-
trial firms concerned. Brief details on the main traffic increases
presented in the attached table are furnished below:
1.   Lignite:  The Kombinat "Obilic" is increasing its lignite produc-
tion from annual 8 million tons at present to 13 million tons by 1981
(including its new mine in Budisavci), mainly for feeding expansion of its
thermal power plants and partly for supplying to other industrial con-
sumers. Industrial consumers in Macedonia and Kosovo received about
0.6 million tons of lignite in 1979; which is a 45% increase over 1978; in
addition, large new demand is expected from other republics, particularly
Vojvodina, Slovenia, Croatia and Serbia; the Obilic Kombinat has already
agreements for supplying annually about 0.5 million tons of additional
lignite to various enterprises, which is only a part of the total new
demand.
The new demand is mainly from city-heating plants which are
switching from oil to coal, and from factories (notably sugar, cement and
others) which are partly switching from oil to coal, either for their main
processing or at least for space heating by installing scrubbers to control
pollution. This reflects Yugoslavia's vigorous national policy and effort
to curtail oil imports by using domestic fuel resources. Even so, the
projected 0.7 million tons of additional traffic is a modest volume,
representing, in heat-equivalency, replacement of about 0.15 million tons
of imported oil. The new traffic will have an average distance exceeding
500 km and is expected to move in bulk by rail, part of it in unit trains.
2.   Nickel Ore:  This is to move from captive mines being opened in
Belacevac to the new nickel smelter under construction in Drenica, being
set up by the Kombinat Obilic. Both the mine and the smelter unit will
have industrial railway sidings. The smelter is due to start production in
1982, and would produce finished nickel of about 25,000 tons mainly for
exports.



- 63 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2
3.   Pyrites:  Pyrite mining is being expanded by Kombinat Trepca, and
the traffic will be sent to the copper smelters in Bor (160 km) where new
plants and product lines are being added.
4.   Fertilizers and Raw Materials':  Trepca is expanding is production
of phosphatic and complex fertilizers, based on its production of sulphuric
acid using various intermediate products from its metallurgical units and
using minerals like metallo-sulfidic ores and pyrites from their own
mines. Trepca has built up a large chemical industry complex which
produces, among other things, sulphuric acids, batteries, complex fertil-
izers and phosphatic fertilizers. The last item needs imported phosphates
which is moved through Port of Bar by rail to the factory (about 650 km),
and calcium chloride imported by rail from the Soviet Union. In addition,
the Obilic Kombinat produces nitrogenous fertilizers based on gasified
coal. Both these units are expanding production by about 350,000 tons, the
increase coming in stream during 1978 to 1983. The expanded production,
like much of existing production, is mainly for shipment to other parts of
Yugoslavia, since Kosovo is already producing much more than it needs.
The main distances range from 150 km to 500 km; only about half of the
increased finished products is assumed to move by rail.
5.   Metals and Metallurgical Products:  Trepca is expanding its zinc
and lead bullion production, mainly meant for exports, by about 130,000
tons, the full increase to come in stages by 1984. A good part of this
will move by rail, as does its present output, in view of the long
distances involved (average 700 km). The metal sheets (zincified and
plasticised), and other metal products are produced by a new factory
already completed in 1980 (at Vucitrn) and whose output of about 120,000
tons is expected to be shipped by rail to East Europe, the Soviet Union and
parts of Yugoslavia. The steel pipe factory at Urosevac is expanding
production by about 120,000 tons by 1981, from its existing 60,000 tons.
Its input (steel sheets) almost entirely comes by rail from steel plants in
Yugoslavia and West Germany and this input traffic will increase with the
expansion. The output, mainly 16-meter long steel pipes, would be shipped
to other parts of Yugoslavia, East Europe and other foreign countries.
6.   Cement:  Cement is produced from locally available lime stones and
materials like lignite and tuff (a type of calcium carbonate deposits), at
a plant in Djeneral Jankovic (S.A.R. Enterprise). The present production
of 240,000 tons is under expansion to a capacity of 1.1 million tons by
1984; a capacity of 0.6 million has already been commissioned at the end
of 1980. Presently about 95,000 tons move by rail to other parts of
Yugoslavia (this was the 1978 figure; the 1979 traffic was less, due to
flood damage to the railway line serving the cement factory). Most of the
expanded production is for meeting growing demand elsewhere in Yugoslavia.
Conservatively, only about 35% of total production is assumed for railway.



- 64 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3
Other Traffic
This includes 0.3 million tons out of the total increase of 2.2
million tons, and covers many items like the traffic in tuff from new mines
in Vucitrn to the Djeneral Jankovic cement factory to supplement local
supply of limestone, increased traffic in bauxite from Volujak to Romania,
increased traffic in sulphuric acids and other chemicals, and marginal
normal growth of the remaining commodities in the existing rail traffic.
Agricultural products, and products of the many agro-based and other light
industries, are assumed to move predominantly by road, in addition to
significant shares for road traffic in cement, fertilizers, chemical
products, metals and metal products.



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
A RAILWAY PROJECT 1N KOSOVO
YUGOSRAVIA
Treffii Prlonitions:  Tonanas  Originating and Trntinati.n iD RTO PrinIta 1978-1990
(Sn thannod tans.)
1978 (antol)                   1979 (antual)                       1980                   1983                   ,1985                    1990                1979-1985               1985-1990
Tentative intitates
A.     Traffin fro, anJor nontorprisoe               Originating    In-ard to  Total   Originating   Invard   Totnl   Orig.   In.   Total   Orig.   In.   Total   Orig.   In.   Total   orig.   In.   Total   Orig.   In.   Total   Orig.   In.   Total
with onnoing nPannsion DrograsD              in RTO          RTO
Prittina /1    Priatino
Lignite                                           384                     384          564                 564    600              600    1200           1200    1200            1200    1400            1400                    13.4                      3
Zinc                                               25                       25          23                   23     20              20       20             20      50             50       50             50                    13.8
Load                                               50                       50          48                   48     50              50       50             00      80             80       80             80                     8.9
Adids                                              32                       32          29                   25     30              30       35             35      40             40       40             40                     5.4
Pyritna                                                                                                                                                            150            150      300            300                     -                       14.9
Bannitn                                           148                     148          105                   105   125             125      130            130     150            150      1N0            150                     6.1                       -
Niekel ore                                                                                                                                  3q8            I00     400            400      500            500                     -                        4.6
Ylikl                                                                                                                                       10             10       10             10      10              10                    -
Partilisars (finishad)                            102                     102          126                   126   125             125      200            200     060            260      300            300                    12.8                       2.9
FPotili-or row natorialo (input)                                190        190                   212         212           210     210             270    270             290     290             310     310                     5.3                       1.2
Cennot                                             95                       95          60                    60    70              70      220            220     320            320      350            350                    32.5                       1.8
Asbontos                                           20                       20          20                    20    20              20       20             20      20              20      20             20                    -                          -
Tuff (rat  natarisl for n-ant fror Vncitrn)                                                                                                 100            100     100            120      200            200                    -                         10.7
stool pip.s (ontput)                               50                      50           60                    60    60              60      120            120     125            125      160            160                    13.0                       5.1
Steal shosts (input)                                             65        65                     79          79            80      80      165            165            170     170             210     210                    13.6                       4.3
Zitnefied shooto and other natal produnta                                                                                                    45             45      60    _        60       60             60 
Total of A                                   906           255      1161         1035       291       1326  1100    290    1390    2615    270   2805    2985   460    3445    3620   520    4140    19.3    7.9   17.2    3.9    2.5                 3.7
B.     Traffin from othar firao/noatoaara
Coal                                                             65         63                    72          72
MagneDite                                          38                       30          25                    25
Chroano                                            23                       23          26                    26
Other ones                                         27                       27          32                    32
Clink r                                                          24         24                    20          20
Gravels                                            10                       10         110        12         130                  San Footnote /2 batov.
Constr-ntion ntorialo                              32            37         69                   150         150
Sagar bant                                         13            61         74           9        72          01
S8gar                                              24                       24          26                    26
Carals                                             18            31         49           6       110         116
Moot  nd prdoets                                   22                       22           27                   27
Wood                                                             34         34           18       67          85
steel and other natal products                     10            46         56          13        36          49
EqoiPoot                                                         47         47                    74          74
Petroleos pradantn                                              132        132                    82          82
Papor and rnbber prodonts
Aoto,oobil  parts                                  23                       23           36                   36
Yam                                                15                       15           21                   21
Mis.llan.  o s iteu  /3                           509           409        918         421       117         538    -       _      _        _       _           _       _      _   _    _  _                                                     -      - _
Total of B                                   756           886      1642          778       812        1590   658    752    1410    760       905   1665      780   925    1705       830   980    1810    -          2.1    1.1    1.2    1           1.2
C.    Total trnffin tonnage (000 tons) (A+B)            1662          1141       2803         1813     1103        2916  1848   1142    2800   3375    1175   4550    3765  1385    5150    4450  1500    5950    12.9    3.8    9.9    3.4    1.6                 2.9
D.   Avorogo di.ttne (kn por tan) travoled
within RTO Printing                                                     87.8                              85.0                  70.0                    92.5                    93.9                    94.0                     1.7                      -       0
E.    Fstiatad ton-kI  of traffin  (aillion   its)                                246                               248                    220                    421                     484                     559                    11.8                       2.9
aotes /1  Originating tradEin a1so inclndna traffic iwith loan.  dostinatioss within tho RTO Printing.
i  Fotart  _oity aonponition  for "B" group -aned to re-aia brosdly tha a-  -  in 1978/79; growth raitn  .ana  ed on a nomposit. banin for the whal group doring 1980-90.
/3  Innindan  bont 110 O0O toss of transit traffin  in 1978 (toot 16 nillion ton-kIn) vhioh is ass,sod to renl,i toot the se-  in fatore.
sOarnn:  RTO Printina/Batk Mission
DEnn-ber 1980



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
A RAILWAY PROJECT IN KOSOVO
YUGOSLAVIA
Sumsary of the Economic Cost and Benefit Streams of the Prolect
(Figur.e in million Diners, in 1980 prices)
Years      Cost Stream,    Cost Stream,           Cost Stream,       Cost Stream,      Cost Stream,      Cost Stream,        Benefits,             Benefits,               Benefits,        Benefits, Benefits Stream,    Net Benefits,
SS&TT            Junction             Diesel             Rolling           Other Items       Total                 SS&TT               Junction                Diesel           Rolling    Total Project          Total Project
Reconstruction       Depot              Stock                               Project                               Reconstruction              Depot             Stock
1981          65.00              55.00                22.00            66.60              3.30              211.90             50.00                   0.00                     0.00           0.00          SO.00             -161.90
1982         237.00             110.00               90.00             25.01              4.20              466.21             40.00                 137.00                   106.60          20.46         304.06             -162.15
1983         133.30             222.50                15.60            66.79             18.00             456.19              63.68                 119.50                    16.30          24.74         224.22             -231.97
1984           6.79              13.60                6.00             14.77              0.00               35.16             57.23                  57.34                     7.20          48.36         170.13              134.97
1985            7.25             13.90                0.00             14.77              0.00               35.92             62.64                  62.02                    16.80          48.36         189.82              153.90
1986            7.53             14.30                0.00             14.77              0.00               36.60             64.05                  65.88                    11.80          48.36          190.09             153.49
1987            7.90             14.60                0.00             14.77              0.00               37.27             65.41                  69.00                     7.90          48.36         190.67              153.40
1988            8.18             15.40                0.00             14.77              0.00               38.35             67.40                  72.98                     7.90          48.36         196.64              158.29
1989            8.65             15.80                 0.00            14.77              0.00               39.22             69.23                  75.97                    26.30          48.36         219.86               180.64       o'
1990            9.30             16.60                 0.00            14.77              0.00               40.67             71.34                  78.30                    11.50          48.36         209.50              168.83
1991            9.30             17.00                0.00             14.77              0.00              41.07              96.34                  80.00                    11.70          48.36         236.40              195.33
1992            9.30             17.30                0.00             14.77              0.00               41.37             71.34                  81.70                    12.10          48.36         213.50              172.13
1993            9.30             25.60                0.00             14.77              0.00              49.67              71.34                  83.40                    12.10          40.36         215.20              165.53
1994            9.30             18.00                0.00             14.77              0.00              42.07              71.34                  85.10                    12.10          48.36         216.90              174.83
1995            9.30             18.40                0.00             14.77              0.00              42.47              71.34                  87.00                    12.10          48.36         218.80              176.33
1996            9.30              0.00                0.00             14.77              0.00               24.07             71.34                   0.00                    12.10          48.36          131.80             107.73
1997          38.30               0.00                0.00             14.77              0.00               53.07             71.34                   0.00                    12.10          48.36          131.80              78.73
1998-2006         9.30              0.00                 0.00            14.77              0.00               24.07             71.34                   0.00                    12.10           48.36         131.80              107.73
Nots: . See discussions in para 6.24 in Chapter 6
Source: RT0 Priatina/BDek Mission
Decemser 1980



- 67 -
ANNEX 5
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
A RAILWAY PROJECT IN KOSOVO
YUGOSLAVIA
Assumptions Used in Financial Projections
The following are the principal assumptions on which the forecasts
are based:
(a)  freight and passenger revenues are based on the traffic forecast
discussed in Chapter 6 and shown in detail in Annex 3. Tariffs
have been assumed to increase from 1980 levels by at least 5% more
each year than the increase in unit costs of the previous year
with a minimum overall annual increase of 10%. For the five-year
period, 1981-85, increases have been assumed of 20%, 15%, 10%, 15%
and 10%;
(b)  compensation is calculated as the balance of funds required to
cover operating expenses and loan interest;
(c)  salaries have been adjusted in relation to forecast numbers of
staff. Only one real increase of 2% in earnings has been assumed
in 1983 (this will be discussed at negotiations);
(d)  fuel costs reflect the switch from coal to the more efficient
diesel locomotives in 1980 and 1981 and are based on gross
ton-kilometers. A 3% per annum real increase in the price of
diesel fuel has been assumed;
(e)  the increases in other expenses are based on the apportionment of
expenses to fixed and variable and to the increase in gross
ton-kilometers;
(f)  the RTO's forecast of depreciation, which assumes an annual
revaluation of assets and which produces realistic figures has
been used; and
(g)  the basis for all of the working expenses figures are actual
figures for 1979 and for the first half of 1980. Adjustment has
been made for inflation each year at rates forecast for
Yugoslavia. The rates have also been used to calculate price
contingencies for the local currency element of investment costs
(para. 5.13).



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
A RAILWAY PROUECT IN KOSOVO
YUGOSLAVIA
RTO PRISTINA INCOME ACCOUNT
(DIN-MILLIONS)
1979        1980        1981        1982        1983        1984        1985
ACTUAL    FORECAST   FORECAST   FORECAST   FORECAST   FORECAST   FORECAST
OPERATING REVENUE
FREIGHT REVENUE                         190.0      279.9        464.6       646.1       808.8       998.9      1176.7
PASSENGER REVENUE                       81.0         91.3       115.4       143.9       161.7       188.1       209.1
SUBTOTAL                               271.0       371.2       580.1        789.9       970.5      1187.0      1385.9
OTHER REVENUE                           100.0        75.0       130.8       131.0       156.6       192.3       227.4
SUBTOTAL                               371.0       446.2        710.9       921.0      1127.1      1379.2      1613.3
COMPENSATION                           200.0       339.8        261.0       196.1       223.9       118.2        45.2
TOTAL OPERATING REVENUE                571.0        786.0       971.9      1117.1      1351.0      1497.4       1658.5                            0%
OPERATING EXPENSES
SALARIES AND WAGES                     236.0       262.0        315.5       355.3       401.8       425.9       459.6
FUEL AND ELECTRICITY                    50.0         78.0        97.7  e   114.5        144.9       170.5        198.8
OTHER MATERIALS                          24.0        28.0        34.7        40.3        49.1        56.7        64.9
OTHER WORKING EXPENSES                 205.0        211.0       229.0       265.0       323.2       372.3       426.2
SUBTOTAL  WORKING EXPENSES             515.0       579.0        676.9       775.1       919.0      1025.4      1149.5
DEPRECIATION                            144.0       168.0       198.0       239.0       282.0       320.0       355.0
OPERATING EXPENSES                     659.0        747.0       874.9      1014.1      1201.0      1345.4      1504.5
NET OPERATING REVENUE                  -88.0         39.0        97.0       103.0       150.0       152.0        i54.0
INTEREST ON  LOANS                      11.0        39.0        97.0        103.0       150.0       152.0       154.0                P' in
NET SURPLUS(DEFICIT)                   -99.0
COMPENSATION AS A PROPORTION            35.0         43.2        26.9        17.6        16.6         7.9          2.7
OF OPERATING REVENUE
OPERATING RATIO                         115.4        95.0        90.0        90.8        88.9        89.8        90.7
(INCLUDING COMPENSATION)



- 69 -
ANNEX 5
Table 2
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
A RAILWAY PROJECT IN KOSOVO
YUGOSLAVIA
Internal Resources and Financing Plan
----Project Period----  Investment Plan Period
--1981/82                        1981/85 
Din Mil.  US$ Mil.   %  Din Mil.   US$ Mil.  7.
Cash Availability
Internal Resources /1         1069        39     40   2050           75    48
External Resources            1616        59      60   2245          82    52
Total Availability       2685        98    100   4295          157   100
Internal Resources Source
Depreciation                   719        26      67   1394          51    68
Operating Revenue              350        13      33    656          24    32
Total                    1069        39    100   2050           75   100
Application
Interest on Debt               350        13      33    656          24    32
Debt Repayment                 423        15      40    818          30    40
Working Capital, etc.           85         3       7    186           7      9
Other Expenditure                3        _        -      5           -      -
Total                     861        31     80   1665           61    81
Net available for Investments    208           8      20    385           14    19
Financing of Investments
Net Internal Resources         208         8      12    385          14    15
External Resources
Grants                       600        22      32    822          30    31
Loans and Suppliers'
Credits                     90         3      5    494           18    19
IBRD Loan                    929        34     51    929           34    35
Subtotal                    1619        59     88   2245           82    85
Total Investments /2              1827        67    100   2630           96   100
/1 Including compensation payments.
/2  Excluding completion of capital overhaul in 1981 under Fifth Railway
Project financed from Loan 1534-YU.



03/10/81
4:45 PM
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
_____ ______._ _ _____
A RAILWAY PROJECT IN KOSOVO
YUGOSLAVIA
RT; PRISTINA
____________
CASHFLOW
(DIN MILLIONS)
1979       1980       1981       1982       1983       1984       1985      1981-83    1981-85
ACTUAL    FORECAST   FORECAST   FORECAST   FORECAST   FORECAST   FORECAST   FORECAST:  FORECAST
APPLICATIONS
INVESTMENTS                      374.0      700.0      4o6.0      676.0      875.0      409.0       396.0     1957.0     2762.0
DEBT SERVICE
____________
INTEREST                          11.0       39.0       97.0      103.0       150.0      152.0      154.0      350.0      656.0
REPAYMENTS                        66.0       45.0      126.0       155.0      142.0      186.0      209.0      423.0      818.0
SUBTOTAL                          77.0       84.0      223.0      258.0      292.0       338.0      363.0      773.0      1474.0         0
INCR/DECR IN WORKING CAP           8.0      272.0       29.0       34.0       27.0       46.0        41.0,      90.0       177.0
(OTHER THAN CASH)
OTHER CASH REQUIREMENTS           16.0      -15.0         1.0        1.0        1.0        1.0        1.0        3.0         5.0
==flu=uss w=-==s===== ==--=sUn.=, sc=e===sc   ==c=tw=Xs.  .s.. w=sss  as s.s....  ssa .ssss.. .....=wsw*
TOTAL CASH REQUIREMENTS          475.0     1041.0      659.0      969.0      1195.0      794.0      801.0     2823.0     4418.0
=----SSw=- ===s=n===  c=t======== Sr ========s =SSSSUSU*s Ue=aSSS=US .Sm=S.ma.s S=S=SSuSSt  =SSsSsmSt
SOURCES
OWN FUNDS
OPERATING REVENUE                -88.0       39.0       97.0       103.0      150.0      152.0      154.0      350.0       656.0
DEPRECIATION                     144.0      168.0       198.0      239.0      282.0      320.0      355.0      719.0      1394.0
SUBTOTAL                          56.0      207.0      295.0      342.0      432.0       472.0      509.0     1069.0      2050.0
EXTERNAL FINANCE
GRANTS                            36.0       88.0       158.0      155.0      287-0      114.0      108.0      600.0       822.0
BANK LOAN(5TH PROJECT)            92.0       57.0       52.0                                                    52.0        52.0        t ' 2I
PROPOSED BANK LOAN                                      54.0      424.0      451.0                             929,0       929.0    O
LOANS                            146.0      482.0       80.0       34.0                  138.0      120.0      114.0       372.0    *
SUPPLIERS CREDIT                  92.0       88.0                   11.0       40.0       72.0       77.0       51.0       200.0    F .a
__________   ----------   ----------   ----------   ----------   ----------   ----------   ---- ---- -- __________-_
SUBTOTAL                         366.0      715.0      344.0      624.0       778.0      324.0      305.0     1746.0      2375.0



,_,===S5-= S================ ========= =====5 =======w=== ===us===s8= ==s=ts=as==s====r==
TOTAL CAHSWAVAILABILITY         422.0      922.0      639.0     966.0    1210.0       796.0      814.0    281S.0      4425.0
CASH SURP/DEFI FOR YEAR         -53.0    -119.0       -20.0       -3.0      15.0        2.0       13.0       -8.0        7.0
CASH AT BEGINNING OF YEAR       238.0      185.0       66.0      46.0       43.0       58.0       60.0       66.0       66.0
CASH AT END OF YEAR             185.0       66.0       46.0      43.0       58.0       60.0       73.0       58.0       73.0
DEBT SERVICE COVERAGE                                   1.3        1.3       1.5        1.4        1.4       1t4         1.4
(OWN FUNDS/DEBT SERVICE)
======    =======          in====  -s==-==    ==s======   in====  .2====    = *=tSCx=    8Swn Ss=
I.
OQ 0
* h-A t!1
M { P



- 72 -
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT                                       ANNEX 5
A RAILWAY PROJECT IN KOSOVO                                     Table 4
YUGOSLAVIA
RTO Pristina - Balance Sheet
Actusl      --------------------   Forecast  -----------------------
1979       1980        1981       1982       .1983       1984        1985
--------------------------   Dinar Millions   -------------------------
FIXgD ASSETS
Gross Fixed Assets                             4,978      5,282       6,442      7,079       7,570       8,470      9,192
Less: Accumulated depreciation                 3,432      3.428       3,456      3.537       3,840      4,185       4,726
Net fixed assets                               1,546      1,854       2,986      3,542       3,730      4,285       4,466
Work in progress                                 337        704         466        736         502         232        213
TOTAL FIXED ASSETS                             1,883      2.558       3,452      4,278       4,232      4,517       4,679
OTHER NON-CURRENT ASSETS                              32         17          18          18         19          20         21
NET CURRENT ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash                                        185          66         45          42          57         58          71
Inventories                                  20          27         31          35         40          46          52
Debtors & other current items               632         569        632         710         769        818        866
Sub-total current assets                    837         662        708         787        866         922        989
Less:  Creditors & other
current liabilities                  630        302         338         386        423         432        445
TOTAL NET CURRENT ASSETS                        207         360        370         401         443        49Q         544
TOTAL ASSETS                                      2,122       2,935       3,840      4,697       4,694      5,027       5.244
__n-   ~         aa SwD                               fl==x=   =D wI
FINANCED BY:-
Debt                                            856       1,493      1,669       1,919      2,170       2,152      2,006.
Equity                                        1,266       1,442      2,171       2,778      2,524       2,875      3.238
2,122      2,935       3,840      4,697       4,694      50,27       5,24(
Average Net Fixed Assets                      1,480       1,700      2,420       3,264      3,636       4,0a7      4,375
Debt to Equity                                40/60       51/49      43/57       41/59      46/54       43/57      38/62
Return on Net Fixed Assets                      -          2.3        4.0         3.1        4.1         3,8        3.5
Cash to Cash Working Expenses                   36         11          7          5           6           6          6
Source: RTO Pristina and IBRD Mission
December 1980



- 73 -
ANNEX 6
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
A RAILWAY PROJECT IN KOSOVO
YUGOSLAVIA
Related Documents and Data Available on Project File
1. Feasibility Study for Modernization of SS and TT, Lesak-Djeneral
Jankovic (RTO Pristina);
2. Feasibility Study for Reconstruction of Railway Junction, Kosovo Polje
(Institute of Faculty of Transport, Belgrade);
3. Technological and Economic Comparison of Alternatives for the Kosovo
Polje Project (Institute of Faculty of Transport, Belgrade);
4. Feasibility of Modernization of SS and TT on Kosovo
Polje-Pec-Metohija-Prizren (Institute of Faculty of Transport,
Belgrade);
5. Investment Plan and Financing Plans 1979-1985, RTO Pristina;
6.  Operational Plans for Traction and Rolling Stock, RTO Pristina (April
1979, June 1980, August 1980);
7. Action Plan RTO Pristina (April 1979);
8. Operating Statistics, 1979;
9. RTO Pristina Freight and Passenger Traffic, 1979;
10. RTO Pristina Financial Statements, 1979;
11. RTO Pristina Financial Staff Forecasts, 1979-85;
12. RTO Pristina Traffic and Financial Statements, January to June 1980;
13. Papers and computer runs relating to financial evaluation;
14. Papers and computer runs relating to economic analysis.



TECHNICAL AFFAIRS DEPARTMENT           |_
|          ~~~COMMERICAL DEPARTMENT|-                  m:
C)          m
m           mO
0
I~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~:                                   >   
|~~~CME ICA L DEPRTRAKMAINTEAC r- m 
M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ >
13~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ zD
-           >L -
f PLANNING DEVELOPMENT AND FINANCE DEPARTMENT            cnm
c~~~~
>  --I~~~~~~~~~-
-4  C)~~~~~~~~~-
m        20 
OAL OR TAFFCOAND PRTING                                   0 
_ _ _      _ _  _   
To ~~~~~~~~~2WHO ~ ~ ~    ~       ~      ~        



R)D 1A136R
JUBU~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TR E <
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TRT04                                           ; &r Ri0         0t  X  4T    o>    NRL AhETO )
R v~~~~~~~~                 
JEVC~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
| - T RANSPORTATION  INFR ASRUCTURT                                                                            V
iS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4AV   0                                    D0.1DEEd        SOOT2e D;>9EFV
Mvjl ~   ~      dI
0 0 0 0 kV C S~~~~TA OR SCOTH AOTRAA*0N; 0 OTT                                         N                   ;000i :i ,, 0E,  ,/   OoA.SK 12 . 
X~~~~~~~~~- v -.
Ill i- I IAI ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ Al TRTATRT.IRRIARAR  1A1
I- AI   IT   IT0 1   I      II             1R                             A



IBRD 15417
AUSTRIA                                                                           2100                                       2130'                NOVEMBER 1980
* >.    .  4\       HUNGARY
' SL OVENIA   f      f      -
)IA    - .      \   ROMANIA
S  t\  wswC'..'r   hegrsde<                               /                                                        f
'HERCFGOVINA              ''"
~~-'   r         >~~~~~~~~ ~Lesak
/ \   C  e q   k .            A       p Leposavici      . 
ITALY                          bA CEDOl'A
/  GREECE |          i.5*t                                                             I
_ E ,&1 > : . ' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~43-00-
To Titogrsd  .j         Banjsk  -i
.,            1 ,                   ~~~~~~~~~Podujev  s
*E_|* S                   E      R      B    \                                K A  Zkescrk      Po va
Vuitrn
MO\NTENEGRO C
L P \;u~~~~~~~~~~~~disavci                                        lacvbiTIitNA 
#  N    ),              ,                    =                                   F         \      ,    .r        AknoSDYsk:K ino  re  -
>  Djakovicay   grzeX                   1                       sevac ~~~~~iogoac 
Komorane /ViStlaz a    7Suvane                                        KosRvsk)
-  D_Kormiljlne
A L BAN IA                                   ~                                 1ji~/    '                  ienel K
V. K  uva Reka      ~       ~       N       K   ankvi
(- 2    (                ~                      )%  MACEDONIA
N      0ragan /                                                    ) t\
-42-00'                                            tth.         ( 1SKO                                                                                         42-00'
N.~~IZE
f           )                          YUGOSLAVIA
r     /    TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE
to~~~~~~~~KSV                                                   E levations in meters:
(It  __________     ~        ~        ~       ~       ~          CE  )      Nt 
e ~~~~~~~~Secondary roads                                            Above 1500
)                         -        Railways                        |       10001500
0     Main railway stations                 1   1500-1000
PrmNarrow valleys
0-500
Autonomous province boundary
. . Republic boundaries
- .-.-  International boundary
0         tO        20         31 43 
This map has been prepared by the World Bank.s saff exfclsiseiy to, the -o-sei-enc
0f the readers of the repon to which it is attached. The dat-mi-ebtons used asd the
bondar~iesho- so th,s map do, sot-ipy. so the part of the Wor,ld Bask ad its
affiates, any sodg-nt on  the lega I  sttut of asp territory or any esd-rse--ent or
!  20- 30                                   21-00'           acceptance of such bo-daries.    2130



