Document of       FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3016-YUJ
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
PRISTINA RAILWAY TRANSPORT ORGANIZATION
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
FOR A KOSOVO RAILWAY PROJECT
April 7, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS*
Currency Unit                            Yugoslav Dinar (Din.)
US$1                                     Din. 27.00
Din. 1                                   US$ 0.037
Din. 1,000                               US$37.04
Din. 1,000,000                           US$37,037.04
* The Yugoslav Dinar has been floating since July 13, 1973:
on January 16, 1981, the rate was Din. 29.45 = US$1.00.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BOAL                                     Basic Organization of
Associated Labor
COI                                      Communities of Interest
CRO                                      Council of Republic and
Provincial Roads Organization
CYR                                      Community of Yugoslav Railways
FCTC                                     Federal Committee for
Transport and Communications
GNP                                      Gross National Product
LDR                                      Less Developed Republics
RTE                                      Railway Transport Enterprise
RTO                                      Railway Transport Organization
SAE                                      Social Agreement on Economic
and Other Measures Needed to
Provide Normal Economic
Conditions for Railways



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
-1-
YUGOSLAVIA - KOSOVO RAILWAY PROJECT
Loan and Project.Summary
Borrower:                Pristina Railway Transport Organization (RTO
Pristina).
Guarantor;               Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
Amount:                  US$34 million equivalent in various currencies.
Terms:                   Amortization'of 15 years - including a 3 year grace
period, with interest at 9.6% per annum.
Project Description:    The project comprises the 1981-83 slice of the
Investment Plan of RTO Pristina aimed at improving
the capacity and efficiency of the railway network in
Kosovo, the weakest part of the Yugoslav system. The
principal components are (a) the reconstruction of
Kosovo Junction, (b) the installation of modern
signalling and telecommunications on the
Lesak-Djeneral Jankovic main line, (c) the
procurement of rolling stock and integrated transport
equipment and (d) training and technical assistance
to improve management, planning and freight
operations.
The main project objectives are to improve RTO
Pristina's management and operational capabilities in
order (a) to improve the capacity and efficiency of
the Kosovo rail network, and (b) to facilitate the
development and exploitation of Kosovo's abundant
mineral resources which generate long distance bulk
traffic, thereby accelerating the economic growth of
the less developed Kosovo region.
The project is not subject to major risks. A decline
in estimated benefits of 26% or an increase of 36% in
estimated project costs would still provide a minimum
12% rate of return. Furthermore the strengthening of
RTO Pristina's management capability, the appointment
of project managers and the continued active
association of CYR will minimize project
implementation risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:                               -------US$ Millions------
Local    Foreign    Total
Reconstruction of Kosovo Junction             11.7        9.5       21.2
Signalling and Telecommunications              6.3       11.7       18.0
Rolling Stock and Integrated Transport          2.4       3.8        6.2
Technical Assistance and Training              0.2        0.5        0.7
Contingencies - Physical                       1.8        2.1        3.9
- Prices                       10.8        6.7       17.5
33.2      34.3       67.5
Financing Plan:                    ------US$ Millions-------
Local    Foreign    Total        % of Total
IBRD                                           34.0       34.0          50.4
Internal Resources                    7.8                  7.8          11.6
Suppliers' Credits                    2.0                  2.0            3.0
Grants and Loans from Kosovo
Government                        23.4        0.3       23.7          35.0
33.2      34.3       67.5         100.0
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY      1982      1983     1984
Annual                             9.5     15.0       9.5
Cumulative                        9.5      24.5      34.0
Economic Rate of Return:       22%.
Appraisal Report:       Report No. 3225b-YU   Date: March 30, 1981
Railways and Ports Division,
Projects Department, EMENA Region.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO PRISTINA RAILWAY TRANSPORT ORGANIZATION
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan equivalent to US$34 million to Pristina Railway Transport Organization
with the guarantee of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, to help
finance a part of the foreign exchange costs of a Kosovo Railway Project.
The loan would have a term of 15 years, including 3 years of grace with
interest at 9.6% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.         A Basic Economic Mission visited Yugoslavia in October and
November 1976. Its report entitled, "Yugoslavia: Self-Management Socialism
and the Challenges of Development", 1615a-YU, was distributed to the
Executive Directors on April 5, 1978. An economic mission visited Yugoslavia
in March 1979; its report entitled "Yugoslavia: Recent Economic
Developments", 2623-YU, was distributed to the Executive Directors on
November 8, 1979. In November, 1979 an economic mission visited Yugoslavia
and its report entitled "Yugoslavia: Export Performance and Policies",
2972-YU, was distributed to the Executive Directors on November 5, 1980.
Basic data on the economy are given in Annex I.
Institutional Setting
3.         The social sector in Yugoslavia, which includes government,
enterprises and public institutions plays the leading role in economic and
social development. It accounts for 85% of GDP and employs over half of the
total labor force. The private sector consists predominantly of peasant
farms and small enterprises, mainly engaged in handicrafts, construction,
trade, transport and tourism. Decision making at all levels is governed by
the principle of workers' self-management, involving a unique set of
institutions and instruments of economic policy. The current system has
evolved over the years with important changes introduced through the
Constitution of 1974. Responsibility for important social and economic
decisions has been shifted from the federation to the republics, autonomous
provinces and communes. Concurrently, the control of workers' collectives
over the socially owned means of production has been increased by a
restructuring of all economic organizations into legally autonomous Basic
Organizations of Associated Labor (BOALs) which are the smallest units of
production producing a marketable output.
4.         In addition to this strengthening of workers' participation at the
microeconomIc level, recent changes have extended the concept of workers'
management to encompass macroeconomic decisions. A set of instruments called



- 2 -
social compacts and self-management agreements have gradually become a part
of the system of macroeconomic management. These measures enable the
participation of all economic agents in the formulation of macroeconomic
policy while maintaining decentralized responsibility for policy
implementation. In the last medium-term plan (1976-80) these instruments
were used to augment more conventional monetary and fiscal policy measures in
the areas of prices, incomes, and employment.
5.         The 1974 Constitution also introduced a new framework for economic
and social planning, designed to reconcile decentralized decision making with
consistent and coordinated action. The system of planning first seeks to
establish a national consensus on the major medium-term goals for the
economy. Thereafter, plan formulation is based on participation of all
economic and social units, including government bodies, on a non-hierarchical
basis. An exhaustive interchange of information and several iterations are
required to achieve consistency among the plans of economic units concurrent
with broader social objectives. Once consistency is achieved, economic units
enter into legally binding medium-term agreements on supply, demand and
investment intentions. In case agreements cannot be reached by the
prescribed date, the state is permitted to intervene, but only on a temporary
basis.
Economic Trends and Development Issues
6.         The economic development of Yugoslavia over the past two decades
has been impressive, characterized by rapid economic growth and structural
transformation. Between 1960 and 1979, GDP grew at an average annual rate of
about 6% in real terms. The share of investment in GDP has been high
throughout the period, averaging 30% in recent years. As population growth
has been only 1% per annum, real per capita income has more than doubled
during the period. Per capita GNP in 1979 is estimated to be US$2,430 at
1979 market prices. 1/ The social sector, in particular industry, has been
the driving force of the economy with the share of industry in GDP increasing
to about 45% while agriculture has declined to about 12%. The past two
decades have also been associated with the growing integration of Yugoslavia
into the world economy. Between 1960 and 1978 merchandise exports and
imports grew by around 6% and 8% per annum in real terms, respectively; much
of this was with markets in the convertible currency areas.
7.         While overall growth performance has been impressive, large
regional income disparities persist. The republics of Bosnia-Herzegovina,
Macedonia and Montenegro, each with two-thirds of the national average per
capita income, and the autonomous province of Kosovo, with one-third, are
officially designated as less developed regions (LDR). The difference
between the most developed region, Slovenia, and the least developed, Kosovo,
is 6 to 1. In addition to these interregional disparities there are large
intraregional disparities with differences in per capita income between
communes as high as 10 to 1 . These disparities reflect several factors,
notably the greater incidence of low productivity agriculture in the
1/   According to World Bank Atlas methodology.



- 3 -
LDR and their higher dependency ratios and population growth rates. Since
1971 sizeable concessionary credits (with about 50% grant element), equal to
about 10% of the social product of the LDR, have been transferred to the LDR
through the Federal Fund for the Accelerated Development of the Less
Developed Regions, which is financed through a tax on all social sector
enterprises in the economy.
8.         Linked to the issue of regional income disparities has been the
problem of providing adequate employment opportunities in the modern sector.
Since 1954 employment in the modern social sector has increased by around 4%
per annum, facilitating rapid outflows from the agricultural sector.  Despite
this impressive record, productivity and income differentials remain between
the modern (mainly social) and the traditional (private or individual
agricultural) sectors.  The persistence of these differentials has resulted
in high demand for modern sector employment on the part of the rural labor
force. The increase of the working age population caused by relatively high
population growth in the LDR has further added to employment demand. Large
numbers of Yugoslavs have sought temporary employment abroad since the late
1960s. At its peak in 1973 Yugoslavia had about 1,100,000 external
migrants. However, since 1973, with changes in policy and the slower growth
in the host countries, this trend has been reversed, accentuating domestic
imbalances and placing added pressure on the social sector to create new work
places. Unemployment rates have risen rapidly from about 7% in 1971 to over
12% in 1978. 1/ The incidence of unemployment is highly regionalized,
because population and labor force growth rates, as well as the proportion of
agricultural employment, are all much higher in the LDR. In 1978
unemployment rates ranged from 26.9% in Kosovo to 1.5% in Slovenia.
Recent Developments
9.         Yugoslavia has been successful in maintaining a relatively high
growth rate over much of its recent (1976-80) economic plan. Over the first
four years of the plan GDP growth exceeded 5% per year. The pattern of
growth has been markedly cyclical and heavily influenced by policy responses
to balance of payments difficulties and to inflation. Following relative
stagnation in 1976, macroeconomic policy became more expansionary in 1977,
and resulted in three years of rapid growth. This revival at a time when the
world economy was relatively sluggish put pressure on Yugoslavia's balance of
payments. These strains were considerably worsened by special developments
in 1979 including sharp increases in the price of imported oil, poor
agricultural conditions and an earthquake in Montenegro. As a consequence
the deficit in the current account of the balance of payments reached $3.7
billion in 1979, or about 5.5% of GDP. Faster growth and renewed
international inflation also led to significant worsening in domestic
inflation. In response to these developments the tone of macro policy became
sharply contractionary in late 1979 and 1980, and economic management in 1980
was dominated by the goal of improving the balance of payments. As a result
1/ These rates are not strictly comparable to those in other countries. They
represent the ratio of registered job-seekers (including some currently
employed) to social sector labor force. The ratio of registered job
seekers to total resident labor force would have been about 8.3% in 1978.



-4
of the purposeful application of a stabilization program the current account
deficit was reduced to $2.2 billion (approximately 3% of GDP), largely
reflecting an improvement in the trade deficit. The elements of the program
(which was supported by a standby arrangement with the IMF) included a 30%
devaluation of the dinar in June 1980, tight monetary poli-cy, effective
incomes policies and targeted cuts in investment, particularly for noneconomic
purposes. As a result of these measures output growth was reduced from
previous years, and gross social product in 1980 is estimated to have grown by
no more than 2.5%.
10.        The main source of Yugoslavia's economic growth in the 1976-80 plan
was industry. While industrial production rose by only 4% in 1980, this
followed growth of almost 7% per year in the preceding four years. The plan
placed particular emphasis on production of energy, raw materials and
intermediate goods production to increase import substitution. These priority
sectors performed well during the first three years of the plan although
production fell slightly short of planned targets, while nonpriority sectors,
particularly consumer goods, grew at a rate faster than projected. Climatic
factors have resulted in marked annual fluctuations in agricultural output,
which rose between 1976 and 1979 at an average annual rate of 2.9% (compared
to a target of 4%).
11.        Fixed investment grew at an average rate of almost 9.5% between
1976 and 1979, considerably exceeding the 8.0% plan target. The plan's
emphasis on import substitution led to heavy investment in the priority
sectors: energy, mining, metallurgy, electrical machinery and chemicals. The
share of gross fixed investment in GDP rose from 28% in 1975 to almost 32% in
1979. In 1980, however, fixed investment is estimated to have declined by
1.5% in real terms, as a result of increasing restrictions placed on
investment activity, particularly in non-priority fields. In addition to
buoyant domestic demand, strong social pressures on enterprises to create new
work places may have been important in causing the higher than planned level
of investment. Overall social sector employment growth in the plan has been
rapid, at about 4% per annum (compared to a plan target of 3.5%) and has been
even faster in the LDR where the bulk of the structural unemployment is
located. Despite these achievements, the combined impact of net immigration,
demographic factors and the contraction in the rural labor force caused the
ratio of job-seekers to social sector labor force to rise from about 10% in
1975 to over 12% in 1979.
12.        Inflation rates have varied widely over the course of the plan.
Stabilization measures introduced in 1975 and 1976 reduced the inflation rate
(as measured by the retail price index) from 25% in 1975 to 9% in 1976. The
subsequent revival in economic activity was accompanied by a resurgence of
inflation. In both 1977 and 1978 inflation was 13%; in 1979, in part due to
increases in indirect taxes and fuel prices it increased to 22%. The sharp
reduction in economic activity in 1980 affected the inflation rate much less
than had been hoped, and the rate of inflation was 30%, in contrast to the 17%
that had been projected. Much of the deterioration in price performance can
be attributed to the higher prices of imported goods, resulting from both a
higher rate of international inflation and the effects of the devaluation of
the dinar. There has also been some dismantling of domestic price controls in



- 5 -
order to promote efficient resource allocation in manufacturing as well as
price increases administered to stimulate agricultural production and to
rationalize energy use. As a result of effective incomes policies, wage
pressures were muted in 1980, with personal incomes in the social sector
falling by 7%.
13.        As noted above, Yugoslavia's balance of payments has remained an
issue of concern to policymakers throughout the plan. The plan itself
proposed substantial import substitution while maintaining an export growth
rate of 8%. While import growth fluctuated widely between 1976 and 1980
overall it remained below the 4.5% annual rate targeted in the plan, primarily
by the imposition of deep import cuts in 1976 and 1980. Export performance
however was disappointing; despite a recovery in 1980, when merchandise
exports grew by an estimated 9%, export growth over the plan was about 4.6%
per year instead of the 8% targeted. The consequences of this export
shortfall were exacerbated by the deterioration in the terms of trade and
other special factors referred to earlier. Even though workers' remittances
were more buoyant than had been anticipated, the cumulative current account
deficit over the plan period was 60% higher than had been planned. The
government's program to put the balance of payments on a more secure footing
was supported by a two-year standby arrangement concluded with IMF in June
1980 in the amount of SDR 339 million per year. This standby was replaced in
January 1981 by a three year program for a total amount of SDR 1662 million.
The government's annual plan for 1981 continues to stress stabilization of the
economy in pursuit of balance of payments adjustment. The current account
deficit for 1981 is targeted at $1.8 billion; this is to be achieved through
export growth of 7% and a reduction in import volumes of 3%, chiefly in
capital goods. Social product is anticipated to grow by 3%; this slow growth
will be reconciled with the export target by further cuts in fixed capital
formation.
Medium Term Prospects
14.        The five year plan for 1981-85 is in final stages of preparation
and is expected to be adopted by April 1981. The draft plan projects
continued slow growth in social product and even slower growth in domestic
expenditure to allow resources to be released for exports; this strategy
implies continued reductions in the rate of fixed capital formation. As
before, the draft plan projects simultaneous import substitution and export
promotion, and aims to reduce the current account deficit from the present 3%
of GDP to approximately 1% by 1985. The priorities to be stressed are the
development of domestic energy sources and raw materials, production of basic
metals, basic chemicals and capital goods. The plan is also expected to
stress agricultural development in order to reduce food imports and to expand
food exports.
15.        Slower growth will make it more difficult for the social sector to
generate additional employment at the pace of the current plan while the
demand for new work places will remain high. Given these difficulties, more
emphasis will be laid on the development of labor intensive activities
including small-scale enterprises.
16.        Finally, the reduction of regional disparities will remain a major
objective of Yugoslavia's economic planning. Financial transfers between



-6-
republics will play an important role in this process, and the transfer
mechanisms for the forthcoming plan will lay particular stress on encouraging
social enterprises in the more developed regions (MDR) to make direct
investments in the LDR. As experience is gained, these joint ventures could
make a significant contribution to the overall efficiency of production within
the LDRs by facilitating the transfer of technological and managerial knowhow
within Yugoslavia. Regional disparities, however, are expected to remain
significant over the medium-term.
Creditworthiness
17.        Gross medium- and long-term capital flows averaged $2.6 billion
between 1976 and 1979 and increased to an estimated $3.6 billion in 1980.
Total medium- and long-term debt, outstanding and disbursed, is estimated in
excess of $13 bn. at the end of 1979. Short term capital inflows were erratic
between 1976 and 1978, but short-term debt increased by about $280 million in
1979 to about $650 million. Foreign exchange reserves fell by $1.9 billion in
1979 and at the end of that year amounted to slightly under $2.0 billion.
There was some restocking of official reserves in 1980, and at the end of the
year these amounted to $1.4 billion, roughly one month of imports of goods and
services from the convertible currency area. It is expected that the
resources provided by the Fund will permit Yugoslavia to retire some of its
short term debt, and to build up official foreign exchange reserves.
18.        About three-quarters of the debt contracted by Yugoslavia in recent
years has been provided in convertible currencies through commercial sources.
The bulk of this commercial credit has been in the form of suppliers'
credits. Nevertheless, financial credits obtained in the eurocurrency market
have become increasingly important for financing the economy's foreign
exchange requirements. The World Bank is the principal source of
non-commercial long-term credit to Yugoslavia. Yugoslavia will continue to
require a substantial inflow of foreign lending if it is to achieve its
medium-term objectives. The debt service ratio which--taking into account
workers' remittances--averaged 16% between 1976 and 1979, is expected to
increase to over 20% during the next medium term plan (1981-85). Given
Yugoslavia's past debt service record, pragmatism and its demonstrated
capacity to implement firm stabilization policies when these are called for,
it remains creditworthy for a substantial level of Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA 1/
19.        The Bank has made 66 loans to Yugoslavia totalling about $2,809
million. Of this amount, approximately 43% ($1,214.4 million) has been for 22
loans for the transportation sector -- 12 for highways, 6 for railways, and
one each for a natural gas pipeline and an oil pipeline, and two for a port
project. Historically, Bank lending has concentrated on infrastructure
including, in addition to the transportation loans, five power loans, one
telecommunications loan, two water supply and sewerage and five multipurpose
1/ Part II of this report is substantially unchanged from Part II of the Report
and Recommendation of the President for the Morava Regional Development II
Project (Report No. P-2907-YU) of February 11, 1981.



loans (two of which include substantial irrigation components). In recent years,
Bank lending has increasingly focussed on the agriculture sector and ten loans
totalling $567 million (about 20% of the total amount lent to Yugoslavia) have
now been made for agriculture. Eighteen loans amounting to $410 million (about
15% of the total) have also been made for industry and two for tourism amounting
to $30 million. The $27 million first Bank loan for air pollution control was
approved May 25, 1976. In addition, IFC has made fifteen investments in
Yugoslavia totalling about $290 million. Annex II contains a summary statement
of Bank loans and IFC investments as of January 31, 1981 and notes on the
execution of ongoing projects.
20.      The interrelated objectives which the Bank has pursued in its lending to
Yugoslavia remain essentially unchanged. These objectives are:
*                     (i)    to support Yugoslav efforts to address the critical issues of
regional disparities and unemployment;
(ii)    to promote agricultural development in both the individual
farmer and social sectors by providing basic infrastructure and
credit facilities;
(iii)    to encourage structural reforms in the major sectors tbrough
improved coordination, institution-building and technical
assistance;
(iv)    to help in identifying and financing gaps in basic
infrastructure-particularly transport and energy; and
(v)    to alleviate critical shortages of convertible foreign exchange
by providing part of the required long-term capital,
encouraging and promoting Yugoslavia's efforts to tap other
sources of medium- and long-term capital, and supporting
projects which generate or conserve foreign exchange.
It is obvious that every Bank operation cannot address all these objectives nor
be entirely oriented towards the LDR, but the basic thrust of the Bank's
activities in Yugoslavia has increasingly been towards the development of the LDR
and the agricultural sector in particular. Reinforcing this strategy are the
economic surveys of the four LDR undertaken by the Bank and intensified
assistance in project formulation and on-going economic and sector analysis.
21.      The Bank's emphasis on assuring the accelerated development of the LDR
is fully in accord with the Federal Government's policies embodied in the current
1976-80 Development Plan and in the 1981-85 draft Development Plan.  In the
current plan period, the Federal Government has agreed with its constituents on
the level of domestic resources to be channeled to the LDR through the Federal
Fund mechanism (see para 7) as well as the distribution of external
resourcesincluding Bank lending. The distribution pattern for Bank lending has
been determined broadly on the basis of income levels and population size of
particular regions.
22.      Over the past five years, almost two-thirds of Bank lending has been to
the LDR through operations for transportation, power, agricultural development



-8-
industrial credit. In the next few years significant Bank lending to the LDR
u.OUglh similar operations but with even more emphasis on agriculture is expected
to continue, with special attention being given to the needs of Kosovo, the least
developed of the LDR.
23.      The agricultural sector deserves attention for a number of developmental
considerations. It is the obvious vehicle for addressing the problems cf rural
poverty which underlies regional disparity; it can provide opportunities for
productively employing the rural population, thus reducing the pressure for
creating non-agricultural employment; and it contributes to reducing reliance on
imports and improving the prospects for exports of food and other agricultural
products. The 1976 "Green Plane' called for greater attention to agriculture and
while the social sector is the main vehicle for growth, the Plan clearly
recognizes that the impetus for accelerated growth must necessarily be derived
from the underexploited resources of the individual, low-income sector (which
hold almost 84% of the cultivated land and employs over 90% of the farm
population). This proposed project as well as forthcoming projects for
agro-industries, irrigation and regional development will support agricultural
development in general and the individual farm sector in particular.
24.      Decentralized management, the cornerstone of Yugoslavia's socio-economic
philosophy, adds to the inherent difficulties involved in formulating coherent
sector plans. One of the principal features of the 1974 Constitutional changes
and subsequent legislation, however, has been to revamp the institutional
framework and to introduce mechanisms for coordination.  Given the compiaxity of
the Yugoslav system which requires that the programs of all enterprises be
discussed, negotiated and reflected in legally binding agreements, the process of
dealing with problems and of evolving acceptable solutions is cumbersome. The
Bank has therefore seen it important to exert its influence in shaping the policy
framework and fostering coordination, particularly in the power and transport
sectors where significant progress has been achieved.
25.      Through its future operations the Bank will seek to consolidate the
institutional reform successfully achieved in the past. Further development of
the appraisal and supervisory capabilities of the banks will remain a major
objective. In transport, intermodal coordination will be sought through the
implementation of the results of the rail costs and road user studies undertaken
under the Eighth Highway Project (Loan No. 1377-YU approved March 15, 1977). The
Bank will concentrate its lending operations in areas where its incremental
institutional and/or policy coordination impact is greatest.
26.      A persistent foreign resource gap looms as the major impediment to
Yugoslavia's ability to maintain its growth momentum and to address the critical
issues of unemployment and regional disparities. The Bank has successfully
introduced Yugoslavia to organized cofinancing and become a significant vehicle
for attracting additional sources of credit through cofinancing
arrangements,forging new banking relationships for Yugoslavia and in some cases
securing improved terms and conditions of commercial loans for the country. The
Bank, however, remains the major source of long-term external capital for the
foreseeable future and, equally important, its significant level of operations in
Yugoslavia is regarded by international financing institutions as evidence of
international confidence in Yugoslavia's economic performance, policies ard



- 9 -
prospects. While an increase in cofinancing on Bank projects is desirable, both
the projects and sub-projects involved must be suitable for cofinancing given the
complex system of management in general and the banking and foreign exchange
allocation systems in particular.
27.      Yugoslavia's debt to the Bank amounts to about 8.7% of Yugoslavia's
total debt, outstanding and disbursed and this ratio is expected to remain fairly
stable. Service on Bank loans as a proportion of total debt service was 6.5% in
1980 and is projected to decline to about 5% by 1985.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR IN YUGOSLAVIA
A. The Transport System
28.      Historically the transport system in Yugoslavia has been largely shaped
by topography. The principal road/rail links follow the fertile Sava/Danube
flood plains on a northwest to southeast alignment and provide access to the
Danube for a number of its central European neighbors. More recently it has
become an increasingly important link between Western Europe and the Middle East.
29.      These features, combined with the formidable southern and coastal
mountains, and aided by other historical factors, have contributed to major
imbalances in regional development. The transport network and economic
development of the southern regions have lagged behind those of the northern and
western regions. A major objective of Yugoslavia's transport sector development
in recent years has been the opening up of these less developed regions (Kosovo,
Macedonia, Montenegro and Bosnia-Herzegovia) to strengthen their integration with
the rest of the country, and accelerate their economic development based on their
natural resources.
30.      Although Yugoslavia's transport system is extensive and diversified,
roads and railways carry about 90% of total traffic. The network consists of
110,000 kms. of roads, 9,712 kms. of rail lines, 7 main ports, 15 airports (10
handling international traffic) and a sizable network of inland waterways,
including the Danube.
31.      Yugoslavia has experienced dramatic economic growth over the last 20
years. This has resulted from a significant growth of industry and services
which, in turn, produced a demand for increased transportation facilities. Over
the last two decades total freight traffic grew at the rate of 6% per annum and
passenger traffic by 10% per annum: however, highway traffic, both freight and
passenger, has increased more rapidly than rail traffic. Although road transport
is now the dominant carrier, the role of the railways is crucial as the main
carrier of bulk materials and of 35% of total freight.  River traffic, about 9%
of the total, has maintained a competitive position and ports, now handling about
25 million tons per annum, have doubled their capacity over the last 20 years.
32.      Compelled by the energy crisis and the need to reduce the import bill
for energy, the government is emphasizing further development of the railway
system with its greater reliance on domestic energy sources, largely electricity
based on domestic coal. To reduce the use of imported oil the government has



- 10 -
imposed restrictions on the use of both passenger cars and long distance truck
operations by non-transport enterprises. These factors and the increase in oil
prices have increased demand for rail traffic; a trend which is expected to
continue in the future.
B. Transport Policy Planning and Coordination
33.      Since the mid-1960's,the Yugoslav economic system has been increasingly
characterized by decentralization of decision-making with enterprises operating
under workers' management in a market-oriented economy. Principal governmental
responsibility for transport was transferred during the late 1960's from Federal
to Republican and Provincial authorities. The Federal Secretariat for Transport
was replaced in 1975 by a Federal Committee, whose Chairman and Vice Chairman are
Federal officials, and whose other members are the Republican and Provincial
officials responsible for transport. This committee has a largely coordinating
function. Much of governmental responsibility has been transferred to
Communities of Interest (COIs), which consist of one or more transport
enterprises and their users; normally, a COI covers only one Republic or Province.
34.      In late 1976, with a view to creating the necessary conditions for
integrated development of transport, the Federation, the Republics and the
Autonomous Provinces mutually agreed to establish a long term transport policy
for the country. Considerable progress has been made and a number of Social
Agreements on the various aspects of future transport policy have been
concluded. The Government's principal objectives for the transport sector are:
(i) to build up a transport infrastructure in support of the developments taking
place in other sectors of the economy; (ii) to develop the various modes of
transport as an integrated network and in such proportions and combinations as
will meet the total needs of the economy at minimum cost to the community; (iii)
to open up less-developed regions and foster interdependence and economic
integration of the regions of the country; (iv) to provide the national network
with adequate facilities for connection to the networks of neighboring countries;
and (v) to rationalize the use of energy in transportation and reduce the
negative effects of transportation on environment. In the light of these
objectives, the use of rail and water transport is to be encouraged for long and
medium distance commodity hauls and emphasis is placed on the public
transportation sector as compared to transport on own account.
35.      In supporting transport infrastructure development, the Bank has
emphasized the need for improving coordination between subsectors at regional and
national levels, as well as the need for developing adequate institutions and an
appropriate policy framework. At the national level, the Bank has encouraged and
supported the establishment and strengthening of important advisory and
coordinating institutions, including the Federal Committee for Transport and
Communications (FCTC) which oversees the total transport picture in Yugoslavia,
the Council of Republican and Provincial Roads Organization (CRO) which deals
with nationwide standardization of engineering and design criteria, and the
Community of Yugoslav Railways (CYR) which deals with overall issues of the
railways.
36.      Through the vehicle of the Eighth Highway Project (Loan 1377-YU, 1977)
studies on road-user charges and rail costs have been undertaken and



- 11 -
discussions regarding the implementation of the recommendation of those
studies are underway between the Bank, FCTC and CYR. RTO Pristina has agreed
to take appropriate measures to introduce a rail costing system applicable to
its network based upon these recommendations. Assurances have been obtained
from RTO Pristina that this will be done by December 31, 1981 (Loan
Agreement, Section 5.07).
Previous Bank Loans for Transport
37.        The Bank has made 22 loans, totalling $1,214.4 million equivalent
for the Yugoslav transport sector; six of these, totalling $362 million were
for the railway subsector; four were for modernization investments; one for
construction of the Belgrade-Bar line; and one for reconstruction of
earthquake damage in Montenegro. Delays, largely due to cost overruns, have
been encountered, but good progress in improved planning and execution and in
strengthening the coordinating role of CYR has been achieved.
38.        No major problems have been encountered with the twelve highway
subsector loans totalling $650 million. A further highway project is
envisaged to continue the initiatives taken under the first highway sector
loan (1678-YU, 1979) to develop regional and feeder roads in the lesser
developed regions.
39.        A $44 million loan for the expansion of the Port of Bar (1060-YU,
1974) was nearly completed when the port was severely damaged by the 1979
earthquakes. Rehabilitation is now proceeding through the $50 million
Earthquake Rehabilitation Loan (1768-YU, 1979).
40.        Two loans, totalling $94 million for pipelines, although delayed
by procedural and implementation problems, are expected to be completed
during 1981.
C. The Railway Subsector
Organization
41.        The railway system in Yugoslavia consists of eight independent
Railway Transport Enterprises (RTE) 1/, each serving a Republic or Province.
*         Until 1978 there were only five RTEs, but in that year RTE Belgrade, whose
network had covered Serbia, Montenegro, Kosovo and Vojvodina, was split into
four separate RTEs, each serving its own Republic or Province. The three
smallest RTEs, Skopje, Titograd and Pristina, carry only about 6% of total
traffic.
42.        Although each RTE operates independently, CYR, effectively an
agency of the RTEs, serves as the coordinating agency responsible for joint
1/  Some of the railways are Railway Transport Enterprises (RTEs) while some,
including Pristina, are Railway Transport Organizations (RTOs). There is
no significant difference in the status of RTEs and RTOs. For
convenience they are referred to collectively in this report as RTEs
while Pristina is referred to as RTO Pristina.



- 12 -
operations, timetables, wagon utilization, revenue distribution, planning,
the setting of safety and technical standards, and provides technical
assistance, particularly to the smaller and less developed RTEs.
43.      Each RTE consists of an association of Basic Organizations of
Associated Labor (BOAL). BOALs engaged on purely railway activities must by
law join together in the RTE, while BOALs covering activities only partly
related to the railways have a looser form of association and are not
part of the RTE. A typical RTE has a director general and three to five
assistant directors. Management is appointed by and is responsible to a
workers' council.  Management of the RTEs has always been technically
competent in traditional railway disciplines and it has been strengthened in
recent years in planning and marketing. However, a considerable disparity
exists in management strength and capability between the old and well
established RTEs and certain of the smaller and newer RTEs which became
operational in 1978.
Staffing
44.      After 1965 the total staff of all RTEs was reduced by almost 21,000
to about 118,500 at the end of 1976, largely due to modernization and
closure of uneconomic lines. Although numbers have been further reduced
during the course of the Fifth Project to about 115,600 at the end of 1979,
due to difficulties in discharging staff in Yugoslavia, the staffing target
of 108,500 by the end of 1980, agreed under the Fifth Railway project, is
unlikely to be met. However, due to higher than forecast traffic,
productivity, measured as thousands of traffic units per staff member, has
risen from 261 in 1976 to 311 in 1979. Targets under the Fifth Project were
293 in 1978 and 342 in 1980.
Communities of Interest and Compensation Payments
45.      In each Republic/Province a COI comprising a RTE and its users has
been established with responsibility for the development and implementation
of railway policies covering traffic, financing and investment plans. The
COIs form a direct link between the railways and the economy and are
concerned with the extent, the efficiency and the cost of the service
rendered by the railways. A COI for RTO Pristina has been established;
however the Social Agreement is subject to review and acceptance by the
Assembly of Kosovo. This acceptance and evidence that the COI has started
operating will be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan (Loan
Agreement Section 7.01 (c)). In July 1977, a Social Agreement on Economic
and Other Measures needed to Provide Normal Economic Conditions for the
Railways (SAE) was signed by the Federal, Republican and Provincial
Governments and the CYR. 1/ Its objective was to provide a sound economic
1/ This Social Agreement covered the period to the end of 1980 and will be
replaced by a new agreement currently being considered by the Federal
Government. This new agreement will reflect Government policy of
continuing reduction of compensation payments aimed at their eventual
elimination. The provisions of the 1977 agreement relating to
compensation payments remain in force meanwhile.



- 13 -
and financial environment for the railways who were suffering continuous
liquidity problems since Government approved tariffs lagged behind rising
costs as a result of the Government's anti-inflationary pricing policies.
The most important provision of the SAE was for the supplementing of
railways' tariff revenues by monthly compensation payments.l/ The payments,
which are fixed a year in advance to enable forward planning and financial
discipline and are linked to traffic volume and efficiency of operations,
have resulted in a substantial improvement in the liquidity position of the
railways. These compensation payments by COI members provide a strong
incentive for the COIs to seek improvements in the railways' efficiency.
Performance Under Previous Railway Projects
46.      Since 1963 the Bank has assisted Yugoslav Railways through six
projects with loans totalling $362 million of which the last, signed in
November 1979, was for $14 million for restoration of earthquake damaged
facilities of RTE Titograd in Montenegro.
47.      The Second Railway Project (Loan 395-YU) was a very ambitious
project covering electrification of main lines, signalling and
telecommunications and construction or modernization of six major
marshalling yards. The OED Project Evaluation Report (Report No. 563 of
November 9, 1974) was critical of the size and complexity of the project and
inadequate project preparation and recommended the inclusion in future
projects of action plans covering technical, financial and institutional
aspects. These recommendations were in large measure incorporated in the
Fourth and Fifth Railway Projects with encouraging results.
48.      The Third Project (Loan 531-YU) assisted the financing of the
Belgrade-Bar railroad. The Fourth Project (Loan 1026-YU; 1974; $93 million)
financed the completion of investments from an earlier modernization program
in all RTEs as well as related investments needed to maximize benefits.
Investments were delayed by shortage of investment funds, but all should be
complete by mid-1981. The Fifth Project (Loan 1534-YU; 1978; $100 million)
includes works in all eight RTEs and assists track overhaul and
electrification as part of the railways' 1976-80 investment plans, as well
as technical assistance and staff training.
49.      While physical progress under the Fifth Project is generally
satisfactory and operational efficiency has improved, difficulties have been
experienced in attaining the objective of reducing compensation payments
from an average of 22% of total operating revenues in 1976 to 15% in 1980
(para. 45). Although substantial annual tariff increases have been made
during this period, they have been insufficient to combat unexpectedly high
inflation and, compensation payments rose to an average of 26% of revenues
in 1979. At the request of the Bank CYR has formally agreed to make
proposals for the reduction and ultimate elimination of compensation
payments. Appropriate levels of compensation for each RTE will then be
established in agreement with the Bank by September 30, 1981.
1/ Termed compensation payments by the Yugoslavs as being compensation
for tariff increases withheld.



- 14 -
50.      Institution building features of the Fourth Project through the
implementation of comprehensive action plans have been successful in
particular in sensitizing the railways to market pressures and in improving
planning. Similar objectives being pursued under the Fifth Project are for
the extension and improvement of CYR's centralized planning and coordinating
function and for the improvement of electric locomotive maintenance
capability.
51.      The appointment of Project Officers, adopted under both the Fourth
and Fifth projects, responsible for all aspects of a group of related
investments has been of particular benefit where responsibility for project
execution had traditionally been shared by BOALs.
RTO PRISTINA
General
52.      RTO Pristina, formerly part of RTE Belgrade, became a separate
operating RTO in March 1978. It is a working organization consisting of
five BOALs responsible for traffic, traction and rolling stock, civil
engineering, electrical and mechanical, and housing and social activities,
together with a Working Community which deals with planning, personnel,
finance and technical and commercial affairs and provides general management.
53.      The railway network consists of 333 route kms, single track,
standard gauge, much of which is in mountainous terrain with steep slopes
and sharp curves. The network consists essentially of two lines, one
north-south and one east-west, which cross at Kosovo Junction, and one
branch line. The north-south line connecting Kraljevo in Serbia with Skopje
in Macedonia is the more important of these and serves as an alternative
route to the main line Belgrade-Nis-Skopje if this international electrified
line has insufficient capacity or is blocked. There are also numerous
industrial sidings, most of which are equipped with their own shunting
locomotives.
54.      In 1979 total volume of freight traffic in RTO Pristina was 246
million ton-km, consisting of 1.8 million tons of originating traffic and
1.1 million tons of inward traffic. Most of the traffic consisted of bulk
commodities moved over long distances and related to the mining, metallurgy
and chemical indutry complexes in Kosovo. Freight tonnages handled
increased by about 4.0% from 1978 to 1979, and are expected to grow at a
rapid rate in the near future.  Passenger traffic, which in 1979 consisted
of about 4 million passengers, travelling 163 million passenger kms over
mainly short distances, is also expected to increase.
PART IV - THE INVESTMENT PLAN AND THE PROJECT
A. RTO Pristina's Investment Plan
55.      RTO Pristina's Investment Plan is part of Kosovo's Provincial
Development Plan 1981-1985. Proposed investments during the period total
Din. 2.634 billion ($96.3 million) with an estimated foreign exchange
component of Din. 1.314 billion ($48.0 million).



- 15 -
56.      The principal objective of the Plan is to modernize railway
facilities in Kosovo to improve efficiency, capacity and the competitive
position of the railway and to provide for the substantial increase in
traffic which will arise from the planned development of Kosovo's mineral
and industrial potential.
57.      Originally the Plan had provided for investments totalling Din.
2.780 billion, but was reduced following discussions with the Bank by the
postponement of the construction of a new station building in Kosovo Polje,
the acquisition of a motor train and seven coaches, the modernization of
signalling and telecommunications on the Podijevo-Kosovo Polje-Pec line and
a reduction in the size and scope of the diesel depot. These changes have
contributed to a more balanced investment plan, which is adequate to achieve
the objectives.
58.      A condition of effectiveness of the loan will be the approval of
the Investment Plan and its related Financing Plan, already transmitted to
the Bank, by all concerned authorities (Loan Agreement, Section 7.01 (a)).
B. The Project
Introduction
59.      The proposed project, which is summarized in the Loan and Project
Summary at the beginning of this report and described in detail in the
report "Staff Appraisal of a Railway Project in Kosovo", No. 3225b-YU dated
March 30, 1981, was appraised by a mission which visited Yugoslavia in
February 1980. Negotiations were held in Washington during February 1981.
The Yugoslav delegation was led by Mr. Radunovic, Deputy Federal Secretary
for Finance and included representatives of RTO Pristina, CYR and the
Government of Kosovo. Annex III summarizes key events leading to Board
presentation, special Bank actions needed for project implementation and the
special conditions provided for in the Loan Agreement.
60.      The three-year project comprises the 1981-83 slice of the
Investment Plan aimed at improving the capacity and efficiency of the rail
network in Kosovo which is the weakest part of the Yugoslav system. The
principal components are (a) the reconstruction of Kosovo Junction, (b) the
installation of modern signalling and telecommunications on the
Lesak-Djeneral Jankovic main line, (c) the procurement of rolling stock and
integrated transport equipment and (d) training and technical assistance.
Reconstruction of Kosovo Junction
61.      The present yard has insufficient capacity resulting in much double
shunting, as well as main line shunting, which gives rise to congestion and
delays. The proposed yard, based on a consultant's study, with improved
layout, additional tracks and two diesel shunting locomotives, will improve
operational efficiency and eliminate the delays. Safety will be generally
improved by the introduction of an electrical signalling system. Two
platforms will also be provided at the passenger station.



- 16 -
62.      No diesel depot at present exists in Kosovo and the replacement of
steam by diesel locomotives makes provision of a diesel depot for servicing
the locomotives essential. The old steam depot is badly located, is
unsuitable for diesel locomotive servicing and will be modified for use as a
maintenance shop for permanent way equipment. A fleet of about 26
locomotives and motor trains will use the new depot for daily inspections
and scheduled maintenance and its provision should ensure a high standard of
locomotive availability.
Traction, Rolling Stock and Integrated Transport
63.      In 1978, inefficient steam locomotives provided half the traction
power for RTO Pristina and almost one-third in 1979. These are being
replaced by diesels. Traction capability has been greatly improved by the
receipt during 1980 of six new diesel locomotives from Canada and of five
used diesel locomotives made surplus by electrification at RTE Sarajevo.
Rolling stock acquisitions under the proposed project would consist of four
diesel motor trains and about 40 freight wagons to replace wagons over 40
years old, which are no longer able to be repaired. Notwithstanding the
planned purchase of 180 larger capacity freight cars over the 5 year plan
period, and improved operations, RTO Pristina will remain a net borrower of
freight cars from other RTEs. It will make arrangements, within the limits
of its powers, to borrow the appropriate number of freight cars, as and when
needed (Loan Agreement, Section 4.08). Integrated transport investments
will be mainly in forklifts and pallets and cranes.
Signalling and Telecommunications
64.      RTO Pristina has an old mechanical signalling system for which
spares are now unobtainable and which is below modern safety standards.
Following the recommendations of a study by consultants, the main line
Lesak-Djeneral Jankovic is to be equipped with a modern electrical
signalling system with automatic block between stations. Together with an
efficient telecommunications system, which is also to be provided, this will
increase speeds and safety standards as well as reducing presently excessive
maintenance costs.
Training and Technical Assistance
65.      While project investments and the recently acquired diesel
traction should provide a substantial improvement in operations, close
cooperation from neighboring RTEs will be necessary to handle the forecast
traffic until the new facilities are available. A critical need, however,
is for training and technical assistance to improve managerial and
operational capability. The project provides for a study of information
systems and management organization to be carried out by qualified
consultants acceptable to the Bank (Loan Agreement, Section 3.02 (b)).
Provision is made also for technical assistance in planning and control of
freight operations to maximize benefits from the proposed investments as
well as for staff training. It is estimated that consultancy assistance
will total about thirty-five man-months at a total cost including per diem
and local travel of about US$10,000 per month. A program of training will
include training for senior and middle management of operating technical and



- 17 -
finance departments and technicians for the switch to diesel traction; it is
expected that the program will total about 400 man-months and will be
prepared with the assistance of the consultancy studies included under the
project.
Cost Estimates
66.      Cost estimates were prepared by RTO Pristina with the assistance of
CYR and the Institute of the Faculty of Transport, Belgrade, based on
detailed engineering. The estimated total project cost in Din. 1,846
million ($67.5 million) with an estimated foreign exchange component of Din.
938 million ($34.3 million, 51% of total). Estimates are based on mid-1980
prices, take into account the 1980 devaluation of the dinar and include
import duties and local taxes in domestic costs. Physical contingencies of
10% have been included for all items except traction and rolling stock and
price contingencies have been estimated separately for local and foreign
costs.
Financing Plan
67.      The proposed Bank loan of $34 million represents the total
estimated foreign costs of the project. Of total project costs, the
estimated internal resources of RTO Pristina will provide approximately $8.0
million and suppliers credits about $2.0 million. The Kosovo government has
given assurances that it will provide the balance of funds amounting to
approximately $24.0 million. The adoption of decisions or the provision of
assurances by the Kosovo authorities, satisfactory to the Bank, for the
provision of these funds will be a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed loan (Loan Agreement, Recital F and Section 7.01 (d)). RTO
Pristina has given assurances that it will not, without the prior approval
of the Bank, undertake in any one year investments beyond those included in
the project in excess of $3.0 million equivalent (Loan Agreement, Section
3.06 (c) (iii)). Also, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, RTO Pristina
will not incur debt beyond a debt coverage ratio of 1.2 for 1981 and 1982
and 1.4 thereafter (Loan Agreement, Section 5.05 (a)).
Procurement and Disbursement
68.      The proposed Bank Loan would be disbursed against the investments
in signalling and telecommunications (95% of estimated costs) and the
procurement of freight cars (80% of estimated costs) both of which are
suitable for international competitive bidding. Procurement will be in
accordance with Bank procurement guidelines with domestic suppliers being
accorded a preference of 15% or the customs duty, whichever is the lower,
for supply of equipment. The proposed Bank loan will also cover 100% of the
costs of technical assistance and training ($0.7 million). It is
anticipated that about 28% of the Bank Loan would be disbursed in FY82, 44%
in FY83, and the balance in FY84.
Lending Arrangements
69.      The proposed loan would be made to RTO Pristina for a period of 15
years, including 3 years of grace, and guaranteed by the Federal government.



- 18 -
Management, Staff and Training
70.      Because RTO Pristina is a relatively new and small organization it
has relied on receiving assistance in planning, design and specialized
fields from CYR, RTE Belgrade and outside organizations. An agreement
between RTO Pristina and CYR for CYR to provide technical assistance in
procurement and updating for the project will be a condition of
effectiveness of the loan (Loan Agreement, Section 7.01 (e)). Managerial
and planning capabilities require strengthening and RTO Pristina has agreed
to employ consultants to make proposals for the improvement of top level
organization. In addition, to strengthen the Planning and Development
Department, an engineer and an economist will be hired 6 months from loan
signing (Loan Agreement, Section 4.01 (b) (ii)). Project Managers for the
reconstruction of Kosovo Junction and the installation of signalling and
telecommunications will also be appointed (Loan Agreement, Section 3.07).
Implementation of the project is estimated to provide over 1,500 man years
of work in Kosovo. Upon completion however the project will have a major
impact on staff. The switch to diesel traction will require more highly
skilled staff and the modernization of signalling, the new freight yard and
tracks will result in improved operational efficiency with reduced
manpower. A reduction of 13.5% from present total strength of 2,572 in 1980
to 2,227 in 1985 is expected and RTO Pristina will prepare, within nine
months from loan signing (Loan Agreement, Section 4.06 (b) (ii), a
comprehensive manpower plan, as part of its Action Plan.
Action Plan
71.      Besides RTO Pristina, its BOALs and the COI, railway decisions may
involve the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Provincial
Government of Kosovo as well as organizations such as the Chamber of
Economy. Under the Fourth and Fifth Projects CYR and each RTE established a
comprehensive Action Plan, an important instrument for reaching a common
understanding by all concerned on objectives and responsibilities, and on
the measures and time required for their achievement. RTO Pristinas Action
Plan addresses itself to improvements in organization, planning,
investments, marketing, productivity, information systems, finance,
government support and staff training. It specifies actions to be taken to
achieve productivity, operational and financial targets and plays a
continuing role in the development of RTO Pristina.
72.      As part of its Action Plan, RTO Pristina has prepared Operational
Plans to improve the utilization of its rolling stock and to serve as a
basis for procurement, renewal and scrapping of traction and rolling stock,
as well as plans for the whole network covering signalling, telecommuni-
cations, data processing and integrated transport. Assurances have been
obtained that RTO Pristina will:
(a) continue to update and implement its Action Plan including its
Operational Plans in collaboration with CYR;
(b) elaborate, in particular, the Operational Plans on freight
traffic operations on the basis of terms of reference agreed
with the Bank, and with technical assistance as required;



- 19 -
(c) develop a training program with consultancy assistance in
collaboration with CYR.
The approval by the RTO and authorities concerned of an Action Plan, as
agreed by the Bank, will be a condition of effectiveness of the loan (Loan
Agreement, Section 7.01 (b)).
Tariffs
73.      Inter-enterprise freight rates are controlled by the Federal
government and have been uniform in all RTEs. Passenger fares are fixed by
Republics and Provinces. This common national freight tariff has created
difficulties for the smaller RTEs, including RTO Pristina, whose operating
costs are comparatively high due to lower traffic densities and levels of
operating efficiency. Although, following representations by the Bank, a
special 33% tariff increase for RTO Pristina was approved in April 1980, in
addition to the 16% increase then granted to all RTEs, and a further country
wide increase of 10% was granted in November 1980, tariffs still remain well
below costs.
74.      In 1979, RTO Pristina's tariff revenues covered only 56% of its
operating costs and compensation payments of about $25 million were needed
to balance its accounts. RTO Pristina intends to remedy this situation by
its planned investment program which should enable unit costs to be reduced
by about one-third in real terms over the period 1981-85 due to more
efficient operation. Substantial tariff increases will still be needed,
however, to reduce the imbalance between costs and revenues and RTO Pristina
has agreed that tariff increases in real terms will be made which should
have the effect of reducing compensation payments to levels to be agreed
under the re-negotiation of covenants of the Fifth Railway Loan Agreement
(para. 49 and Loan Agreement, Section 5.04 (c)).
Accounts and Auditing
75.      Accounts are well maintained on a uniformi government prescribed
basis, with use being made of the RTE Belgrade computer center for a number
of services. Fixed assets are revalued annually on a replacement cost basis
and depreciation rates are fixed at realistic levels.
76.      The accounts of RTO Pristina and each of the BOALs are subject to
annual audit by the Social Accounting Service (SDK). The recent expansion
*         of the capacity of SDK will permit future audits to be expanded in scope and
assurances have been obtained that RTO Pristina's accounts will be audited
annually, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles, by SDK or
another competent independent auditing organization, and that certified
accounts and auditors' reports will be submitted to the Bank within six
months of the end of each financial year (Loan Agreement, Section 5.02).
Economic Justification
77.      Yugoslavia's National Development Plan 1976-80 accorded priority to
the reduction of regional income disparities, development of its national
resources and the generation of employment opportunities. The 1981-85 Plan,
now in its final stage of approval, continues to give high priority to these
objectives.



- 20 -
78.      The economic case for the proposed project for Kosovo's railway
development rests on three grounds: (i) it is a priority investment for the
less-developed Kosovo Province since the backbone of its economic
development is exploitation of its abundant mineral resources generating
long-distance bulk traffic where railways enjoy cost advantages; (ii) it is
a priority investment for the whole Yugoslavian economy since it would help
fulfill in part its strategy of import substitution in fuel by assisting in
coal transport, its strategy for exports, as well as its high priority
objective of faster economic growth for the Kosovo region; and (iii) it is a
priority investment for the Yugoslav transport sector and particularly for
the Yugoslav railway system, since Kosovo's rail facilities, coming under a
newly-formed RT0 constitute the weakest part of the national railway system.
79.      Since RTO Pristina became operational only in 1978, only limited
historical traffic data is available. The RTO's annual traffic consists
largely of originating traffic (1.8 million tons in 1979), principally
minerals and other bulk commodities, while the inward traffic (1.1 million
tons) mainly consists of bulk items such as fertilizer, raw materials,
construction materials, steel sheets and petroleum products. Disruptions
caused by floods that occurred in November 1979 interrupted mainline traffic
between Kosovo Polje and Macedonia from November 1979 to August 1980, and
depressed Kosovo's traffic during this period resulting in tonnages durirng
1980 being about 4% lower than in 1979. Based upon the major mining and
industrial expansion programs currently firmly in progress, and after
discounting significantly planned targets in this regard, it is
conservatively estimated that railway freight traffic will increase by about
11.8% annually during 1979-85, and by about 7.5% during 1980-90. The mining
and industrial enterprises concerned are constructing their own railway
sidings to handle the expected increase in traffic.
80.      About one-third of passenger traffic consists of workers' commuter
traffic between Kosovo-Polje and the industrial/mining works. It is
projected that during 1979-85 passenger traffic will increase at an annual
rate of 2.4%, about two-thirds of which would come from the additional
workers expected to be employed upon completion of the ongoing
mining/industrial expansion program.
81.      The proposed project would not conflict with Kosovo's development
plans for road transport which are designed to improve accessibility to
remote areas and expand capacity mainly for the transportation of the
products of agriculture, agro-industries and other light industries where
road transport has comparative advantages.
82.      The estimated economic return from the whole project is about 22%,            p
rates of return from major components varying between 17% and 40%.  The
sensitivity of the economic rate of return to variations in assumed traffic
growth and project costs has been examined. Assuming a traffic growth of
only 7% per annum during 1979-85 (which is lower than the actual growth rate
of all CYR-traffic during 1976-79), the project would still yield an
economic return of about 15%.  A 20% increase in costs would reduce overall
return from 22% to 16%, while a 20% decline in benefits would reduce it to
about 14%. A decline in overall benefits of 26% or an increase of 36% in
project costs would reduce the rate of return to a minimum of 12%. Since
cost estimates are based on detailed engineering and traffic estimates are
conservative, it is unlikely that such variations will occur.



- 21 -
Risks
83.      The project is not subject to major risks.  Though RTO Pristina is
a newly established RTO, provision is made under the project for the
strengthening of its management capability and for the appointment of
project managers to be responsible for implementation of major project
components. The active association of CYR, which has successfully
implemented previous Bank projects, will also minimize any risks involved in
carrying out the project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
84.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Pristina Railway
Transport Organization, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Socialist
Federal Repuolic of Yugoslavia and the Bank and the Report of the Committee
provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of
the Bank are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
85.      Features of special interest are described in Annex III of this
report.  Special conditions of loan effectiveness are set forth in Section
7.01 of the Loan Agreement. These conditions specify that:
(i) The Investment Plan and Financing Plan as well as the Action
Plan (including the Operational Plans) have been duly
approved by the Borrower and the authorities concerned;
(ii) The Provincial Government of Kosovo has adopted decisions or
given satisfactory assurances for the provision of funds,
including cost overruns required for the project; and
(iii)  The agreement between the Borrower and CYR in respect of
technical assistance, procurement and reporting has entered
into effect.
(iv) The Community of Interest for RTO Pristina has been duly
established and has become operative.
86.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
*         87.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve this proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment
April 7, 1981
Washington, D.C.



-22-                                               ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
TABLE IA
YUGOSLAVIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
YUGOSLAVIA                       REUCIENCE GROUPS (WEICHTED AVESAGYS
LAND AMEA (THOUSAND 50. KM. )                                                      - HDST RECENT ESTIMATE)'A
TOTAL            255.8 SOST lREcGr                                         MIDDLZ INCCME           INDUSTRIALIZED
AGRICULTURAL     142. 7            1960        1 1970 /b ESTIMATE /b           EUOPE                 COQNTRIES
CSP PER CAPITA Mussl                380.0       850.0   2430.0                  2749.5                   9499.2
CIERGT CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KLOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    872.0       1459.0   2035.0                  1641.4                   7021.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPUMATION. MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)    18.4        20.4      22.0
URBAN POPULATlON (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 27. 9      34.8      40.7                   53.9                     76.0
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                     26.0
STATIONRY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        29.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                2095
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. DC.                      72.0 o       0.0      66.0                   77.2                    142.8
PER SQ. IM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    124.0      139 0     154.0                  129.5                    523.3
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        30.S        27.4      25.0                   30.6                     23.5
L5-64 YRS.                        63.2        64.8      66.O                   61.1                    65.1
65 TRS. AND ABOVE                  6.3         7.8       9.0                    82                      11.4
POPULATION GORCTH RATE (PERCEDT)
TOTAL                             1.2         1.0       0.9                    1. 6                    0.7
U-BAN                             3.6         3.2       2.9                    3.3                      1.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    23.0        19.0      18.0                   22.8                     13.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    10.0         9. 0      8.0                    8. 9                     9. I
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             1.4         1.3       1. 1                   1.5                      0.9
FAKILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS  ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..        59.0
OOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FooD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         85.0        93.0    114.0                   113.1                    110.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OP
REQUIREMENTS)                 125.0       130.0    136.0                   125.3                    131.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         93.0        93.0    101.0                    91.0                    98.0
OF WHICE ANIMAL AND PULSE      28.0        32.0      39.0                   39.6                    62.1
CRI1  (AGES 1-4) HDRTALITY RATE     4.0         3.0       2.0                    4.3                     0.8
REALTE
LIPE ESPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   62.0        67.0      69.0                   67.8                    73.5
INFANT MORTALIT RATE (PER
TODUSAND)                          8.0         55.5      34.0                   55.9                    13.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OP
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..          ..
URBAN                              ..          ..
RURAL                              ..          ..        .                      ..
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENr
Of POPUIATION)
TOTAL                              ..          ..
U1RUJ                              ..          ..        .                      ..
RURAL                              ..          ..
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         1616.0      1000.0    762.0                  1030.1                   624.8
POPULArION PER NURSING PERSON    1330. 0S     4L0. 0    409.0                  929.4                   216.9
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED         -
TOTAL                           200.0       179.0    166.0                   289.7                   121.2
URBAN               *.                       70.0      70.0         ..                                  ..
RURAL                              ..      1610.0   1770.0
AMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..        17.0      17.0                   17.0                    17.0
HOUSING
AVERACE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             4.0 o       3.8       3.8
URBAN                             3.3         3.2       3.3
URALm                             4.4         4. 3      4.1
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROCK
TOTAL                             1.6         1.4
URBAN                             1.7         1.3
RURAL                             1.5         1.5 
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OP DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                            55.4        87.9
URIAN                            92.7        98.4
RUIAL                            36.1          . I..



- 23 -                                                ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
TABLE 3A
YUGOSLAVIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
YUCOSLAVIA                        RE?ERE?CE CROUPS (WEIGHTED AVFRAGES
L- IOST RECENT ESTIMATE) a
HOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME           INDUSTRIALIZED
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE h              EUROPE                COUNTRIES
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PIDARY:    TOTAL                 111.0       105.0     100.0                  105.9                   100.1
MALE                113.0       108.0    101.0                   109.3                   102.2
FEMALE              108.0       103.0      99.0                  103.0                   102.3
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 58.0        69.0      79.0                   64.0                    87.1
HALE                 63.0        79.0      83. 0                  71.1                    84.4
FENALE               53.0        58.0      75.0                   56.9                    84.3
OCATIORAL ENROL. (Z OP SECONDARY)  72.0         72.0      75.0                   28.8                    19.0
PUPZL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           33.0        24.0      22.0                   29.4.                   21. 3
SECONDARY                         13.0        27.0      30.0                   26.1                    16.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       77.0        83.0      85.0                     ..                    9.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         3.0        35.0      88.5                   84.6                   339.9
ADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND,_,
POPULATION                        85.0       166.0    210.0                   192.2                   932.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         1.4        88.0     161.0                  118.5                   354.8
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTFREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 69.0        85.0      89.0                   93.0                   327.4
CINEMA ANU&L ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  7.0          4.0       3.8                    5.7                     3.3
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    8344.6       9174.2/d 10065.7/d.
FnLE   (PERCENT)                  35.0        36.5      36.3                   30.4                    36.1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             63.0        51.0      33.0                   37.0                     7.6
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                18.0        23.0      32.0                   29.3                    38.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOZAL                               45.4        45.0      45. 9                  40.9                    44.6
KALE                                60.3        58.3      59.4                   55.9                    58.1
FEM.ALE                             31.0        32.3      32.7                   26.2                    31. 7
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              0.          0.8       0.7                    1.0                     0.8
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   16. 4/e     15. IJ
EIGEEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  41.5/e      41.4f       .
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6. 9j       6. 6/f     .
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   19.0Q/      18. 4jf
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               .           ..
RURAL
ESTtKATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               .
RURAL                              ..          -.  430.0                      385.8
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               .           ..
RURAL                     -                     ..
Nort vallable
Dot *pplicable.
SOTES
La  Thm  group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
_ong the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
fr   Unless othervise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/e   1962; Ld Including migrants workers abroad; La 1963; If 1968.
Most recent estimate of CNF per capita is for 1979. all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



-24-ANNE I
Page 3 of6
-as,    lhaeh th. dota are door f-a  oc--e  te-ocaly lodg.a th. one  s.brisio   ednhb                          It abatid also he fosa  that thor cy  -t  be Latar-
settanaly  cnpa...bl. bec..... .f too I-k of atoaterdian  d.f!otiotte sat  -ohtopt  ..at hr                         ...ntt    raCr i.  heollelt   data.  OTs Sats o.,a.-
th1l.... ...teel to to-ttbe ottore of nartttt., indica.te trteed., ood tbrsaOc taencai  -Oo  daffarore. b--an   eaais
Tbs eafarne   scor  o. (1) th. . .  --utt  jrtp  of tCh. ..J."t  Coancr  an  (2) a ounrygrne  rith nanatet high-'.. snres. J-cat  this th  co-try gron
of tha nojett lto ry fo-tPt for'aptlOuyo  Oil faorac                         .ep sins-  "fiddlaltn   RorthOrr   o  618dAtfetC  Ia Iosoc b....                        tLiro  -
eeaia.-1etrlofcra)    To et   atrnc   ate  data the   rrg                          pop.L.istO    eiia   nrit.d.,hnattc  _aa   o   ah aioo   n  abMm-' onyyesat
toat half of th  Looets   to    6-rop h.d    for tha  ttIato,Sat..  nb. carsof c-nrIss san   the indi.cator  dopnd. -o tie.  v-ilability of
dat. 0.4I  sottsifor, ..tiatot   .o iaoarlad ha r.ltI:tsog                  aa  of 00   odiatot-  to  -othr.  Thba.  -rart. ...rC.only uoftl Iscop.C h. nb
wfsn  stsseo ai a eisa   -Ia tin o-otr  ad raferonos arspa.
LAIM ARI  itheese  aq.k-e)                                                                      ?eeattian or rt-aatta-  Papuletten ditted  by astr 00 prota*py-
Totl-ttlsrft    raOrei    otaa   .dila   ies                                                    s.inta     qaltftsd fr-t a atlol aboe1 at mh_ rsityPI-t.
hasedes-L ...t. iat  ofIsrtourlrasetenaril   rprnnsl                                           oalto    arariaPaay-Ppu:,lat     dicda  h  n a   f  r.ttta
iFf Pin CMFTIA (1191 C- G"  par -aptia. a.as   ttre   noakta Pri.-, COd>                          af .sdrrl) dvddb  theia  apcar                           ra   optlbd
solatod by                    - orrisnthod a. Wct1d hook  ,to    1977-79 haste)  1960. ,ial   opbi   o   raa    eca   s   paato   haptlan    -
1970. sod  1H7Htst.                                                                             bhhttoasr,.Hsptl   r   etbhhs                              heansalt. staffe
Mby at 1.e.      p- byaicteP.tfaheb-iet.aIa  p`oriist  tra lpsl   -ustd,-
uOnT CoCwSMTZtOo PRa  CAPITA - too_l  _ouatioo af    -                Wnnto   -togy (cshy.as  o   tldd                       Poa. -pasa   eaar   old  hltb ad  adta
dent.           -                                                                          eit..  asaga at ndiataitn.Fo   cetIl puaoae obs   oai-1
tatl  oroetta.ifd-far(allhno)-  s o  jIr  ;  940  170, tad  197H                  tiahn    e           ctsl) tad  h  fota  _ahs  ati _t ........ dto atdW h
san                                                        19stis;l0i.170  st  96  ec.deraaitol. of tosael  hitPitans oar houdki.   -d -tat                     ty  -tba . st er
Panalathon Poolactiota                                                 A~~~~~~~~~"  "l- hoesol  consistsI of   sacu I of  nbrtaal  aba  hor  hiis dL- ire
Maeatr  I   sa   01      Currsfat.b pousto  yon too   ohre  anp.,_ 19r-sa  ahe.ir. natonads  by thoarder r lodoe  nab                         rfyeOb           lddi
1.5.5. so  fansie bf a8 s-adao    Cthilioh t ait, 77.  fotl.,ft Cat pore-                  ttrnL hcsa, asporaly..   bnolit4.        a - cdj-  - on    Y -  t aom    sraadts  sad
nacrnf t  eriltyrae  la  hrocha.  avlasoals   ec0.~                oo CuIetdt  l
teob  cuatr   tatosehebinrathrsteJ---snto  fataiy                                     Cornioe  trltoswthafnpcr   t   ira    antr  a   scnt.
nedtatifly      I77na fat  ooioeot  opCata                                             o       Potal. urbo r. sot rura  twlbhinsa  asaera... I.-i              t
ta ifna,  fnostility  I  a        . att hary  ouaI    hr   ss  got   tt
the bib rtsi-S tqua  to-- aba  esabrated to  Plao  he t3   Ptutu
iaeaeaor.ti  ha aa-iioat cd   of tah   friliy   rea  trs.n                        Oiotdtootoc  tah.
-tefnplaotsnt 1...1 of  tal  oaj   t trttu          rate, -biciacsr   eaoae                 anr  echeol- ttl.nl ad, in Jaa   )ra  totl,s. and tn
_t_bo  nnten.     t                                                                     Secnd.,sohal-  ena. -l an  tna. -caapnadasa--a-ononor
anf l_.,                              tThroatiateti.   J                                                       ttrell  -I. (trrn  of autey       oahtllatuh
taaltin  s    bnuooe  cactt.   -CilPf   l- thra.  cki -pl(5-                             iolJeaoblcl  idctls.Crofetpotan   hik  praa  aapa
leale; 190. 171.  at 17t daa.                                                Pnnl-esthrtata - otoar. sota.cWdae -_tJ tal anndont  on ld     to
T-ca pop-etos  (o   91h.  907.so_P77.Cara  odob                                                                  lta
1-ltcaGot  hate Ii (arcnt 1-cuhde-ata   rwbrtst   ra   Oa                                 tdl liesort" irr r df.-, hears. tdl_t(be  o   e  anfia
Isls   a   90h.1h-C.st17-9                                                                    sspraoaa.   oa   dl   otaioCpdh   ar   a   or
trdePstA   Pas,orthCeq)-                     -.0.anh   perc. (heoen  at_nIt-yeOf           Po dsona Coc         .... .heua ..d  t  f  C Thot)  -f rs panse  pera   rty   t
papulatlon; 1960. 1970. ant 19TH dato.                        ants nonthag lees then aithi psreaoa; soeluodes   hsrlashosa,C.hagrfoa end
Jel,PaaOe     br           -teore  of ouriedr ac0s1) y- Prntg   tnr tind15                      ttenta  aoia              lisaha ..,g,y   C.t.aib
el   ar4  d  ae -"`)" 'btor as.. sea s dpout      .            .*faarayip-                             puli  neCtouan   poplaiC               P nelsa  oclosee pPC aoIdar
P  n                                                                                             dliIISto asre    nd in ysar. cis  tetat tir     t tPatai      e  oatet
mesi         R a    ost)  hc aPrt-C -t-blccdotaoctha- (..  ao-sd                      doe            .ra   ... .raydco  car - Caias d- oat Ys-ba   an the    . e.he  of.
Catonlh  .rrs  p          960u7nt prdc 19r70i7.                                                A`41it. 970.set  99-ata
Patstin  sre0 !  Otlti      - (crco  of  breirathaP-tb) ... Cote      sid,ab -la utica.                                                                     w         L.
anpotta.h an    hapth  satdok. Aonuplie .L               lt  Ot5ltat            ds             pt  aen   ndu           lyd hut PnetLtti..gdI hose _va  atto4.a
lasastiansood  o fod-97 dtaastu. oo   os.   ttatiaio.tfiP-                            ltii t   to- c(piou  toss dac.isti -a   n  otP---S-bla; 1940 ri an
sadr- san     Cd diiiui-tof ip ifto.  a           aloio10paet  o    at  tt- *.ariool                        I... (acat) -  Lebar for.C. tofrea,foatybait
qsitt    for  ll tot eri     ..r.til ..hdil by IM   19k rorie fo                   ".tt   97  a _179tas
Caonpeti ..o ehC.  i          aboi  a. carna   Pctt. Taatst                           oi      tteastpbtad   P.. thts."el.attnl   ao f                      ort._a
bilda  C or. loner     . Pha -ft-caof75atneoftoalpothaant2 f. f                             ocecasaoftoal  olaat              Yonlepooltith         fal nsr   aagotet
ela   rnt   os   oeanfcn    ol,tooadb   4   oteTid                                  190   90 af91Ot,    aa   milstci iainPpstlaie
tsrdta  tIat16-k,17   o   1977'-Jtsen.o
Child laces 1-00 tortolIty tata ltrP tiounoot) - hetoal isatia pea ebocanyad in  cc nitia total lobor toVr....eIs.-
nraadte  eii           rnll   tbs;16.17    Ilot 197  Cddta.                                                    ; Ptetttt_PiltI0
HM _T                   barantsoof Chaestaont(bib  a --hs  d at)  -   potaite                                                                                            _ by_ibs
f -hi-h  C.  dibl.   pt ~      ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~S  orson  rahne  ipront.poraa 0tptcot  sa  perct  0  eran
asbith   heO   1970 sot190 1970 tttIts...,  -II
infase nttattarPa ca ;.srebooatt) - housl dschn of  Ctta utaren  year      tot 4 moce _lonoop
at  anparthcant  it  heeh.                                                     ttiatt Oaoutaroarr Iooatfta  (tt)od  ta t)  urbnLetBocl 
P& cass      A-abtsfec       LI       itdpicaontoooscota,satt.or Cca-,Aslunoaeiecasoinbnatnloleo.hasi
t,o    f  opa(tti urs.so   onlyihcssrahaotnat   af                                            ortiaiy  dqna  htPb nstia   t-fo                           aiarntt    aa
ants,  -uprWaldstnan   cttaaac  orhteresteLhut  cckot                                    Ttea 1 afLotae
anaeaucos   heetaonproscttNhCsoa.pra.    La=ettrycht                     )a       f           rhnee    .fslstet   non  aa   tS  crrot)-urs   o  oa
p -toonne.aa oftaarseto    otosia.tauhercsclctolcltc r- thoa -ar  -tos  so  tai11 ctathi- pt ,,  osnatspas i
fa-nlat o  stC-tpo       by lcastb.. to    ..r ehyc 200asa   t fo.e  eot  ena  ba            oo"teeooaothautr.    Ubacah-alafotaus
~~ (totaL. ari,,  a.) ccal  tsen                             f.aa.
neaP ca  tsltt   h    Oiat    std S1. dapas,)ta    rntonnscer                                                         bsnnl    ftel -ia      5 fa jC_tio ti Papstn_s
P- ne Iantenna tot wessoa   byst-             ho      atatasa a tdthu ab,. of       t          .   1C iy.-tC-dI..    Or.                      ttabf   Paso .,f ..
thetriata PSod. attanlar lane190e llsnP oat..,  60



- 25 -
Annex I
Page 4 of 6
YUGOSLAVIA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount
(million US$ at                                               Annual Growth Rates (x)
Indicator                    current prices)                                      Actual                          c/               Projected d/
1978             1974       1975       1976       1977        1978       1979       1980       1981       1982      1983
NATIUNAL ACCOUNIs
Gross domestic product a/          52,674             14.8        3.6        3.4        7.7        6.6         7.1        4.1        4.3        4.4       4.0
Agriculture                       6,595              5.6       -6.6        9.6        5.3        5.0        5.5        4.0        4.0        4.0       4.0
Industry                         22,415             17.5        6.8        3.9        9.5        8.7        8.6        4.5        4.8        5.1       5.1
bervices                         18,019              3.0        4.3        0.2        6.1        9.2        5.2        3.7        3.7        3.7       3.7
Consumption                        41,531             20.7        0.9       -2.2       10.7        5.0        5.6         3.9        3.7        3.8       3.9
Gross investment                   17,561              8.6        8.8        6.0       12.4        9.7       15.7       -1.3         1.2        2.8       2.7
Exports ot GNFS                     8,655              2.2       -8.3       10.6       -4.4       -1.0        8.0         7.9        7.9        7.9       7.9
Imports of GNFb                    12,247             12.7       -8.1       -5.0       12.5        0.0       18.5       -0.3         1.7        3.2       3.5
Gross national savings             14,977             -5.2        8.2       14.6       -0.6         -           -          -          -          -         -
PKICEb
GDP dellator                          252.7          134.9      164.3      201.4      221.5      252.7       312.8         -
Exchange rate                           18.6          15.9       17.4       18.2       18.3       18.6       19.0          -
Share of GOP at Market Prices (%)                                           Average Annual Increase (M)
(at current prices) b/                                                 (at constant 1972 prices)
1960     1970        1975      1980       1985       1990                 1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85  1985-90
Gross Domestic Product           100.0    100.0       100.0    100.0       100.0      100.0                    5.9        6.5        5.6        4.5       6.5
Agriculture                     22.5      16.1       13.9      12.6       12.2       10.9                   3.3        2.9        3.9        4.0        4.0
industry                       42.2      37.4        43.8     43.7        45.2       48.7                   6.3        8.3        6.4        5.2       8.1
Services                        29.0      38.1       33.6      34.2       33.1       30.9                   6.9        4.7        4.9        3.8       5.0
Consumption                       67.2      72.8       74.3      78.4       75.7       72.3                   6.5         6.9       4.0         3.8       5.5
Gross investment                  36.5      32.3       33.0      31.4       29.0       28.8                   4.7         5.5       7.0         2.8.      6.3
Exports GNF'                      13.9      18.5       20.4      18.7       22.0       23.6                  10.2        6.7         0.9        7.9       8.0
imports GNFS                      17.5      23.5       27.7      28.3       26.2       24.6                   9.8        6.7        3.0         3.3       4.9
Gross national savings              32.6      29.6       29.9        -          -          -                     5.3        6.2         -          -         -
As X of GDP
1960     1970        1975
PUbLIC FINANCE
Total revenues                      -       33.1       36.8
Total expenaitures                  -       33.2       37.2
Surplus (+) or aeticit ()           -        0.1       -0.4
Foreign financing                   -        0.0       -0.4
"THEY, INDICATuRb
GNP growth rate (1)                6.1       6.7        6.0       4.2        6.2
GNP per capita growth rate         5.0       6.6        5.0       3.3        5.3
ICuK                               5.4       4.6        5.8       6.8        4.6
Import elasticity                  1.6       1.0        0.5       0.7        0.8
a/  At market prices; components are expressed at factor costs and will not add due to exclusion of net indirect taxes and subsidies.
b/  Projected years at constant prices.
c   E Estimate.
*    d/  Projections do not reflect Yugoslav targets for the draft 1981-85 Plan; these will be evaluated by a Bank mission once the plan
has been tinalized.
EMENA IC
June 4, 1980



- 26 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
YUGOSLAVIA - EXTERNAL TRADE
Amount                                                   Annual Growth Rates (Z)
(million Ub  at                                              (at constant 1972 prices)
Indocator                    current prices)                                    Actual          -e                               Projected f/
1978             1974       1975       1976       1977       1978      1979       1980       1981       1982      1983
EXCiENAL TKAD.
Merchandise exports                 5,671             0.0        0.0       14.5       -5.3        1.0        0.0        7.9        7.8        7.9      7.9
Primary al                       1,304            -10.8       -3.1       16.6        3.9       1.5        2.7        7.6        7.4        7.5       7.6
Maonufactures bI                 4,637              3.5        0.4       13.9       -8.8       0.8       -3.0        8.0        8.0        8.0       8.0
l.erchandise imports                9,988            16.9       -2.8       -6.5       18.5        3.8        8.0        0.0        1.9       3.5       4.0
Food                                605            13.6      -40.9       45.8       4.3      -24.2       56.7        0.0        2.0        4.0       5.0
Petroleum  c/                    1,432            -11.4       -5.0       00.1      12.0        11.6      10.6        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
.achinery and equspuent-          3.634            16.4       22.3       -8.8       17.8        7.1       22.7        0.0       2.0        3.5       4.5
utners                           4,317             22.2      -11.9      -12.7       22.1       4.4       13.1        0.0        2.0        4.0       4.0
Pulo;"
Export pr-ce index                                  158        172        180        202        220       253        276.1      301.3      325.6    348.5
Import price index                   1972   100    175         184        189       216        226        269        277.0      304.2      329.0    351.7
'recms oL trade in...                                90.3       93.5       95.2       93.5       97.3      94.0       99.7       99.0       99.0      99.0
Composition of Merchandise (X)                                             Average Annoal Increase (X)
(at current prices) d/                                                (at constant 1972 prices)
1960       1970      1975       1980       1985       1990                 1960-70   1970-75   1975-80  1980-85  1985-90
txports                                    100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0                  8.1         5.7       3.6       7.9       8.0
Promary a/                                49.6       29.4       19.5       24.6      24.3        24.3                   -        -1.3        5.0       7.6       8.4
Hiacu.accoceo b/                          50.4       70.6       80.5       75.4       75.7      75.7                    -         8.1        2.9       8.0       8.0
Imports                                    100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0                  9.0        7.4        4.5       3.7       5.2
Foom                                       9.1        7.2        5.5        5.6        5.7       6.0                    -         5.0       -0.2       4.3       6.4
Petroleum c/                               5.4        4.8       12.3        6.6        5.5        4.9                   -         8.2        6.5       0.0       3.0
sachinery and equipment                   36.8       33.2       33.9       42.6       43.7      45.3                     -        9.4        9.2       4.2       6.0
Others                                    48.7       54.8       48.3       45.3       45.1      43.8                    -         6.0        2.0       3.7       4.6
Share of Trade with                    Share of Trade with
Indstcial Countries (           Developing Countries (Z)        Capital Surplus Oil Exporters (Z)   Centrally Planned Economies (2)
1965     1970      1975         1965      1970  1  1975            1965      1970      1975               1965      1970      1976
DIi5CIEUN OF T.ADE
Exports                         40.1      53.3      34.0         17.4      13.6      16.8            0.4       0.7      2.1                42.1      32.4     47.1
Pr-macy                       61.0      70.2      54.0          9.1      8.2       8.9             0.2      0.2       1.9                29.7     21.4      35.2
Ia.ufactures                 24.0      41.9      26.0         23.8      17.2     20.0             0.6      1.0       2.1                51.6      39.9     51.9
imports                         55.3      66.1      59.1         16.0      12.7     15.7             0.1      0.1       0.6                28.6      21.1     24.6
a/ 01CC 0-4
b/ aITC 5-8
c/ aITC 3; includes lubricants, coal and electricity.
d   Projectel years at constant prices.
e/  Estimates owing to changes in valuing trade, components do not add up to totals, nor do aggregate price and volume indices equal value growth between
1978 and 1979 shown in next table.
t/  Projections do not reflect Yugoslav targets for the draft 1981-85 Plan; these will be evaluated by a Bank mission once the plan has been finalized.
EMENA IC
June 4, 1980



- 27 -
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
YUGOSLAVIA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS  EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(US$ millions)
Indicat-r                                                                    Actual                                                                   Pro tered
1970       1974        1975       1976        1977        1978      1979        1980        1981       1982        1983        1985       1990
AALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exporta of gords ama services                   2,967      7,410       8,172       9,282     10,074      11,665      '4,27'    15,435      17,936      20,674     23,653      30,785      56,909
of which;  nerch-odias f.o.b.                1,680       3,805       4,072      4,878       5,254       5,671      6,794      8,115       9,549     11,131      12,156      17,064     33,795
Imporat at goods and services                  3,368       8,600       9,175      9,112      11,656      12,702      17,937    18,827      21,306     24,069      26,944      33,589     58,059
of ehich: Mt-rcha-d-oe c.i.f.                2,874       7,520       7,697      7,367       9,634       9,988     14,019    15,692       17,553     19,655      21,655      27,059     47,374
Net traoatore                                      61           -          -           -                      -                     -           - _-                               - _
Carrentaccouot balaoce a/                        -340     -1,190      -1,003         170     -1,582      -1,017     -3,661    -3,392       -3,370     -3,395      -3,793      -2,804     -1,150
pfcvatl d -recc i - teset---
oLT loanc  (-et)                                  210        482       1,076       1,093      1,402       1,157       1,009     3,955       4,061      4,223       4,416       4,059      3,245
Osficeal                                         55        232         328        427         240         135           -        64          91         154        145         138         a4
Private                                        155         250         748        666       1,162       1,915           -     3,891       3,970      4,068       4,271       3,921      3,182
cth-e capital                                     -81        270         127         -47        -19         182         782      -178        -231        -290       -591        -613       -767
Change i reseerve                                 186        438        -200     -1,211         199        -315       1,870      -386        -461       -538        -625        -642     -1,329
Ilteroatot.al resorves -                            -      1,609       1,809      3,020       2,821       3,136      1,968      2,203       2,663      3,201       3,826       5,038     10,886
Of wh-ch: Gold                                    -         62          62          62         64          69          73
teserves as eonths imports                                      2.2        2.4         4.0         2.9        3.0         1.3        1.4        1.5         1.6        1.7         1.8         2.3
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Groos dssbar--,aesta                              640      1,426       2,171       2,096      2,665       2,700       2,438     5,367       5,793       6,519      7,300       8,662      11,679
Ofificaal grants                                                                                                                                                                   
Concesaional Icans                               67        170         134        134         159          29          13        12
DAC                                            0         135          71         62          66          11         11         11           _          _           _           _          _
OPEC                                                       -                                  -          -           -           -                -          -
IDA                                            -           -           -          -           -           -          -          -           -          -           -           -          -
Oth-r                                         67          35          63         72          93          18           2         1
don-concessi.o.l loans                         573       1,256       2,037      1,962       2,506       2,671      2,425      5,355      5,793       6,519       7,300      8,662      11,679
Officeal e-porto redot                        39         134         203        283          75          74          -         66          96        115         127         146        188
IbtD                                          37          90         154        119         133         180        294        281         326        349         359        360         389
Otner m.ltiater-l                               -          -           -           -          -           8          24        24          12                -           -                -
Innate                                       497       1,032       1,680      1,560       2,298       2,409      2,107      4,983      5,359       6,055       6,814      8,157      11,102
Yugoeslv report cre--t (oet)                     (-35)     (-130)       (-80)      (-100)     (-213)      (-130)      1-130)    (-177)      (-230)      (-2909     (-501)      (-613)      (-766)
Etetecal dobt
debt outstanding and c/
disbrsed                                   1,933       4,926       5,820      7,145       8,946      11,014     13,645    16,129       20,190     24,412      28,289      37,143     57,172
Ofe1c-al                                     885       1,647       1,934      2,395       2,712       2,960      3,326      3,023      3,115       3,269       3,414      3,739       4,278
Private                                    1,048       3,279       3,886      4,750       6,234       8,054     10,319    13,106      17,075      21,143      25,415     33,404      52,893
Uldidb-r-rd debt                                so.    1,262         2,784      2,551       3,212         0.0.     1,056      1,268 1,281            1,303       1,355       1,455      1,551
Debt so racer
Total  service pay-ents                         503      1,217       1,437      1,440       1,612       1,865      2,120      2,046       2,720      3,653       4,619       7,105     12,583
Interest                                     128         285         343        364         381         455        816        634        988       1,358       1,735      2,502       4,149
Pay-eata 00 2 exports                            16.9       16.4        17.6        15.5       16.0        15.9        14.9      13.3        15.2       17.7        19.5        23.1       22.1
Average inereset rate 00 aev loans (2)              7.1        6.4         8.1         7.1         7.4        7.7         8.0       8.0         8.1         8.1        8.1         8.1         8.1
Off_cl                                            7.0        6.0         8.3         7.0        7.3         7.7                                     -                -
P.c-tec                                           7.5      1I.5          7.5         8.6        9.3                                -                           -                 -
Avrrage natority of 0.. loaI-   (yearo)            16.3        18.0       15.2        18.3        15.4       15.1        10.8       10.4       10.1        10.1       10.1        10.0         9.8
Official                                         18.5       19.O        16.5        10.0       15.9        15.1         -         -
Frie_tr                                          10.9        8.1        10.9         5.7        7.5         -
a/  Revised eseimates af tho  --rrent account deficit is $2,200 ma. far 1980.  Projectio.s  to 1985 do -ot reflect
Yugoslav targets Ior the draft 1981-85 Five YSea Plan-  thea- will be e-aluated by R Ba-k  i-ss-on once the
plan hoe been finali-ed.
b/  Includes estimated toreign assets of commorcial banks.
0/  Extrernl borrowieg reported ie tho hietorioal balance of paymerts is not co--iste-t with enternal dobt data.                                                          EMENA IC
Debt shows as at ead of period.                                                                                                                                     Juse 4, 1980



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 12
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as of February 28, 1981)
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year             Borrower(s)            Purpose           Bank  Undisbursed
Twenty-five Loans fully disbursed                                   732.6
777    1971   SFRY                           Multipurpose Water   45.0       1.8
894    1973   Stopanska Bank Skopje          Agricultural
Industries           31.0      0.1
916     1973   Naftagas                       Gas Pipeline           59.4    19.9
1012    1974   Stopanska Banka Skopje         Industrial Credit    28.0       0.2
1013    1974   Privredna Banka Sarajevo    Industrial Credit    22.0          0.1
1026    1974   Community of Yugoslav
Railways                     Railways              93.0      2.2
1060    1974   Port of Bar                    Harbor Expansion       44.0     4.6
1066    1974   Vodovod Dubrovnik              Water Supply and
Wastewater            6.0      2.0
1129    1975   Vojvodjanska Banka             Agricultural
Credit               50.0      0.8
1173    1975   Jugoslavenski Naftovod         Pipeline               48.4     0.03
1262    1976   Republicki Fond Voda           Water Supply,
Sewerage & Water
Resources            20.0      5.8
1263    1976   Sarajevo Water Supply &        Water Supply &
Sewerage Enterprise           Sewerage             45.0    15.3
1264    1976   Sarajevo Gas Enterprise        Air Pollution
& Naftagas Gas Unit           Control              38.0      7.7
1277    1976   Privredna Banka Sarajevo,
Stopanska Banka Skopje,
Investiciona Banka
Titograd, Kosovska Banka   Second Industrial
Pristina                      Credit.              50.0      5.2
1360    1977   Management Organization        Multipurpose
"Metohija"                    Water                54.0    46.5
1370    1977   Investiciona Banka             Agriculture
Titograd                      Industries            26.0     8.7
1371    1977   Stopanska Banka Skopje         Agriculture
Industries           24.0    14.7
1377    1977   Road Organizations in
Bosnia-Herzegovina,
Serbia, Macedonia, and
Kosovo                       Roads                  56.0     0.5
1469    1977   JUGEL and six Electric
Power Organizations in       Second Power
each Republic                 Transmission         80.0    34.4



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 12
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year             Borrower(s)            Purpose            Bank  Undisbursed
1477    1977   Vojvodjanska Banka             Second Agricul-
tural Credit         75.0       60.1
1534    1978   Community of Yugoslav
Railways                     Railways             100.0       14.7
1535    1978   Road Organizations of
Slovenia, Croatia and
Serbia                       Roads                 80.0       16.7
1561    1978   Elektroprivreda
Bosne i Hercegovine          Hydro Power           73.0       41.8
1611    1978   Kosovska Banka Pristina        Third Industrial
Credit               40.0       16.9
1612    1978   Privredna Banka Sarajevo    Fourth Industrial
Credit               20.0        6.4
1613    1978   Stopanska Banka Skopje         Fourth Industrial
Credit               20.0       15.2
1614    1978   Investiciona Banka             Fourth Industrial
Titograd                      Credit               20.0        5.3
1616    1978   Stopanska Banka Skopje         Macedonia Strezevo
Irrigation           82.0       61.0
1621    1978   Privredna Banka                Bosanska Krajina
Sarajevo                      Agriculture and
Agro-Industries      55.0       52.7
1678    1979   Roads Organizations of
Kosovo, Montenegro,
Vojvodina and Herci-
govina and Macedonia         Roads                148.0       83.4
1756    1979   Zagrebacka Banka               Croatia Sava
Drainage             51.0       51.0
1759    1979   Road Organization of           Earthquake Rehab-
Montenegro                    ilitation-
Highways             21.0       13.5
1768    1979   Port of Bar                    Earthquake Rehab-
ilitation-Port
of Bar               50.0       49.1
1769    1979   Railway Organization           Earthquake Rehab-
of Montenegro                 ilitation-
Railways             14.0       13.0
1801    1980   Vojvodjanska Banka             Third Agricultural
Credit               86.0       86.0
1819    1980   Road Organizations of
Slovenia, Croatia,
Serbia and Vojvodina       Roads                 125.0      125.0



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year             Borrower(s)            Purpose            Bank  Undisbursed
1909a/  1980   Kosovska Banka Pristina        Fifth Industrial
Credit              50.0       50.0
1910a/  1980   Privredna Banka Sarajevo    Fifth Industrial
Credit              30.0       30.0
1911a/  1980   Investiciona Banka             Fifth Industrial
Titograd                      Credit              20.0       20.0
1912a/  1980   Stopanska Banka                Fifth Industrial
Skopje                        Credit              10.0       10.0
Total (less cancellation)                                2,722.5      992.3
of which has been repaid                                  344.8
Total now outstanding                                    2,377.7
Amount sold                              9.2
of which: Amount repaid                8.3                  0.9
Total now held by Bank                                   2,376.8
Total undisbursed                                                    992.3
a/ Not yet effective.
Note:   A loan of $87 million to Investbanka was approved subsequent to the
above date of Statement A; it has not yet been signed.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as at February 28, 1981)
Fiscal                                         Type of          Amount in US$ million
Year             Obligor                      Business          Loan   Equity   Total
1970   International Investment              Investment
Corporation for Yugoslavia          Corporation        -       2.0      2.0
1970/  Zavodi Crvena Zastava Fiat S.p.A.  Automotive
1972/                                         Industry         12.4      0.6    13.0
1980
1971/  Tovarna Automobilov in Motoriev    Automotive
1980     Maribor (TAM)/Klockner-Humboldt   Industry             9.2      0.9    10.1
Deutz A.G. (KHD)
1972/  FAP-FAMOS Belgrade/Daimler-          Automotive
1980     Benz A.G.                            Industry         16.3     0.8    17.1
1972/  Sava Semperit                         Tires             12.5      2.5    15.0
1978/
1980
1973   Belisce-Bel Tvornica Papira           Pulp and Paper   71.9      -       71.9
1974   Zelezarna Jesenice/ARMCO              Special Steel    10.0       -      10.0
1974   Salonit Anhovo                        Cement Plant      10.0     -       10.0
1975   RMK Zenica                            Steel             50.0      -      50.0
1977   Frikom RO Industrija Smrznute         Food and Food
Hrane/Unilever                      Processing        4.0      2.4      6.4
1977   Tvornica Kartona i Ambalaze Cazin  Pulp and Paper
Products         15.6     2.6    18.2
1978   Soko-Mostar                           Hermetic
Compressors       7.0     -        7.0
1980   Investiciona Banka Titograd-
Udruzena Banka                     Tourism           21.0      -       21.0
1980   Radoje Dakic                         Machinery          18.7      -      18.7
1980   Eight Republican/Provincial           Small-Scale
Banks                               Enterprises      31.1      -       31.1
Total Gross Commitments                               289.7    11.8   301.5
less cancellations, terminations,
exchange adjustment, repayment
and sales                                            147.2      5.2   152.4
Total commitments held by IFC                         142.5      6.6   149.1
Total Undisbursed                                     106.2      0.8   107.0



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan 777 Ibar Multipurpose Water: US$45.0 million Loan of June 30, 1971;
Effective Date: May 31, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The main dam is completed and the reservoir is filled. About
one-third of the irrigation network has been completed with the remainder
expected to be completed by end-1981. Project costs have been substantially
above appraisal estimates, but the overrun financing is being provided by
the Province of Kosovo and from Federal sources. After a delay of about
five years, a law has been enacted by the Kosovo Government which is
assisting in the provision of agricultural extension services to the
individual sector. In the absence of land consolidation, on farm
development and use of sprinkler irrigation have been slow. Recently,
organizational arrangements and revised schedule of implementation were
agreed upon, with irrigation of about 400 ha in 1981.
Loan 894 Agricultural Industries (Macedonia): US$31.0 million Loan of May 25
1973: Effective Date: November 28, 1973: Closing Date: June 30,
1981.
All loan funds provided under the project have been committed by
subloan agreements through Stopanska Banka. All but one of the subprojects
financed under the loan have been completed. Progress on this remaining
subproject has been delayed since work ceased after disputes arose between
the contractor and the sub-borrower. These are in the process of being
resolved and work should be resumed shortly. The Closing Date of the loan,
originally December 31, 1978, has been postponed thrice to June 30, 1981, to
permit completion of construction of the last subproject.
Loan 916 Naftagas Pipeline: US$59.4 million Loan of June 25, 1973;
Effective Date: March 22, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The costs of equipment and civil works had increased by end 1975
by about 71% over the appraisal estimate. As a result of this and of a
reallocation of priorities in the use of natural gas, the project was
redefined (Amendments to Loan 916-YU, May 13, 1976, R76-116). Phase I is a
reduced version of the original plan.  Phase II provides for a pipeline
extension to link up with the pipeline constructed under the Sarajevo Air
Pollution Control Project, for which additional Bank financing was
obtained. Naftagas obtained additional local currency financing required
for Phases I and II. A delay of more than three years in project
implementaion has occurred as a result of the increased project costs and
revision of the project. While two of the three sections have been
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12
completed and gas deliveries have commenced, the third section has been
delayed due to the reorganization of the borrower and a consequent change in
project administration of the third section which is now scheduled for
completion by late 1982. This change in project administration for the
third section was approved by the Executive Directors in November 1980
(Second Amendment to Loan 916-YU, November 14, 1980, R80-324).
Loan 1012 Macedonia/Kosovo Industrial Credit: US$28.0 million Loan of June
21, 1974; Effective Date: December 19, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The loan is essentially fully disbursed and the small residual
balance will be cancelled.
Loan 1013 Bosnia-Herzegovina/Montenegro Industrial Credit: US$22.0 million
Loan of June 21, 1974; Effective Date; December 19, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The loan is essentially fully disbursed and the small residual
balance will be cancelled.
Loan 1026 Fourth Railway: US$93.0 million Loan of July 10, 1974: Effective
Date: February 12, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The project consists of the 1974-76 slice of the Railways 1973-77
Investment Plan. Government efforts to combat inflation caused railway
tariffs to lag behind inflation and gave rise to financial and
administrative difficulties which, in turn caused substantial delays in
project implementation. Tariff increases and institutional developments,
including improved investment planning and management, the formation of COIs
and the signing of Social Agreements on railway and transport policies
substantially alleviated these problems. Serious flooding in Macedonia in
1980 has delayed completion of some works by RTE Skopje. Closing date has
been twice postponed, from June 30, 1979 to June 30, 1981, to allow full
utilization of project funds and completion of disbursements on contracts.
Loan 1060 Port of Bar: US$44.0 million Loan of December 11, 1974; Effective
Date:  June 13, 1975; Closing Date:  December 31, 1981
All major port civil works are completed except the grain silo
facility, edible oil reservoirs and the railway marshalling yard. Final
completion of these items had been expected by end 1979. However, the
earthquakes of April/May 1979 in Montenegro resulted in severe damage to
port instalilations, particularly in the older parts of the port, caused
further delays but works are now proceeding. Closing date has been extended
to December 31, 1981 to permit completion of works.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12
Loan 1066 Dubrovnik Water Supply and Wastewater: US$6.0 million Loan of
December 24, 1974; Effective Date: June 26, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Delays in preparation of final designs and tender documents have
put construction about two years behind schedule. Services to the Bank
financed Babin Kuk Hotel Complex (Loan 782-YU) were, however, completed in
time for its initial operation and remaining water supply component has now
been completed. Construction is progressing satisfactorily on the sewerage
component.
Loan 1129 Agricultural Credit: US$50.0 million Loan of June 20, 1975;
Effective Date: February 12, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1980.
The loan is essentially fully disbursed and the small residual
balance will be cancelled.
Loan 1173 Naftovod Oil Pipeline: US$49.0 million Loan of November 19, 1975;
Effective Date: July 28, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The loan is essentially fully disbursed and the small residual
balance will be cancelled.
Loan 1262 Morava Regional Development Project - Water Supply, Sewerage and
Water Resources: US$20.0 million Loan of June 14, 1976; Effective
Date: November 3, 1976; Closing Date; December 31, 1981.
The regional development study undertaken under this project has
provided the basis for the preparation of the proposed Second Morava
Regional Development Project. The flood control and water quality studies
are progressing satisfactorily after initial delays in selecting
consultants. Construction of the Vrutci Dam is about 1-1/2 years behind
schedule due to foundation, design and construction problems which, however,
are being overcome by intensified efforts of the borrower in the supervision
of the contractor and consultation with the panel of experts. Construction
is completed on the principal parts of the Cacak and Titovo Uzice
components, the remainder are well advanced. Feasibility studies on sewage
treatment plants in Cacak and Titovo Uzice have been completed.  The pilot                 J
irrigation components which were delayed pending the establishment of
suitable monitoring arrangements, are underway. The creation of the
Republic Water Community of Interest was delayed due to the longer than
anticipated process of seeking agreement among all the Yugoslav parties
concerned on the structure of the organization. Staffing has been
strengthened in the water authorities in Cacak and Titovo Uzice and in the
Republic Water Community of Interest.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12
Loan 1263 Sarajevo Water Supply and Sewerage: US$45.0 million Loan of June
8, 1976; Effective Date; November 9, 1976; Closing Date: June 30,
1981.
Construction of the water distribution system and sewage
collection is progressing satisfactorily and should be completed by early
1981. Construction of the sewerage treatment plant is underway and expected
to be completed by end 1981.
Loan 1264 Sarajevo Air Pollution Control: US$38.0 million Loan of June 8,
1976; Effective Date: May 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The gas transmission line has been completed and initital
deliveries of gas began in December 1979, one year later than originally
planned. Difficulties in finalizing contracts for the supply of gas were
the major cause of delay. Construction of the gas distribution network and
high presssure loop-line around the city of Sarajevo is proceeding
satisfactorily.
Loan 1277 Second Industrial Credit: US$50.0 million Loan of June 14, 1976;
Effective Date: October 29, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Progress has been satisfactory. The loan is fully committed.
Disbursements are, however, somewhat behind appraisal estimates. Closing
Date was extended by one year to December 31, 1981 to meet payments under
existing orders and letters of credit.
Loan 1360 Metohija Multipurpose Water: US$54.0 million Loan of February 3,
1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Construction of the dam, intake weir and feeder canal are
progressing satisfactorily and overall project progress is about one year
behind schedule. Awards of other procurement contracts are underway and it
is expected that by mid-1981 all major contracts would have been awarded.  A
demonstration irrigation farm of 32 ha involving 28 farmers has been highly
successful.
Loan 1370 Montenegro Agriculture and Agro-Industries: US$26.0 million Loan of
March 10, 1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
Progress of all major works is satisfactory. The winery and the
cold store are completed. Plantations of vineyards and orchards are on
schedule. Irrigation works are nearly completed.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12
Loan 1371 Macedonia Agriculture and Second Agro-Industries: US$24.0 million
Loan of March 10, 1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing Date
June 30, 1982.
Sub-loans for all seven agro-industrial sub-projects have been
approved by the Borrower and loan proceeds for the individual sector have
also been fully committed. Progress in project implementation is slower
than expected due primarily to slow processing of bids and contract
finalization.
Loan 1377 Eighth Highway: US$56.0 million Loan of April 13, 1977; Effective
Date; September 7, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1981.
The loan is essentially fully disbursed and the small residual
balance will be cancelled.
Loan 1469 Second Power Transmission: US$80.0 million Loan of July 11, 1977;
Effective Date: January 31, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Contracts totalling about 90% of the loan amount have been let and
physical execution is underway on the most critical sub-stations and lines.
The tariff study and most of the least cost development study have been
submitted to the Bank. Delays continue to be experienced regarding
management studies, revised interrepublc agreement on joint operations,
remaining portion of least cost development study and securing of foreign
financing for balance of items to be imported.
Loan 1477 Second Agricultural Credit: US$75.0 million Loan of July 29, 1977;
Effective Date: January 30, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
All participating banks have identified the main investors. About
85 percent of loan proceeds were committed as of end-1980 and in the social
sector, all agroindustry investments are in the procurement or
implementation phase; however, the project is about one year behind
appraisal estimates. Measures to speed-up disbursements and overall project
implementation are being discussed with the participating banks. The
project monitoring and evaluation system is working satisfactorily.
Loan 1534 Fifth Railway: US$100 million Loan of April 13, 1978; Effective
Date: September 28, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Bank financed investments are progressing well. The level of
compensation payments is however increasing and substantial tariff increases
have failed to keep pace with inflation. Disbursements are on schedule.
Loan 1535 Ninth Highway: US$80 million Loan of April 13, 1978; Effective
Date: August 10, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Croatia section opened to traffic ahead of schedule. Slovenia and
Serbia sections expected to be completed by fall 1981. Disbursement rate is
satisfactory.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12
Loan 1561 Middle Neretva Hydro Power; US$73 million Loan of May 31, 1978;
Effective Date: November 15, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Contracts for equipment totalling about 75 percent of the loan
amount have been let. Physical progress is satisfactory and relatively
problem free. However, Part B of the project (Mostar power plant), which is
not Bank financed, has been delayed primarily due to additional studies
needed concerning site geology.
Loan 1611 Third Industrial Credit: $40.0 million Loan of July 26, 1978;
Effective Date: November 16, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Commitments to date are about $35.0 million of which about $10.0
million is for special projects. The remainder will be committed for a
further single special project (lead smelter), which is now in final stages
of preparation. Disbursements are now in line with appraisal estimates.
Loans 1612, 1613 and 1614 Fourth Industrial Credit: $20.0 million each
Loans of July 26, 1978; Effective Date: November 16, 1978;
Closing Dates: December 31, 1982.
Loans 1612 and 1614 are almost fully committed. Slower commitment
of Loan 1613 was due to the Borrower underestimating time for completion of
project preparation. Commitment process has now been accelerated.
Disbursements for Loans 1612 and 1614 are well ahead of the disbursements
expected at appraisal, while Loan 1613 is substantially behind.
Loan 1616 Macedonia Strezevo Irrigation: US$82 million Loan of August 23,
1978; Effective Date: February 14, 1979; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982.
Construction of the dam, alimentation canal, main canal and
irrigation network are underway. Thermal pipeline, diversion tunnel and
coffer dam construction have been completed.
Loan 1621 Bosanska-Krajina Agriculture and Agro-Industries: US$55 million
Loan of November 6, 1978; Effective Date: March 28, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Subproject approval and processing of tender documents have been
proceeding more slowly than expected at appraisal. About 40 percent of loan
has been committed. Substantial cost overruns may necessitate a reduction
in scope of the project.
Loan 1678 Tenth Highway: US$148 million Loan of April 9, 1979; Effective
Date: August 14, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The five participating Republics/Provinces have awarded 63
construction contracts, 40 of which have Bank financing. Disbursements are
somewhat ahead of schedule.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12
Loan 1756 Croatia Sava Drainage: US$51 million Loan of October 11, 1979;
Effective Date: April 17, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Contract documents for procurement of drainage works has been
prepared. Consultants have been appointed to study and monitor subsurface
drainage. Progress, although somewhat behind schedule, is satisfactory, but
disbursements are lagging behind appraisal estimates but are expected to
improve following recent strengthening of staff engaged in processing
withdrawal applications.
Loan 1759 Montenegro Earthquake Rehabilitation - Highways: US$21 million
Loan of September 21, 1979; Effective Date: December 19, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Project on schedule, emergency works completed and contracting for
restoration works completed with some works in progress.
Loan 1768 Montenegro Earthquake Rehabilitation - Port of Bar: US$50 million
Loan of November 30, 1979; Effective Date: April 29, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Project implementation about nine months behind schedule due to
delays in preparation of final designs and bidding documents.
Loan 1769 Montenegro Earthquake Rehabilitation - Railways: US$14 million loan
of November 30, 1979; Effective Date: April 29, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
Disbursements of about $1 million for urgent reconstruction works
have been made. Contracting procedures for remaining works have been slow
and disbursements are behind schedule.
Loan 1801 Third Agricultural Credit: US$86 million Loan of February 29, 1980
Effective Date: August 25, 1980; Closing Date: March 31, 1985.
About 25 percent of the loan has been committed.
Loan 1819 Eleventh Highway; US$125 million Loan of April 23, 1980; Effective
Date: August 7, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.                              )
Slovenia and Serbia have completed pre-qualification of
contractors, called for bids and completed analysis. Croatia and Vojvodina
contracts have been approved by Bank. Consultant for toll study has been
selected. CRO and ITE co-sponsoring Highway Safety Conference in Yugoslavia
October, 1981. Co-financing was obtained for an amount of US$110 million in
October, 1980 (see Semi-Monthly Report to the Executive Directors, R80-299).



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12
Loans 1909, 1910, 1911 and 1912 Fifth Industrial Credit: $50.0, $30.0, $20.0
and $10.0 million, respectively, Loans of February 9, 1981;
Effective Date: Not yet effective; Closing Dates: October 31, 1984
Terminal date for declaring the loans effective is May 15, 1981.



- 40 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
YUGOSLAVIA: KOSOVO RAILWAY PROJECT
Supplemental Project Data Sheet
Section 1; Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare
the project:                                 3 years (1978-80)
(b)  Agencies preparing project:                  Community of Yugoslav Railways
(CYR), Railway Transport
Organization Pristina.
(c)  First presentation to Bank:                  December 1978
(d)  First Bank mission:                          January 1979
(e)  Appraisal mission departure:                 February 1980
(f) Yugoslav delegation to Bank with
additional operational data:                 August 1980
(g)  Negotiations completed:                      February 1981
(h)  Loan Effectiveness planned:                  August 1981
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a)    Community of Interest for Railways in Kosovo has been established
and started operations (condition of effectiveness, paragraph 45).
(b)    Approval of Action Plan (including Operational Plan) by all
concerned authorities (condition of effectiveness, paragraph 72).
(c)    Agreement to be concluded with CYR in respect of technical
assistance, procurement and reporting (condition of effectiveness,
paragraph 70).
(d)    Investment Plan and Financing Plan have been duly approved by the
Borrower and accepted by the authorities concerned (condition of
effectiveness, paragraph 58).



- 41 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(e)    The Provincial Government of Kosovo has adopted decisions or given
satisfactory assurances for the provisions of funds, including cost
overruns, required for the project (condition of effectiveness,
paragraph 67).
(f)    RTO Pristina to take all actions in its power to obtain tariff
increases necessary to reduce compensation payments to levels to be
agreed between CYR and the Bank by September 30, 1981 (paragraph
74).
(g)    Project Managers to be appointed to be responsible for all aspects
of implementation of major project components (paragraph 70).
(h)    RTO Pristina's planning and development department to be
strengthened (paragraph 70).
(i)    Manpower and training programs to be prepared and carried out
(paragraph 70).
(j)    RTO Pristina to introduce rail costing system by December 31, 1981
(paragraph 36).
(k)    The Borrower will use its best efforts to achieve operational and
financial targets as part of its action plan (paragraph 74).
(1)    RTO Pristina will make arrangements to borrow freight cars from
other RTEs as required (paragraph 63).



____________________________________________________                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IBRD    13136R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBR  1336
NNN



