F    FICIAL    LOAN NUMBER 1977 YU
DOCUKEOT8
Guarantee Agreement
(Kosovo Railway Project)
between
SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                             ,1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1977 YU
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1981, between
SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOIVIA (hereinafter called the
Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOP-
MENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and Zelezni6ka Transportna Organizacija Prigtina (Prig-
tina Railway Transport Organization) (hereinafter called the
Borrower), the Bank has agreed to make to the Borrower a loan
in various currencies equivalent to thirty-four million dollars
($34,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree to
guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan
as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed
so to guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW fHEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement
have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any
or its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the


﻿-2-
Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor
and not as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the
premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan, all as set forth
in the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, specific security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto, and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more
than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Guarantor, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor or any
such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange


﻿- 3 -
assets held by any institution performing the functions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions,
for the Guarantor.
Section 3.02. (a) The Guarantor covenants that it will not
take, or cause or permit to be taken, any action which would
prevent or interfere with the performance by the Borrower
of its obligations contained in the Loan Agreement, or the perfor-
mance by the parties referred to in several Recitals to the Loan
Agreement of their respective other obligations and agreements
described in said Recitals and that, within the limits of its
constitutional powers, it will take or cause to be taken all
reasonable action necessary or appropriate to enable the Borrower
and such other parties to perform such agreements and obligations.
(b) Without limitation on the generality of the provisions
set forth in paragraph (a) above, the Guarantor shall enable the
Borrower to obtain all necessary governmental authorizations or
approvals to provide for the Borrower the revenues required by
the provisions set forth in Section 5.04 of the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Federal Secretary for Finance of the
Guarantor is designated as representative of the Guarantor for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General .Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Savezni Sekretarijat za Finansije
3 Omladinskih Brigada
11070 Belgrade
Yugoslavia
Cable address:                       Telex:
SAVEZNI SEKRETARIJAT ZA            11062 YU SIV
FINANSIJE
Belgrade


﻿-4-
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
By    S
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  / d     day of A     , 198 .
FOR SECRETARY


