Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2398-RW
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
FOR A
SECOND DEVELOPMENT BANK (BRD) PROJECT
April 11, 1979
This document has a restricted ditrbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witbout World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar Year 1978
Unit    =  Rwanda Franc (RwF)
US$1    =   RwF 91.91
RwF 100    =  US$1.09
RwF 1.0 million    =  US$10,9
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
BNR       -     Banque Nationale du Rwanda - Central Bank
BRD       -     Banque Rwandaise de Developpement
DEG       -     Deutsche Entwicklungsgesellschaft
CCCE      -     Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
KfW       -     Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
UNITS
Metric System



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
RWANDA - SECOND DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Republic of Rwanda
Beneficiaries:         Rwanda Development Bank (BRD) and Republic of Rwanda.
Amount:                US$5.2 million equivalent.
Terms:                 Standard
Relending Terms:       The Government would onlend US$5 million of the proceeds
of the credit to BRD at an interest rate of 6 percent
per annum. The amortization schedule would conform with
the aggregate of the amortization schedules of BRD's sub-
loans and equity investments. The foreign exchange risk
would be borne by the Government. BRD would relend the
proceeds of the credit to its sub-borrowers at an in-
t^rest r-- f °.5 percent on medium-term sub-loans
to small-scale enterprises and 9 percent on medium term
sub-loans to all other enterprises, and at 10 percent on
long-term sub-loans to small enterprises and 11 percent
on long-term sub-loans to all other enterprises.
Project Description:  The project would finance about 67 percent of the
foreign exchange requirements of the Rwanda Development
Bank for 1979 and 1980 (US$5.0 million); and a feasibil-
ity study and cost of equipment and furniture for the
establishment of an auditing firm (US$0.2 million).
The project faces no unusual risk.
Estimated Resource Requirements of BRD
1979-1980
Local     Foreign      Total
Industry                              0.9         6.2         7.1
w             Agriculture                            0.2         0.4        0.6
Transport                              1.4        1.2         2.6
BRD Building                          0.4         1.5         1.9
Services                              1.1         0.6         1.7
Other                                 0.9         0.2         1.1
4.9       10.1        15.0
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their ofkichl duties. Its contents rnay not otherwise be disck)sed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Financing Plan (US$million):                Local    Foreign       Total
Resources Available for Commitment
at End 1978                                2.5         2.7         5.2
Net Cash Generation                          2.4          -          2.4
Proposed Second IDA Line of Credit            -          5.0         5.0
Gap 1/                                        -          2.4         2.4
Total                                  4.9         10.1        15.0
Estimated
Disbursements:                                           IDA Fiscal Year
(US$ millions)                                80          81          82          83
Annual              1.35        2.65        1.17        0.03
Cumulative          1.35        4.00        5.17        5.20
Rate of Return:          n.a.
Appraisal Report:        Report No. 2142 Rwanda dated September 5, 1978
Map:                     No. IBRD 3596Rl
1/   BRD is expected to approach KfW for a third loan of about US$2.4 million.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
FOR A SECOND DEVELOPMENT BANK (BRD) PROJECT
r. 'I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the Republic of Rwanda for the equivalent of US$5.2
million on standard IDA terms, to help finance (a) the foreign exchange
requirements of the Rwanda Development Bank through the end of 1980 (US$5.0
million); and (b) a feasibility study to assess the need for an auditing
firm and assist in the establishment of such a firm if the results of the
study are positive (US$0.2 million). The proceeds of the credit would be
relent by the Government to BRD. The proposed second line of credit to BRD
would be at an interest rate of 6 percent per annum and would have a flexible
amortization schedule, subject to a maximum of 20 years for tourism projects
and 15 years for all other projects, each including a grace period not to
exceed 5 years.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Memorandum on the Economy of Rwanda" No.
1108-RW) was distributed to the Executive Directors on July 27, 1976. An
updating economic mission has visited Rwanda in March 1979, and is preparing
its report; its major findings have been incorporated in the paragraphs below.
3.        Rwanda became independent in 1962.  The present Government was estab-
lished in 1973 and faces many economic challenges. Achievement of lasting
structural improvements in Rwanda's economy is hampered by the country's
acute poverty and by many physical and manpower constraints. With an aver-
age per capita income of about US$130 in 1977, Rwanda is one of the 25 poor-
est countries designated as "least developed" by the United Nations. The
,rc'hl1nm of an already high population density of about 165 inhabitants per
km is exacerbated by the pressure of a rapidly rising population on the
limited arable land available.  Althougn agriculture provides more than half
of Rwanda's exports (coffee, tea and pyre~thrum, the remainder consisting of
minerals, mainly cassiterite, a tin ore), the expansion of export crops is
constrained by the priority accorded to the production of foodcrops for
domestic consumption. Rwanda's manufacturing base is narrow, and its growth
is hampered by the limited size of the market, the lack of raw materials,
shortage of trained labor, and inadequate ancillary services such as banking
and marketing.



- 2 -
4.        Despite these handicaps, the present Government has made percep-
tible progress in developing a strategy to lift the economy from its present
low level. Some socio-economic aspects of the country are favorable, and it
is around these that the Government has  designed  its strategy.  The popula-
tion has a certain unity, deriving from homogeneity in customs and standard
of living. Income and wealth distribution are remarkably even. There are
neither the remnants of a strong traditional hierarchy nor signs of significant
emerging urban-rural polarization. Moreover, the small size of the country
reduces the administrative difficulties and, at the same time, limits serious
regionalism. The country also has a natural asset in its relatively fertile
soil which, provided that the problem of erosion in Rwanda's hilly terrain can
be overcome, can give good yields for a variety of foodcrops. To take advant-
age of and preserve these admittedly modest assets, the Government has recog-
nized that its development policies must be built around a carefully integrated
and balanced strategy reaching the entire population. The objective of
achieving balanced and sustained economic as well as social development, is
reflected not only in Rwanda's Second Development Plan (see para. 15) but also
in a new constitution which was adopted in December 1978.
5.        Following an increase of about 2 percent per annum between 1971
and 1974, GDP at constant prices has been growing by some 6 percent per year
since then. All sectors of the economy appear to have shared in growth.
Merchandise exports, in value, more than doubled during 1974-1976 owing
largely to above average crops and favorable world coffee and tea prices.
Tea displaced tin as Rwanda's second largest export earner.
6.        Among the encouraging developments of recent years are also:
(a) the significant deceleration of the rate of inflation; (b) substantial
improvements in the Government's financial position, the balance of payments
and in the banking system's reserves; (c) increased attention by the Govern-
ment to key sectors such as agriculture; and (d) intensified efforts in devel-
opment planning which have culminated in the preparation of a development plan
for the 1977-81 period.
7.        Until 1971, the country had experienced a period of virtual price
stability, but subsequently prices started rising rapidly until the annual
inflation rate reached 42.5 percent in 1974. In 1975 and 1976 inflation
slowed down considerably to 17.4 and 2.6 percent respectively, but in the last
half of 1977, inflation accelerated again to an annual rate of 23.1 percent.
However, 1978 showed again a satisfactory price development (+5.8 percent).
The fluctuations in the inflation rate have been associated primarily with
increases in import prices and with coffee export and producer prices. If
the prudent fiscal policies that the Government has followed during the last
two years (para. 8) are continued future price developments can be expected
to remain under control. Recently, prices have risen again more rapidly in
response to shortages due to the hostilities in Uganda (para. 13). Unless
the blockade of the country's main supply route takes on a prolonged character
this may be considered a temporary phenomenon.



-3-
8.        The Government's current revenues exceeded current expenditures
by 29 percent in 1976 and 32 percent in 1977. The improvement was brought
about by higher imports (import duties are a significant source of revenue),
high coffee prices, and improved collection of income and profit taxes.
Unlike the 1970-72 period, when current expenditures increased much faster
than GDP, in 1973-76, they declined in proportion of GDP. However, the
increase in Government expenditures in 1977 again exceeded growth in GDP
and this was probably again the case in 1978. Overall, however, the Govern-
ment's financial position is satisfactory.
9.        Imports increased dramatically in 1975, producing a substantial
deficit in the balance of trade; but exports rebounded strongly in 1976 and
1977 turning the deficit into a small surplus in both years. In 1978 the
country again registered a rather substantial trade deficit (RF 1.050 mil-
lion). The chronic deficit in services has persisted and the net current
account outflow has fluctuated at around US$65 million since 1975. The
deficits were more than offset by net inflows of official transfers and
capital with the result that net foreign exchange reserves jumped from about
US$7.5 million at the end of 1974 to about US$80 million at the end of 1978,
equivalent to over six months of merchandise imports. However, in view of
the decline in coffee prices already in evidence, external reserves have
probably reached a peak and may be drawn down in the next two years to
finance imports associated with growing development expenditures.
10.       In the last few years, the Government has displayed both budgetary
discipline and fiscal responsibility. It has pursued, for example, a rather
conservative credit policy. The Government, in fact, considerably reduced
its liabilities to the banking system. The expansion in domestic credit was
modest and entirely due to higher levels of credit to the private sector.
However, the relative equilibria in both internal and external accounts were
achieved at a level of investment, physical imports and capital inflows which
are too low compared to Rwanda's long-term development needs.
11.       Agriculture is the principal focus of Government policy, with
higher foodcrop productivity a major objective. A review of the agricultural
sector completed by the Bank in 1977 (Report No. 1377-RW) concluded that a 3%
growth rate in yields is necessary in order to meet food production needs
without endangering soil fertility. To this end, in the last few years, the
Government has been working on a rural development plan with major efforts
directed at foodcrop intensification. These efforts would be linked with soil
conservation and livestock development and supported by extension services and
appropriate infrastructure, including local roads and storage facilities,
which will assist Government efforts to implement a suitable price policy.
12.       In the mining sector (cassiterite, wolframite, etc.), which contri-
butes relatively little to GDP but constitutes a major source of foreign
exchange earnings, the merger of several companies in 1973 into the Societe
Miniere du Rwanda (SOMIRWA) has arrested the decline in the sector's output,
lowered administration costs, and improved technical efficiency. A substan-
tial expansion of mining activities is now being studied. SOMIRWA is also



-4-
making efforts to process locally part of the tin ore mined. Some positive
steps have been taken in the manufacturing sector as well (para. 27), reflect-
ing the Government's interest in stimulating the development of the sector.
13.       Rwanda's landlocked position at 1,700 km from the nearest port,
Mombasa, has been particularly disadvantageous in recent years when trans-
portation costs have risen sharply. Attempts are being made to improve the
route through Tanzania via Rusumo for alternative access to the ocean while
a new road northward to Uganda was recently completed. The road southward
to Burundi is also being improved. Although these are positive steps, more
efforts to improve the transportation network, both internal and external,
are necessary in order to expand the production base and improve distribu-
tion. The unreliability and inadequacy of present routes to the Indian Ocean
are being demonstrated by the hostilities in Uganda, which blocked the only
road capable of carrying heavy trucks. As a result, imports of heavy bulk
goods (gasoline, construction materials, etc.) and equipment came to a stand-
still, severely affecting production, trade and development work. Prices of
imported and domestically produced goods are consequently rising rapidly.
Moreover, coffee exports can only be maintained by air, which, in view of
the exceptionally high stocks, is insufficient.
14.       To deal with common problems and maximize the exploitation of
regional resources, two years ago Rwanda, Burundi and Zaire established the
Community of Great Lakes. A major objective of the Community is the electri-
fication of the Great Lakes region. Recently, the three countries have also
agreed to set up a joint development bank, exploit methane deposits around
Lake Kivu, and develop a fishing industry around Lake Tanganyika. They also
instructed the secretariat to investigate ways of improving the transport
system around the lakes in order to ease the enclavement of Burundi and
Rwanda. The President of Rwanda has been serving as the President of the
Community since 1977. In August 1977, another regional agreement was con-
cluded between Rwanda, Burundi and Tanzania.
15.       Development planning in Rwanda is indicative in nature.  Although the
country did have a formal plan covering the period 1966 through 1970, planning
for many years thereafter was based on several ad hoc studies. In June 1977,
the Government adopted a Second Development Plan covering the period 1977-81
which attempts to address the overall and sectoral problems of the economy in
a more structured fashion. The Plan is not fully operational yet because some
important elements of it are under further evaluation and may undergo impor-
tant revisions. Among these elements are the public investment program (which
is conceptualized as a three-year rolling program), estimates of public
revenue, sectoral allocation of certain categories of expenditures, and the
constraints of skilled manpower. In its present form, nevertheless, the Plan
throws some light on the Government's priorities. A major objective of the
plan is the improvement of infrastructure in order to improve communication
and transportation and thus provide incentives to more intensive cultivation
and diversification. The document projects an annual growth rate of GDP of
about 6 percent. Of the projected investment of about $580 million over
1977-81, nearly 30 percent would be allocated to physical and administrative



infrastructure. Of an estimated $220 million intended for agriculture, nearly
40 percent would be devoted to rural development as such. Functionally,
almost one third of the proposed expenditures would go into feasibility
studies and other selected administrative assistance. As a means of promoting
small industries, the plan calls for the setting up of a fund to guarantee
loans to small-scale business (the fund was formally established in February
1978). According to the plan, 72 percent of the projected investment would be
provided by external sources, 5 percent by the Government and 23 percent by
the private sector.
r
16.       Although the performance of Rwanda's economy in the last three
years has been encouraging, substantial infusion of financial and technical
assistance well suited to the country's needs will be crucially needed in
the years ahead. Assistance in the past has been provided largely by Belgium,
Canada, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Switzerland, and European
Development Fund, UNDP and IDA. A "Table Ronde" meeting of aid agencies,
which was held in 1977 was aimed, inter alia, to ensure that future projects
are more closely related to national priorities, and the discussions helped
to establish a basis for improved coordination among the agencies.
17.       Rwanda's external debt is low.  External debt outstanding and
disbursed was estimated in the middle of 1978 at about US$81.8 million of
which IDA credits represented US$33.0 million (40 percent). The service pay-
ments on debt are estimated at about US$1.4 million per year, or 1.5 percent
of exports. Because of Rwanda's level of poverty, assistance should continue
to be on the most concessional terms possible, including the financing of a
substantial part of the local currency cost of projects.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN RWANDA
18.       Bank Group assistance started in 1970 and initially focused on the
improvement of the road network and the strengthening of agricultural produc-
tion. Rwanda has received nine IDA credits totalling US$74.7 million, of
which four, totalling US$43.1 million, were for roads, three totaling US$19.6
million for agriculture, one for a DFC project (US$4 million) and one for
education (US$8 million). There have been no Bank loans. An IFC loan of
US$535,000 for a tea factory was signed in 1976. Annex II contains a summary
*           statement of IDA credits, IFC investments and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects.
19.       The first highway (road construction) credit (Credit 196-RW) is
almost completely disbursed and the highway maintenance credit (Credit 299-RW)
is fully disbursed and the project was completed in December 1978. The
third highway project (Credit 475-RW), which consisted of road construction,
was satisfactorily completed in December 1977, and funds have been completely
disbursed. A fourth credit for a highway maintenance project was approved by
the Board in February 1978 and became effective in August 1978.



-6-
20.       The implementation of the first agricultural development (Mutara)
project (Credit 439-RW of November 29, 1973) began in September 1974, about
a year behind schedule. From the start, project implementation encountered
very serious difficulties, which have only been partly resolved to date.
The Credit Agreement for a cinchona project was signed in August 1976 and
the Credit Agreement for the Bugesera East and Gisaka/Migongo mixed farming
and rural development project in March 1977. These two projects are at very
early stages of execution, but both projects are advancing satisfactorily.
A credit for an education project, consisting primarily of the construction,
furnishing and equipment of workshops, became effective in 1975. The physical
imDlementation, though slow, hnc been satisfactory and it -as               --e---a'
to increase the number of workshops to be built under the project. There have
been administrative problems on procurement. The agreement for a credit of
US$4 million to the Development Finance Company (BRD) was signed in August
1976. The amount committed on the BRD line of credit was US$2.5 million as of
February 28, 1979.
21.       Because of the lack of skilled manpower and expertise in Rwanda,
the execution of projects requires substantial assistance from Bank Group
staff and expatriate experts. With respect to new operations, primary
emphasis will remain on agriculture, although absorptive capacity and the
activities of other donors may limit the scope for Bank activity in this
sector. Road maintenance and construction, education, water supply and
support to the infant industrial and construction sectors are important to
the IDA program for Rwanda. In agriculture, the Government has nrpnnrpd An
extension of the Mutara project (livestock and mixed farming) which was
appraised in May 1978 and is expected to be presented to the Executive Direc-
tors in the near future. In education, a UNESCO sector survey will determine
the needs for future investment. A second education project is tentatively
scheduled for FY80. In highways, the Government has asked the Bank to finance
with other donors the Kigali-Ruhengeri and Ruhengeri-Cyanika roads if found
to be economically feasible. Two other projects have been identified: one
for the development of local construction industry, where the Government has
expressed its belief that there is a need for the development of that industry
and for increased competition among contractors, the other in the water supply
sector, where a study made by a WHO team has confirmed the need to improve
rural water supply and to provide sewerage facilities for Kigali. We have
discussed the need for feasibility studies for this latter project, and the
Government is expected to request an advance from the project preparation
facility for this purpose.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL AND FINANCIAL SECTORS
The Industrial Sector
22.       The industrial sector in Rwanda, broadly defined, comprises mining,
manufacturing and construction, each of which includes modern as well as
traditional or artisanal segments. For a few years after independence (1962),



- 7 -
the industrial sector experienced some growth only in those new manufacturing
activities that were based on the processing of agricultural products, such
as tea, coffee and pyrethrum.
23.       Development of industry in Rwanda, particularly manufacturing,
has been limited for a number of reasons. First, due to the small domestic
market, the limited possibilities of exports to neighboring countries, and
the low per capita income, potential demand does not justify, in many in-
stances, the establishment of even minimum-size plants. Second, investment
costs are high due in part to landlocked Rwanda's high transportation costs
and the unreliable supply of imports which force manv enterpriqes to hnA1rq
cessive stocks of raw materials and spare parts. Third, low public and pri-
vate savings limit the possibilities of industrial investment by either
Rwandese nationals or the Government.  Finally, there is lack of local entre-
preneurs and skilled manpower.
24.       Available data indicate, nevertheless, that there are almost 100
modern manufacturing enterprises, albeit relatively small in size. In 1976,
wage employment in industry (excluding mining) was estimated at 15,700,
and the industrial sector's contribution to GDP was 23%, second only to
that of agriculture (about 57%). Food manufacturing is the dominant indus-
trial activity, accounting for 64% of the value added by the industrial
sector. Modern food manufacturing activities account, however, for only
18.5% of the total value added by food industries. Construction is the
second largest industrial activity (15.3% of value added), followed bv mining
(9%). Unlike mining, which is scattered around the country, most modern
manufacturing activity is located in or around Kigali, the capital. Foreign
ownership is predominant in mining and construction but it is limited to a
few modern enterprises in the case of manufacturing. Government ownership
is concentrated in the few large enterprises in manufacturing and mining.
25.       Annual investment in manufacturing is estimated to have increased
from RwF228 million in 1973 to about RwF800 million in 1977, for a total
investment of about RwF2.3 billion during 1973-1977. This represents rapid
growth--but from a low starting point; the absolute amounts remain relatively
small. This growth has been facilitated by the increase in the international
transportation costs which make the local production of some goods attractive
relative to imports and by the political and economic stability of Rwanda and
the growing interest of Rwandese to invest in industry.
26.       Government Policies in Industry.  The priority accorded by the
Second Five-Year Plan (1977-1981) to the development of industry is second
only to that of agriculture.  The approach to industrial development is
consistent with the country's present situation, constraints and future
potential. The objectives for this sector are to develop agro-industries
and the rural artisanat, encourage labor-intensive enterprises, concentrate
on the production of necessary commodities, and encourage export-oriented
industries as well as those aimed at import substitution. The targeted
annual growth rates are 16% for modern manufacturing, 8.2% for modern con-
struction, 7.6% for mining, 2.8% for artisanal industry (including food



- 8-
production) and 4.6% for traditional construction. Wage employment in in-
dustry (excluding mining) is planned to increase by 8,600 persons, reaching
24,300 in 1981.
27.       The measures recommended under the Second Plan to achieve the above
objectives and targets include: the establishment of a guarantee fund to help
small and medium-scale enterprises obtain credit from commercial banks, which
has taken place; the newly approved investment code that extends the same tax
and customs duty concessions to the Rwandese investors that the previous
code (1964) restricted to foreigners; the reorganization of public enterprises
to give them greater operational autonomy and better qualified managers and
staff, and the creation of a technical school to train industrial and mining
technicians. At the time of appraisal of the first IDA credit to BRD there
were plans for the establishment by the end of 1976 of a UNDP-financed Bureau
for Industrial Promotion at the Ministry of Finance, which would include 5
or 6 experts to help entrepreneurs to undertake Industrial projects. This
project was delayed and, because less funds are available now than originally
anticipated, the scope of activities has been scaled down. As presently
designed, the Bureau would include two experts who would mainly help promote
among entrepreneurs an awareness of investment opportunities in industry.
They would also undertake some limited sector work. Experts are being re-
cruited.
28.       Prospects.  Rwanda is at the beginning of a period of significant
industrial growth. The Plan's targets for industrial development may be
relatively ambitious, considering the existing problems and constraints and
the heavy reliance on private investment, but they are useful as guidelines
for the Government and investors. It is estimated that RwF5 billion (about
US$54 million) would be invested in industry during 1977-1981, equivalent to
about 9% of the total planned investment. Mining investment, which would
account for about RwFl billion, is expected to be carried out mostly by
SOMIRWA (a company in which the Government has 49% ownership). The program
includes two phases; the first, started in 1977 with BRD's assistance, aims
to rehabilitate mining operations; the second entails the construction of a
tin smelting unit. Other projects included in the Plan are a cement factory,
textile factories, several food processing enterprises, and further prepara-
tion of a long-term project to process the methane gas in Lake Kivu.
The Financial System
29.       The most important institutions comprising Rwanda's financial
system are the Central Bank, two commercial banks, the Development Bank of
Rwanda, the People's Bank, the Savings Association, and the Caisse Hypothe-
caire. Some of these institutions (the commercial banks, the People's Bank
and the Savings Association) have branches in a few of the large towns that
offer limited service.
30.       The Central Bank (Banque Nationale du Rwanda - BNR) is responsible
for supervising the country's financial institutions, formulating monetary
and credit policies, and managing the international reserves. BNR is active



- 9 -
in financing the public sector: its share of the total domestic credit
extended to the Government and public enterprises amounted to 38% in 1975 and
increased to 45% in 1976. The two commercial banks (Banque Commerciale du
Rwanda and Banque de Kigali, established in 1963 and 1966, respectively) are
majority foreign-owned.  As of December 31, 1977, together they had total
assets of RwF7.u billion and total deposits of RwF5.2 billion, only 7% of
which were in term deposits. The commercial banks are active in financing
exports, particularly coffee, and imports. They also extend credit to the
public sector, where their share of the total amounted to 47.5% in 1975, but
declined to 33% in 1976. Of the term lending institutions existing in
Rwanda, the development bank (Banque Rwandaise de Developpement - BRD) is
the most important, as described under Part IV below. Next is the Savings
Association whose share of the total domestic credit is less than 5%. The
Caisse Hypothecaire has been given the sole responsibility for financing all
housing and building construction whose costs exceed RwF0.5 million.
31.       Inflation in Rwanda accelerated during 1974 and 1975.  Consumer
prices increased by 9.5% in 1973, 31% in 1974 and 43% in 1975. This was
the result of: (a) the rapid world inflation which increased the cost of
most of Rwanda's imports; (b) the increase in money supply; and (c) the
increase in domestic credit to the public sector, particularly in 1974, after
which it decreased slightly in 1975. The inflation rate was estimated at
8.5% in 1976, and at 13% in 1977. It is expected to be about 12% in 1978
and to decline to an average of 8% in 1980-85.
32.       Interest Rates are fixed by BNR.  Commercial bank lending rates for
consumer loans, import credits and working capital for manufacturing enter-
prises are 11%, whlle those for export credits for coffee are 5% and for tea
4%, while the rate for marketing export crops is 8%. The Savings Association
lending rate to the private sector on short ana medium-term credits (up to 5
years) is 9%. BRD's lending rates for medium and long-term loans vary between
5.5% and 9%, depending upon the sector. The rate on one-year treasury bills
varies between 3% and 5%, while that for term deposits of more than one year
is 3.75%. This structure of interest rates appears to be low. The Govern-
ment's interest rate policy aims to attract investors into Rwanda by main-
taining a generally lower level of interest rates than in neighboring
countries and to encourage both local and foreign investment in particular
sectors, such as agriculture, through concessionary interest rates. Besides
discouraging investors particularly in industry, the Government believes that
increases in these rates will generate little additional savings.
33.       IDA has expressed the view that low interest rates may not be enough
to compensate for other impediments to investment in industry such as the
shortage of qualified manpower and that higher savings rates would help
mobilize additional resources and reduce the reliance by the Government on
deficit financing. The dialogue between the Government and IDA, which started
in 1975, at the time of appraisal of the first IDA credit to BRD has continued
and is being pursued at the occasion of the proposed second credit to BRD. It
is worth mentioning that, during this period, there has been an increase in
the average of BRD's lending rates, from about 7.5% in 1975 to about 8.0% in
1977 and it is expected to average about 8.5% in 1978-1979.



- 10 -
The First IDA Credit to BRD
34.       The first IDA credit to BRD (No. 655-RW, US$4.0 million) was
approved on July 15, 1976 and became effective on March 2, 1977. As of
February 18, 1979, US$2.5 million had been committed and US$2.3 million dis-
bursed. BRD has submitted to IDA for approval another two projects, which
together with the amount already committed, would entirely commit the first
IDA credit.
35.       The projects submitted for financing included three projects
above the free limit ($100,000 equivalent) and one project below the free
limit. These projects were well designed and appraised, fully justified on
technical and financial grounds, and would contribute significantly to the
country's economic development.  The largest project (involving a subloan
of US$1.6 million) was to assist SOMIRWA in rehabilitating its mining oper-
ations.  Another project assists a soap factory.  The third large project
was for the creation of a factory to produce plastic articles for household
use and plastic packaging materials. A project below the free limit supplied
the equipment of a garage for automobile repairs.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
36.       The proposed project includes two components:  (a) a second line
of credit of US$5 million to BRD which would finance about 67 percent of its
foreign exchange requirements in 1979 and 1980 and thus enable it to continue
to make medium- and long-term loans to enterprises; and (b) financing, under
the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance, a feasibility study for the
establishment of an auditing firm in Rwanda (US$0.2 million). The project
was prepared by BRD and appraised in February 1978.  Supplementary data on
the project are contained in Annex III. Negotiations were held in Washington
in February 1979. The Rwandese delegation was led by Mr. Ruhamanya Vincent,
secretary-general of the Ministry of Finances. The staff Appraisal Report
No. 2142-RW, dated March 30, 1979 on the project is being distributed sepa-
rately.
Objectives and Role of BRD
37.       BRD was established in 1967 with a broad mandate to encourage the
creation and development of productive enterprises in Rwanda through the
provision of long- and medium-term loans or guarantees and equity participa-
tions. Since its creation, BRD, which is the only institution providing term
financing in Rwanda, has played a significant role in financing investment,
particularly by the private sector. BRD has succeeded in securing foreign
exchange from several bilateral institutions as well as IDA. Its ability
to provide funds, coupled with its experience, gives it a major role in the
implementation of the second Five-Year Plan, 1977-1981. It is the only insti-
tution in Rwanda with the expertise to undertake a proper overall evaluation
of investment projects.



- 11 -
Ownership and Resources
38.       BRD's share capital consists of "A" shares which must account for
at least 55% of the total and are reserved for the Government and other public
agencies and institutions, and "B" shares for private and foreign shareholders.
There are no differences between the rights and privileges of either category
of shareholders. On September 1, 1978, BRD's share capital was doubled to
RwF 416 million. RwF 43.5 million of the increase consisted of a stock divi-
dend while RwF 164.5 million was in new subscriptions, of which RwF 120 mil-
lion (including a RwF 50 million Government loan which was converted into
erllity) was subscribed by "A" ^bh^eholders and the remaining AwA  44.5J mi-
lion subscribed by "B" shareholders. Ownership of BRD's share capital is
presently distributed as follows: the public sector 62.5%, the domestic
private sector 15.8%, and the foreign shareholders 21.7%.
39.       As of December 31, 1978, BRD's local currency resources totalled
RwF 612 million, of which RwF 234 million were uncommitted. These resources
included local currency borrowings of RwF 153 million, with maturities ranging
from 3 to 25 years and interest rates varying between 3 percent and 4.5 percent.
Only RwF 20 million was provided by local commercial banks; the remainder was
on-lent by the Government and the Central Bank from loans made by Switzer-
land and the Arab League. As of December 31, 1978, BRD's foreign currency
resources amounted to RwF 605 million, of which RwF 248 million remains uncom-
mitted. These resources include two loans from KfW (RwF 127 million), one loan
from CCCE (RwF 110 million), and the first IDA credit (RwF 368 million). The
first KfW loan to BRD carries an interest rate of 0.75 percent and the second
KfW loan 1.5 percent for medium-term loans (2-5 years) and 4 percent for long-
term loans. The CCCE loan and the first IDA credit were on-lent by the Govern-
ment at an interest rate of 4 percent. The Government assumes the foreign ex-
change risk on all these loans and credits. BRD has experienced difficulties
in committing the GCCE loan because it is tied to French procurement, and has
explored with CCCE ways to waive this requirement.
40.       Management, Organization and Staff.  BRD's present General Manager
is a Rwandese National who was appointed in July 1973. He is capable and
efficient and is well respected by all parties dealing with BRD. He is
assisted by a Burundi national who joined BRD in 1973, who is in charge of
BRD's administrative and financial operations; and a German national, who
joined BRD in 1975 under the auspices of German bilateral assistance, and is
in charge of investments and project evaluation. The latter's contract is
likely to be renewed for two years in 1979. A technical/engineering advisor,
also under German bilateral assistance, joined BRD in November 1977 for two
years. BRD is organized in two major departments: Administration/Finance and
Investment. This organization has proven efficient. BRD's staff totals 44,
of whom 15 are professionals, including three expatriates. The Rwandese
nationals who are among the professional staff of BRD are university graduates
who have been with BRD for varying periods of time and are being trained on
the job. They are gaining experience and should start assuming additional
responsibility at BRD soon. The staff is generally dedicated and hard working.



- 12 -
Policies
41.       BRD's policy statement, which conforms generally to those of devel-
opment banks for which IDA has provided funds, is satisfactory. One of its
articles provides that exposure in any one project shall be limited to no
more than 20 percent of net worth. In two recent cases, exceptions were made
to this rule when BRD approved two projects in which its contribution exceeded
the normal limit. In both cases, BRD took adequate measures to protect itself
by asking for either the Government's or the Central Bank's guarantee of loan
repayment for that portion of its assistance in excess of the normal limit.
BRD's project pipeline includes a number of projects in which BRD's contribu-
tion is likely to exceed the normal exposure limit, even after BRD's recent
share capital increase. Financing of these projects is justified in some
cases by the fact that BRD is the only source of term financing in industry,
transport, tourism and agricultural product processing. During negotiations,
agreement was obtained from BRD that in those cases where over-exposure is
necessary, BRD would on a regular basis obtain adequate guarantees of loan
repayment on at least that part of the loan that exceeds its normal exposure
limit, either from the Government for public sector projects, or from other
creditworthy sources for private sector projects (Section 2.04(b) of Project
Agreement and Section 4.04 of Credit Agreement).
42.       Lending Terms.  As of March 1978, the interest rates charged by BRD
varied between 5.5% and 9%. Commercial/industrial projects were charged an
interest rate of 6-7% per year on medium-term loans (1-5 years) and 7-8% per
year on long-term loans. In addition, a fee of 1% or 2% per year is charged
on funds disbursed and outstanding. The majority of the medium-term loans
are for small or medium-scale projects, while most long-term loans are for
large projects. For projects financed with KfW funds, the interest rate is
4.5-6.0% per year for medium-term and 6-7.5% per year for long-term. The
interest rates under the first IDA line of credit are 9% for medium and large
scale enterprises and 7% for small-scale enterprises. The Government is
carrying the foreign exchange risk. BRD has also recently adopted a new
"commitment commission" of 3/4% to be charged on all loans and calculated
on the undisbursed amount of a loan.
43.       Procedures.  Since the appraisal of the first IDA credit, BRD has
improved the quality and standards of its appraisal work, particularly in
the economic aspects. BRD's supervision procedures are generally adequate.
Supervision is currently handled by three professional staff, who regularly
visit projects under implementation or in operation, and review quarterly
reports from clients. Annual statements from clients are also required, but
due to the lack of auditors in Rwanda, these accounts are not verified by
independent auditors. With the expanding portfolio, BRD's supervision would
need to be strengthened and efforts are underway to recruit two additional
staff members for the supervision unit. BRD's procedures for procurement
and disbursement are satisfactory. For the larger projects, quotations are
obtained during appraisal, and in cases where substantial construction is
involved, BRD may require competitive bidding. BRD expects equity funds
to be disbursed first, while loan funds are disbursed against invoices.



- 13 -
44.       Audit.  Under the first IDA credit, it was agreed that an inde-
pendent auditing firm acceptable to IDA would verify BRD's accounts. The
cost of three such audits, starting with the 1976 accounts, was covered under
the first credit. The 1976 and 1977 accounts have been audited by the private
firm of Pannell, Kerr, Forster and Co., which is located in Nairobi and has
French speaking staff and were found satisfactory and acceptable; the 1978
accounts are being prepared. The lack of auditors in Rwanda has led to
difficulties and delays in auditing BRD's accounts because of the need to
resort to French-speaking foreign auditors.
Past Operations and Results
45.       As of December 31, 1978, BRD's loan portfolio outstanding amounted
to RwF 565 million: industry (including mining) accounted for 83 percent;
transport 5 percent; tourism 6 percent; agriculture 2 percent; and other
4 percent. Loan approvals have increased from RwF 163.2 million in 1974 to
RwF 367 million in 1978, owing mainly to an expansion in long-term lending
to large projects. During the period 1974-78, BRD made loans amounting to a
total of RwF 1.3 billion for 95 projects. The type of ownership for these
projects varies greatly; while many of the projects are still under construc-
tion, projects in operation appear quite profitable and are earning attrac-
tive rates of return on investment.
46.       As of December 31, 1978; the equity portfolio totalled RwF 140
million and included investments in 11 projects in which BRD had minority
holdings, except in a large storage project "Magerwa", where BRD's holding
is 68.8 percent. This project which paid a dividend of 23 percent in 1977
has been providing BRD with a significant secure income. Two other projects
have paid dividends, but six of the investments made since 1975 have either
begun operations recently or are still under construction.
47.       BRD's profitability has remained modest because increasing admin-
istrative costs have not been totally offset by the returns on an expanding
portfolio. Profit increased slightly in 1978 to RwF 19.6 million, from
RwF 18.6 million in 1977. Income from loans contributed 62 percent of the
total revenues, and dividends mainly from Magerwa - 38 percent. Administra-
tive expenses in 1978 represented 3.2 percent and charges on borrowings 1.4
percent of average total assets. As of June 30, 1978, arrears above three
months amounted to RwF 35 million or 8 percent of the total portfolio. A
charge equal to 3.0 percent of the increase in the normal loan portfolio
outstanding is also made each year against income to maintain a reserve
account for general risks. In 1978, this charge of RwF 5.7 million together
with the increase in BRD's share capital late in the year and increased
personnel costs resulted in a decline in the return on average networth to
5.6 percent, as against 7.3 percent in 1977. BRD's structure of income and
expenses is typical of a young development bank entering a significant growth
phase, and its profitability, though modest, is quite reasonable.



- 14 -
48.       As of December 31, 1978, BRD was in a sound financial situation.
BRD's debt/equity ratio is 1:1, well within the 3:1 statutory limit. Given
its conservative policy on reserves and low arrears, BRD is adequately pro-
tected against losses on its portfolio. BRD does not have liquidity prob-
lems since Government/Central Bank make available local currency resources
as necessary.
Prospects
49.       As of December 31, 1978, BRD had a substantial pipeline of 25 proj-
ects, mainly in the industrial SeCtw, including manufacture of batteries,
metal products, textile, matches, pyrethrum refining, fruit juice, metal work-
shops, tea factories, plastic pipes and photographic processing, involving
total investments of about US$30 million, of which assistance of about US$10.0
million was being sought from BRD. The projects were being promoted by the
Government, private Rwandese and locally-based foreign groups, in some cases
under joint Government and private ownership. Based on the above pipeline,
BRD is forecasting a steady growth in total approvals of 15 percent p.a.,
with total approvals rising from RwF 406 million in 1979 to RwF 625 million
in 1982, which would indicate a significant growth in BRD lending in real
terms.
50.       The financial forecast reflects the fact that BRD is entering a
significant growth period. In 1979/80 the increased staff necessary to
handle the increased operations ai,.  i. 1980/81, the increased depreciation
resulting from the investment in a new office building which is needed since
the rented premises have become inadequate, would depress net income. Net
profit as a percent of average net worth will gradually decline from 5.3%
in 1978 to about 3% in 1981, but will rise to 5.4% in 1982. However, due to
the increasing spread that would be earned on the loan portfolio following
the proposed interest rate increases (para 53c), and the growth of lending,
BRD will show strong earnings growth thereafter. Long-term debt to net worth
would rise from 1.6 in 1978 to 2.9 in 1982 which is just within BRD's present
long-term debt/equity limit.
Resource Requirements
51.       At the end of 1978, BRD had uncommitted foreign resources of RwF 248
million. Foreign exchange commitments for 1978 and 1979 are forecast at about
RwF 937 million. Thus, BRD's forecast foreign resource gap through 1980 is
about US$7.4 million (RwF 689 million), assuming that the CCCE loan can be                 4
fully committed within this period. BRD is planning to finance its foreign
resource gap with the proposed IDA Credit (US$5 million) and a further KfW
credit (US$2.4 milion). The local currency resource requirements will be met
out of net cash generation.
The Proposed Second Credit
52.       The proposed line of credit would finance the foreign exchange com-
ponent of the fixed capital investment and initial working capital required



- 15 -
by subprojects approved by BRD. These subprojects would be either private,
public or foreign owned, or have mixed ownership, and would be based either
on local resources or would promote substitution of locally produced goods
for imports. BRD is expected to finance an average of about 40 percent of
the investment cost of projects.
53.       Terms and Conditions.  The proposed second line of credit to BRD
would carry the following terms and conditions:
(a) Eligibility. All subprojects in the sectors that are
within the scope of RPn'c  -reations w3uld bc eligible
for financing;
(b) Free Limit. The free limit for an individual subproject
would be US$200,000, and the aggregate free limit
US$2 million;
(c) On-lending Rate, Re-lending Rate and Commitment Fee.
(i) the on-lending rate would be 6 percent (as compared with
4 percent for the first IDA credit) (Section 3.01(b) of
Development Credit Agreement; (ii) the BRD would raise its
re-lending rates to 8.5% on medium term sub-loans to small-
scale enterprises 1/ and 9% on medium term sub-loans to all
other enterprises (the present rate is 7% to all enterprises),
- and to 10% on lona-terTm Q-leons to small-scale enterpr; CO
and to 11% on long-term sub-loans to all other enterprises
(the present rate is 9% to all enterprises); as mentioned
above (para 42) BRD is also charging a "commitment commission;"
(iii) the BRD would be given         waiver of commitment fees as
under the first IDA credit (Section 2.02 of Project Agreement).
(d) Foreign Exchange Risk. The Government would continue to
assume the foreign exchange risk as under the first IDA
credit. (Section 4.03 of the Development Credit Agreement).
(e) Amortization Schedule. In conformity with the normal IBRD/
IDA lending policy to DFC's, the proposed line of credit
relent by the Government to BRD would have a flexible
amortization schedule that would substantially conform with
the aggregate of the amortization schedules of the subloans
and equity investments made by BRD and financed under the
proposed credit, subject to a maximum of 20 years for tourism
projects and 15 years for all other projects, each including
a grace period not to exceed 5 years.
1/   Small-scale Investment Enterprise means an enterprise to which BRD pro-
poses to make or has made a sub-loan or in which it proposes to make or
has made an investment, with net assets of less than RwF 15,000,000;
annual sales of less than RwF 8,000,000; and less than 20 employees.



- 16 -
54.       The interest rate for sub-loans that will be charged under the
credit will be positive over the period of disbursement of the credit, in the
light of the forecast level of inflation (paras. 7 and 31). While it is
expected that over a period of time IDA credits to the BRD could carry the
normal onlending terms, we believe that the terms proposed for the second line
of credit are justified in order to attract foreign investors and encourage
local investment. The proposed onlending and relending rates would give BRD
on average a margin of 5 percent over the cost of its resources and permit a
minimal profit. Although there is justification for raising BRD's lending
rates to help it maintain a sound financial position, there is a need to keep
the increase moderate so that it would not be unduly inhibiting to investment
in industry and to BRD's growth.  Besides, at a time when Government is just
starting to promote private investment and local initiatives, it would not be
advisable to increase financial charges greatly in a situation in which
potential entrepreneurs have difficulty ascertaining financial benefits.
Feasibility Study for Establishment of an Auditing Firm
55.       To attempt to develop a much needed audit capacity in Rwanda (paras.
43 and 44), it is proposed to include US$200,000 in this credit as follows:
(a) US$20,000 to finance five man/months of consultants'
services to conduct a feasibility study for establishing
an auditing firm and, if feasible, to prepare a plan
for its establishment taking into account the needs of
both the private and public sectors and the possibility
of foreign participations; and
(b) US$35,000 for the purchase of equipment and furniture,
and US$145,000 for staff training, either locally with
the assistance of experts or abroad in suitable training
institutions. A decision on how the funds would be pro-
vided would be made in consultation with IDA during the
review of the feasibility study.
If the Government and IDA decide not to proceed with the establishment of an
auditing firm the US$180,000 would be reallocated to the BRD line of credit.
It was agreed during negotiations that the feasibility study should be com-
pleted by March 30, 1980 (Section 3.03(a) of Development Credit Agreement)
and that in the event of the establishment of the auditing firm, the Govern-
ment would present to the approval of the Association a training program
and shall thereafter implement it (Section 3.03(b) of Development Credit
Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
56.       Procurement for the subprojects financed under the line of credit
to BRD would be in accordance with the standard practice for DFCs. The pro-
ceeds of the proposed second credit would be disbursed as follows:



- 17 -
(a) BRD subloans: (i) 100 percent of cif cost of goods and
services imported for eligible subprojects; (ii) up to
80 percent of the cost of goods purchased locally or pre-
viously imported and purchased locally for the subprojects;
and (iii) up to 65 percent of the total cost of construction
and civil works, representing the foreign exchange component;
and
(b) feasibility study: (i) 100 percent of the foreign
exchange expenditure of consultant services and staff
training; (ii) 100 percent of cif costs of imported
equipment; and (iii) 80 percent of the total cost of
previously imported equipment, which is locally purchased.
Benefits and Risks
57.       As BRD is the major source of foreign exchange medium- and long-
term finance and cooperates closely with Government, it can have a signif-
icant impact on the design and development of projects in both the public
and private sectors in Rwanda. Moreover, with a total capital cost of about
US$15 million, the project would provide for the creation of about 400
new jobs. The large projects which BRD financed since 1976 have estimated
financial rates of return ranging from 18 percent to more than 40 percent, and
estimated economic rates of return of 20 percent or more. Under this project
IDA will also seek to continue the development of BRD's appraisal capabilities
and supervision systems and procedures.
58.       There are no unusual major risks associated with this project.  For
a small development bank, BRD has quite a substantial pipeline of projects,
which should be sufficient to support the forecast level of approvals. The
rates of commitment and disbursements are expected to proceed as anticipated.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
59.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Rwanda and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the
Association and the Rwanda Development Bank, and the Recommendation of the
Committee provided under Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement,
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
60.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III of this report. Additional conditions of effectiveness of the
credit are:
(a) Authorization and ratification of the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement between the Borrower and BRD; (Section 6.02 (b)
of the Development Credit Agreement.



- 18 -
(b) Authorization and ratification of the Project Agreement
(Section 6.02 (a) of the Development Credit Agreement.)
61.       I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
62.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proDosed
Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
April 11, 1979



- 19 -
ANNEX I
Page 1
TABLE 3A
RWANDA               - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                  -----------------------------------------------
---------------                                    RWANDA                               REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL        26.3                                        MOST RECENT
AGRIC.       16.9                        1960       1970   ESTIMATE           MALAWI          TANZANIA       KENYA*
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                       60.0       80.0      130.0               70.0        110.0 /a  160.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)              2.6        3.7        4.3                 4.6        12 9/a      11.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                       100.0      140.0      163.0                 38.0        14.0        19.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTU,7AL LAND       172.0      243.0      254.0               114.0         25.0       113.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)          52.5       50.7        S0.0                49.3        50.5        49.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)           30.1       25.1        23.6                28.1        23.0        17.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THnU)            ..     133.0          ..                  .       165.0/b
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)        36.0       41.0       41.0                38.5         41.8-       49.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.3/a       3.4        3.4                 3.2         3.2         3.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                  2.9        3.6 /a    2.3                   2.6         3.0/a       3.1
URBAN                                 11.5         7.7        7.3                5.0          5.6         6.3
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)             2.0        3.0        3.8                 5.6 /a      5.5/b        9.9
A:E STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                        45.1       43.6       43.6                43.9         44.4/b      48.4
15 TO 64 YEARS                        52.0       51.0 /b   53.3                 52.1         53.07F-    48.0
65 YEARS AND OVER                      2.5        5.2 /b    3.1                   4.0         2.STb       3.6
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                      0.9        1.0        0.9                 0.9         0.9/b        1.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 0.8/b      0.9 Ic                         0.9 /a      1 '2, b      1.1 /a
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)             ..         ..         ..                  ..          ..        66.1
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)               ..         ..         ..                  ..
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)         1500.0       2100.0                        2000.0       5600 o a b 5100.3 /-
LABOR FORRE IN AGRICULTURE (%)          95.0        93.0                          89.0         91:07     9du 0/b
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)              ..         ..         ..                  ..
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
X OF PRIVATE INCOME RECOD BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..         ..         ..                29.5        33.5        20.2 /C
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..         .-         ..                52.9        63.3        52,6B7 
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS                                                         5.7         2.3         3
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS                                                        15.0         7. B       tt77 
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS                     ..         .                        .....                    ..
O. OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS            ..         .     .              ..              ..           .
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            133570.0/c57900.0   53550.0                 75250.0    21570.0 /a   7810.0/d
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    23380.0/E  20230.0 11480.0                     6620.0       4890.07-a  1470.07Z
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED                .      770.0       670.0              760.0        70  0       70.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)          88.0       96.0        90.0              103.0         88.0        98.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)               55.0       62.0       58.0                 54 0        43.0        71.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE             ..      35.0 /d   27.0                   9:0/b      23.0        29.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU, AGES 1-4                ..         ..         ..                  ..          ..          1.9
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                        49.0        70.0      67.0                 40.0        35.0        64.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                       2.0         2.0        2.0                 2.0         3.0         9.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST ANO SECOND LEVEL)              12.0       12.0        12.0                14.0        13.0        13.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONOARY)                      40.0       12.0        14.0                 3.0        10.0 /c      2.0
ADULT LIT RACY RATE (%)                  10.0         ..       23.0                22.0           .        30.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                   ,.         ..         ..                 1.9..
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (%)                         ..          ..         ..                76.0/C.d   30.0/b,d
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                     ..        ..          .1. 6.0/Ced
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (%)                       ..         ..         ..                  ..          .
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)             ..         ,.      32.(                 20.0         11.0        48.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)              .-        i.0       1.6                  2.0          3.0         9.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)              3.0 /C   21.0       34.0                 32.0        31.0/a       68.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                  ..         ..          ..                0.05         0.1         0.5
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



- 20 -
ANNEX I
Page 2
NOTES
Unless otherwise noted (e.g. GNP per capita and population), data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1969 and 1971,
and for Most Recent Estimate between 1973 and 1976.
*  Kenya hab  been selected as an objective country because it is an African country with an agriculture-based economy which has aucceeded in reaching
a level of economic development substantially higher than that of Rwanda.
RWANDA       1960    /a  1957;    /b  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;    /c  1962.
1970    //  Largely due to ifoigration, growth rate is higher than rate of natural increase;                 /b  15-59 and 60 and over respectively;
/c  Ratio of population urder IS and 60 and over to total labor force;              /d  1964-66.
MALA/I       1970    /0  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;    /b  1964-66;    /c  1967;    /d  Urban only.
TANZANIA    1970    /a  Mainland Tanzania;    /b  1967;    /c  1965;    /d  As percentage of urban households.
KFNIYA       1970    /i  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to labor force age 15-59 years;    /b  Labor force age 15-59 years;    tc  Urban;
/d Registered, not all practicing in the country;
RI, September 7, 1978
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Land Are   thou 2                                                                            Population por nursing person - Population divided by nsmber of practicing
Total   Tot    urfce area coprising land area amd inland waters.                                male and female graduate nurses, "trained" or "certified" nurses, and
Agric. - Most recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily ar peoma-                   auxiliary persornel with trcining or erperience.
nontly for crops, pastures, market & kitchen gardena or to lie fallow.                     Population rer hbspital bed - Population divided by number of hospital beds
available in public and private geners1 and specialized hospital and
GNP per capits (US$) - GNP per capita estimates at current machat prices,                       rehabilitation centers; easeluds mnursing hanhs and establivelotmar  for
calculated by same conversion method as World Bank Atlas (197K-7T  basis);                   custodial and preventive care.
1960; 1970 end 1977 data.                                                                  Per capita supply of calories (2 of requirem.tnre) - Computed from energy
equivalent of net food supplies available in country psr capita per day;
Population and vital statistic,                                                                 available supplies comprise domestic production, imports lees esporta, and
Population (mid-year million)   Ao af July first:  if not available, average                    changes in stock; net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds, quantities used
of two and-year estimates; 1>60, 1970 and 1977 dots.                                         in food processing and losses in distribution; requirements were estimated
by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity and health conaid-
Population density - Per square vs - Mid-yasr population per square kilometer                    ting environentaltcoparatOors, body weights, age and sexe distributio    of
(100 hectares) of total area.                                                                populatice, and allowing 102 fec waste at heusehold level.
Population density - perr ar  km of agric. land - Computed as above for                      Per capita supply of protein (greNm per day) - Protein contest of per capita
sgricultcrsl land only.                                                                      net supply of food per day; net supply of food is defined as above; require-
ments for all countries established by USDA Economic Research Services
Vital statistics                                                                                provide for a minismm allowance of 60 gr-asa of total protein per day, and
Crude birth rate per thousand, average - Annual live births per thousand of                     20 gr-as of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal
mid-year population; ten-year arithesetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970,                   protein; these standards are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein
and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                                and 23 grams of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by FAO
Crude death rate per thousand, average - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-year                 in the Third World Food Survey.
population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970 and five-                  Per capita protein supply from animal and pulse - Protein supply of food
year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                                         derived from animals end pulses in grams per day.
Infant mortality race 1/thou) - Annual deaths of Infants under one year of age               Death rate (ithou) ages 1-4 - Annual dsaths par thousand in age group 1-4
per thousand live births.                                                                     years, to children in this age group; suggested as an indicator of
Life expectancy at birth (yra) - Average number of years of life remaining at                   malnutrition.
birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
ing countries.                                                                             Education
Gross reproduction rate - Average number of live daughters a woman will bear                  Ad1wted enrollment ratio - primary school - Enrollment of all ages as Pe-
in her normal reproductive period if she experiences present age-specific                     sentage of primary school-age population; includes children aged 6-11 years
fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                    but adjusted for different lengths of primary education; for countries with
for developing countries.                                                                     universal education, enrollment may exceed 1007. since ss pupils are below
Population growth rate (7.) - total - Compound annual growth ratet of mid-year                  or above the official school age.
population for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                               Adiusted enrollment ratio - secondary school - Computed as above; second-ry
Population growth rate (Y.) - urban - Computed like growth rate of total                        education requires at least four years of approved primary instruction;
population; different definitions of urban areas may affect comparability of                  provides general, vocational or ts.her t-raiing instructions for pupils
data a.mog c ountries,                                                                        of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally excluded.
Urban population (7. of total) - Ratio of urban to total population; different                Years of schooling provided (first and second levels) - Total years of
definitions of urban areas may affect conparability of data among countries.                  schooling; at secosdsry lvwl, vocational instruction may be pattially or
eamplstsly axeludad.
Age str-ctuce (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-ag  (15-64 years),                  Vocatinal enroll_wnt  % of secondary) - Vocational institutions include
snd retired  (65 years snd over) as percentages of mid-year population.                       technical, induatrial or other progra which operate independently or as
Age dependeccy ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to those                    departments of secondary institutions.
of ages 15 through 64.                                                                     Adult literacy rate (%) - Literate adults (able to read and write) an per-
Econonic dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to                     centage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
the labor force in age group of 15-64 years.
Faily planniog - acceptors (ctmulative, thou) - Cunulative number of acceptors                Housing
of birth-cnotrol devices under auspices of national fanily planning program                Persons per room (urban) - Average number of persons per room in occupied
since inception.                                                                             conventional dwellings in urban areas; dwellings exclude non-permanent
Fauily planning - users (7. of married women) - Percentagecs of married vomen of                structures and unoccupied pats.
child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control devi-es to all married               Occupied dwellings without piped water (%) - Occupied conventional dwellings
women il scoe agc group.                                                                      in urban and rural areas without inside or outside piped water facilities
as percentage of all occupied dwellings.
ap,loynent                                                                                    Access to electricity (2 of all dwellings) - Conventional  dwellings with
Total libor torcc (thousand) - Economically active persons, including armed                     electricity in living quarters as percent of total dwellings in urban and
forces and unemployed but excluding housewives, students, etc.; definitions                  rural areas.
in various countries are not comparable.                                                   Rural dwellings connected to electricity (2) - Computed as above for rural
Labor force in agriculture (%) - Agrincltural labor forte (in farming, forestry,                dwellings only.
hsnting and fishing) as percentage of total labor force.
Unemployed (% of labor force) - Une=played are usually defined as parsons who                Consu0 ption
are able and willing to take a jab, out of a job on a given day, remained out              Radio receivers (per thou pap) - All types of receivers for radio broadcasts
of a job, and seeking work for a specified minium period not exceeding one                   to general public per thousand of population; excludes unlicensed receivers
week; may sot be comparable between countries due to different definitions                   in countries snd in years when registration of radio sets was in effect;
of unemployed and source of data, e.g., employment office statistics, sample                  date for recent years may not be comparable since most countries abolished
surveys, rompolsory unemployment insurance.                                                   licensing.
Passeenger cars (oar than pap) - Passe nger cars comprise mator cars seating
Inomoc distribution - Percentage of private income (both in nash and kind)                    IeS them eight persons; excludes ambulances, hearse  and military
received by richest 5%, richest 20%, poorest 207., and poorest 40% of house-                 vehicles.
holds.                                                                                     Electricity (kwh/er per cap) - Annual conamsptim of industrial, cer-ial,
public end private electricity in kilowatt hours par eapita, gene.rally
Distribution af land ownership - Percentages of land owned by wealthiest I7.                    based on production data,  ithout allomance for losses in grids but allow-
and poorest 107. of land owners.                                                              ing for imparts and exports of electricity.
NewsPrint (ks/yr per cap) - Per c.pics... anua consuption in kilograms
Health and Nutrition                                                                           estimated from  domestic production plus net imports of newsprint.
Population per physician - Population divided by n,snbeo of practicing
physicians qualified frot a medical school at university level.



- 21 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN RWANDA
A. Statement of IDA Credits
(As of March 31, 1979)
Amount US$ million
Credit No.   Fiscal Year    Borrower   Purpose                   IDA      Undisbursed
(Two Credits have been fully disbursed)                           9.3
196-RW          1970          Rwanda      Kigali-Gatuna
Road Construction    18.8           0.26
439-RW          1974            "         Agro-pastoral
Development             3.8         0.33
567-RW          1975            "         Education               7.9         5.17
655-RW          1977                      DFC                     4.0         1.59
656-RW          1977            "         Agriculture
Cinchona                1.8         1.52
668-RW          1978                      Bugesera-Est
Gisaka-Migongo
Mixed Farming and
Rural Development    14.0          11.74
769-RW          1978                      Road Maintenance       15.0        14.61
Total                            74.6        35.22
B. Statement of IFC Investments
In 1976, IFC made a loan of US$535.000 for a tea factory. No other
investments have been made so far.



- 22 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
PROJECTS IN RWANDA 1/
Credit No. 196-RW   Kigali-Gatuna Project; US$9.3 million credit of
June 17, 1970; Date of Effectiveness: September 15, 1970;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977;
US$9.5 million supplementary credit of December 19, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness:  February 18, 1976
Closing Date:  June 30, 197.9
The project consisted of building a paved road to link Kigali with
the Uganda Road system, thus reducing by 73 km the road distance to Kampala
through which most Rwandese imports and exports pass on their way to the port
of Mombasa. Construction works were interrupted in April 1975 because of a
cost overrun amounting to about US$16.0 million, including a foreign exchange
component of US$13.7 million. A supplementary IDA credit of US$9.5 million
was made in 1976 of which US$8.7 million was earmarked for the completion of
the Kigali-Gatuna road and the remainder to finance additional costs under
the Highway Maintenance Project of 1972, which has now been completed. The
cost overrun is cofinanced with a US$5.0 million loan from the Saudi Fund
for Development. The works are now nearing completioa.
Credit No. 439-RW   Mutara Agricultural Development Project; US$3.8 million
credit of November 29, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: September 5, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project which aims at the agro-pastoral development of some
45,000 ha of land in Mutara, situated west of the Kagera National Park in the
north of Rwanda consisted essentially in establishing a cropping settlement
("paysannat"), about 130 groups ranches and a breeding ranch. Project imple-
mentation began about a year behind schedule because of delays in selecting a
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 23 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
suitable consulting firm to assist in project execution. Various difficulties
were encountured, particularly in defining the project area, in recruiting
staff and in procurement. In a large area, spontaneous settlement has occurred
before project implementation was underway, thus restraining the possibilities
for organized settlement as envisaged in the project.
Severe cost increases necessitated a reduction in the scope of the
project. In the paysannat, group ranch, and breeding ranch sub-projects,
substantial progress has been made towards achieving the main objectives.
This includes the settlement of families, the construction of the basic
transport, housing, administrative and veterinary infrastructures. A tse-tse
eradication program is about 40 percent completed. For the management and
general services project component, the infrastructure are complete, most of
the management team members were recruited, but difficulties were experienced
in recruiting qualified local staff. However, little has been done to date
regarding extension work and promotion of improved agricultural techniques.
In the group ranch sub-project, an extension program is being developed. It
includes branding animals, organizing pasture management, and implementing
a schedule of veterinary activities. A second phase project appraised in
May 1978 has been designed to emphasize extension services and improvement of
productivity.
Credit No. 567-RW   Education Project; US$8.0 million credit of June 30, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: December 1, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project includes the construction, furnishing and equipment
of 150 workshops for about 6,000 students and of a print shop, and the
provision of paper for production and distribution of text books written
in Kinyarwanda. The project also provides technical assistance to the school
financing and construction unit (SFCS) which was established under the project
and is functioning satisfactorily. About 12 workshops have been completed and
construction of 28 additional workshops is underway. Construction of the
office building for the SFCS has been completed. Construction of the print
shop is nearing completion and documents for procurement of paper for the
print shop are being prepared. SFCS officials and all technical assistance
specialists are performing satisfactorily.  There has, however, been adminis-
trative problems regarding procurement. Following an in-depth review, the
number of workshops to be financed under the credit has been increased from
150 to about 250; (ii) an amount of US$130.000 has been cancelled because of
misprocurement of certain construction materials and (iii) an amount of about
US$1.75 million, improperlv disbursed,will be restituted to the project by the
Government through a temporary reduction of the agreed disburseizent percentages.



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
Credit No. 655-PW   Rwandese Development Bank Project; US$4.0 million;
Credit of August 20, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: March 2, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
This credit to the Banque Rwandaise de Developpement (BRD) is
intended to fill a gap in the foreign resources requirements of the only long-
term financing institution in the main productive sectors in Rwanda. This
project is proceeding satisfactorily; the credit became effective on March 2,
1977. Also, BRD has obtained additional technical assistance from Germany.
This project is designed to assist the Banque Rwandaise de Developpement (BRD)
in promoting industry by providing the foreign exchange required.
Credit 656-RW        Cinchona Project; US$1.8 Million credit of August 20, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: March 2, 1977
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project which is to be carried out over a period of five years
provides agricultural inputs, extension, marketing and other services to
smallholders to assist in the expansion of cinchona production for export
by extending the present plantations by about 900 ha. Project staff has
been appointed and an expatriate cinchna expert has been hired to visit
Rwanda from time to time to give advice on cinchona production. The most
serious difficulty concerns a fungal disease in seed beds, but this is being
solved.
Credit 668-RW        Bugesera Est and Gisaka/Migongo Mixed Farming and Rural
Developpement Project; US$14.0 million credit of
March 31, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: November 23, 1977;
Closing Date: September 30, 1982
The project consists of the promotion of mixed farming and rural
development in two regions and the strengthening of the central services
responsible for rural development. The project includes tse tse control,
field extension and infrastructure, provision of farm inputs on credit,
construction and improvement of feeder roads and water facilities, schools,
and health centers, establishment of two cattle ranches and a study for an
irrigation project. The project is cofinanced by BADEA (US$5.0 million
equivalent for livestock development) and Belgium (US$0.9 million equivalent
for water facilities). The Ministry of French cooperation is providing
seven of the nine experts required by the project. Satisfactory progress
has been made with start-up activities, including programming of work,
budgeting, procurement and construction. Financing by French Technical
Assistance (FAC), not foreseen at the time of negotiations, has been pledged
to the project. A meeting was held in Kigali on January 29, 1979 between
representatives of Government, IDA and FAC, and the nature and extent of FAC's
financing of this project were discussed and agreed.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
Credit No. 769-RW   Fourth Highway Project; US$15.0 million credit of April 1978;
Date of Effectiveness: August 4, 1978;
Closing Date: July 1, 1982
Implementation of the Fourth Highway Project (a US$15.0 million
credit for road maintenance) started in January 1978. Technical assistance
is in the field and procurement of equipment is in progress. On the sugges-
tion of the Association, an export on labor intensive methods visited Rwanda
in June 1978 and recommended that one mecanized unit be replaced by one unit
utilizing labor intensive methods. Following the consultant's recommendation,
Government decided to introduce labor-intensive methods for road maintenance
and therefore amended the original list of equipment to be purchased to allow
for this.



- 26 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
RWANDA
RWANDA DEVELOPMENT BANK
PROPOSED SECOND IDA CREDIT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Identification mission                   October 1977
(b)  Appraisal mission                        February 1978
(c)  Negotiations                             February 1979
(d)  Planned Date of Effectiveness            August 1979
II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
III. Special Conditions
(a) Government to carry out feasibility study to determine the
need for an auditing firm, which if the results are positive
would lead to the establishment of this firm (paras. 37(b)
and 56);
(b) Government to provide adequate guarantees for loan repayment
in the case of public sector projects where BRD's financing
exceeds its normal exposure limit and for the portion of the
loan which exceeds the normal limit (para 42);
(c) BRD to require adequate guarantees for loan repayment for all
projects where its financing exceeds its normal exposure limit
and for the portion of the loan which exceeds the normal limit
(para 42);
(d) the terms and conditions of the proposed line of credit to
BRD (para 54);
(e) the authorization and ratification of the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement between the Borrower and BRD, (para 60); and
(f) the authorization and ratification of the Project Agreement,
(para 60).



29.                                                                   30= '             b:or    opl
RWANDA                                                    j                                           To M      Ko-'°-
POPULATION DENSITY, 1974                                                    )    uGANDA                                            _'°
Inhabita nts per KM2                             Rutshuer/u
-    t! Over 300
200-299
330_19                                                 \                  >ty                                                    <       TA N Z A N I A
2 0- 199--T
Less than 99                           REPUBLIC       O
-~2Rivers and lakes
Main roads
----Prefecture bvundaries
-.-International boundaries 
41,  17174MIR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/ h,s
AFRICA7
RWANDA  4  />y4?u',,, ,/,?          K    B  UN  G            \* a
29RND                                     t<         3=
x101/11/1''~o20
as  A  0E                                                           3                                                   m



