CONFORMED COPY
CRf -T NUBER 896 RW
Development Credit Agreement
(Second BRD Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 13, 1979


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 896 RW
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 13, 1979, between REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 1
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) Part A of the Project will be carried out by Banque
Rwandaise de D6veloppement with the Borrower's assistance and,
as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to
Banque Rwandaise de Developpement a portion of the proceeds
of the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
Banque Rwandaise de D6velopp'ment;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein, subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Appli-
cable to Development Credit Agreements of the Association, as so
modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "BRD" means Bangue Rwandaise de Developpement,
established by the Borrower's Law of August 5, 1967,


﻿-2-
as amended by the Borrower's Decree-Law of October 8, 1974, and
as said Law may be further amended from time to time;
(b) "Project Agreement" means the agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and BRD, as such agreement may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(c) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and BRD pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement, if any;
(d) "Sub-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to
be m"de by BRD to an Investment Enterprise for an Investment
Project out of the equivalent of the proceeds of the Credit relent
to BRD under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and "free-limit
Sub-loan" means a Sub-loan, as so defined, which qualifies as a
free-limit Sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.02 (b)
of this Agreement;
(e) "Investment" means an investment other than a Sub-loan,
made or proposed to be made by BRD in an Investment Enterprise for
an Investment Project out of the equivalent of the proceeds of the
Credit relent to BRD under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(f) "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which
BRD proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan or in which it pro-
poses to make or has made an Investment, and "Small-scale Invest-
ment Enterprise" means an Investment Enterprise, as so defined,
with: (i) net assets (calculated as total assets minus amorti-
zation) of less than RwFl5,000,000; (ii) annual sales of less than
RwF8,000,000; and (iii) except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, less than 20 employees;
(g) "Investment Project" means a specific development
project to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing
the proceeds of a"Sub-loan or Investment;
(h) "Rwandese Francs" and "RwF" mean the currency of the
Borrower;
(i) "foreign currency" means any currency other than the
currency of the Borrower;
FT


﻿-3 -
(j) "Statutes" means the Borrower's Law of August 5, 1967,
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, as amended by the
Borrower's Decree-Law of October 8, 1974, and as said Law may be
further amended from time to time;
(k) "Statement of Policy" means the Motion de Politique
Generale of BRD approved by the Board of Directors of BRD on
January 20, 1975, and the Principes d'Intervention of BRD
approved by the Board of Directors of BRD on January 28, 1976,
both as amended to the date of this Agreement, and as the same may
be further amended from time to time in mutual agreement between
the Association and BRD;
(1)  "Prior Credit Agreement" means the development credit
agreement (Credit Number 655 RW) between the Borrower and the
Association dated August 20, 1976, and "Prior Credit" means the
credit provided for therein; and
(m) "Subsidiary" means any company of which a majority
of the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is
owned or effectively controlled by BRD or by any one or more
subsidiaries of BRD or by BRD and one or more of its subsidiaries.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to five million, two hundred thousand dollars ($5,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs
(b), (c) and (d) of this Section, BRD, on behalf of the Borrower
pursuant to Section 2.09 of this Agreement, may withdraw from
the Credit Account, up to an aggregate amount of five million
dollars ($5,000,000) equivalent, the equivalent of amounts paid
(or, if the Association shall so agree, amounts to be paid) by the
Borrower on account of withdrawals made by an Investment Enter-
prise under a Sub-Loan or Investment to meet:
(i) the reasonable foreign-currency cost of imported
goods (except goods described in paragraph (c) of
this Section) and services required for the Invest-
ment Project in respect of which the withdrawal is
requested;


﻿-4-
(ii) eighty per cent (80%) of the invoiced price paid
for goods purchased for Investment Projects as set
forth in paragraph (c) (i) of this Section;
(iii) eighty per cent (80%) of the invoiced price paid
for goods purchased for Investment Projects as set
forth in paragraph (c) (ii) of this Section;
and
(iv) sixty-five per cent (65%) of the costs of construc-
tion works included in such Investment Projects and
carried out by national contractors;
provided, however, that no amount shall b:. withdrawn from the
Credit Account in respect of an Investment 1"'oject unless (A) the
Sub-loan or Investment for such Investment Project shall have been
approved by the Association or (B) the Sub-loan shall be a free-
limit Sub-loan for which the Association shall have authorized
withdrawals from.the Credit Account.
(b) A free-limit Sub-loan shall be a Sub-loan for an Invest-
ment Project in an amount to be financed under the Development
Credit Agreement which, together with any other amount or amounts
previously financed for the same Investment Project under the
Development Credit Agreement or under the Prior Credit Agreement,
and not repaid, shall not exceed in the aggregate the equivalent
of $200,000 and which, when added to all other free-limit Sub-
loans financed under the Development Credit Agreement, shall not
exceed in the aggregate the equivalent of $2,000,000, the fore-
going amounts being subject to change from time to time as deter-
mined by the Association.
(c) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
withdrawals from the Credit Account may be made on account of
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower only for: (i)
goods previously imported into its territory through normal
trade channels and from countries which are members of the
Bank (or from Switzerland); (ii) goods produced in the territory
of the Borrower to a substantial extent from components or raw
materials so imported, and purchased by Investment Enterprises
to carry out Investment Projects; and (iii) constre!tion works
as described in subparagraph (iv) of paragraph k-a) of this
Section.
(d) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no
withdrawals shall be made on account of: (i) expenditures made
ilt


﻿by an Investment Enterprise prior to the date of this Agreement;
or (ii) expenditures made in respect of a Sub-loan subjct to
the Association's approval, or of an Investment, more than
ninety days prior to the date on which the Association shall
have received the application and information,required under
Section 2.03 (b) of the Project Agreement; or (iii) expenditures
made in respect of a free-limit Sub-loan more than ninety days
prior to the date on which the Association shall have received
the request and information required by Section 2.03 (b) of
the Project Agreement.
(e) The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw from the
Credit Account: (i) amounts expended in foreign currency (or,
if the Association shall so agree, such amounts as shall be
required to meet expenditures in foreign currency to be made)
to finance, up to an aggregate amount of $20,000 equivalent,
the reasonable cost of the services of consultants under Part B
(1) of the Project; (ii) amounts expended in foreign currency (or,
if the Association shall so agree, such amounts as shall be
required to meet expenditures in foreign currency to be made) to
finance, up to an aggregate amount of $145,000 equivalent, the
reasonable cost of training under Part B (2) of the Project; and
(iii) amounts expended in foreign currency or eighty per cent
(80%) of amounts expended in local currency (or  if the Associ-
ation shall so agree, such amounts as shall be required to meet
expenditures in foreign currency to be made, or eighty per cent
(80%) of amounts required to meet expenditures in local currency
to be made) to finance up to an aggregate of $35,000 equivalent,
the reasonable cost of equipment and furniture under Part B (2) of
the Project.
(f) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (e) of this
Section, no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made,
on account of Part B of the Project, for expenditures prior to the
date of this Agreement.
(g) In the event that Part B (2) of the Project is not
carried out, the amounts specified in paragraph (e) (ii) and
(iii) of this Section will be added to the amount to be relent
to BRD pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement for the
carrying out of Part A of the Project.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit for Part B (2) (a) of the Project shall be governed


﻿-6-
by the provisions set forth or referred to in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1983,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
J1                  Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April 15
and October 15 commencing October 15, 1989, and ending April 15,
2029, each installment to and including the installment payable on
April 15, 1999 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.09. BRD is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or per-
mitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions with respect to
Part A of the Project.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out or cause to
be carried out Part B of the Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate accounting, finan-
cial and administrative practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purp,se.


﻿-77.-
(b) Under a subsidiary loan agreement, to be entered into
between the Borrower and BRD on terms and conditions which shall
0            have been approved by the Association, the Borrower shall relend
to BRD the sum of five million dollars ($5,000,000) or the equiv-
alent thereof out of the proceeds of the Credit to assist BRD in
carrying out Part A of the Project; the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
shall provide, inter alia, that the amounts so relent pursuant to
this paragraph shall bear interest at the rate of 6.0% per annum
on the principal amount withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsid-
iary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of
the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the prepara-
tion of the feasibility study and plans under Part B (1) of
the Project and in the training of local staff under Part B (2)
of the Project, the Borrower shall, by September 30, 1979 or such
later date as may be agreeable to the Association, employ account-
ing consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. (a) By March 30, 1980 or such later date as may
be agreeable to the Association, the Borrower shall prepare or
cause to be prepared, and shall furnish to the Association for its
approval, the feasibility study under Part B (1) of the Project.
(b) In the event that the feasibility study, as approved
by the Association, recommends the establishment of an accounting
firm, the Borrower shall, by May 31, 1980 or such later date as
may be agreeable to the Association, furnish to the Association,
for its approval, a training program for the intended staff of
such firm and shall thereafter implement such program with such
modifications as may be agreeable to the Borrower and the Associ-
ation.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit for Part B (2) of
the Project against hazards incident to the acquisition, transpor-
tation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
i-A


﻿-8-
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a cur-
rency freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such
goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit for Part B of the Project to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
Part B of the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reason-
ably request.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of Part B of the
Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from
it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit for Part B of the Project, and to disclose
their use in Part B of the Project; (ii) enable the Associa-
tion's accredited representatives to visit the facilities included
in Part B of the Project and to examine the goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit for Part B of the Project and any
relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Associ-
ation at regular intervals all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning Part B of the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditures of such proceeds and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of Part B of the Project, its cost and the benefits
derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower
and the Association of their respective obligations under this
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
Section 3.06. As and when needed, the Borrower shall take or
cause to be taken all such action as shall be necessary to


﻿-9-
acquire, or to permit the acquisition of, all such land and rights
in respect of land as shall be required for the establishment of
an accounting firm in conjunction with Part B (2) of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall not take, or permit any
of its political subdivisions, or any of its agencies or instru-
mentalities, or any agency or instrumentality of any of its
political subdivisions, to take any action which would prevent or
materially interfere with the performance by BRD of any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, and shall take or cause to be taken all reasonable
action which shall be required on its part in order to enable BRD
to perform such obligations.
Section 4.02. Prior to any amendments to the Statutes,
the Borrower shall inform the Association of the amendments
proposed and shall afford the Association a reasonable opportunity
to exchange views on the proposed amendments with the Borrower and
BRD.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall bear all risk of loss
resulting from changes in the rates of exchange between the
various currencies (including Rwandese Francs) used in BRD's
borrowing and lending operations.
Section 4.04. BRD's financial assistance to a public enter-
prise for any Project, including any Investment Project exceeding
20% of BRD's net worth, shall be subject to the prior approval of
the Borrower. The Borrower shall provide BRD or cause BRD to be
provided with adequate guarantee for the repayment of that portion
of such assistance which exceeds such 20%.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) a default shall occur in the performance of any obliga-
tion of BRD under the Project Agreement or under any other project
agreement between the Association and BRD;


﻿- 10 -
(b) the Statutes shall have been amended so as to affect
materially and adversely the operations or financial condition of
BRD;
(c) BRD shall be unable to pay its debts as they mature or
any action or proceeding shall have been undertaken whereby any of
the property of BRD shall or may be distributed among its credi-
tors;
(d) any part of the principal amount of any loan to BRD
having an original maturity of one year or more shall', in accor-
dance with its terms, have become due and payable in advance of
maturity, as provided in the related contractual instruments, or
any security for any such loar shall have become enforceable;
(e) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of BRD or for the suspension of its operations; and
(f) a Subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created
or acquired or taken over by BRD, if such creation, acquisition or
taking over would adversely affect the conduct of BRD's business,
its financial situation, the efficiency of its management and
personnel or the carrying out of the Project.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additonal events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (a), (b) or (f)
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue
for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Association to the Borrower and BRD; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (c), (d) or (e)
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01.. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional. condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been
entered into by the Borrower and BRD.


﻿-11 -
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, BRD,
and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of BRD in accor-
dance with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by, and constitutes a valid and binding obliga-
tion of, the Borrower and BRD in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date October 15, 1979 is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The provisions of Section 4.02 of this Agree-
ment and of Article V of this Agreement shall cease and determine
on the date on which this Agreement shall terminate or on a date
twenty-five years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Subject to the provisions of Section 2.09
of this Agreement, the Minister of the Borrower at the time
responsible for finance is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere des Finances
Bolte Postale 158
Kigali
Republique Rwandaise
Cable address:                      Telex:
MINIFIN                                CABPUB 04
Kigali


﻿-12-
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
By /s/ Bonaventure Ubalijoro
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is/ Andre R. Gu6
Acting Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
fFF


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Description of the Project
The Project is composed of two Parts as follows:
Part A:   The financing by BRD of economic development in the
territory of the Borrower through loans for productive
purposes to enterprises in such territory, and through
other productive investments in such enterprises, all
for specific development projects and in accordance with
the Statutes and Statement of Policy of BRD.
Part B:   (1) Consultants' services to assist the Borrower in
studying, in accordance with terms of reference
acceptable to the Association, the feasibility of
establishing an accounting firm in the territory of
the Borrower and, in the event such establishment
is justified, in preparing a plan for it; and
(2) in the event an accounting firm is to be estab-
lished:
(a) the purchase of furniture and equipment for
its premises; and
(b) the training of its staff, locally with the
assistance of experts, and abroad in suitable
training institutions.
Part B of the Project is expected to be completed by Decem-
ber 31, 1982.


﻿141
- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement under Part B (2) (a)
of the Project
1.   Contracts for the purchase of equipment and furniture under
Part B (2) (a) of the Project estimated to cost more than the
equivalent of $10,000 shall be procured on the basis of competi-
tive bidding advertised locally.
2.   Contracts for the purchase of equipment and furniture under
Part B (2) (a) of the Project estimated to cost the equivalent
of $10,000 or less shall be procured on the basis of negotiated
purchases after solicitation of not less than three independent
quotations obtained locally.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Modifications of General Conditions
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the
General Conditions are modified as follows:
(a) The following subparagraph is added to Section 2.01:
"13. The term 'Project Agreement' has the meaning
set forth in paragraph (b) of Section 1.02 of the Development
Credit Agreement."
(b) The words "Investment Projects and Part B of the Proj-
ect" are substituted for the words "the Project" at the end of
Section 5.03.
(c) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Association. If
(a) the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from
the Credit Account shall have been suspended with respect
to any amount of the Credit for a continuous period of
thirty days or (b) by the date specified in Section 2.03 (e)
of the Project Agreement no applications for approval or
requests for authorization to withdraw from the Credit
Account in respect of any portion of the Credit shall have
been received by the Association, or having been so received,
shall have been denied or (c) after the Closing Date an
amount of the Credit shall remain unwithdrawn from the Credit
Account, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
terminate the right to request such approvals and authori-
zations or to make withdrawals from the Credit Account, as
the case may be, with respect to such amount or portion of
the Credit. Upon the giving of such notice such amount or
portion of the Credit shall be cancelled."
(d) The words "and the Project Agreement" are added after
the words "the Development Credit Agreement" in Section 6.06;
and
(e) The words "or the Project Agreement" are added after
the words "the Development Credit Agreement" in Section 10.02.


