CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 896 RW
Project Agreement
(Second BRD Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
BANQUE RWANDAISE DE DEVELOPPEMENT
Dated July 13, 1979


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 896 RW
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 13, 1979, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
BANQUE RWANDAISE DE DEVELOPPEMENT (1-ereinafter called the BRD),
established by law of August 5, 1967, as amended by Decree-Law of
October 8, 1974, of Republic of Rwanda (hereinafter called the
Borrower).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Borrower and the Association, the Association
has agreed, inter alia, to lend to the Borrower, for relending to
BRD, an amount in various currencies equivalent to five million
dollars ($5,000,000), on the terms and conditions sct forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that BRD
agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS BRD, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "medium-term Sub-loan" means a Sub-loan maturing not
more than five years after the date on which it is originally
authorized; and
(b) "long-term Sub-loan" means a Sub-loan maturing more than
five years after the date on which it is originally authorized.
ARTICLE II
Execution of Part A of the Project;
Management and Operations of BRD
Section 2.01. BRD shall carry out Part A of the Project,
described in Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement,


﻿-2-
and conduct its operations and affairs, with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate economic, financial
and investment standards and practices, with qualified and
experienced management and in accordance with the Statutes and
Statement of Policy.
Section 2.02. (a) BRD undertakes that, unless the Association
shall otherwise agree, any Sub-loan will be made on terms which
shall provide, inter alia, that interest and other charges to
be paid by the Investment Enterprise shall, in the aggregate, be
not less than:
(i) eight and one-half per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on
the outstanding balance of the Sub-loan in the case
of medium-term Sub-loans to Small-scale Investment
Enterprises;
(ii) nine per cent (9%) per annum on the outstanding
balance of the Sub-loan in the case of medium-
term Sub-loans to other than Small-scale Investment
Enterprises;
(iii) ten per cent (10%) per annum on the outstanding
balance of the Sub-loan in the case of long-term
Sub-loans to Small-scale Investment Enterprises;
and
(iv) eleven per cent (11%) per annum on the outstanding
balance of the Sub-loan in the case of long-term
Sub-loans to other than Small-scale Investment
Enterprises.
(b) BRD shall charge each enterprise receiving a loan
and each Investment Enterprise receiving a Sub-loan, as and from
the date of the signing of the agreement providing therefor, a
commitment fee at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the loan or Sub-loan
not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.03. (a) In accordance with and subject to the
provisions of the Development Credit Agreement, BRD shall submit
Investment Projects to the Association for approval and for autho-
rization for withdrawals to be made from t,e Credit Account.
(b) (i) When submitting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit
Sub-loan) or an Investment to the Association for approval,


﻿-3-
BRD shall furnish to the Association an application, in form
satisfactory to the Association, together with a description of
the Investment Enterprise and of the Investment Project to be
financed thereunder (including a description of the expendi-
tures for such Investment Project proposed to be financed by
BRD and an appraisal of the Investment Project) and the proposed
terms and conditions of the Sub-loan or Investment, including the
schedule of amortization of the Sub-loan, or of repayment to the
Borrower of the amount to be used for the   Investment, and such
other information as the Association shall reasonably request; and
(ii) such appraisals shall include a calculation of the internal
financial rate of return and, in cases of import substitution, an
evaluation of the economic rate of return, established in accor-
dance with guidelines satisfactory to the Association.
(c) Each request by BRD for authorization to make with-
drawals from the Credit Account in respect of a free-limit Sub-
loan shall contain a summary description of the Investment
Enterprise and the Investment Project (including a descrip-
tion of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit) and the terms and conditions of such
free-limit Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization
therefor.
(d) The amortization schedule applicable to each Investment
Project shall provide for an appropriate period of grace, and,
unless the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree: (i)
shall not extend (A) in the case of Sub-loans or Investments for
tourism Investment Projects, beyond twenty years, and (B) in the
case of any other Sub-loan or Investment, beyond fifteen years
from the date of approval by the Association of such Investment
Project or of authorization by the Association to make withdrawals
from the Credit Account in respect of such Investment Project; and
(ii) shall provide for approximately equal semi-annual, or more
frequent, aggregate payments of principal and interest or approxi-
mately equal semiannual, or more frequent, payments of principal.
(e) Except as the Association and BRD shall otherwise agree,
BRD shall submit applications for approval of Investment Projects
pursuant to the provisions of paragragh (b) of this Section and
requests for authorizations to withdraw from the Credit Account
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section on or
before December 31, 1982.
Section 2.04. (a) BRD undertakes that unless the Association
shall otherwise agree, any Sub-loan or Investment will be made on


﻿terms whereby BRD shall obtain, by written agreement or other
appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests
of the Association and of BRD, including, in the case of any such
Sub-loan and to the extent that it shall be appropriate in the
case of any such Investment: (i) the right to require the Invest-
ment Enterprise to carry out and operate the Investment Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound
technical, financial and managerial standards and to maintain
adequate records; (ii) the right to require that the goods and
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Sub-loan or
Investment be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Invest-
ment Project; (iii) the right of the Association and of BRD to
inspect such goods and the sites, works, plants and construction
included in the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any
relevant records and documents; (iv) the right to require that the
Investment Enterprise take out and maintain such insurance,
against su('h risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent
with sound business practice and that, without any limitation upon
the foregoing, such insurance cover hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery of the goods financed out
of the proceeds of the Sub-loan or Investment to the place of use
or installation, and that any indemnity thereunder be payable in a
currency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or
repair such goods; (v) the right to obtain all such information as
the Association or BRD shall reasonably request relating to the
foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial
condition of the Investment Enterprise; and (vi) the right of
BRD to suspend or terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise
to the use of the proceeds of the Sub-loan upon failure by such
Investment Enterprise to perform its obligations under its agree-
ment with BRD.
(b) Prior to providing financial assistance for an Invest-
ment Project which exceeds 20% of BRD's net worth, BRD shall
obtain adequate guarantee for the repayment of that portion of
such assistance which exceeds such 20%.
(c) BRD shall exercise its rights in relation to each
Investment Project in such manner as: (i) to protect the interests
of the Association and of BRD; (ii) to comply with its obligations
under this Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and (iii)
to achieve the purposes of Part A of the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) BRD shall: (i) maintain records and proce-
dures adequate to record and monitor the progress of Part A of the


﻿-5-
Project and of each Investment Project (including the cost thereof
and the benefits to be derived therefrom); and (ii) furnish
to the Association all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the expenditure of the proceeds of
the Sub-loans and Investments, Part A of the Project, its cost
and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the
Investment Enterprises, the Investment Projects, the Sub-loans and
the Investments.
(b) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between BRD and the
Association, BRD shall prepare and furnish to the Association a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of Part
A of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be
derived from it, the performance by BRD and the Association of
their respective obligations under this Agreement and the accom-
plishment of the purposes of the Credit.
(c) BRD shall enable the Association's representatives
to examine all buildings, property and equipment of BRD and any
relevant records and documents.
Section 2.06. BRD shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, BRD shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of assigning, or amending, abrogating
or waiving any provision of, the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.07. Except as the Association and BRD shall other-
wise agree, BRD: (i) shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise
dispose of any of its property or assets, except in the ordinary
course of business; and (ii) shall take all action necessary to
maintain its corporate existence and right to carry on operations
and to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges
and franchises necessary or useful in the conduct of its business.
Section 2.08. BRD shall cause each of its Subsidiaries (if
any) to observe and perform the obligations of BRD under this
Agreement to the extent to which the same may be made applicable
thereto as though such obligations were binding upon each of such
Subsidiaries.
Section 2.09. BRD shall not amend its Statement of Policy
except in agreement with the Association, and shall exchange views
with the Association on any proposal to modify its Statutes.
~ft. 4


﻿ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. BRD shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition and shall enable
the Association's representatives to examine such records.
Section 3.02. BRD shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (.i) furnish
to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of BRD and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association and BRD shall other-
wise agree, BRD shall not incur or permit any Subsidiary to incur
any debt if, after the incurring of such debt, the consolidated
debt of BRD and all its Subsidiaries then incurred and outstanding
would exceed three times the consolidated capital and surplus of
BRD and all its Subsidiaries. For the purpose of this Section:
(a) The term "debt" means any debt incurred by BRD or any
Subsidiary maturing more than one year after the date on which it
is originally incurred, including debt assumed or guaranteed by
BRD or by a Subsidiary.
(b) Wherever reference is made in this Section to the
incurring of debt, such reference shall include any modification
of the terms of payment of such debt. Debt shall be deemed to be
incurred: (i) under a loan contract or agreement on the date
and to the extent. the loan is drawn down pursuant to such loan
contract or agreement; and (ii) under a guarantee agreement,
on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been
entered into but only to the extent the guaranteed debt is
outstanding.


﻿ 7 -
(c) Whenever in connection with this Section it shall
be necessary to value in terms of Rwandese Francs debt payable in
foreign currency, such valuation shall be made at the prevailing
lawful rate of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at the
time of such valuation, obtainable in Kigali for the purposes of
servicing such debt.
(d) The term "consolidated debt of BRD and all its Subsid-
iaries" means the aggregate of the total amount of debt of BRD
and of a proportion of the debt of each of its Subsidiaries
equal to the ratio of the participation of BRD in the share
capital of such Subsidiary, excluding any debt owed by BRD to any
Subsidiary or by any Subsidiary to BRD or to any other Subsidiary.
(e) The term "consolidated capital and surplus of BRD
and all its Subsidiaries" means the aggregate of the total unim-
paired paid-in capital and free reserves of BRD and of a pro-
portion of the unimpaired paid-in capital and free reserves of
each of its Subsidiaries equal to the ratio of BRD's participation
in the share capital of such Subsidiary, after excluding therefrom
such amounts as shall represent equity interests of BRD in any
Subsidiary, or of any such Subsidiary in BRD or in any other
Subsidiary.
Section 3.04. Except as the Association and BRD shall other-
wise agree, BRD shall not make any repayment in advance of matu-
rity in respect of any of itc borrowings (other than deposits)
having an original term exceeding one year.
ARTICLE IV
Consultation and Information
Section 4.01. (a) The Association and BRD shall cooperate
fully to assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accom-
plished. To that end, the Association and BRD shall, from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views through thei,
representatives with regard to the progress of the Project, the
performance by BRD of its obligations under this Agreement and the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the administration, operations and
financial condition of BRD and other matters relating to the
purpose of the Credit.
(b) BRD shall furnish to the Association all such informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request concerning
Ilk,


﻿-8-
the administration, operations and financial condition of BRD and
its Subsidiaries, if any.
Section 4.02. BRD shall promptly inform the Association of
any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere
with, thle accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the
maintenance of the service thereof or the performance by BRD of
its obligations under this Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of BRD thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate; or
(ii) a date twenty-five years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates before
the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify BRD of this event, and upon the
giving of such notice, this Agreement and all obligations of the
parties thereunder shall forthwith terminate.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension u;nder Article VI of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
MLiscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between


﻿-9-
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For BRD:
Banque Rwandaise de Developpement
Botte Postale 1341
Kigali
Republique Rwandaise
Cable address:
BANQUE RWANDAISE DE
DEVELOPPEMENT
Kigali
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement or under Section 2.09 of the Development Credit
Agreement on behalf of or by BRD may be taken or executed by its
Director General, or by such other person or persons as such
Director General shall designate in writing, and BRD shall furnish
to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Andre R. Gue
Acting Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
BANQUE RWANDAISE DE DEVELOPPEMENT
By /s/ Bonaventure Ubalijoro
Authorized Representative


