Document of
FIL E CoPY    The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2331 -CE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
FOR A
TREE CROP REHABILITATION (TEA) PROJECT
May 19, 1978
This document hbs a restricted distribuwtn and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autborization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1       =      Rupees (Rs) 16.00
Rs 1             US$0.06
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer (km)           =      0.62 miles
1 meter (m)                =      1.09 yards
1 kilogram (kg)            =      2.2 pounds
1 hectare (ha)   2                2.47 acres
1 square metre (m )        -    10.76 square feet
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DCA   -   Development Credit Agreement
GOSL  -   Government of Sri Lanka
ICB   -   International Competitive Bidding
JEDB  -   Janatha Estates Development Board
LRC   -   Land Reform Commission
MPI   -   Ministry of Plantation Industries
PA    -   Project Agreement
PC    -   Project Coordinator
PCC   -   Project Coordinating Committee
SPC   -   State Plantations Corporation
TSDA  -   Tea Small-holdings Development Authority
TRI   -   Tea Research Institute
GLOSSARY
Broken Orange Pekoe (BOP), BOP Fannings (BOPF), and DUST I
are among top tea grades. They are listed in descending order
of particle size. Ability to vary grade proportions permits
responsiveness to changing market conditions.
Clonal or vegetatively propagated tea gardens outyield seedling
tea because the bushes are identical and selected from superior
mother bushes; seedling tea is heterogeneous and contains poor
yielding bushes.
GOVERNMENT OF SRI LANKA
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31



701 OFFXCL u   ONLY
SRI LANKA
TREE CROP REHABILITATION (TEA) PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                 Government of Sri Lanka.
Beneficiaries:            State Plantation Corporation (SPC)
Janatha Estates Development Board (JEDB)
Private estate owners
About 180 small-holders
Private transporters.
Amount:                   US$21.0 million
Terms:                    Standard
Relending Terms:          Government through the Central Bank will on-lend up
to US$17.2 M of the credit to the Bank of Ceylon
(BOC) at a rate of interest of: (i) 8.5% per annum,
to be on-lent for project purposes at 12% per annum
to SPC, JEDB, private truck operators, private
growers, and factory owners; and (ii) 6.5% per annum,
to be on-lent to SPC, JEDB, and private growers at
10% per annum for estate labor housing expenditure.
Maturities would be: factory machinery, 10 years;
vehicles, 5 years; field development, 15 years, with
one year of grace; and estate labor housing, 15
years, and 5 years of grace. The Bank of Ceylon
shall repay its loans from the Central Bank within
the same term as the relevant subloans.
Project Description:      The project would assist the Government of Sri Lanka
in improving the economic efficiency of the tea
industry by lowering production costs and improving
tea quality in the project area, as well as in stem-
ming the decline in output of tea through:  expanded
programs of tea replanting and infilling; strengthen-
ing the two major Government corporations involved
in estate management; reduction in total number of
factories, and expansion and rehabilitation of the
remainder; provision of vehicles for personnel, green
leaf and made-tea transport; and rehabilitation of
soil conservation works. The project would also
assist private estate owners and approximately 180
small-holder producers, and would provide improved
housing and medical facilities for estate laborers.
The project faces no special risks, but realization
of full benefits will depend mainly upon the manage-
ment performance of the two Government corporations
involved.
Thu document has restricted distribution and may be uied by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discloed without World Bank authorization.



- ii. -
Estimated Cost:            The table below summarizes the total cost of the
project. (Numbers may not add due to rounding).
US$ Million Equivalent
Local Foreign Total
Field works                    3.6      1.2      4.8
Field and Nursery
Equipment                     .4       .3       .7
Vehicles                       1.1      2.0      3.1
Housing                        6.3      2.1      8.4
Factory Equipment              2.6      1.7      4.3
Medical                          .2      .2       .4
Training                        -        .2       .2
Support                         .1       .1       .2
Total Base Costs            14.2      7.7    22.0
Physical Contingencies          .7       .4      1.1
Price Contingencies            6.2      1.5      7.7
Total Costs                 21.1      9.7    30.8
Estimated                                                  $ Million
Disbursements:           Bank Fiscal Year  1980  1981  1982  1983  1984  1985
Annual              3.0   4.5   4.5   3.5   4.5   1.0
Cumulative          3.0   7.5  12.0  15.5  20.0  21.0
Rate of Return:            25%
Staff Appraisal
Report:                  No. 1892-CE, dated May 12, 1978



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
FOR A TREE CROP REHABILITATION (TEA) PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Sri Lanka for the equivalent of
US$21.0 million on standard IDA terms to assist the Government of Sri Lanka
in improving the efficiency of the tea industry by lowering production costs
and improving tea quality in the project area, as well as in stemming the
decline in output of tea. Up to US$17.2 million of the credit would be relent
to the Bank of Ceylon (BOC) at: (i) 8.5% per annum to be relent for project
purposes at 12% per annum for 10 years for factory equipment, 15 years for
field development with a one year of grace and five years for vehicles;
(ii) 6.5% per annum to be relent for estate labor housing at 10% per annum
for 15 years with five years of grace. The Bank of Ceylon would repay
the loans obtained within the same term as the relevant sub-loans.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The latest economic report, "Development in Sri Lanka:  Issues and
Prospects" (Report No. 1937-CE, March 22, 1978) was distributed to the Execu-
tive Directors on March 23, 1978. Country Data are provided in Annex I.
3.        Sri Lanka has achieved social progress far beyond of that of
other countries with comparably low per capita incomes. Literacy, health,
and life expectancy are high; nutrition is adequate, and mortality and pop-
ulation growth rates have been declining. These impressive gains have been
achieved despite generally low output and employment growth. Per capita
GDP growth was only 0.9% per annum in the 1948-60 period; it accelerated to
2.1% in the 1960s and then declined to 1.3% per annum in the 1970s. Through-
out the 1960s and the 1970s, these modest output gains were eroded by adverse
terms of trade trends. This disappointing performance has been accompanied by
a disturbing increase in the level of open unemployment. In the 1970s, while
the labor force has been growing at about 125,000 per year, employment has
been rising by about 85,000, much of it in unproductive jobs. The number of
unemployed has, therefore, been rising, and open unemployment is estimated at
over one million or 20% of the labor force.
4.        The gains in the social field were made possible by favorable
initial conditions. Compulsory primary education had been introduced as
early as 1901. The food ration was introduced in 1942. Thus, at the time
of Independence in 1948, Sri Lanka already enjoyed high levels of adult
literacy and life expectancy. These initial gains were consolidated and
expanded in the post-Independence period through large expenditures on social
1/   This part is the same as Part I under the Tree Crop Diversification
(Tea) Project.



-2-
services and the food subsidy, which have accounted for two-fifths to one-half
of government revenues in the 1960s and 1970s. These expenditures have been
financed by harnessing the surpluses of Sri Lanka's three major tree crops,
tea, rubber, and coconut, which provided the Government with both an easy
revenue source and the foreign exchange earnings needed to pay for food
imports required to meet consumption requirements.
5.        There are both measurable and non-measurable economic benefits flow-
ing from these improvements in health, nutrition, and education. Of these,
the most important ones are the decline in fertility and the relatively low
rate of urbanization. At the same time, there have been some significant
costs arising from the firm commitment of successive governments to maintain-
ing these social gains.  The fiscal burden of these expenditures has imposed
a high degree of inflexibility on Sri Lanka's policymakers in their attempts
to accelerate long-term growth. That inflexibility has increased over time
as growth slowed down and in particular, the ability of the tree crop sub-
sector to provide resources weakened as commodity prices kept falling and
productivity suffered due to inadequate incentives. Moreover, the gains in
education have had a negative impact in the form of large numbers of educated
unemployed who have posed a challenge to the established political order.
With political parties competing against each other to offer inducements to
the electorate, it has proved difficult for governments to focus social ex-
penditure programs more narrowly on specific groups living in poverty.
6.        In the 1960-77 period, gross domestic product at constant prices
rose by 3.8% per annum, slightly above the 3.5% per annum recorded in the
first 12 years after Independence. This impressive performance masks a marked
deceleration in the growth of the productive sectors of the economy between
the 1960s and the 1970s. GDP growth slowed down from 4.4% per annum in the
1960s to 3.0% in the 1970-77 period. Growth fell from 3.4% to 1.9% in agri-
culture; from 6.2% to 2.3% in manufacturing.
7.        The key to the slowdown in GDP growth lies largely in the slow
growth of agriculture, which accounts for over one-third of GDP and four-fifths
of export earnings. Tea and coconut output has been declining steadily from
the mid 1960s; rubber, after showing a rapid increase in the 1960s, stagnated
in the 1970s. Poor weather, declining commodity prices, a rising effective
tax burden, and low producer returns combined with the uncertainties caused by
a long, drawn-out land reform (1972-75) depressed producer incentives and,
hence investment and production, to new lows. These problems were aggravated
by a dual exchange rate, introduced in 1968, which discriminated against tra-
ditional exports and in favor of food imports.
8.        Paddy production, which grew at 7.4% per annum in the 1964-70 period,
slowed down to 0.7% per annum in the 1970-77 period. The decline in yields
and cropping intensities that this reflected is attributable to a series of
droughts and a sharp deterioration in the institutional support for production
programs. The only bright spot on the agricultural scene has been the rapid
increase in output of subsidiary food crops in the 1970s. This represents
gains in acreage rather than yields and is in response to the improved incen-
tives arising from a ban on imports of this foodstuff, introduced in 1970.



9.        The slowdown in manufacturing output in the 1970s was due to the
cumulative impact of declining investment levels, severe foreign exchange
shortages that necessitated import rationing (with serious consequences for
a sector in which imported raw materials account for 70% of the value of raw
materials used), the exhaustion of import substitution possibilities, and
inefficiencies in management of the public sector, which now acco-nts for 66%
of the gross value of production in organized industry.
10.       In general, economic growth was constrained by a persistent foreign
exchange shortage throughout the 1960s and 1970s, inadequate levels of saving
and investment, and the low efficiency of resource use. Sri Lanka's terms of
trade have deteriorated steadily since the early 1960s and worsened sharply in
the mid 1970s following increases in the price of imported food, fertilizer,
and petroleum. The share of these three items in Sri Lanka's total imports
jumped from about 50% in 1972 to 70% in 1975. This sharp increase has, to
some extent, offset the improvement in export prices (particularly of tea)
since 1973. Trade policies that discriminated against exports and encouraged
import substitution caused a slow growth in exports of 2.5% per annum between
1960 and 1976, which acted as a significant constraint on growth for an econ-
omy in which exports accounted for 30% of GDP in 1960, and, at 22%, are still
substantial today.
11.       The share of consumption in GDP has remained relatively stable and
high (at 86%) over the last decade and a half. Domestic savings, when adjusted
for the dual exchange rate, fell from 11.5% of GDP in 1966-70 to 9% in 1971-76.
This deterioration in savings performance is largely explained by a decline in
public savings. Public savings averaged a mere 1% of GDP in the 1960s, shrink-
ing rapidly in the 1970s, and eventually becoming negative. This poor perform-
ance is attributable to the large and growing burden of subsidies and transfers,
which worsened in the 1970s because of the increasing disparity between import
and officially determined prices. Savings levels were also adversely affected
by the large hidden subsidy burden implicit in the failure to recover costs
from beneficiaries of irrigation and other infrastructure projects. Private
savings were adversely affected in the 1970s by political uncertainties, a
confiscatory tax burden, and falling real interest rates.
12.       Gross investment has averaged 16% of GDP at current market prices
in the 1960-1976 period. In real terms, investment has been declining, and
there has been persistent failure throughout this period to raise the level
of public investment (around 6-7% of GDP) while private investment in produc-
tive activities was, on the whole, not being given much encouragement. The
efficiency of investment has also been rather low due to both a misdirection
of investment and a failure to exploit the full potential of past investments.
Thus, much of the investment in agriculture has been directed to paddy, to
the neglect of replanting in the tree crop sub-sector, resulting in an erosion
of the latter's production base. Even within paddy, the strategy pursued
emphasized costlier, more visible extensive development of the Dry Zone to
the neglect of cheaper, but less intensive, development. In the manufacturing
sector, capital-intensive import substitution was pursued to the neglect of
labor-intensive export-oriented production. Utilization of the potential



already established is uniformly low. This is reflected in low cropping
iitensities and yields in the agricultural sector, and low-capacity utiliza-
tion in manufacturing.
13.       In the elections of July 1977, the eighth since Independence, the
United National Party won a large majority. In the relatively short period
it has been in office, it has embarked on a number of changes in the struc-
ture of Government and economic policies. On February 4, 1978, Sri Lanka
shifted from a Westminster style parliamentary system to a Presidential sys-
tem of government.  In parallel, reorganization of local administration is
also under way. On the economic front, the Budget for 1978, introduced on
November 15, 1977, contains a number of policy initiatives designed to "pro-
vide a basis for strong and sustained growth." The explicit objectives
identified by the Government are a revival and resuscitation of the economy,
increased capacity utilization in the productive sectors, increased employ-
ment opportunities, the stimulation of savings and investment, and an improve-
ment in the balance of payments over the medium term. These objectives are
to be achieved through a shift in emphasis from direct controls to reliance
on the price mechanism, together with a restructuring of relative prices,
and an increased role for the private sector.
14.       The main thrust of the comprehensive economic reforms, in support
of which the IMF granted, in December 1977, a Stand-by Arrangement in the
amount of SDR 93 million, is to dismantle administrative controls over the
allocation of resources and to set realistic relative prices. On the external
front, this involved a major liberalization and restructuring of the external
trade and payments system supported by a reform of the exchange rate. Most
public sector monopolies in ir-lorts (with the exception of food and refined
petroleum) have been terminated. Prior licensing of imports has been reduced
to a short list of items. Most exchange controls over invisibles transactions
have been relaxed. In order to ease the task of managing the external pay-
ments position and reduce the bias against tree crop exports in favor of food
imports, the exchange rate has been unified and allowed to float, on the basis
of underlying market forces, at an initial level of Rs 16 = $1.00.
15.       Import liberalization and the reform of the exchange rate required
corresponding adjustments of indirect taxes. A new import tariff structure
has been introduced. The Business Turnover Tax rates have been substantially
lowered and rationalized to be consistent with the new import tariff and ex-
change rate. Export duties on traditional tree crops have been increased to
mop up the bulk of the additional receipts flowing to this sector as a
result of the unification of the exchange rate.
16.       In order to reduce the drain on resources caused by the sharp in-
crease in the cost to the budget of the food subsidy following the unification
of the exchange rate, the rice subsidy has been confined to households with
a monthly income of Rs 300 ($19). This implies that roughly half the popula-
tion will no longer be entitled to the ration and will have to rely on the
open market. To compensate those adversely affected, wages and salaries have
been increased, provision was made for a dole of Rs 50 per month for the un-
employed (which has so far not been put into effect), and the procurement



- 5 -
price of paddy has been raised by 21%. Further, price adjustments arising
from the new exchange rate and wage increases have been deferred in the case
of wheat flour, fertilizer, petroleum, public transport, and infants' milk
food. However, price controls have ended for most commodities, and public
corporations are to be allowed more autonomy in pricing and distribution
policies.
17.       The reform of the exchange rate, combined with corresponding adjust-
ments in import and export tax rates, is expected to result in a substantial
increase, by 75%, in Government revenues in 1978 over 1977 levels. Expendi-
tures have also risen, partly due to the exchange rate unification and to
increased subsidies and transfers designed to cushion consumers from the impact
of the increases in prices resulting from the exchange reform, the reduction
in scope of the rice subsidies, and the removal of price controls over a wide
range of goods. The combined impact of the various budgetary measures has
resulted in a current account surplus of about Rs 650 million, permitting the
Government to increase allocations to the capital budget.
18.       An adequate response of investment, production, exports, and employ-
ment to the major realignment of relative prices introduced in the Budget of
1978 is contingent on a well-thought-out medium-term development strategy.
This is recognized by the Government which is beginning the process of iden-
tifying the steps necessary to tackle the constraints facing agricultural out-
put, industrial efficiency, and exports. The capital budget for 1978 repre-
sents a determined effort to raise the level of public investment. Although
the sectoral allocations in the budget mainly reflect the momentum of conti-
nuation works, the process of allocating financial and manpower resources to
three new key programs has already begun. These are: (i) a significant
acceleration in the pace of implementation of the Mahaweli Ganga River Devel-
opment Master Plan, (ii) a new export processing zone north of Colombo, and
(iii) urban renewal for the Greater Colombo Metropolitan Area.
19.       The Government has also begun the process of integrating these
policies and programs into a medium-term investment program. In order to
streamline the machinery for planning, the Ministry of Planning and Economic
Affairs has been merged with the Ministry of Finance. The enlarged Ministry
has been entrusted with the task of preparing a medium-term investment program
by the autumn of 1978. A review of sector programs and policies is also under
way. Project preparation capabilities, which have been a major weakness in
the past, are to be bolstered by a new UNDP technical assistance Umbrella
Project with IDA as Executing Agency. There are a number of parallel bilateral
programs involved in similar efforts.
20.       The ability of the Government to manage this period of transition
in economic policies is greatly enhanced by a relatively strong short-term
economic situation. GDP in 1977 rose by 4.4%. This was due mainly to a 9%
increase in agricultural output and a 4% increase in manufacturing and
services. Paddy production reached a record high of 82 million bushels due
to favorable weather conditions. Tea production recovered from a low of 433
million lbs in 1976 to 460 million lbs in 1977. Rubber production also rose
to 370 million lbs from 345 million lbs. However, coconut output fell in



-6-
1977, reflecting the delayed impact of drought in 1976. With money supply
expanding rapidly (33% annual growth through June 1977), prices have remained
under pressure despite the improvement in supplies. However, there has been
a substantial improvement in the external accounts. Export earnings in 1977
rose by a record 37%. This was due in the main to a 69% increase in earnings
from tea, brought about by record tea prices. Rubber and coconut exports also
benefited from higher unit values, and there was a further encouraging growth
in non-traditional exports. Despite various import-inducing policies, such
as the March 1977 revaluation and record food imports, imports grew much more
slowly. As a result, a current account surplus emerged for the first time
since 1965. With a substantial net foreign exchange inflow, gross foreign
exchange reserves have risen sizably from $92 million at the end of 1976 to
$290 million at the end of December 1977. Part of this reserve build up
represents a $64 million drawing against the SDR 93 million IMF Stand-by
Arrangement.
21.       The task of external management will be greatly eased in the short-
term by the buildup in reserves and the relatively favorable prices for tra-
ditional exports. However, Sri Lanka's current account deficit is likely to
widen sharply in the coming years for four seasons. First, the new policy of
import liberalization will permit industry and trade to replenish depleted
stocks and meet some of the large unsatisfied demand for imports of consumer
goods intermediates and spare parts. Second, the substantial rehabilitation
requirements of the economy will gradually begin to be addressed. Third, as
the Government implements its medium-term investment program, major new in-
vestment efforts will place an additional burden on the balance of payments.
Finally, the increased volume of imports will be set within a background of
deteriorating terms of trade in the medium-term, as tea prices decline in real
terms and foodgrain import costs rise. The success of the program of economic
reforms instituted in November 1977, thus depends heavily on an increase in
aid flows. Such an increase will help discourage excessive speculative im-
ports, by strengthening in the eyes of speculators, the Government's ability
to persist with its import liberalization policy. It will also enable the
Government to desist from more costly forms of borrowings. Most important,
increased concessional aid will be needed to supplement the Government's
efforts at domestic and external resource mobilization in support of higher
levels of investment spending. In this context, local financing will be
needed to support this effort, particularly in the early years, when domestic
resource mobilization efforts begin to gather momentum.
22.       Sri Lanka's dependence on foreign aid has risen substantially in
recent years. Net aid transfers have gone up from about $40 million in 1970
to $139 million in 1977, with gross aid rising from $63 million to $199 mil-
lion. About four-fifths of net aid comes from member countries and institu-
tions of the Sri Lanka Aid Group (at the fourteenth meeting of the Aid Group
in May 1978, aid pledges amounted to about $342 million). Despite the improve-
ment in export earnings, the debt service ratio (inclusive of short-term bonds
and IMF repurchases) remains at around 21%. However, it is expected to decline
sharply in 1979 as amortization and interest payments reflect the fall in
the last two years in short- and medium-term borrowings.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SRI LANKA
23.        Since the beginning of its operations in Sri Lanka in 1954, the Bank
Group has made eight loans totalling US$73.4 million (net of cancellations)
and thirteen credits totalling US$120.3 million (net of cancellations and
exchange adjustments) in support of 19 projects. About 30% of Bank Group
assistance has been for power, 50% for agriculture (irrigation and agricul-
tural and dairy development), and the remainder for Development Finance
Company operations, highways, a program credit (mainly involving the import
of raw materials for industry), and water supply. Three early power loans,
the Mahaweli Ganga Development credit, and the program credit together with
the recently completed Lift Irrigation and Drainage, and Land Reclamation
Credits have been satisfactorily completed and fully disbursed.  Of the two
DFCC loans, US$6.8 million of the US$12.0 million available was cancelled by
DFCC due to a sudden deterioration in the private investment climate resulting
from a change of governments in 1970. Under an ongoing IDA credit of US$4.5
million made to the DFCC in 1975, sub-projects for the total credit have been
approved. A second IDA credit to DFCC and an equity investment by the IFC,
of about US$199,000 equivalent, in the DFCC were approved by the Board early
in FY78. An IFC non-revolving line of credit of US$2.0 million to the
government-owned Bank of Ceylon for on-lending to private small- and medium-
scale industrial enterprises has also been approved in FY78. At the request
of the Borrower, a loan/credit for highways was cancelled in 1970, after
disbursement of US$0.8 million of the credit, following the Goverrnent's
decision to make major changes in the scope of the project. An IFC investment
of US$3.25 million to the Pearl Textile Mills, Ltd. (Ceylon) was approved by
IFC's Board of Directors in January 1970, but cancelled the same year because
Government approval for the project was withdrawn. Annex II contains a sum-
mary statement of Bank Group operations as of April 30, together with notes
on the execution of ongoing projects.
24.        The Bank Group's current strategy is focused on the agricultural
sector to support Government efforts to increase food production and reduce
its dependence on rice/flour imports, and to improve productivity in the
tree crops sub-sector. Projects to support industry and basic infrastructure
are also included. The Bank Group has agreed to assist the Government of
Sri Lanka to accelerate the development of the Mahaweli Ganga Catchment Area
by helping to develop an implementation strategy and to coordinate external
assistance for project preparation and implementation.  It is expected that
significant investment opportunities for IDA and other aid donors will be
associated with this effort. A proposed project for diversification of crops
on marginal lands now under tea has been appraised and is expected to be pre-
sented to the Board shortly. Appraisal has been largely completed for an
integrated rural development project for the Kurunegala District, and pre-
paration is under way for a road maintenance project. In addition, pro-
jects in other fields, including irrigation and drainage and rainfed farming,
are being prepared for possible IDA financing.
25.        The Bank Group presently accounts for nearly 13% (Bank, 3%; IDA, 10%)
of Sri Lanka's total external debt outstanding, and about 5% (almost totally



- 8 -
Bank) of debt service. It is projected that the Bank Group's share in total
external debt will increase to about 17% by 1982 (with the Bank's share
declining to about 2%). The Bank and IDA shares in the debt service will
show a slight decline.
PART III - AGRICULTURE AND THE TEA SECTOR
The Role of Agriculture in the Economy
26.       Agriculture plays a major role in Sri Lanka's economy, accounting
for 37% of GDP, over one-half of total employment, over four-fifths of export
earnings, and a large share of public revenue. Approximately 80% of the
country's total population lives in rural areas. Thus, economic growth in
the country depends largely upon performance in the agricultural sector.
During the 1960s, considerable progress was made in increasing food pro-
duction as Government pursued a policy of reducing dependence on imports.
Paddy production expanded from 840,000 tons to 1.6 M tons (6.5% per year), as
a result of area expansion (175,000 ha), increasing yields (from 725 kg/ha to
1,050 kg/ha), and increased cropping intensity. After 1970, area expansion
continued at a similar rate but yields and cropping intensity declined so
that production grew at only 0.7% per year. Apart from generally poor weather,
the major reason for the fall off in productivity was the sharp deterioration
in institutional support programs aggravated by farm power and fertilizer
shortages arising from foreign exchange constraints.
27.       In the early 1960s, the tree crop sub-sector accounted for over 90%
of the value of merchandise exports. During the 1960s production grew at
only 1% per annum, and that mainly from rubber which was benefiting from the
substantial replanting in the early 1950s. Since 1970, conditions in the tree
crop sub-sector have further deteriorated, with output of tea, rubber, and
coconut all tending downward although in 1977 there was an increase in tea
and rubber production (para 20). Declining quality has also been evident,
especially in the tea industry. The disappointing production trends in the
tree crop sub-sector, although also influenced by drought, were primarily a
reflection of declining profitability, associated with lower prices and high
taxes, the uncertainties associated with Government's land reforms, and in-
adequate foreign exchange allocations for vital inputs such as fertilizer
and spares and replacements for machinery and vehicles.
28.       The importance of the traditional export crops (tea, rubber, and
coconut) lies not only in the fact that, in the foreseeable future, they will
continue to be the main source of foreign exchange earnings but also in their
vital role in all aspects of the economy. These three crops account for 70
to 90% of export earnings, about 45% of agricultural employment, 40% of the
value added in the agricultural sector, and in addition, are expected to con-
tribute about 50% of government revenues according to the 1978 Budget. Tea
alone accounts for approximately one-half of the value of the country's total
merchandise exports.



-9-
Land Reform
29.       The first phase of land reform, initiated in 1972, limited private
holdings to: (i) 25 acres (10.12 ha) if exclusively paddyland or (ii) 50
acres (20.24 ha) if not exclusively paddyland, with paddyland not to exceed
25 acres. In the first-phase takeovers, implemented in 1973 through 1975,
about 225,000 ha of land were vested in the Land Reform Commission (LRC). Of
this, about 60% was under tree crops which included about 23% of the total tea
area, 15% of the rubber area, and about 10% of the coconut area. The State
Plantations Corporation (SPC), under the Ministry of Plantation Industries
(MPI), was given about 40 of the larger, well-maintained tea and rubber estates,
covering about 10% of the tree crop land taken over. The management of most
of the remainder was placed in the hands of cooperatives.
30.       In the second phase, initiated in October 1975, all land owned by
Sri Lankan and foreign companies, which included the country's major tea and
rubber estates, was vested in the LRC. About 65,000 ha were assigned to SPC
and nearly 95,000 ha to the Janatha Estates Development Board (JEDB) which was
established under the Ministry of Agriculture and Lands (MAL) for the purpose
of operating these estate lands. The compensation terms for foreign-owned
plantations were agreed in 1976, and payments have commenced. Compensation
negotiations for rupee company and private estates are still in progress.
31.       As a result of the second phase of the Land Reform, about 60% of
the tea estate land, 30% of the Rubber estate land, and 10% of the coconut
estate land is now vested in the LRC. In late 1977 the management of much
of this land was significantly rationalized. JEDB was transferred from MAL
to MPI, and several organizations and cooperatives which had mismanaged the
estates they received under the first phase of the Land Reform were disbanded
and their estates divided between JEDB and SPC. Of Sri Lanka's 240,000 ha
total tea area, nearly 135,000 ha (56%) are vested in the LRC. Now, over 75%
of these tea estate lands are managed by government corporations, with most
of the remainder still managed by various cooperative groups. In addition,
tea small-holders own 48,000 ha (average holding 0.39 ha) and 42,000 ha are
owned by individuals with an average holding of 15 ha.
The Tea Industry
32.       Tea production in Sri Lanka rose from 100 M kg in 1933 to a peak of
228 M kg in 1965 averaging 223 M kg over the four years 1965 to 1968. Since
1969, production has never exceeded 218 M kg and in the last three years
(1974-76) has averaged 205 M kg. This deterioration in output is partly
attributable to drought, but mostly to the lack of proper attention by the
Government to the sector, which has resulted in inadequate replanting,
fertilization and weeding, and other poor management practices. Fertilizer
use, for example, declined steadily from 43,000 tons of nutrients in 1965 to
24,000 tons in 1973, and then recovered slightly to 30,000 tons in 1975.
This low usage was due to pre-nationalization uncertainties, rising fertilizer
costs, low returns, the transfer of fertilizers from tea to other crops, and
persistent drought. Although fertilizer use should improve, inadequate re-
planting will continue to affect production adversely over the next decade.
Thus, even on an optimistic calculation, 70% of the tea bushes in Sri Lanka in
1985 will be over 50 years old, and as much as 50% will be over 70 years old.



- 10 -
33.       Nearly 90% of the country's tea' lands are planted to seedling tea.
The rate of replanting with higher-yielding clonal tea has fallen from a peak
of 2,770 ha in 1970 to 890 ha in 1976 in spite of subsidies, because of land
reform uncertainties and temporarily higher prices which discouraged uprooting
of old tea. The Government's replanting goal of 3,000 ha per year is not like-
ly to be realized before the early 1980s, and tea output in 1995 is expected
to be in the region of 227.0 M kg, still below the 1965 peak of 228.2 M kg.
34.       The Sri Lanka Tea Board was created in 1975 with wide powers includ-
ing: sales promotion; advising government on tea policy; administering tea
subsidies; collecting and collating industry statistics; and, through its
agency, the Tea Research Institute, carrying out tea research. The Chairman
is appointed by the Minister, MPI and the Secretary of the Ministry is an ex-
officio Board member. A Tea Small-holdings Development Authority (TSDA),
established by MPI in 1976, is responsible for overseeing tea growers who do
not have their own manufacturing facilities. Its major functions are to pro-
vide extension advice and to ensure that small-holders receive fair treatment
from greenleaf buyers. However, it is poorly staffed and has barely started
work.
35.       SPC and JEDB between them manage 105,000 ha of tea estates (SPC,
45,000 ha; and JEDB, 60,000 ha). Their chairmen are appointed by, and respon-
sible to, the Minister of Plantation Industries. Policymaking, marketing,
financial control, and input supply functions are centralized in Colombo,
while responsibility for day-to-day management is decentralized to regional
offices. Largely because of recent high tea prices, it is projected that
the 1977 trading profit for SPC will be about Rs 77 M (US$5.0 M) and for
JEDB, Rs 106 M (US$7.0 M).
36.       Over 90% of Sri Lanka's tea production is sold at the Colombo auc-
tions (the world's largest), with the remainder mainly sold at the London
auctions. All the major buyers are represented in Colombo, and the marketing
system operates well. The only problem of any significance has been the delay
sometimes experienced in transporting tea from the estates to Colombo; delays
occur because transport contractors cannot provide satisfactory service, being
unable to obtain spares and replace vehicles.
37.       Most SPC and JEDB managerial staff, prior to the Land Reform, were
employed by private estate owners or agency houses. After land reform, some
were employed on terms poorer than they had before, while the majority were
employed on their previous terms, but only on a temporary basis, resulting,
generally, in poor staff morale. The Government has recently introduced new
staff terms, but staff reaction to them is not known as yet.
38.       Tamil workers continue to be the majority of the labor force on the
estates, especially in higher areas. With the continuing program of Tamil
repatriation to India and the difficulty of attracting Sinhalese into the
industry, some estates in high areas are now short of labor during peak
periods. Major disincentives to potential new workers are the generally lower
health and welfare standards on the estates, particularly the overcrowded and
primitive housing. GOSL, however, intends to redress this imbalance.



- 11 -
39.       The tea industry is subject to heavy taxation, mostly sales and
export taxes. On the other hand, it benefits from subsidies on tea chests
and fertilizer and for replanting. The system of taxation and subsidization
is costly to administer, but its overall impact on the industry is unknown.
A "Tree Crop Incentive Study," a component of the Agricultural Development
Project (Credit 595-CE), is presently being undertaken to provide the Govern-
ment with a policy framework, to enable Government to use resources economic-
ally, and to examine the trade-off between production and export earnings on
the one hand, and Government revenues (taxation and subsidies) on the other.
40.       To formulate future policies for the tea industry on such questions
as, inter alia, desirable production levels, organization, management, diver-
sification, replanting, and marketing strategies, Government, at IDA's sug-
gestion and with the assistance of the Canadian International Development
Agency (CIDA), began work in January 1978 on an overall Tea Master Plan ex-
pected to be completed in early 1979. The Master Plan is to develop recom-
mendations on industry structure, fiscal policy, and investment programs and
priorities.
Financing of Tea Development in Sri Lanka
41.       Under existing Bank Group policy, as stated in my memorandum to the
Executive Directors of August 17, 1973 (Document No. R73-206), no further
financing of projects involving tea production is to be undertaken, except:
(i) "financing for increases in output in countries with no investment alter-
natives yielding an acceptable rate of return; and (ii) financing for reha-
bilitation involving no increase in output (this implies reduction in acreage
and encouragement to diversification)."
42.        It would be difficult to establish that alternative projects "offer-
ing an adequate rate of return" do not exist or cannot be developed in Sri
Lanka. The proposed project, however, qualifies under the second exception
(para 12 of the policy paper):
"Financing for replanting or a rehabilitation project could
be considered if the project does not lead to increased
production in the near or medium term. Such projects
would lead to increases in yield, and these would have to
be offset by shifting the acreage saved to other purposes.
Tea bushes last, with slowing declining yields, for 75
years and more. Since the alternative to replanting or
rehabilitation is usually to allow old bushes to continue
their slow decline, the principal result of such projects
is the long-run extension of the period of production.
The discounted present value of their effects upon world
tea prices is, therefore, likely to be very small. The
purpose of such a policy would be to give encouragement
to diversification. The Bank is prepared to provide
financing for this purpose." (emphasis added).
43.        Sri Lanka is the only major tea-producing country suffering a
long-term structural decline in its tea production; its share of the world
production declined from an average of 18.6% in the late 1960s to about 12.2%
in 1976. The primary purpose of the proposed project would be to support a



- 12 -
replanting program designed to prevent further decline in Sri Lanka's pro-
duction rather than to increase output over its historic peak levels. Tea
production in 1995 in Sri Lanka, including the proposed project, is estimated
to be about 227 M kg, still below the peak reached in 1965 (para 32); at this
level, Sri Lanka's share of the world production would still be expected to
decline further to about 8.6%. This estimate does not take into account any
diversification of tea lands to other uses which might be undertaken by the
Government.
44.       The Government has an ongoing diversification program and has
assigned to the Agricultural Diversification Division in the Ministry of
Agriculture and Lands the tasks of: (i) preparing an inventory of lands
suitable for diversification; (ii) assigning development priorities to the
inventory; and (iii) preparing future diversification projects. The Govern-
ment has also requested IDA support to finance an initial project in the Kandy
area which will diversify 4,800 ha of marginal tea to spices and food crops,
dairying, and forestry. This project was appraised concurrently with the
project now proposed and is expected to be presented to the Board shortly.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
45.       The proposed project was prepared by the Government of Sri Lanka
with assistance from the Canadian International Development Agency and was
appraised in October/November 1977. A staff appraisal report entitled "Tree
Crop Rehabilitation (Tea) Project" (No. 1892-CE, dated May 12, 1978) is being
distributed separately. Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III.
Negotiations were held in Washington from April 10-14, 1978, with a Sri Lankan
delegation led by Mr. B. Weerakoon, Secretary, Ministry of Plantation Industries.
46.       The project would assist the Government in improving the economic
efficiency of the tea industry by lowering production costs and improving
tea quality. Though its incremental impact on Sri Lanka's tea output would
be small, the project would help to slow the decline in production evident
over the past decade. The project would strengthen the two major government
corporations involved in estate management, assist private estate operators
and approximately 180 small-holder producers, and provide improved housing
and medical facilities for estate laborers. An additional benefit would
derive from the control of soil erosion in the catchment area of the country's
most important hydro-electric stations.
47.       The project area is located about 80 km east of Colombo, in the
planting districts of Maskeliya and Upper and Lower Dickoya in the north-
western portion of the administrative district of Nuwara Eliya. The area
includes about 18,000 ha of tea, managed by the SPC (10,000 ha in 30 estates),
JEDB (7,600 ha in 29 estates), private estates and small-scale producers
(300 ha owned by about 180 individuals). Neither soils nor topography in the
project area are well suited to land uses other than tea, forestry, or pasture.
The area also embraces large portions of the watersheds of the Castlereigh and



- 13 -
Maskeliya Reservoirs which serve hydro-electricity stations currently supply-
ing about 90% of the island's power.
48.       The principal features of the proposed five-year project are sum-
marized below:
(a) The program of replanting with clonal tea on the JEDB
estates, which is currently less than that on SPC estates,
will be expanded by about 550 ha. In addition, 6,500 ha
of existing seedling tea will be infilled with high-yielding
clonal tea of which 3,000 ha and 3,500 ha would be on JEDB
and SPC estates, respectively. Small-holders will be assisted
with modest replanting and infilling programs, 15 ha and
40 ha, respectively.
(b) Soil conservation structures would be completely renovated
in replanted and infilled areas and would be repaired on
16,000 ha of seedling tea scheduled for future infilling.
(c) To help remedy the fuelwood shortage, JEDB and SPC would
plant 340 ha and 250 ha, respectively, of fuelwood on land
unsuitable for tea.
(d) 42 factories (JEDB, 17; SPC, 22; and 3 private) would be
rehabilitated and expanded while 15 factories owned by
the two public corporations would be closed in a rational-
ization program. Completion of an estate and factory
rationalization study would be required before implemen-
tation of this component (para 70).
(e) Trucks, tractors, and trailers would be provided for green
leaf transport to improve plucking efficiency and ensure
that leaf arrives in top condition at factories. Personnel
transport would be provided to improve estate management
efficiency and bowsers would be supplied to improve herbi-
cide and fuel transport. Trucks would be made available
to private contractors to improve made-tea transport.
(f) SPC and JEDB would each establish a workshop in the
project area to undertake vehicle and factory machinery
maintenance and minor repairs.
(g) In order to improve living conditions for labor on JEDB,
SPC, and private estates, which are markedly below the
national level, 6,600 new houses will be constructed,
6,700 more would be rehabilitated, and water supplies would
be improved.
(h) Statistics show that the health level of the estate
workers is poorer than the national average; therefore,
health services in the project area will be improved and
an investment plan developed to improve health care on
estates nationwide.



- 14 -
(i)  Government would be assisted in establishing a National
Institute of Plantation Management and provide overseas
training visits for senior estate staff.
(j)  Assistance would be provide for updating tea area statistics,
mainly through use of Landsat data.
Organization and Management
49.       Land Reform (paras 29-31) substantially changed the ownership and
management structure of the tea industry, and now, after two years of post-
reform operational experience, the entire institutional structure is in need
of a detailed review to determine its suitability. Such a review is the Tea
Master Plan Study (para 40), to be completed in early 1979. Pending the
outcome of this study, major institutional and fiscal policy changes are not
proposed under the project. However, since any such changes would affect the
project, it was agreed (DCA, Section 3.11) that the findings of the Master
Plan and the Tree Crop Incentive Study (para 39 and 40) and any institutional
changes which would materially affect the execution of the project would be
disussed with IDA prior to their implementation.
50.       A Project Coordinating Committee (PCC) has been established which
will provide a forum for coordination of all aspects of project implementation
between all concerned organizations. The PCC comprises: the Secretary of MPI
as Chairman; the Chairmen or General Managers, JEDB and SPC; the Hatton Regional
Managers of both JEDB and SPC (para 52); the Director General of the Tea Board;
the General Manager, TSDA; and a representative of the External Resources
Department, Ministry of Finance and Planning. The Project Coordinator (para
51) will serve as PCC executive officer. The PCC will meet regularly to re-
view project progress, discuss and approve an annual development plan and
budget for the project, and, on the basis of the recommendations of the
Project Coordinator, award all contracts for the supply of goods and services.
51.       The position of Project Coordinator (PC) has been established at
the level of Senior Assistant Secretary of MPI. In addition to serving as
the executive officer for the PCC, the PC would, in conjunction with the two
Hatton Regional Managers, prepare and submit to the PCC and IDA annual plans
and budgets for the project. They would be prepared at least six months
in advance of each financial year so that they could be incorporated in SPC
and JEDB budgets. The PC would also, in consultation with the Supply Managers
and the Regional Managers of the two corporations, arrange preparation of
tender documents (with IDA approval where appropriate), issue tenders, open
and evaluate bids, and make recommendations for award. Monitoring project
progrv.7s and submitting half yearly reports to the PCC and IDA would also be
a resp:nsibility of the PC.  Assurances were obtained that the position of
Proje > Coordinator would, at all times, be filled by a person with qualifi-
cations and experience satisfactory to IDA (DCA, Section 3.04).
52.       Both the SPC and JEDB have similar organizations (para 35) with
control of field operations decentralized to seven regional offices; the
project area comprises virtually all of the Hatton Region of both corpora-
tions. Since the regional managers of both corporations would have key roles



- 15 -
in project implementation, it was agreed that these posts would be filled
over the life of the project with persons with qualifications and experience
acceptable to IDA (PA, Section 2.07). Although day-to-day financial control
of the estates in the regions is adequate, monthly estate reporting would be
improved through the introduction, by December 31, 1978, of a common reporting
format for both corporations (PA, Section 3.05).
53.        SPC and JEDB estates are managed by superintendents, assisted where
necessary by assistant superintendents, the rate of staffing being about one
officer per 140 ha. Visiting Agents, selected from senior superintendents
within SPC and JEDB, are used to intensify supervision by regional management
over corporation estates through preparation of comprehensive tri-annual
reports on each estate, and through contributions to the development of estate
budget estimates. It was agreed (PA, Section 2.06) that SPC and JEDB would,
until completion of the project, continue to maintain the Visiting Agent
system in the project area. Although experienced staff did leave the industry
as a result of land reform, a sufficient number remained to form a core of
experienced personnel and staffing of the corporations, at least in project-
related areas, is generally good. A Government Commission has examined, and
made recommendations on, terms and conditions, and Government announced new
terms in March 1978. It is too early to judge whether the new terms will
enable the corporations to attract and retain staff of requisite quality.
Because their ability to do so is essential to the future of the industry, an
assurance was obtained that staff conditions and terms of service would be
reviewed with the Association by December 31, 1979 (PA, Section 3.06). As
part of a general effort by Government to alleviate the serious problem of
unemployment in the country (para 3) by offering more jobs in the public
sector, SPC and JEDB together absorbed 45,000 new employees in the period
August 1977 to January 1978. The Government has decided since, that employment
in public corporations should not be expanded at the expense of a decline in
their profitability, and agreement was obtained that Government would not
implement any major programs for increasing personnel in SPC and JEDB which
are inconsistent with their financial viability (DCA, Section 3.14).
54.       The Government recognizes that SPC and JEDB must be given a large
measure of financial autonomy if they are to be able to effectively discharge
the functions assigned to them in managing and developing the tea industry
whose viability is vital to the economic future of the country, and it intends
to institute policies and procedures accordingly. Most generally, the aim
will be to ensure that: (i) the production of tea is sufficiently profitable
to induce the corporations to manage and develop their lands in an economically
optimal fashion and to enable them to do so without recourse to general bud-
getary funds; and (ii) the corporations have the requisite powers to manage
their affairs, within the general framework of objectives and policies of the
Government but without detailed intervention by Government, including, in
particular, the use of funds. In order to accomplish this, the financial
structure and operations of the corporations need improvement. The asset
base of SPC and JEDB remains undecided because decisions regarding transfer
of ownership of nationalized estates from the Land Reform Commission to the
corporations have yet to be taken. Agreement was obtained (DCA, Section
3.12) that measures, satisfactory to IDA, would be taken by December 31, 1978,



- 16 -
to transfer ownership of the nationalized estates to the corporations. In
ijer that these assets may be properly valued, Government intends to com-
plete revaluation of the estates by 1982. These steps will provide the basis
fot sound financial planning and management and will enhance the credit worthi-
ness of the corporations, a factor which would be important in view of the
large increase in bank borrowing envisaged.
55.       Profitability is not, at the moment, an acute problem due to the
high level of tea prices and the net effect of the exchange reform of November
1977; indeed, nominal profits have been at a level sufficient to enable the
two corporations to cover their capital expenditure in full from internal cost
flow. However, if tea prices decline as now projected, profitability would
become a problem unless remedial measures are taken. Thus, it was agreed (DCA,
Section 3.07) that duties, taxes, cesses, and subsidies in respect of tea would
be adjusted as necessary to maintain profitability at the level established
when such duties, taxes, cesses, and subsidies were set in the budget of
November 1977. It was agreed further (DCA, Section 3.13) that the two corpo-
rations will be permitted to retain in their investment reserves a sufficient
amount of their net surpluses to enable them to finance no less than 25% of
their investment programs. Funds in these reserves would be placed in short-
and medium-term securities in accordance with the corporations' overall invest-
ment plans. Finally, under the project the corporations would come under the
financial discipline of the commercial banks from which they will have to
obtain a substantial share of their long-term capital requirements. However,
such financial operations of the corporations are presently constrained by the
Finance Act of 1971, which controls public corporations. Under this Act, prior
approval of the concerned Minister and the Minister of Finance and Planning is
required for: (i) commitments of capital expenditure in excess of Rs .5 M
(about US$32,000); (ii) appropria:ions for write-offs; and (iii) transfers to
and from reserves. Agreement, therefore, was obtained that the Government
would, by December 31, 1978, take measures satisfactory to the Association
to exempt SPC and JEDB from the above-mentioned provisions of the Finance Act
(DCA, Section 3.05).
56.       A factor that could greatly affect the profitability of the tea
industry in future is the cost of providing adequate housing for estate labor.
Housing for estate labor at present is generally poor and of standards that
would be unacceptable to Sri Lankan labor that will have to replace departing
Tamil labor (para 38). Thus, substantial investments will need to be made in
order to enable the industry to attract such labor. The alternative would be
a decline in the labor force which would mean a fall in production. While it
is difficult to estimate what the decline in production would be, two sets of
analyses were undertaken in conjunction with the proposed project with a view
to assessing broadly the implications of the housing problem. In the first
set, the investment package was defined as comprising the full project cost of
replanting and infilling, but only that part of the investment in housing that
would be needed to provide for the labor engaged in work on the acreage to be
improved. That portion of housing costs was taken as 40%, equivalent to the
portion of land to be replanted and infilled under the project (7,000 ha) to
the total area under tea in the estates covered by the project (18,000 ha).
The financial rates of return on such a package are estimated at 14.5% and



- 17 -
12.5% for JEDB, suggesting that the gains in productivity from the project
would make such investment financially attractive, despite the substantial
investment in housing associated with it. The second set included the total
investment in housing in the investment package. Because the income stream
is the same as in the first set, the financial rates of return to SPC and
JEDB in this ca e are estimated at only 8.5% and 8.0% respectively. Since
the second set of analyses probably approximates the situation confronting
the tea industry in general more nearly than the first, it is evident that
the large investment in housing, that appears to be required, will have a
considerable effect on operating cost and thus on profitability, unless
remedial measures are taken. Government recognizes this problem and has
directed that the Tree Crop Incentive Study (para 39) should pay particular
attention to the financial burden imposed on the industry by the labor housing
improvement program. In order to establish sufficient incentive for invest-
ment, a minimum financial rate of return of 12% on investment would also be
established as an objective in all analysis under the study.
57.       Reliable data on small-holder yields, production costs, and returns
are not available, and the proposal to assist the approximately 180 small-
growers in the project area would be essentially in the nature of a pilot
scheme. The Tea Small-holdings Development Authority (TSDA), which admin-
isters subsidies and provides extension advice to small-holders, will place
a regional officer with a small support staff in the project area to organize
small-holder development activity. Only the more productive small-holders
would be encouraged to undertake replanting and infilling programs. Such
programs are expected to be modest in scale since on a small-holding achieving
only average yields, replanting depresses income for several years even when
credit and subsidies are available. It is estimated that only about one-
quarter of the 180 small-holders eligible will participate in replanting ar.u!1
infilling (15 ha and 40 ha, respectively).
Project Cost and Financing
58.       The total project cost is estimated at about US$31 million equivalent,
including taxes and duties of US$0.5 million, with a foreign exchange component
of US$9.7 million (30%). Physical contingencies have been applied to the base
cost estimate in the following manner; 7.5% for housing construction, 5% for
factory equipment and field works, and 2.5% for the support components. No
physical contingencies have been included for vehicles, field, nursery, health,
and training equipment. The proposed IDA credit of US$21.0 million equivalent
would finance 70% of total project costs, net of taxes and duties, and would
cover the full foreign exchange cost and about US$11.3 million equivalent of
local costs (para 21). Consultants will be employed to assist in developing
the nationwide estate-health investment plan (12 man-months; US$25,000) and
to provide technical assistance to the National Institute of Plantation Manage-
ment (30 man-months; US$100,000).
59.       It is now the Government's policy that Government-owned corporations
should operate according to commercial practices and thus SPC and JEDB should
obtain the funds they need to finance their investment in the first instance
from their own, internally generated resources and the balance through borrow-
ing from commercial banks (para 55) rather than the Government as was lIinely



- 18 -
the practice in the past. Therefore, the Government through the Central Bank
would on-lend up to US$17.2 million of the Credit to the Bank of Ceylon, which
would in turn on-lend this amount, plus US$1.9 million of its own resources,
to the two corporations, private factory owners and tea growers (including some
small-holders, para 57) and to private truck operators. These sub-borrowers
would contribute from their own resources no less than 25% of the total cost
of the investment. The balance would be available from the Bank of Ceylon on
terms in line with present commercial banking practices (para 1). The Central
Bank of Ceylon, in turn, would refinance 90% of the amount lent by the Bank of
Ceylon, at an interest rate that would allow the Bank of Ceylon a margin of
3.5% which would be sufficient to cover administrative expenses and risks and
allow a reasonable profit.
Procurement and Disbursements
60.       With the exception of fluid bed driers, and fuel and herbicide
bowsers and trailers, all factory equipment, tractors, and vehicles for the
corporations (US$5.9 million) would be procured through international com-
petitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with IDA guidelines. Bids from domestic
manufacturers would receive a margin of preference -- 15% or the prevailing
customs duty, whichever is lower -- in the evaluation of bids from competing
foreign suppliers. Fluid bed driers (US$0.2 million) are patented and manu-
factured by only one firm, located in Sri Lanka, and would be purchased direct.
Prices for these driers are considered reasonable, and the firm is capable of
meeting estimated demand. Fuel and herbicide bowsers and trailers for the
corporations (US$0.6 million) would be procured on the basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally, following procedures acceptable to IDA, since
procurement would be in small lots not expected to attract international
tenders. All equipment and vehicles for private tea producers, and trucks
for made-tea transport (US$0.6 million) would be purchased directly by private
operators on the basis of customer preference because purchases would be in
small lots not suitable for ICB. Civil works (housing) would consist of many
small individual units constructed over a five-year period and would not,
therefore, be suitable for ICB.
61.       Contracts for construction of new cottages (US$4.3 million) would
be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally, following
procedures acceptable to IDA. The Project Coordinator's office may undertake
bulk procurement of such items as cement, iron sheets, and timber for small
contractors. In this instance, procurement would also be on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally following procedures acceptable to IDA.
To encourage small contractors, tenders would be invited for multiples of five
cottages. Rehabilitation of existing estate housing (US$4.0 million) would be
undertaken by estate labor on force account, with provision for outside con-
tractors for those instances where estate labor does not have the necessary
capacity. Field development works (US$4.8 million) would be undertaken by
estate labor on force account. Water pipe and tanks, workshops, and office
and field dispensary and nursery equipment (US$0.8 milllion) consist of many
small items that would not be suitable for ICB and would be procured on the
basis of local shopping. Domestic manufacturers and local agents of foreign
manufacturers are present in sufficient number to ensure competitive prices.
Civil works for hospitals and civil works and equipment for the Training



- 19 -
Institute (US$0.2 million) would be procured on the basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally following procedures acceptable to IDA. Vehicles
and equipment for hospitals and polyclinics included under the health com-
ponent would be purchased from suppliers to ensure standardization with those
already in use by the Ministry of Health (US$0.14 million).
62.       Disbursements will be made directly against project expenditures
and not against the sub-loans to borrowers under the project. In the event
that the corporations are able to finance from their own resources more than
the minimum of 25% of the total cost of their investment (para 55), this
provision would prevent disbursements from the credit falling short of the
intended share of IDA financing in total project cost. Disbursements will be
made as follows:
(a) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported vehicles
and equipment, or 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory
cost) if manufactured locally or 75% of expenditures for
imported goods procured locally. (Completion of an estate
and rationalization plan is a condition of disbursement for
factory equipment (para 70);
(b) 55% of the total cost of civil works carried out by local
contractors and civil works performed under force account
by SPC and JEDB estate labor;
(c) 55% of the total cost of the training and medical components;
and
(d) 50% of total estate field development expenditures on
replanting, infilling, soil conservation works and timber
planting.
The disbursement schedule is given in the Credit and Project Summary.
Project Benefits and Risks
63.       The project's major benefit would derive from increased efficiency
in production and better quality of tea through replacement of obsolete
machinery and equipment. Incremental production from the project (4.4 M kg
after 20 years) would be marginal in Sri Lanka's total tea output (para 43),
but would help to arrest the currently declining production trend. It would
still leave the country's total production below the peak reached in 1965.
64.       About 25,000 estate labor families would benefit from improved
housing, water, and health services. In addition, some 15,000 man-years
of incremental employment would be created during the investment period.
65.       The project would diversify marginal tea land into timber which
would provide locally significant quantities of fuelwood for estate labor
and factory use. Rehabilitation of soil conservation drains throughout the
project area, together with diversification of marginal land, would reduce
soil erosion, thus protecting a large portion of the catchment area of the
country's most important source of hydro-electricity generation.



- 20 -
56.       The economic rate of return (ERR) of the project is estimated to be
2ziZ. An increase or decrease of 10% in tea prices from the level projected
would change the ERR by about one and one-half points either way. An equiva-
lent increase or decrease in costs would change the ERR by about two percent-
age points either way.
67.       Apart from the unpredictable, but temporary, impact of adverse
weather, the technical risks of the project are no greater than would normally
be associated with operations of this type. The major risks are organizational
and managerial in nature. As a consequence of land reform, the tea industry
in Sri Lanka has been subject to significant changes in recent years. In
particular, there are now two large corporations handling the work that pre-
viously was the responsibility of a large number of private tea agency houses.
The corporations have encountered problems, but their performance has been
improving with experience. Furthermore, the ongoing Tea Master Plan is examin-
ing the institutional structure of the industry and is expected to make recom-
mendations for its further improvement. In the meantime, the organizational/
managerial structure, as strengthened under the project (paras 50-55), is ade-
quate, in view of the limited areas of operation, for project implementation.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
68.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Sri
Lanka and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Association
and the State Plantation Corporation and the Janatha Estates Development Board,
and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d)
of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
69.       Special conditions of this credit are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Additional conditions of effectiveness for the IDA credit include
(i) the execution of the Project Agreement on behalf of the State Plantation
Corporation and the Janatha Estates Development Board (DCA, Section 5.01 (a)),
and (ii) the execution of a satisfactory subsidiary loan agreement between the
Government of Sri Lanka and the Bank of Ceylon (DCA, Section 5.01 (b)).
70.       Completion of an estate and factory rationalization plan satisfac-
tory to the Association would be a condition of disbursement for tea factory
equipment (DCA, Section 2.02).
71.       I am satisfied that the proposed development credit would comply
with tle Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 21 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
72.       I recommend that the Executive Directors of the Association approve
the proposed credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 19, 1978
Washington, D.C.






Annex 1
fae          of 4 pages
SRI LANKA           - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2                   ---- -- -- -- -- - - - - - -        --           -
-------                                           SRI LANIA        *                    REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TO1AL        66.6                                        MOST REcENT
AGrIC.       24.2                       1960       197t.  ESTIMATE            TANZANIA        PHILIPPINES   MALAYSIA*ff
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                      80.0      130.0    200.0)a               100.0*       230.0* 7    440.0*
____________________
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)             9.9        12.5      13.8)a               12.0)6.    36.9         10.8
POPULATION DENSITY,
PER SQUARE KM.                       151.0      191.0    210.0)a                14.0       .123.0        33.0
PER SO. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        507.0      518.0     57nln)a               25.0       375.0        185.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOu. AV)          37.6       33.1       28.2                50.5         44.2        42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU.AV)           10.7         B.0       7 .                23.0         13.2        12.9
INFANT A3RTALITY RATE (/THOU)t        52.0      S1.0        5 .U ,             165 0        91.0         40.8)a
LIFE EXFECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)        60.5       65.8       67.8                41.9        5.56         56.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                2.5        2.3        2.2                 3.2          3.3         2.6)a
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                  2.8        2.4        1.7                 3.0)6        3.0         2.9
URBAN                                  4.6        4.5        3.7                 5.6          4.0         3.0
URBAN POPULATION (S OF TOTAL)            17.9       22.0       24.3                 5.5 )b     27.6        26.9
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                        41.5 )     40.0       39.0)a              44.4 )b     45.6         44.7) a
15 TO 64 YEARS                        54.3 )a'  56.0        6V8>a               53.0 )D     51.6         52
65 YEARS AND CVER                      4.2 )a    4.0         4.2)R               2.6 )b       2.8         3.2
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                     0. ). 0.8             0.8)0                09          0.9         0.9 ) a
ECONDRA1C DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.5        1.4        1.2)D               1 2asab    1.5          1.6)
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)            ,.      215.3      431.5                  ..       320.0        222.2)
USERS (% OF tNARRIED WtEN)              ..        7.0        9.9                  ..          2.0         8.0)a
EMPLOYMENT
TOTtL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)          3500.0   141000    4800.0                 5600*0),t2400 0          3600.0
LABCR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE ()           49Q)&    S2. a(       Ss.50)c             91.0)a,b   55:.0)a       49.5
UNEMPLOYED C% OF LABOR FORCE)            4.0)a,b   9.oSb    I       d                           7.6         7.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME REC'D BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS             26.4)      18.9       1a.6                33.5                     28.3
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             52.1.)     45.6       42.8                63.3       54.0.         56.0
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              4,51       7.4        7.3                *2.3        3.6           3.5
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS             13.7)      17.9       19.3                  7.8      11.7          11.2
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
% O.X\LO BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS              ..         ..         ..
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10X OWNERS             ..         ..         ..                  ..
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN              4600.0.C        .    3980.8 )            21570.0)
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         4170.0    2730 0)C 2280.  )a              4890.0'a
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED            290.0)    330.0)c   330.0)a                700.0       650.0       270,0)a
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)          92.0      101.0        97.0                73.0        93.0       110 0
PROTEIN (GRANIS PER DAY)              45.0       50.0       45.0                43.0         45.0        49,00b
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          15.0       16.0       15.0                23.0         22.0        20.0)b
5.5
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4                ..         ..       16.8                  ,,         6.6
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRI'.:ARY SCHOOL                      95.0                                      35.0        113.0        8s.)6
SECONDARY SCHOOL                      27.0       5i.Q)d    s9.O)f                 3.0        49.0       .34.0)a
YEARS OF SCHCOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)              12.0       12.0       12.0                t3.0         10.0        13.0 )a
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(I  OF SECONDARY)                        ,,        i.o)d     1.0)f              10.0)C        6.0)b       3.0 )a
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                  61.0)a       ..       76.1                  ..          ..        55.0 )a
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                  2.1 )a                2.7 )g                                      2.3)a
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (%)                       80.9 )a       .       77.5)g              30.o)b,d   76.0          65.0)a,c
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(I OF ALL DWELLINGS)                   7.5 )a                9.0 )g                ,.       23.0         43,0)a
RURAL OWELLIN-S CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (%)                     2.3 )a                2.8)R                  ,         7.0        30.0 )a
CONSUL!PTION
___________                                                      37.0
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)           36.0          -.                          11.0        72.0        41.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)             9.0        7.0       ^7.0                 3.0         8.0        27.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)             31.0       65.0       SZ.8                31.0       235.0       382.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                 1.2        1.5         0.5                0.1         2.0         4.0
SEE NDTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 4 pages
NOTES
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for
1970 between 1968 and 1970, and for Most Recent Estimate between 1973 and 1975.
* GNP per capita data are based on the World Bank Atlas methodology (1974-76
basis).
** The selection of Malaysia as an objective country is based on its ability
to combine a high rate of economic growth with an adequate level of wel-
fare making it a suitable objective for policymakers in Sri Lanka.
SRI LANKA       1960       a/  1963
*b/ Registered applicants for work.
c/  1962
1970      a/  As a percentage of employment
b/  Registered unemployed
c/  Government only
d/  Between 1965 and 1970 the duration of general secondary
education was increased from 4 to 7 years.  Data on vo-
cational education refer to technical institutes attached
to the Ministry of-Education only.
X  Technical institutes attached to the Ministry of Education only.
1/ 1971
Most Recent Estimate:
a/  1976
b/  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total-
labor force.
c/  As percentage of employment
d/  Registered unemployed
e/  1972
f/ Between 1965 and 1970 the duration of general secondary
education was increased from 4 to 7 years. Data on
vocational education refers to X.
Tanzania        1970       a/  Mainland Tanzania
b/  1967
c/  1965
d/  As percentage of urban households
Philippines     1970       a/ As percentage of employment
b/ Not including private vocational schools or vocational
short-term school.
Nla2.agig       3970       a!  Peninsular Malaysia
b/  196 4- 66
c/  Piped water insiLle



Annex I
Page  3 of 4 Pages
COUNTRY DATA - SRI LANKA
AREA                        POPULATION               1/                                      DENSITY
65,607 sq km                13.8 millien (mid 1976)-                                         210 per rq km (1976)
Rate of Growth:  1.7% (from 1971 to 1976)                       554 per sq km of agricultural
land (1974)
POPULATION CHARACTERISTICS (1976)                                         HEALTH  (1976)
Crude Birth Rate (per '000):  27.4                                        Population per physician:    6,107
Crude Death Rate (per '000):   7.9                                        Population per hospital bed:   330
Infant Mortality (per '000 live births): 51 (1974)
INCOME DISTRIBUTION  (1973?                                               DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
% of national income, highest quintile:  45                               % owned by top 10% of owners           **
lowest quintile:   13                            % owned by smallest 10% of owners   **
ACCESS TO PIPED WATER (1971)                                              ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (1971)
% of population - urban:  77                                              % of dwelliAgs  - uroan-  9
- rural:   5                                                              - rural:  3
NUTRITION (1973)                                                          EDUCATION (1973)
Calorie intake as % of requirements:  close to 100                       Adult literacy rate:  78%
Per capita protein intake (grams per day):  45                            Primary school enrollment:  86%
2/
GNP PER CAPITA in 1976:   US$200
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN 1976                                           ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%. constant prices)
US$ Mn          %                         1960-65             1965-70            19'0-76
GDP at Market Prices             3,114        100.0                          3.6                 5.3                2.7
Investment,                        495         15.9                           **                  **                  **
Domestic Saving                    430         13.8                           **                  **                  **
Current Account Balance            -65         -2.1                            *                   *                   *
Exports of Goods, NFS              628         20.4                          3.8                -0.6               -0.8
Imports of Goods, NFS              679         22.0                         -8.4                 3.5                -5.0
OTPUT, EMPLOYMENT, AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 197f
Value Added                           Empleymeit-/                     V. A. Per Worker
us$  M                                Mn.  %                              S$ u  I
Agriculture                      1,053       36.1                   2.029       50.1                       519        73
Industry 4/                        468       16.3                   0.389        9.6                    1,203       171
Services                         1,343       46.9                   1.632       40.3                       823      110
Unallocated                         *          *                                                            *
Total/Average              2,864    T100.                      4.050      ioO2TY                     707       100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
(Rs mn)        % of GDP
1976       1970-72   1976
Current Receipts                                                                        5,837           21.0    18.8
Current Expenditure                                                                     5.925           23.1    19.1
Current Surplus                                                                           -88            2.1    -Z03
Capital Expenditures                                                                    2,030            6.4      6.5
External Assistance (net)                                                               1,050            2.7      3.4
1/ Provisional estimates.
2/ The per capita GNP estimate for 1976 is taken from the World Bank Atlas. Per capita adjusted GNP
in 1977 (see Annex C) at the new exchange rate is $160. All other conversions in this table are
at the average official exchange rate prevailing during the period.
3/ The sectoral distribution was assumed to be the same as for 1971.
4/ Includes mining.
Note:  As described in "The Economy" section of this report, Sri Lanka has introduced a number of
major changes in domestic and external policies. The implications of these policies for
the future have been reviewed in the Country Economic Report entitled "Development in Sri Lanka:
Issues and Prospects," dated March 22, 1978 (Report No. 1937-CE). In consultation with the
Government, work on detailed projections of the major macro-economic parameters, and the balance
of payments is currently under way.
** not available
* not applicable



Annex 1
Page 4 of 4 pages
COUNTRY DATA - SRI LANKA
September
MONEY, CREDIT, AND PRICES                 1971      1972      1973     1974      1975      1976         1977
(end of period)
Money and Quasi Money                    3,379    3,916    4,093    4,504    4,712    6,521            7,795
Bank Credit to Public Sector             2,738    2,709    2,600    2,468    2,497    3,580            3,016
Bank Credit to Private Sector            1,736    2,117    2,133    3,188    3,363    3,919            5,222
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Maney as % of GDP         26.6      28.7     24.8      20.9      19.6      23.7           -
General Price Index (1970 - 100)         102.7    109.2    119.7    134.4    143.3    145.2            146.21/
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                       +2.7      +6.3     +9.6    +12.3       +6.6      +1.3         +1.3L/
Bank credit to Public Sector              +8.3      -1.1     -4.0      -5.1      +1.2    +43.4         -13.0
Bank credit to Private Sector             +8.6    +21.9      +0.8    +49.5       +5.5    +16.5         +34.8
BAIANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                     MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (1977)
1976     1977i2/                                                          US$Nn      7
(US$ Million)
Tea                                419      53.6
Exports of Goods, NFS             627       864                          Rubber                              109      14.0
Imports of Goods, NFS             679       809                          Coconut Products                     38       4.9
Resource Gap (deficit = -)        -52       +55
Interest Payments (net)           -20       -17                          All other cosodities                215      27.5
Workers' Remittances                -         -                              Total                            781    T0'W
Other Factor Payments (net)         -         -
Net Transfers                      +7        +7                       EXTERNAL DEBT, (US$ Million)-/
Balance on Current Account        -65       +*45D
December 1976   December -1977
Direct Foreign Investment           1        -1                          Total Outstanding   1,102.6             1,124.0
Net MLT Borrowing                  83        74
Disbursements                 (111)    (122)                          Total Outstanding
Amortization                   (28)      (48)                           and Disbursed         702.3             784.
Subtotal                        83
Capital Grants                     58        62                       DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1977-/          22.8%
Other Capital (net)                44         1
Other items n.e.i.                 +4         2
Increase in Reserves (+) 5/       +67      +183
Gross Reserves (end year)          92       292
Net Reserves   (end year)         -67      +116
RATE OF EXCHiiNGE                                                IBRD/IDA LENDING, December 31, 1977 (USS Millioni
1967 - 1471                                                                                                __ID
U         s  5.9                                                                                          IBRD          IDA
US$9.O1 R.E 5.93
Rs 1.00 = US$0.17                                                  Outstanding & Disbursed                34.3        57.5
Undisbursed                            5.8        64.2
End =972                                                           Outstanding incl. Undisbursed          470.1      121.7
US$1.00 =REs 6.70
Rs 1.00 = US$0.15
End 1973
US$1.00 - Rs 6.75
Rs 1.00 - US$0.15
End 1974                                                          Foreign Exchange Entitlement
US$1.00 = Rs 6.69                                                 Certificate (FEEC) Rates 5!
Es 1.00 = US$0.15                                                 1968        US$1.00 = Rs  8.54 (44% FEEC)
1969 to
End 1975                                                           1971       US$1.00 = Rs  9.19 (55% FEEC)
US$1.00 =s. 7.71                                                  1972 (end) US$1.00 = Rs 10.38 (55% FEEC)
Rs 1.00 =US$0.13                                                  1973 (end) US$1.00 - Rs 11.13 (65% FEEC)
1974 (end) US$1.00 = Rs 11.04 (65% FEEC)
End 1976                                                          1975 (end) US$1.00 - Rs 12.72 (65% FEEC)
US$1.00 - Rs 8.83                                                 1976 (end) US$1.00 - ks 14.57 (65% FEEC)
Rs 1.00 - US$0.11                                                 1977 (end
End 1977                                                            October) US$1.00 - Rs 14.07 (652 FEEC)
US$1.00 = Rs15.56
Rs 1.00 = US$0.06
1, Average of first three quarters of 1977.
2/ Prelimiuary estimate as of March 1978.
3/ Repayable in foreign currencies and with a maturity over one year.
4/ Ratio of debt service including short-term and IMP credits to exports of goods and
non-factor services.
5/ Includes errors and omissions.
6/ The certificates were abolished on November 15, 1977.
South Asia Programs Department
Nay 12, 1978



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SRI LANKA
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of April 30, 1978)
US$ Million
Amount (net of can-
Loan or                                                      cellations and ex-
Credit                                                       change adjustments
No.   Year   Borrower             Purpose              Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
Six loans and five credits fully disbursed               42.4   34.6
636     1969   Ceylon
Electricity
Board          Power                   16.5             0.7
653     1970   Sri Lanka         Mahaweli Ganga
Development          14.5              4.1
372     1973   Sri Lanka         Power Transm.                    6.0      0.4
504     1974   Sri Lanka         Dairy Development                9.0      7.8
566     1975   Sri Lanka         DFC - Industrial                 4.5      1.1
595     1975   Sri Lanka         Agricultural Devel-
opment                       25.0    13.0
666     1976   Sri Lanka         Tank Irrigation                  5.0      4.9
701     1977   Sri Lanka         Mahaweli Ganga Devel-
opment II                    19.0    19.0
709     1977   Sri Lanka         Water Supply                     9.2      9.2
742     1977   Sri Lanka         DFC - Industrial                 8.0      8.0
Total,                                                   73.4  120.3    68.2
of which has been repaid                               34.1
Total now outstanding                                    34.5  120.3
Amount sold,                               3.6             -
of which has been repaid                 3.6
Total now held by Bank and IDA                           34.5  120.3
Total undisbursed                                         4.8   63.4    68.2
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT (as of April 30, 1978)
Amount of US$ Million
Year         Obligor                Type of Business         Loan   Equity   Total
1977  The Development Finance   Development Banking
Corporation of Ceylon                                -     0.1       0.1
1977 Bank of Ceylon         Development Banking       2.0      -       2.0
Total Commitment now held by IFC                      2.0    0.1        2.1



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5 pages
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/
Ln. No. 636 - Maskeliya Oya Power Project; US$16.5 million of July 28, 1969;
Effective Date: January 19, 1970; Original Closing Date:
September 30, 1973; Revised Closing Date: December 31, 1978
The project is virtually completed. The first unit of 50 MW was
commissioned in February 1974, about 1-1/2 years later than originally esti-
mated. The second unit was commissioned in July 1974. The gas turbine unit
was cancelled upon the request of the Ceylon Electricity Board (CEB). Delays
were caused mainly by problems associated with the appointment of acceptable
consultants, landslides in the penstock area, and various strikes in manufac-
turers' factories. Site work has in general been carried out satisfactorily.
The only remaining work, the extension of the Polpitiya switching station,
will be completed during 1979. The closing date of the loan has been extended
to December 31, 1978, to allow for completion of the Polpitiya switching
station, and the use of foreign exchange savings of about US$1.7 million are
to be used to cover the cost overrun on the Power Transmission and Distribu-
tion Project (Credit 372-CE), discussed below.
Ln. No. 653 - Mahaweli Ganga Development (Irrigation/Power) Project;
US$14.5 million of January 30, 1970; Effective Date:
April 30, 1971; Original Closing Date: June 30, 1976;
Revised Closing Date: July 31, 1978
An assurance has been received from the Government that the invert
lining of the Bowatenna Tunnel was completed during closure of the tunnel in
February/March 1978. This work completes implementation of the project, some
two years later than originally scheduled. An undisbursed amount of US$4.1
million remains in the loan, which the Government is attempting to utilize
for equipment procurement before the loan terminates on July 31, 1978. The
credit associated with the loan has been fully disbursed.
Cr. No. 372-CE - Power Transmission and Distribution Project; US$6.0 million
of April 18, 1973; Effective Date: July 5, 1973; Original
Closing Date: December 31, 1976; Revised Closing Date:
December 31, 1978
The project is proceeding without major problems. Procurement of
equipment and materials is practically completed. Route survey and right-
of-way acquisition are progressing satisfactorily. Inflation since signing
has increased foreign exchange costs by some 30%, and we have agreed to cover
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5 pages
the cost overruns from savings under Loan 636-CE above. Although actual
physical completion of the project will not be until late 1979, disbursements
from this credit and the US$1.7 million from Loan 636-CE, are expected to
be largely completed by the revised closing date.
Cr. No. 504 - Dairy Development Project; US$9.0 million of August 9, 1974;
Effective Date: February 10, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Farmers' response to the project has been most encouraging, with
a high rate of applications for loans to purchase cattle. However, progress
of the project has been seriously impeded by a shortage of such cattle due
to problems with imports and an overestimation of the national herd at
appraisal stemming from unreliable Government statistics. In order to improve
projection coordination, which has not been effective, the Project Technical
Unit was transferred from the Department of Agriculture to the National Live-
stock Development Board in November 1977. Milk collection by the National
Milk Board (NMB) has already exceeded full development targets as a result of
an increase in milk prices, approved by IDA, which were designed to ensure
that milk production incentives for farmers were maintained. Consequently,
NMB has had neither the time nor the incentive to establish project milk col-
lection centers and delivery systems. The Government has proposed a reformu-
lation of the project along the lines of the AMUL-model (Kaira District, India)
of farmer-owned and operated dairy cooperative societies. A supervision mis-
sion is currently in the field to review and evaluate the reformulation pro-
posal and, dependent upon their findings, a determination will be made whether
IDA should continue with the project in its present form.
Cr. No. 566 - Third Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon Project;
US$4.5 million of June 27, 1975; Effective Date:
August 22, 1975; Closing Date: September 30, 1979
The credit was designed to meet the estimated foreign exchange
requirements of the Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon (DFCC) for
lending mainly to export industries and tourism. Sub-projects for the total
credit amount of $4.5 million have been approved, and the credit is likely
to be fully disbursed by the closing date.
Cr. No. 595 - Agricultural Development Project; US$25.0 million of
December 24, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976;
Original Closing Date: June 30, 1978; Revised Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
Project implementation and disbursements fell behind schedule be-
cause of initial delays in finalizing complementary UNDP Projects, appointment
by Government of key consultants and inadequacies in local overall project
coordination. The most severe of these deficiencies have now been removed
and project progress is satisfactory. However, disbursements are expected
to be only US$16.9 M on June 30, 1978, the initial closing date. In order
to complete the vehicle repair program and procurement of spare parts for
the Department of Agriculture, procurement of equipment for the Sugar



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5 pages
Corporation, and the procurement of additional trucks for the plantation
sector and tractors for Dry Zone farm power, the closing date has been ex-
tended to June 30, 1978, when the credit is expected to be fully disbursed.
Cr. No. 666 - Tank Irrigation Modernization Project; US$5.0 million of
January 12, 1977; Effective Date: April 12, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The construction program is behind schedule by about one year due
to delays in procurement of construction equipment, civil disturbances in
1977, and shortages of experienced staff for surveys, designs, and super-
vision. Practically all construction equipment has now been procured and
should be available at work sites by mid 1978. The Government has also in-
troduced special incentives to stem the exodus of experienced technical staff
for better paid jobs abroad. Implementation is expected to pick up signifi-
cantly from this year. However, project completion is likely to be delayed by
about one year. Procurement and distribution of farm equipment is proceeding
on schedule. Introduction of the Training and Visits system of agricultural
extension is also proceeding satisfactorily. Due to changes in the exchange
rate, as well as refinement of quantities for various works, revised project
costs (net of taxes and duties) are expected to be about 30% lower than those
estimated at appraisal. A supervision mission returned in late April 1978.
Cr. No. 701 - Mahaweli Ganga Development II Project; US$19.0 million of
April 21, 1977; Effective Date (planned): September 30, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The new Government, which came into office as a result of the Gene-
ral Election in July 1977, has chosen to make the Mahaweli Ganga the focus of
its development effort and is making a serious attempt to complete the project
in less than the four years planned during project appraisal. The Mahaweli
Development Board has negotiated several contracts with the Army Engineers and
other Government agencies for clearing forested areas and undertaking other
construction work; some work was initiated in October, some two months before
credit effectiveness. It appears that IDA's goal of strengthening the private
construction sector by splitting the larger public works between private and
public agency contracts will not be realized in the Government's haste to com-
plete the project. Procurement actions for vehicles and equipment are moving
rapidly, and some equipment arrivals are anticipated by mid 1978. Construc-
tion work is presently going ahead with equipment available in the Government
sector.
Cr. No. 709 - Water Supply Project; US$9.2 million of May 10; Effective Date:
February 9, 1978; Closing Date: March 31, 1982
Due to the change of Government in July, which resulted in a change
in Secretary of Local Government and chairman of the Water Supply and Drainage
Board, and the post-election disturbances, the new Government's consideration
and review of its obligations under the credit agreement was delayed. As a



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5 pages
consequence, at the time of the scheduled effectiveness date, the Government
and WDB had not complied with agreed upon rate increases for bulk water. The
Government indicated its intention to comply with this covenant by January 31,
1978, and the effectiveness date was changed to February 15, 1978. The Gov-
ernment subsequently fulfilled all necessary covenants including the rate
increase for bulk water, and the credit was declared effective on February 9,
1978.
Cr. No. 742 - Fourth Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon Project;
US$8.0 million of September 30, 1977; Effective Date:
December 16, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This Credit was designed to meet a substantial portion of DFCC's
estimated foreign exchange requirements over a two-year period for lending
to private sector industrial projects and tourism. Implementation is progress-
ing satisfactorily, and, to date, sub-projects for US$1.5 million have been
approved by IDA.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2 pages
SRI LANKA
TREE CROP REHABILITATION (TEA) PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project
Project identification efforts began in October
1976; actual preparation took place during the
period May through August 1977;
(b) Agency which prepared the project
Ministry of Plantation Industries with assistance
from the Canadian International Development Agency
(CIDA);
(c)  Date of first Bank mission to consider the Project
July 1977 to review status and assist in preparation;
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission
October 9, 1977;
(e) Negotiations completed
April 1978
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
September 1978
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
Conditions of Effectiveness
(a) Additional conditions of effectiveness are execution of:
(i) subsidiary loan agreement between GOSL and Bank
of Ceylon, and (ii) Project Agreement on behalf of
SPC and JEDB (para 69);



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2 pages
Other Special Conditions
(b) Major institutional changes and findings of the Tea
Master Plan and Tree Crops Incentive Studies will be
discussed with IDA prior to implementation (para 49);
(c) Position of Project Coordinator would at all time be
filled by a person with qualifications and experience
satisfactory to IDA (para 51);
(d) SPC and JEDB will implement a common format for estate
reporting (para 52);
(e) SPC and JEDB will keep the posts of Hatton
Regional Managers staffed with persons acceptable
to IDA (para 52);
(f) Conditions of employment for estate staff will be
discussed with IDA (para 53);
(g) SPC and JEDB will maintain the Visiting Agent system
in the project area (para 53);
(h) GOSL will establish the capital structure of SPC and
JEDB through transfer of ownership of nationalized
estates (para 54);
(i) Changes made to rates of duties, taxes, cesses
and subsidies would not reduce tea industry
profitability (para 55);
(j) GOSL will exempt SPC and JEDB from certain provisions
of the Finance Act (para 55);
(k) SPC and JEDB would be allowed to retain sufficient
of their operating surpluses in investment reserves
to finance at least 25% of their investment programs
(para 55);
(1) Completion of an estate and factory rationalization
study will be a condition of disbursement on the
factory components (para 70).






IBRD 13382
80-30'                                                           80&35                                                                60040'                                              FEBRUA Y I907S
PROPOSED REGIONS                                                                                                                                           Wotgo
Estates to be managed   Estates to be managed                        04                                                                   /n
by SPC                    by JEDB                                            Mooen                                                                               - Jean
02 Alto,.   Ingestrie
03Fo,rla.r,                 Fordi-                                                                                                                                   0~                                                                     Tfcooa
04 Deeside                 N   tvaery
* 5 Stockholn A.   Bottolgolla
* 6 Strathspey             8   Yalliefield            \
* 7 Goraov,illa                Wanaorih                                                                                                                                                                                            SR I
*8 Brunswick                 - Darawolla                             \eITa,wokle                                                                                                                                                L A N  K A
*9 Brownlow                    D Dickoya
010 LOapana                   10 C.stlereigh
* tlMoray                                                                                                                                                                                                                               K Abkotei.ndy
*  2 St John Del ReYt          fMousekelle                                                                                                                                                                                            0Ie;,.
* 13 Tierts-n                   Hapngosteine                 N                                                                                                                                                             Cei' -bo Arsa of map
* venture                *t14 Sh.nnon                                                                                                                                                                         8111
15 Kirkos-old                  Strathdon
01 16Motr-r   Vellai Oypa                                                                                                                                                                    Titioir
Nr-ood                017 Caroiina o                      Norton
* 18 Bogo,arnr
Bogawa nlolaor  a                                                                                                                                     an2                                  >
020 Kot,agalla                                                                                                                                6...Mtr 
02 I Ca-pion
0 2 2Loino,n
SRI LANKA
Tree Crop Rehabilitation Project I (Tea)
Boundaries of present SPC estates
W JEDB estates and factories to be transferred to SPC
- Boundaries of present JIEDB estates 
*9    SPC estates and factories to be transferred to JEDB            )                         9\
*     SPC factories
o     SPO factories to be closed                                           0
JEDB factories                                                                                                             6-50-|
-650'             JEDB factories to be closed
R J   Regional offices for SPC and JEDB
Proposed regional boundary
Project boundary
jGrassland                                                      REE  0R
Trees                                                                                               112
Railway
Z -Rivers                                                                   . . /
Mountain ridges                                                                                                                   0
0 6                                                                       21~~~0 
0      I      2      3      4       5      6       7      8                                        \\                                                                                                0*                                2
O           1          2           3          4           5
Miles                                                           0,   rclurOh tr  c,,r,,.0,
80 30                                                             SO- 35                                                             N040



