CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 818 CE
Project Agreement
(Tree Crop Rehabilitation (Tea) Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
SRI LANKA STATE PLANTATIONS CORPORATION
and
THE JANATHA ESTATES DEVELOPMENT BOARD
Dated July 12, 1978


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 818 CE
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 12, 1978, between INTERNATIONAL DEVEL-
OPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and the
SRI LANKA STATE PLANTATIONS CORPORATION (hereinafter called SPC)
and the JANATHA ESTATES. DEVELOPMENT BOARD (hereinafter called
JEDB).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Republic of Sri Lanka (hereinafter called
the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to
make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to twenty-one million dollars ($21,000,000), on the
terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agree-
ment, but only on condition that SPC and JEDB agree to undertake
such obligations toward the Association as are hereinafter set
forth; and
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and the Bank of Ceylon, a part of the pro-
ceeds of the credit provided for under the Development Credit
Agreement will be made available through the Bank of Ceylon to SPC
and JEDB on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS SPC and JEDB, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
have agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. SPC and JEDB shall carry out Part A of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit


﻿-2-
Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, agricultural, financial and engineer-
ing practices.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) SPC and JEDB undertake to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to
each of them by th, Borrower against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place
of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency treely usable by SPC and JEDB
to replace or repair such goodo.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, SPC
and JEDB shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit made available to each of them by the
Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) SPC and JEDB shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) SPC and JEDB: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit made available to each of them by the
Borrower, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii)
shall, without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph
(c) of this Section, enable the Association's representatives
to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of such proceeds
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish
to the Association all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditures
of the proceeds of the Credit so made available to each of them
and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.


﻿-3-
(c) SPC and JEDB shall afford reasonable opportunity for the
Association's representatives to examine all plants, installa-
tions, sites, works, buildings, property and equipment of SPC and
JEDB and any relevant records and documents, for purposes related
to the Credit and this Agreement.
Section 2.05. (a) SPC and JEDB shall at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to
the progress of the Project, the performance of their obligations
under this Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit.
(b) SPC and JEDB shall promptly inform the Association of
any condition which affects or threatens to affect, the progress
of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit,
or the performance by SPC and JEDB of their obligations under this
Agreement.
Section 2.06. SPC and JEDB shall, until the completion of the
Project, continue to maintain the present visiting agent system in
the Project Area.
Section 2.07. SPC and JEDB shall at all times until the
completion of the Project ensure that the positions of Hatton
Regional Managers in their respective institutions are filled by
persons with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the
Association.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of SPC and JEDB
Section 3.01. SPC and JEDB shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to
the Association for, insurance against such risks and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.02. SPC and JEDB shall at all times manage their
affairs, plan the development of their properties and facilities
and maintain their financial position in accordance with appro-
priate administrative, agricultural, engineering and financial
practices under the supervision of experienced and competent
management; and shall cause their plant, equipment, properties
and facilities to be maintained and all necessary renewals and
repairs thereto to be made, all in accordance with appropriate
administrative, agricultural, engineering and financial practices.


﻿-4-
Section 3.03. (a) SPC and JEDB shall take all steps necessary
to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges
and franchises which are necessary or useful in the conduct of
their operations;
(b) Except in the normal course of business, SPC and JEDB
shall not, without the prior approval of the Association, sell,
transfer, distribute or otherwise dispose of any of its property
or assets, which shall be required for its efficient operation, or
the sale, transfer, distribution or disposal of which would
adversely affect SPC's and JEDB's ability to carry out its obliga-
tions under this Agreement.
Section 3.04. SPC and JEDB shall complete the rehabilitation
of houses in the Project Area by December 31, 1988.
Section 3.05. SPC and JEDB shall, by December 31, 1978,
introduce and maintain a standard format for their estates'
monthly reports satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.06. SPC and JEDB shall, by December 31, 1979,
review with the Association the adequacy of their current policies
regarding the terms and conditions of service of tea industry
personnel.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) SPC and JEDB shall maintain records ade-
quate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
appropriate accounting practices their operations and financial
conditions.
(b) SPC and JEDB shall maintain separate accounts for the
Project.
Section 4.02. (a) SPC shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year prior to
1978 brought up to date by December 31, 1978 and audited in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year,


﻿-5-
(A) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such
other information concerning the accounts and financial statements
of SPC and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.
(b) The audit of the separate accounts referred to in
Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement shall, include, inter alia, a
statement that funds disbursed against statements of expenditure
have been used for the purpose for which they had been provided.
Section 4.03. (a) JEDB shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in
any case not later than six months after the end of each such
year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Associ-
ation such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of JEDB and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
(b) The audit of the separate accounts referred to in
Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement shall include, inter alia, a
statement that funds disbursed against statements of expenditure
have been used for the purpose for which they had been provided.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of SPC and JEDB thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:


﻿-6-
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agree-
ment shall terminate in accordance with its terms;
or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accor-
dance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify SPC
and JEDB of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall con-
tinue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or
suspension under the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have des-
ignated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿-7-
For SPC:
Sri Lanka Plantations Corporation
18 Gregory's Road
Colombo 7
Sri Lanka
Cable address:
STATEPLACO
Colombo
For JEDB:
Janatha Estates Development Board
55/75 Vauxhall Lane
Colombo 2
Sri Lanka
Cable address:                            Telex: 1276
JANAWASAMA
Colombo
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of SPC may be taken or executed by the
Chairman of the Board of SPC or such other person or persons as
such Chairman shall designate in writing, and SPC shall furnish
to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of JEDB may be taken or executed by the
Chairman of JEDB or such other person or persons as such Chairman
shall designate in writing, and JEDB shall furnish to the Associa-
tion sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.


﻿-8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is/ Manfred G. Blobel
Acting Regional Vice President
South Asia
SRI LANKA STATE PLANTATIONS CORPORATION
By /s/ Wijesinghe Sugathadasa Karunaratne
Authorized Representative
THE JANATHA ESTATES DEVELOPMENT BOARD
By /s/ Wijesinghe Sugathadasa Karunaratne
Authorized Representative


