Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 25240
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(SCL-39430)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$3 10.0 MILLION
TO
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C. (NAFIN)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR A
SECOND BASIC HEALTH PROJECT
December 30, 2002
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 2002)
Currency Unit = Pesos $
US$ 1.00 = P$10.16
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -  December31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                        Country Assistance Strategy
COMPRANET                  Internet Procurement Mechanism
DALYS                      Disability Adjusted Life Years
DGEC                       Direcci6n General de Extension de Cobertero
GDP                        Gross Domestic Product
GOM                        Government of Mexico
ICB                        International Competitive Bidding
IMSS                       Mexican Social Security Institute
IMSS-SOL                   Mexican Social Security Institute - Solidarity Program
ISSSTE                     Social Security Institute for Public Employees
MIS                        Management Inforrnation System
NAFIN                      National Financing Agency (Nacional Financiera)
NCB                        National Competitive Bidding
OECD                       Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
OPD                        Decentralized Public Agencies (Organismos Publicos Descentralizados)
PABSS                      Package of Essential Health Services
PAHO                       Pan American Health Organization
PAC                        Second Basic Health Care Project (Programa de Ampliaci6n de
Cobertura)
PCU                        Project Coordination Unit
PROCEDES                   Program for Quality, Equity and Development in Health (Programa de
Calidad Equidad y Desarrollo en Salud)
PROGRESA                   Education, Health and Nutrition Program
QCBS                       Quality and Cost Based Selection
REDSSA                     SSA's Management Information Network
SBDs                       Standard Bidding Documents
SECODAM                    Secretariat for Control and Administrative Development
SHA                        State Health Authorities
SHCP                       Federal Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit
SSA                        Federal Secretariat of Health
TAPS                       Primary Health Care Workers
UNICEF                     United Nations Children Fund
WHO                        World Health Organization
Vice President:  David De Ferranti
Country Director:  Isabel Guerrero
Sector Director and Sector Manager:  Ana-Maria Arriagada and Evangeline Javier
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Patricio Marquez



MEXICO
MX: BASIC HEALTH H
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                    1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              16
6. Sustainability                                                                  17
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   18
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 21
9. Partner Comments                                                                24
10. Additional Information                                                         27
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                               28
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               30
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               33
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               34
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               37
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  38
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              39






Project ID: P007689                                     Project Name: MX: BASIC HEALTH II
Team Leader: Patricio V. Marquez                        TL Unit: LCSHH
ICR Type: Core ICR                                      Report Date: December 30, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: MX: BASIC HEALTH II                          L/C/TFNumber: SCL-39430
Country/Department: MEXICO                                            Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: Health (90%); Central government administration
(7%); Sub-national government administration (3%)
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD: 03/29/1994                              Effective: 01/08/1996        03/15/1996
Appraisal:  11/07/1994                              MTR: 09/15/1998           04/12/1999
Approval:  09/26/1995                            Closing: 06/30/2001         06/30/2002
Borrower/Implementing Agency:  NAFIN/SSA AND SHCP
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                 At Appraisal
Vice President:      David de Ferranti                       Shahid Javed Burki
Country Manager:     Isabel Guerrero                         Edilberto L. Segura
Sector Manager:      Evangeline Javier                        Kye Woo Lee
Team Leader at ICR:  Patricio Marquez                        Annin Fidler
ICR Primary Author:  Willy de Geyndt
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: HS
Sustainability: HL
Institutional Development Impact: H
Bank Performance: HS
Borrower Performance: HS
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                       S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The objectives of the Second Basic Health Care Project in Mexico (Loan 3943-ME) were to support:
(a)    equitable access to a cost-effective package of quality health services for the uninsured and
underserved;



(b)    the decentralization of technical, managerial, and financing processes to the states; and
(c)    the modernization and restructuring of the Federal Health Secretariat (SSA) to divest itself from
operational responsibilities and to assume a stewardship role in the sector.
The Project's development objectives were realistic, achievable and consistent with the Zedillo
Government's (1994-2000) health sector strategy of reducing inequities in access to basic health care,
targeting the economically least-developed states, and improving quality and resource use. Experience and
lessons learned under the First Health Care Project (Loan No. 3272-ME), initiated in 1991 and completed
in 1996, provided valuable input to Project preparation. In addition, a health sector study that was initiated
by the Salinas Administration in 1994, with the assistance of the Bank, IDB, and PAHO/WHO, helped
outline priority sector policies and investment, the appropriate roles of the Federal Health Secretariat
(SSA), social security, non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and the private sector, the means for
strengthening sector financing and the efficient use of health resources. The Project's content reflected a
broad consensus in Mexico for a three-pronged approach for an equitable access to health care that aimed
to:
(i)    promote access to basic health care services;
(ii)   foster institutional development and decentralize services and functions; and
(iii)  support the modernization of the SSA at the federal level.
Thus, the Project's development objectives and its three components were completely aligned with the
Government's health sector strategy and the Bank Group's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS).
As noted above, Project preparation benefited from the lessons learned and experience from implementing
the First Basic Health Care Project. Prominent lessons highlighted the importance of: (a) improving the
targeting of the delivery of a cost-effective basic health care package in the most disadvantaged
municipalities within poor states; (b) rehabilitating first level health centers and second level hospitals to
improve access to basic health care; (c) recruiting and training community health care workers to staff
health posts in communities where no medical doctor is available; (d) building ownership in the states
through institutional capacity development and decentralization of Project implementation; and (e)
conducting joint annual review meetings to evaluate the previous year's work plans and prepare next year's
investment and implementation plans.
In 1994, the Zedillo Administration realized that inequitable access to basic health care, especially by the
poor and indigenous population, hampered economic development, jeopardized investments in basic
education and deprived citizens of their constitutional right to attaining good health. It, therefore, aimed
to implement aggressively a strategy of reducing these inequities and improving health care quality and
resource use. Also, it placed priority on the modernization of the SSA. A Health Cabinet (Gabinete de
Salud), headed by the President with representatives from social security, finance and other social sector
entities, was created by presidential decree.  The Health Cabinet's role was to guide the SSA's
restructuring, promote coordination among sectors, and oversee the decentralization of health services to
the states.  In sum, the Second Basic Health Care Project's development objectives reflected the
Government's health sector reform program and counted upon its full political commitment.
- 2 -



3.2 Revised Objective:
The Project's development objectives were not revised during implementation. It must be noted, however,
that the baseline of the Project's target beneficiary population was refined in 1997 (see Section: Component
1 Basic Health Services) and the Project's geographical coverage was expanded from the original 11 states
to cover a total of 19 states.
The Project's development objectives were reconfirmed by the Government and the Bank at the mid-term
evaluation in April 1999. During the mid-term evaluation, it was agreed that: (i) the loan closing date
would be extended by one year to June 2002 to give the new Government (then taldng office in December
2000) time to consolidate its decentralization process, the reorganization of the SSA, and the establishment
of institutional and financial arrangements at the state level to ensure long-term sustainability; (ii) loan
proceeds would be reallocated among the different categories in Schedule 1 of the Loan Agreement to
reduce the amounts allocated for civil works, consultants, studies and technical assistance, and increase the
amount allocated for operational expenses (i.e. US$127 million); and (iii) the Project's financial
arrangements would be restructured to allow the reallocated amounts to be disbursed on a revised declining
percentage basis. The latter two amendments required Board approval because the reversal of the
"declining percentage financing" for incremental recurrent costs (i.e. applying anew the 86 percent, 66
percent and 33 percent pari-passu for the reallocated amount) was a departure from Operational Manual
Statement (OMS) 1.21 I/ Also, the amendments almost doubled the amount allocated to recurrent costs 21
since additional funding was needed under this category to cover the Project's expanded geographical scope
(see subsequent sections for more details). The Project's integrity was not affected by this reallocation as
civil works and most of the activities proposed under Components II and IH were financed by alternative
federal and state funding sources outside the Project financing arrangements (i.e. the agreed Bank-GOM
pari-passu in the Loan Agreement). These modifications were reflected in an Amendment to the Loan
Agreement, the Guarantee Agreement and the Implementation Letter approved by the Bank's Board on a
no-objection basis on June 30, 1999. The allocation of the loan proceeds were fine-tuned three more times
between 1990 and 2002. The loan was fully disbursed by the extended closing date.
3.3 Original Components:
The Project had three components, financed with a US$310 million IBRD loan and US$133.4 million in
national counterpart funds (i.e. within the Bank-GOM financing share as stipulated in the Loan
Agreement). These were:
Component I. Basic Health Care Services (US$335.3 million, or 75.6 percent of total Project costs).
This component would provide basic health care services to a targeted number of uninsured, hard-to-reach
population in Mexico. The Project area included eleven states (Oaxaca, Chiapas, Guerrero, Hidalgo,
Puebla, Veracruz, Zacatecas, Michoacan, San Luis Potosi, Campeche and Yucatan) at the outset, of which
four had been included in the First Basic Care Health Project. These areas were selected using a poverty
targeting mechanism based on the CONAPO (Consejo Nacional de Poblacion-National Population
Council) poverty index 3/ and included only those with health indicators below the national average.
Selection of health jurisdictions and municipalities within each participating state followed the same
selection criteria. The selection criteria ensured effective targeting of Project activities in line with the
Government's poverty alleviation policy and its objective to ease the health problems of the uninsured
population.
The Project's design contemplated the possibility of increasing the coverage of its geographic area during
implementation. This provision was included in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) and in the Loan
- 3-



Agreement (Section 1.02 (i)), which specified that only an exchange of letters between the Government
and the Bank, and adjustments to the Project's Operational Manual would be required to reflect a
geographic expansion. To reach pockets of population in extreme poverty and areas of difficult access, the
Zedillo Government requested a geographic expansion of the Project to include an additional seven states in
1997 and another state in 1999 thus reaching a total of nineteen participating states at the time of the
mid-term evaluation. The additional states were: Chihuahua, Durango, Guanajuato, Jalisco, Mexico,
Nayarit, Queretaro, and Sinaloa. These additions were selected using the same criteria applied to the
Project's original eleven states.
At appraisal in 1994, it was roughly estimated that 15 million uninsured people or 53 percent of the total
population of the original eleven priority states would constitute the target population. This rough
estimate was based on the 1990 CONAPO poverty index, as well as epidemiological and demographic
surveillance data. In 1990, 32 percent of the population and 38 percent of the country's uninsured poor
were estimated to live in these eleven states. Each participating state conducted a diagnostic survey to
determine those health jurisdictions that were to be included in the Project area using the same selection
criteria for choosing the priority states. As a result of this exercise, the Project was set to target the
neediest people living in areas where both economic and health conditions were the worst During the first
year of operation, the Project was implemented in 16 of the total 78 health jurisdictions in the eleven states,
benefiting a population of 3.8 million.
This rough estimate of the total target population was useful for planning purposes during Project
preparation, particularly for selecting the Project areas and the target population for the first year of
implementation. It is important to note, however, that this rough estimate was refined and adjusted in
1997 in accordance with the Zedillo Government's Health Sector Reform Program 1995-2000. This
Program set as its main goal the improvement of access to basic health services among the poorest 10
million Mexicans living in remote rural locations. As the Project's geographic areas were expanded to
target only those municipalities with "high and very high" poverty rates within 19 states, the baseline for
the target number of Project beneficiaries was set to a total of 10.9 million people during the life of the
Project (to be covered in conjunction with other related programs of the Federal Health Secretariat).
In addition, the Project supported the Government in carrying out the recommendations of the 1993 World
Development Report (WDR, Investing in Health), which promoted redirecting health expenditures to the
most cost-effective interventions ("buy the cheap Disability Adjusted Life Year (DALYs) first").
Two strategies were posited to improve the health status of the target population:
(a)    strengthening public health interventions that benefit the whole population: health education, vector
control, vaccinations, food hygiene, water quality, latrines, etc.; and
(b)    providing a cost-effective package of essential clinical services meeting the health needs of
individuals: reproductive health, child health, treating infectious diseases (intestinal infections,
pneumonia, etc.), and treating chronic diseases (diabetes, asthma, hypertension, etc).
With Project support, Mexico became one of the first countries in the world to adopt as its national policy
the provision of a basic package of cost-effective interventions to those populations without access to
health services in order to reduce the burden of disease, as measured in DALYs. The Project's
cost-effectiveness calculations were based on the model suggested by the Bank's 1993 WDR using the
concept of DALYs. The concept was further elaborated in the Mexican Health Foundation (FUNSALUD):
"El Paquete Universal de Servicios de Salud"; Documento #11 Para el Analisis y la Convergencia,
1994.
-4 -



In terms of expenditures for this component, the Project would finance the construction (10,800 sq.
meters) and upgrading (321,051 sq. meters) of physical facilities; provision of basic medical instruments,
office and laboratory equipment; supply of pharmaceuticals from an essential drug list and procurement of
family planning devices; purchase of radio equipment and vehicles (400 ambulances, 1,320 mobile units,
180 motorcycles and 180 bicycles); and training of 2,260 primary care technicians, midwives and
community volunteers. An important innovation would be the financing of an incentive hardship premium,
in addition to the basic salary, to attract and retain qualified staff (3,405 staff), including itinerant health
teams.
ComDonent II. Institutional DeveloDment and Decentralization (US$61.1 million, or 13.8 percent of
total Project costs). This component, implemented at a national scale, aimed at supporting the
decentralization of health service management from the SSA to the 32 state and health jurisdiction levels.
At the state level, it would support the State Health Agencies (SHAs) in improving financial management,
training managers, building information systems, improving procurement and inventory systems, and
enhancing the overall quality of the health care delivery system. One subcomponent would prepare the
states for the decentralization of executive and financial management functions from the federal to the state
level, and the transfer of operational responsibilities from the state to the health jurisdiction level. A second
subcomponent, focusing on human resources development, would train 70 senior managers at the federal
and state levels, provide general management training to 500 staff at the state and health jurisdiction levels,
and train 1,000 staff in organizing and analyzing epidemiological information for the purposes of setting
health priorities and allocating resources. It would also train technical staff at the state and jurisdiction
levels in hospital management, procurement and inventory control, epidemiological surveillance, and
quality control measures of sanitary regulations. This training program aimed at training 2,000 staff from
the state health services.
Component III. Modernization and Restructuring of the SSA (US$47.0 million, or 10.6 percent of
total Project costs). The third component aimed to support the restructuring of the SSA, finance policy and
operational studies, assist the development of a national communication system, and support Project
administration through central and state level Project Coordinating Units.
The first subcomponent on restructuring the SSA in a decentralized environment would assist in redefining
its mission, objectives and functions, in proposing a new organizational model, and in identifying training
needs. Training workshops, equipment, materials and 60 person months of technical assistance would be
financed. The second subcomponent would finance policy studies on optimizing the provision and
utilization of health services, and support pilot testing of models supporting the modernization of the health
sector such as: purchasing services from the private sector, providing health care packages through the
social insurance sector, and providing incentives to improve productivity and quality among public sector
health staff. The third subcomponent would support the development of a national communication system
(REDSSA) and introduce new information systems through five modules: a national health services
information system, a procurement and stock control system, an epidemiological surveillance system, a
hospital management statistical system, and strengthen the sanitary regulation and quality control of food
and beverage processing businesses and the marketing of food products, beverages and medicines. The
Project would finance the purchase of computers and accessories needed for linking electronically the
national, state and health jurisdiction levels.
3.4 Revised Components:
The Project's three components were not redefined or revised during implementation, although as described
above, the Project's geographical coverage was expanded under the first component to include eight
- 5 -



additional states (beyond the eleven included at Project appraisal). Loan proceeds were reallocated and the
closing date was extended by one year during the mid-term evaluation of the Project.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The Project was prepared before routine quality assessments were initiated, thus there is no QAG rating.
However, for the purposes of this report, the Project's quality at entry is considered to be satisfactory. The
Project's development objectives and its three components were well aligned with the Government's
development agenda, the country's health sector strategy and its health sector reform program, with the
Bank Group's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), and with the health policy issues identified by the
Project preparation team.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The Project's overall performance is considered highly satisfactory. The Project successfully provided
basic health services to the poorest and more isolated rural communities in the country (according to the
social and geographical targeting criteria used under the Project). Services were delivered to about 9
million poor (90 percent of target), mostly indigenous and often non-Spanish speaking, in 19 states
(compared to 11 states at appraisal), in areas of difficult geographic and cultural access. This is a feat not
accomplished in any Latin American country with similar sizable indigenous communities that live in
dispersed and mountainous rural areas. Because of the inclusion of an additional eight states, the Project
reached less than the target number of beneficiaries, but, as a result of the agreed selection criteria, did
reach a greater number of needier beneficiaries in more remote, difficult to access areas. Decentralizing the
responsibility for service delivery to the state level triggered increases in the availability of counterpart
funding for the Project, both from the Federal Government and the participating states, which in turn
allowed the hiring of additional personnel over and above the Project's expected financing arrangements.
The additional federal-and state-level resources provided funding for additional investments and operational
expenses, including additional field staff, which in turn permitted an expansion in the number and the
intensity of health services.
The Project adopted a flexible design where the Government and the Bank agreed on the objectives and an
estimated financial package without a straight-jacket definition of a five-year implementation blueprint. The
annual monitoring of Project performance, which fed into the process of setting subsequent years' targets
and budgets, provided flexibility for realistic implementation, as well as ownership, especially by the
participating states.
The Project's exemplary implementation was recognized when it received the World Bank's "President's
Award for Excellence" in 2000. Its superior performance is also acknowledged by the Government of
Mexico which stated in its comments (see Section 9) that" this loan is considered one of the best in Mexico
due to its impact and the quality of its implementation".
Improved access to basic healthcare. As noted above, at the beginning of Project implementation the
Project's goals were adjusted, in accordance with the Government's 1995-2000 Health Sector Reform
Program, to support the SSA to improve the coverage of basic health services for 10.9 million poor with
limited or no access to health care. By 2001, the Project reached about nine million persons living in 19
states, 878 municipalities, and more than 46,000 rural communities (expanding the original plan of 11
states and 600 municipalities). It should be noted that the Project was implemented together with other
related programs financed with federal and state funding. In effect, all of these programs contributed to
extending basic health service coverage to all the targeted 10.9 million poor, most of them in communities
- 6 -



with fewer than 500 inhabitants. About 1.5 million of these beneficiaries live in small rural and
mountainous hamlets that could only be reached by traveling health teams. The majority of these people
saw a professional health care worker and received health care services for the first time in their lives. The
intensity of the services provided increased dramatically, almost doubling the number of medical visits per
1,000 people (Annex 1).
Institutional development and decentralization. The SSA was decentralized and the management of
human, physical and financial resources was shifted to the 32 federal entities. The operational capacity of
the states was strengthened, additional staff was hired, personnel were trained in general management
functions and in specific functional areas such as inventory control, management information systems,
epidemiological surveillance, and quality control. States assumed responsibility for service delivery,
increased their share in the financing of operating expenses, and included the newly-hired health workers in
their regular payroll. Part of the goods financed by the Project were procured online using the federal
electronic COMPRANET system, that increased the efficiency and lowered the costs of procurement, and
later became a pilot intervention for procurement in other Bank-financed operations.
SSA modernization and restructuring. The SSA was the only federal secretariat decentralized during the
Zedillo Administration. 4/ The federal level divested itself of all operational responsibilities and redefined
its mission and role as one of policy making and stewardship. Three fourths of its budget is now passed on
to the states. A pioneering and unique communication system (REDSSA) now transmits electronically
voice and data between the federal level, the 32 federal entities and the 231 health jurisdictions. Mexico is
now among the leaders in health communication and information systems in the Latin American region.
Forty two operational and policy studies were also financed to guide policy making and health sector
reform. Operational studies supported the implementation of the first component (baseline and annual
evaluations, mapping service delivery routes, improving the distribution of pharmaceuticals and supplies).
Policy studies included an analysis of health policy changes, prepaid medicine, a national nutritional
survey, a feasibility study for privatizing the production and distribution of vaccines, and addressed
specific public health problems such as HIV/AIDS, intra family violence, and the use of insecticides and
toxic substances.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Component I. Basic Health Care Services (US$335.3 million, or 75.6 percent of total Project costs).
ICR Rating: Highly Satisfactory. The Project met the organizational, logistic and health workforce
challenges to deliver basic health care services to a geographically dispersed, culturally, ethnically and
linguistically diverse population living in a larger number of localities than those originally estimated at
Project appraisal. The Project defined the geographic areas where services would be organized, the criteria
for selection of the beneficiaries, what services would be provided and by whomn, and how services would
be delivered. Investment and work plans were adjusted annually based on a feedback from close
monitoring and annual evaluation studies. Participating jurisdictions prepared annual work and investment
plans according to established criteria - including state health priorities, epidemiological profiles, poverty
index, definition of beneficiaries, expected increases in efficiency and quality, costs, and available technical
and management capacity to implement the plan. Furthermore, the Project used a new process for timely
release and rapid flow of budgetary funds to the states and jurisdictions. A federal Advisory Committee,
composed of representatives from the agencies directly involved in Project implementation, reviewed and
approved annual work and investment plans.
Geographic Area and Beneficiary Population. About 63 percent or 120,000 of the more than 200,000
communities in Mexico have fewer than 100 inhabitants and 184,000 communities have fewer than 500
-7-



inhabitants. The indigenous population of Mexico is estimated at 8.7 million according to the definition
used in the 2000 census; almost all are noninsured and five out of six reside in rural areas. The Project
organized service delivery in 19 states, 100 health jurisdictions, 878 municipalities and reached 9 million,
or about 90 percent of the 10.9 million target beneficiaries, living in 46,493 communities. Three quarters
of the target population live in the six most economically deprived states: Chiapas, Veracruz, Oaxaca,
Guerrero, Puebla and Hidalgo (see Table 2). The population in 41 percent of the municipalities is
overwhelmingly indigenous and a high percentage is non-Spanish speaking. Oaxaca alone has seventeen
ethnic groups with their own language.
The nine million actual Project beneficiaries were split about evenly between males (49.6 percent) and
females (50.4 percent). Half of them were older than 20 years. The under-five age group accounted for
13.1 percent, women in reproductive age (15-49 years old) for 24 percent, and women between the ages of
25 and 64 for 18.6 percent. These numbers were used in the calculation of utilization rates for specific
health interventions in Annex 1.
An epidemiological diagnosis prioritized the interventions to be included in the basic health care services
package. The 13 cost-effective interventions included in the package were the minimum number of services
made available to the dispersed, isolated and vulnerable rural population groups that were targeted by the
Project. They included: injury prevention and emergency care; basic sanitation at the household and
community levels; diarrhea control; family planning; prevention and treatment of parasitic diseases; health
and nutrition information, education and communication; immunizations; prenatal care and child delivery;
prevention and control of hypertension and diabetes mellitus; prevention and control of tuberculosis;
nutrition surveillance; treatment of upper respiratory tract infections; and prevention and control of cervical
cancer. The epidemiological profile in some states required also additional interventions such as malaria
control, dengue control, and cholera prevention.
How were services provided and by whom? The characteristics of some of the intended beneficiary
population severely limited the traditional approach of serving them from fixed facilities. A decision was
made to organize and use Itinerant Health Teams (IHT) that covered a micro region of ten to fifteen
communities and was based in a health center serving up to 500 families. The team consisted of a
physician (often a recent medical school graduate), a nurse, a health promoter and, at times, a dentist.
Three types of IHT exist: (i) an ambulatory brigade that visits an average of ten communities each month
on foot returning to its base about every eight days to rest and to prepare the next route; (ii) a mobile unit
that visits each month ten to fifteen communities by vehicle and returns to its base every ten days to rest
and prepare the next visit; and (iii) a mixed brigade that combines driving and walking to reach its assigned
population. In the first three years of the Project, about 60 percent of the IHT were of the mobile unit type.
The second half of the Project witnessed an increase from 40 to about 60 percent in the use of ambulatory
and mixed brigades. Communities in many cases were hamlets of six to eight houses that could only be
reached on foot. Mapping of service routes was greatly facilitated by a digitized cartographic system
financed under Component III (Modernization and Restructuring of SSA).
Community health workers supported the mobile teams at the local level. These workers were selected by
the community and worked out of a "Health House" (Casa de Salud) contributed by the community and
equipped by the program. The IHT trained the auxiliary health worker in health promotion and prevention
activities and in early detection of common diseases to allow quick referral with the support of the local
authorities. Each community has an elected health committee for the purposes of participating in the
diagnosis of health problems, prioritizing interventions and community projects, and promoting social
participation. Community leaders are involved in implementing and evaluating the program.
- 8 -



By 2001, 5,128 new civil service positions were added that became-as mentioned in section 6.2 below-an
integral part of the regular civil service structure at the state level at the end of the Project. This measure,
discussed and agreed between the Federal Finance and Health Secretariats, the participating State Health
Secretariats, and the Bank team after the mid-term review of the Project, is contributing to ensure the long
term sustainability of Project activities. Staff recruited for these new positions were physicians (30
percent), nurses (30 percent), auxiliary nurses and health promoters (31 percent) and others (9 percent).
The bulk (69 percent) of these new hires took place in the six poorest states (Table 3). Additionally, the
Project successfully used incentive schemes to retain health personnel in hardship rural areas.
During the 1996-2001 period, a total of 10,870 community health workers operating in remote rural areas
were trained in the 19 states covered by the Project, and more than 15,000 community health committees
were established. The strategy of using traveling health teams allowed the Project to reach 1.5 million
people who had never before had the benefit of receiving modem health services.
The remainder of the beneficiary population was less dispersed and was served through outreach programs
based in health centers and through visits to the health centers. The number of health centers used by the
Project increased by 376 percent between 1996 and 2001 from 505 health centers to 2,404. Health centers
were responsible for the population in their area of influence and carried out this commitment by serving
patients coming to the center, by reaching out into the communities visiting homes, and by serving as a
staging ground for the itinerant health teams that visited the most dispersed population. Community maps
identified each house and color codes indicated the presence of at risk patients such as pregnant women,
diabetic and hypertensive patients, or malnourished children. Teams made regular house visits, often
assisted by members of the local health committee, to identify other persons at risk.
Mobile units increased 390 percent from 125 to 613 under the Project; foot brigades more than doubled
from 82 to 181; and 595 mixed brigades combined driving and walking. Another interesting Project feature
was the role of Health Auxiliaries, who are the primary health providers in rural communities. These
auxiliary personnel were selected by and work in their own communities.
The establishment of community health committees facilitated the provision of services, the acceptance of
and the demand of indigenous people for the interventions included in the basic package of health services,
ensured health workers' safety in distant and dangerous areas, and contributed to the sustainability of
Project activities in the medium and long terms. To promote community participation, emphasis was
placed on: (i) promoting the acceptance and informed participation of communities, local authorities and
stakeholders in social development and well-being; (ii) promoting the modification of practices and living
conditions to prevent illness and death and improve individual and community health; (iii) strengthening the
knowledge and skills of medical and nursing personnel and community health workers in the tasks of health
promotion and education; and (iv) promoting community participation in planning efforts, Project
implementation, resource use, and collective assessment of Project implementation and impact.
The above activities were carried out with respect to the culture, beliefs and customs of each community, in
close cooperation with the community assembly, local leaders, and traditional authorities.
-9-



Table 1: Absolute and Relative Population Coverage by PAC Program 1996-2001
Federal Entity    1996 -PAC       2001 PAC                2000 SSA     % 2001 PAC
Beneficiaries   Beneficianres,  Change  Population    Ben/2000 SSA
Population
Chiapas 1                 853400       1613300        89       1730000            93.2
Veracruz                  134100       1501300      1019       2150500            69.8
Oaxaca 1                  964200       1118800        16       1670000            67.0
Guerrero 1                785100        940500        20       2557000            36.8
Puebla                    253400        802200       216       1864000            43.0
Hidalgo 1                 262300        748000       185       1180500            63.4
Total six poorest        3252500       6724100       107      11152000            60.3
states,'                                             107      111.200             60.
Other thirteen PAC        625600       2252400       260      17162000            13.1
States         _
Total PAC                3878100       8976500       131
Beneficiaries
Total SSA Pop.                                                28314000            31.7
PAC States
Total SSA Pop.                                                13567500
Non-PAC States
National SSA                                                  41881500
Population
Total National                                               100291968
Population 2000
% SSA Pop                                                        41.8%
/National Pop.
I States included in PAC I project
Sources: SSA/DGIED; SSA Anuarios Estadisticos 1990-2000
-10-



Table 2. Geographic Coverage of PAC Program 2001
Federal   No. of Health  - No. of    -'No. of      Pop..   - No . . IiH (*)  No. HIT  IHT  No. Health
Entity   Jufisdictions - Municipalities  Communities  - seried;  Mobile  Foot   'Mixed   Centers
.  .  .  -               -  ,        .           - ;  .  ;. Unites  Brigades
Campeche             3             3         344      47600          12                          10
Chiapas             10            77       10500    1613300          62       163       -       219
Chihuahua            8            21        4226     183300          46          -    120        69
Durango              3             8        1970      85800          25          -      -        21
Guanajuato           1             6         442      63500          16          -               26
Guerrero             6            40        2512     940500          47          -      -       408
Hidalgo             10            52        2110     748000       .              -    214       273
Jalisco              7            15         933      46100          32          2      -         5
Mexico               4            19        1686     779200          21          4              211
Michoacan            4            13        2178     118700          28          -      -        30
Nayarit              2             2         407      34300          11          -      6         6
Oaxaca               6           317        2605    1118800         107         2     255       347
Puebla               9            94        243S     802200          10          -      -       210
Queretaro            2             5         576      96500          20          2      -        46
SanLuis              5            18        1920     252400          58          1      -        55
Potosi
Sinaloa              5             7        2028     215300          23          -      -        60
Veracruz             9           135        7823    1S01300          58          7      -       331
Yucatan              3            39        1342     230800          17          -      -        57
Zacatecas            3             7         456      98900          20          -      -        20
Total         100           878       46493    8976500         613        181    595      2404
Six economically less developed states in italics
(*) IHT= Itmnerant Health Teams
Symbiotic Relationship with PROGRESA. At the local level, the Project coordinated and integrated its
services with other national programs that aimed to expand social services, but especially with the
anti-poverty Education, Health and Nutrition Program (PROGRESA). PROGRESA combines a
traditional cash transfer program with financial incentives for families to invest in human capital of
children. In order to receive the cash transfer, families must obtain preventive health care, participate in
growth monitoring and nutrition supplements programs, and attend education programs about health and
hygiene. The health and nutrition services required by families in order to qualify for PROGRESA cash
transfers were provided by the Project (i.e. the PAC - Programa de Ampliacion de Cobertura) in all
Project municipalities. In addition, the Project was instrumental in coordinating and integrating at the
local level with other related programs such as the Health Care for Indigenous Zones (PAZI), Intersectoral
Program for Peasant Workers (PIAJA), and Ambulatory Surgery Program (PCE), among others.



What results were achieved by the services provided? Annex 1 presents a set of measures that indicate
changes in health status of the Project's beneficiaries. Annex 1 groups output indicators showing advances
made in delivering services contained in the basic health services package, focusing on the six poorest
states with the highest coverage. No causal relationship with improved health conditions is posited, but it is
commonly accepted that the progress shown in immunizing, diagnosing and treating patients will result in
better health. Comparisons are made between the rates for 1998 and 2001, since data for years prior to
1998 at the jurisdictional and state level show inconsistencies and large year-to-year variations. The
reliability and consistency of data collected at the medical service delivery unit in the municipalities as of
1998 did improve somewhat, but the reproductive health indicators (use of family planning, prenatal visits
and deliveries attended professionally in health facilities) lack reliability and could not be retained. Project
results show that child health shows a strong increase in nutritional control and higher treatment rates for
children with infectious diarrheal and acute respiratory diseases. Also, complete vaccination rates were
achieved in 97 percent of the municipalities for children under the age of one and in all municipalities for
children between the ages of one and four.
Outcome indicators in Annex 1 suggest that the Project played an important part in reducing maternal
mortality, increasing life expectancy at birth, and decreasing fertility. These favorable results bring the
poorest states closer to the national averages, but cannot be attributed solely to the Project as other social
programs and changes in general economic conditions also contribute to improved health conditions.
The Project outcomes described above are consistent with the impact evaluation of PROGRESA on the
health status of the poor population served by both programs. Taking advantage of a controlled
randomized study design with household panel data, Paul J. Gertler, UC-Berkeley and National Bureau of
Economic Research, and Simone Boyce, UC-Berkeley 5/ found significant utilization of public health
clinics for preventive care, lowered number of inpatient hospitalizations and visits to private providers,
reflecting lowered incidence of severe illnesses. The research also found a significant improvement in the
health of both children and adults.
How equitable was the Project? The percentage of Project expenditures as a share of total public
expenditures for health at the state level is small. The average Project expenditure over the 1996-2001
period ranges from a high of 3.8 percent of the state health budget in Oaxaca to a low of 0.1 percent in
Jalisco. The four states in the Project that had the higher shares of state spending on health from the
Project were also the poorest states (Oaxaca, Chiapas, Guerrero, Puebla). However these four states had
also a higher percentage of their population enrolled in the Project. Because of this larger enrollment, the
average amount of Project money spent per user is the lowest of all 19 states. Conversely, states with a
smaller number of users show Project expenditures per beneficiary that are three to four times higher than
in the poorest states.
ComDonent II. Institutional Development and Decentralization (US$61.1 million, or 13.8 percent of
total costs). ICR Rating: Satisfactory. The authority for providing health services to the uninsured
population has been decentralized to the 32 federal entities (31 states and the Federal District). By decree,
32 Decentralized Public Institutions (OPD in Spanish) were created and, as legal entities, have assumed the
fiduciary responsibility for the decentralized human, financial and material resources together with the
authority to manage the primary and secondary levels of health care delivery. The federal level SSA retains
the authority to regulate the sector and to set and coordinate national health policy. Policy setting is
achieved mainly consensually through the National Health Council presided by the Minister of Health in
which all 32 states are represented and which meets every two months. SSA remains responsible for the
national Health Institutes and the national tertiary care referral hospitals, but these institutions have been
decentralized and have a large degree of autonomy in their decision making.
- 12-



The state-level OPDs are run by Boards of Directors chaired by the State Governor. Their membership
includes the State's Secretary of Health and representatives of the federal SSA, of the national union, of
universities and of civil society. The Executive Director of the OPD is the State's Secretary of Health who
coordinates all state health programs and implements national health policies and who is also a member of
the National Health Council. Program implementation has been vested in the health jurisdictions as the
technical institution responsible for managing the primary and secondary levels of health care delivery. A
total of 231 health jurisdictions were created and their number per state varies with population density and
geographic extension.
The SSA was the only federal secretariat decentralized during the Zedillo Administration. 6/  SSA now
transfers 76 percent of its budget to the states, retains seven percent for its own operations and finances the
national hospitals and specialty institutes from the balance.
The Project contributed to the Mexican Government's far-ranging decentralization achievements in the
health sector by supporting and/or financing decentralization proposals. Project financing also supported
the institutional strengthening of state health secretariats and health jurisdictions. The development of
micro-regional planning approaches and methodologies, including geo-referenced and digital mapping
systems, has created inter-institutional coordination mechanisms with the potential to optimize the
organization of health care delivery networks.
Human Resources Development. New staff was recruited and trained to achieve the proposed coverage
targets. The Project contracted 1,552 physicians and 1,538 nurses. Another 2,038 support staff (dentists,
heath promoters, drivers, computer specialists and data analysts, etc) were added (Table 3). The states that
added the largest numbers of staff were the six poorest states (also the state of Mexico) and this effort is
reflected in the high coverage rates shown in Table 1. Almost all training activities were financed by
national funds outside the Project's financial arrangements. This was especially the case for training in
management tasks and functions, informatics, and supply and logistics management where staff and
resources from the central level were used. Service delivery personnel and support staff received training
through the state level OPDs. These institutions organized training workshops for planning, sharing the
plans, budgeting, monitoring and evaluation at the different administrative levels within the states.
- 13 -



Table 3. Human Resources Added 2001
Federal   Physicians  Nurses     Other       Non-      Total
'Entity                         Health Staff  Health
._____   s -. ,'     _           Sup Staff
Campeche          19        18          20          5        62
Chiapas           90        76         184         45       395
Chihuahua         47        35         178         25       285
Durango           30        38          22          9        99
Guanajuato       21         24          36          2        83
Guerrero         108       103          67         29       307
Hidalgo          207       168          90         35       500
Jalisco           35        22          34          7        98
M6xico            94       129          38         33       294
Michoacan         65        31          40         10       146
Nayarit           21        18          19         26        84
Oaxaca           107       344         103         46       600
Puebla           226       186         267         56       735
Queretaro         48        19          30          9       106
San Luis          90        43          97         10       240
Potosi
Sial oa           34        36          29         28       127
Veracruz        207        184         266         40       697
Yucatin           51        47          55          9       162
Zacatecas         52        17          29         10       108
Total      1552       1538        1604       434       5128
% of total    30.3%       30%        31.3%      8.4%      100%
Six economically less developed states in italics
ComDonent m. Modernization and Restructuring of the SSA (US$47.0 million or 10.6 percent of total
Project costs). ICR Rating: Satisfactory.
The decentralization of SSA was described in the previous component. The transfer of human and
financial resources to the state level required a redefinition of the role, mission and functions of the central
level, and a restructuring of its activities. This process was successfully started under the Project and is
being carried forward under the present Administration.
The communication capacity among SSA units was very limited in 1995. As a result, the process of
restructuring and modernizing SSA could not have been carried out without having available a major
communication support framework that allows a free flow of data and messages that take place among all
actors. The national communication network is a major achievement under the Project. A phased
approach installed, over a six year period, a communication network-named REDSSA-that used
LAN/WAN for voice and data and that interconnected the 32 federal entities and the 231 health districts.
The technology platform includes 2,600 connection points with 2,750 mailboxes for data exchange and
1,000 electronic mail boxes, Internet and Intranet, a virtual health sciences library, chat sessions, and audio
conferences. Stand alone applications that use the network are Open Population Health Information
System (SISPA), Epidemiological Surveillance System (SUIVE), Hospital Discharge System, Universal
Vaccination Program, Inventory of Health Infrastructure, Human Resources data base, a register for
medical residencies, and other communication and information applications. The network supported the
- 14 -



Project's use of the national COMPRANET system for online purchasing of goods. The General
Directorate of Statistics and Informatics carried out the development of REDSSA in house. Availability of
loan financing helped in meeting deadlines and delivering the fmnal product on time.
About 1.6 percent of the loan was disbursed for financing the cost of forty two policy and operational
studies in support of the service delivery component and for the purpose of examining and defining new
health sector policies and reform initiatives. These studies fall into three categories:
(a)    Support for Implementing Basic Health Care Services (Component I): digital mapping for
planning service delivery routes, baseline diagnostic studies, annual evaluations, mid term and
impact evaluations, programming and budgeting at the first level of care, nutritional supplements
for pregnant women and children less than two years old, measuring and improving access;
(b)    Quality Improvement studies that monitored the quality of services provided and measured user
satisfaction;
(c)    Specific policy studies. The largest policy study, a national nutrition survey, accounted for almost
one fourth of the budget. Its recommendations have led to and buttress the Government's nutrition
policies and programs. Other policy studies included those on: the regulation of prepaid medicine;
an autonomous company for producing and stockpiling biological products; domestic violence and
with HIV/AIDS; hospital supply systems; innovative methodologies and procedures for planning,
programming, budgeting and evaluating health care; hospital technological infrastructure; the
effectiveness of the Intersectoral Committee controlling the process and use of insecticides,
fertilizers and toxic substances; and the Y2K conversion.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A See Annex 3.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The Project's Institutional Development impact is considered high. The impact on health institutions is
evident from the description of the outputs of the three components in Section 4.2 above. The Project
provided convincing evidence of the success of a health services delivery model that specifies what services
to provide, to whom, by whom, how, when and where. Evidence from the mid-term and Project closing
evaluations supported the Project's technical sustainability, as the strategy adopted by the SSA to expand
health services coverage for the poor has proven to be a cost-effective way to reach dispersed population in
remote rural locations that may be replicated in other countries with similar demographic and social
characteristics. (Indeed, with Bank support, a high level delegation from Turkey visited Mexico in 2001 to
learn about the Project supported strategies and to discuss ways to replicate them under a proposed
Bank-financed Project in that country). The service delivery model has been adopted and improved by the
Fox Administration to expand the methodology to urban poverty areas under the follow up Bank-financed
PROCEDES Project.
The authority for providing health services has been effectively decentralized from the federal level to the
states. It is difficult to imagine that decentralized human and financial resources could be recentralized, as
decentralized units were created at the state level and the central level was restructured. The national
communication network for voice and data was created and is a landmark development greatly facilitating
and speeding up all forms of communication among the different government levels. It is now also used
extensively for electronic purchasing of goods and services. A large number of staff from various
- 15-



organizational levels have been trained and are applying the acquired skills. All these achievements have
positively affected and will continue to influence the delivery of health care services to the poorer segments
of the Mexican population, particularly those residing in dispersed rural communities with a high
concentration of indigenous population groups, and in marginal urban areas.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
No major external factors occurred that would have affected the Project's outcome. However, at the onset
of Project implementation, the country was facing an economic and financial crisis triggered by the peso
devaluation in late December 1994, that delayed the allocation of required counterpart funds. Nevertheless,
given the priority assigned by the Government to the Project in view of its poverty alleviation focus, the
budgetary allocations for the Project were protected throughout this period.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The political calendar in Mexico is defined by Presidential elections every six years with no second term for
incumbents. Activities tend to be slower during the first and last years of the sexennial cycle when
preparing for or jumpstarting a new administration. Indeed, support for implementation from the central
level was highest during the years of 1996-99. Project implementation, however, did not suffer from the
changes in administration and the Project was largely implemented as planned. Preparation was initiated
under the Salinas administration (1994), implementation was carried out under the Zedillo administration
(1994-2000), and Project closure occurred under the Fox administration in 2002.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The Federal Secretariat of Health (SSA) and the State Health Authorities (SHA) in the participating states
were the implementing agencies. SSA defined and steered this poverty reduction program as an integral
part of national social policies and decentralized its implementation to the participating states.
Decentralization of financial and human resources was a key ingredient for successful implementation
because it vested ownership and accountability in the states. Annual investment and work plans were
defined by the states, flexibility was allowed and encouraged, supervision and monitoring kept the program
on course. Performance data were used for budgeting purposes, once the management information systems
were running smoothly by the end of the second year. Incentive payments for service in hardship areas
helped staff the Itinerant Health Teams and reduced turnover.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
At appraisal, the total Project costs were estimated at US$443.4 million. These were to be financed by a
Bank loan of US$310 million and a Federal Government contribution of US$133.4 million. Reflecting the
high priority attached to the Project over the implementation period, the Federal Government allocated an
additional US$115.4 million to finance Project-related activities, both at the national and state levels (over
and above the agreed Bank-Govermment financial sharing arrangements in the Loan Agreement). The Staff
Appraisal Report had posited a state contribution of at least 10 percent outside the Project's financial
arrangements in order to promote sustainability. The states in most cases contributed resources well above
this required amount as increased state and municipal resources for health became available through the
Ramo 33's intergovernmental allocation mechanism. This mechanism facilitated the transfer of financial
responsibilities from the federal SSA to state and municipal entities (the disbursement of Ramo 33 funds is
a relatively automatic process, as the Federal Treasury sends to the States the funds on a monthly basis;
once funds are disbursed from the federal budget, these become part of the state budget). During the
1996-2001 period, US$80.1 million were allocated by participating states to help finance additional
Project-related activities outside the Project's financing plan. Community contributions were estimated at
US$4-5 million in the same period. In sum, during the Project period, a total of about US$639 million
- 16 -



were spent for Project activities in the 19 states from all sources of funds, including the Bank loan.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The Project's sustainability is highly likely on several grounds, as described below.
Technical Sustainability. The Project's service delivery methodology has clearly proven that it is possible
to provide basic health care services to a disenfranchised, geographically dispersed, and ethnically and
linguistically diverse population residing in remote rural areas. The careful annual operational and
investment planning, performance budgeting, the supportive implementation environment and the close
monitoring of results were Project practices that continue to be followed after Project completion. The
communication network REDSSA, has been installed and effectively links the federal level, the state level
and the health jurisdictions for voice and data. The requisite number of staff to operate the network has
been trained and is operational.
Financial Sustainability. Providing social services on a regular and sustained basis to the poorest stratum
of the population in any country requires multiple sources of finance. Central and local governments in
almost all countries subsidize health services for the poor. Financial sustainability of programs intended to
reduce extreme poverty therefore depends on the country's willingness and ability to improve the lot of the
poorest segment of its citizens. In the case of this Project, the Government of Mexico amply demonstrated
its willingness and ability to finance Project activities. The federal Secretariat of Finance, SSA and the
State Health Secretariats agreed on increasing the Govermnent contribution for operating expenditures.
Bank supervision missions supported these tripartite dialogues. Furthermore, the number of staff (5,128)
added by the end of the Project as shown in Table 3 are now all contracted by the states thus guaranteeing a
sustainable presence to continue providing services to the poor.
Additionally, as evidenced by the experience of developed countries, financial support must be earmarked
for the poverty reduction programs to ensure that funds achieve the stated policy objectives. Under this
Project, the federal government earmarked resources to finance a basic package of cost-effective service
and a methodology to deliver the services (following the Bank's 1993 WDR recommendations), carefully
defined the targeted population selecting municipalities with high and very high poverty ratings,
decentralized implementation to the states, and financed the program jointly with the states. Not earmarking
the funds would entail a risk of having funds for poverty reduction diverted to procure inputs for
population groups that are politically more attractive and have voice. Fungibility of funds can shortchange
the poor because of political pressures to use the funds elsewhere.
Although they were financially insignificant and were used more for accountability purposes than for
financial sustainability reasons, some user fees were collected under this Project.  The financial
contribution of the central government to financing this Project decreased from 94 percent in 1996 to 82
percent in the year 2000. States paid the balance: 6 percent in 1996 and 18 percent in 2000. Federal and
state governments will continue their financial support to achieve equity in health services for the poorest,
as Project activities have now been incorporated as part of the regular programs supported by the State
Health Secretariats and financed with regular budgetary allocations. Bank financing for a follow-up
Project, the PROCEDES Project was approved in June 2001. PROCEDES is being implemented with the
goal of expanding the coverage of basic health services to population groups residing in marginal urban
areas.
Political Sustainability. The SSA was decentralized, it redefined its mission and role as one of policy
- 17-



making and stewardship and shifted the management of human, physical and financial resources to the 32
federal entities. This is a fait accompli and it is highly unlikely that this divestiture of authority will be
reversed.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Planning, budgeting and service delivery functions were transferred to the states and have become an
integral part of the 32 Decentralized Public Organizations (OPDs) in 31 states and the Federal District.
The Project created and filled 5,128 positions for health personnel. These positions are now part of the
regular payroll and staff have contracts that are guaranteed for ten years. The additional personnel have
now been unionized. The functions of local Project implementation units (UEPs) have been integrated in
the state health services. Management information systems in the state health secretariats and the health
jurisdictions have contributed to strengthening the managerial capacity of OPDs.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
ICR Rating: Satisfactory. The scope of this Project was first discussed with the GOM in January 1994.
The loan became effective in March 1996. What happened during this 27-month period? The Project cycle
and its corresponding Bank missions moved quite swiftly in 1994: Project identification in April, Project
preparation in May, a workshop with participating states in June, a second preparation mission in July,
pre-appraisal in October, and Appraisal in November. Warning signs appeared first in the recordings of
the July mission when "no substantial progress" and a "paralysis" at the central SSA level was reported
due to the upcoming August 22, 1994 elections. During the pre-appraisal mission in October it was agreed
that negotiations would be conducted with the new administration that was taking office on December 1,
1994 and a post-appraisal mission was scheduled for February 1995. The appraisal mission took place in
November, three weeks before the change over from the Salinas government to the Zedillo government, but
with participation of the transition team.
The originally budgeted US$10 million seed money to start up the Project in CY95 was cut from the budget
by the incoming government . The post-appraisal mission that took place in February 1995 agreed on the
loan amount, the Staff Appraisal Report was issued in August 1995, followed by Board approval in
September 1995 and loan signing in October 1995. It then took the GOM five months to meet the
conditions of effectiveness, during which time two Bank missions visited the country to follow up.
Two slack periods slowed the Project cycle: one of nine months between appraisal and SAR approval for
lack of start up counterpart funds and one for five months to meet loan effectiveness conditions. The Bank
provided full support by fielding eight missions during the 27 month period January 1994 - March 1996
and by assuring continuity in its staffing of the missions. The change in Government in December 1994
was predictable, but its impact on the timeline for processing the investment loan was not.
Building upon the lessons learned during the implementation of the First Basic Health Care Project, the
Bank team worked closely with the Government in building a flexible design which permitted the definition
of the Project's geographical coverage in accordance with well defined targeting criteria and the
programmatic priorities of an incoming Government. As such, the Project supported the development of a
targeting mechanism for the delivery of a cost-effective basic health care package to the most
disadvantaged communities within a poor state. In addition, the Bank's team helped design strategies to
build ownership in the states by promoting the involvement of political stakeholders, particularly the State
Governors, to guarantee continue support for the Project, foster ownership and sustainability. The Bank's
team also supported the design of highly participatory mechanisms that allowed state and municipal
- 18 -



governments and communities to play an important role in the preparation and implementation of the
annual investment plans that were financed under the Project. In addition, with Bank' support and in
coordination with the IDB and PAHO/WHO teams, a health sector study was initiated by the departing
Salinas Administration that helped to pave the way for the definition of sector policies and priorities in the
incoming Zedillo Administration.
7.2 Supervision:
ICR Rating: Highly Satisfactory. Two Bank missions per year supervised Project implementation during
the first five years followed by three videoconferences during the final one year and a half of Project
execution. During Project implementation, the Bank's teamwork reflected a well balanced and effective
teaming of support, legal, procurement, and disbursement staff, both at Headquarters and in the Country
Office, as well as of specialized consultants. Also, the work of the core Task Team at LCSHD benefited
from participation of YPs and PREM staff. The first three supervision missions were led by the original
Task Team Leader (TTL), followed by a new TITL for two missions and a third TTL took over for the final
four Project years. The discontinuity in Bank task managers did not affect the quality of the supervision
process or the accountability for results. A mid-term evaluation was conducted in April 1999. The switch
to a videoconference format during the last eighteen months, in conjunction with regular support and
assistance provided by the task team members located at the decentralized Country Department in Mexico
City (e.g., Sector Leader, Procurement and Financial Management Specialists, Operational Officers) have
been cost-effective, as the Project was performing well once the new Government team was fully in control
and it became clear that the original objectives were being met.
Bank supervision missions worked well at both the federal and state levels with staff of the Federal Health
and Finance Secretariats, NAFIN, and state and local officials in reviewing Project achievements during the
implementation period, planned budgets and investments plans. The Bank's team placed particular
emphasis on assessing indicators and benchmarks to monitor Project progress during field visits and
provided technical assistance for fine tuning the strategies and mechanisms to expand the coverage of basic
health services and to support the states and the health services levels in assuming functions and
responsibilities as decentralization progressed. In addition, the Bank's team was a conduit for exchange of
intemational experience and exposure to best practices, providing the country counterpart team with access
to relevant international experience in health sector development, and served as a link to allow the
coordination of Project implementation with activities supported under other Bank-financed operations in
the country (e.g., the Health System Reform Technical Assistance and Structural Adjustment Loans for
IMSS, the Decentralization Adjustment Loan (DAL), and the State of Mexico Adjustment Loan).
Moreover, the Bank's team facilitated the dissemination of project-related experiences in international fora
(e.g., EuroLac conferences held in Barcelona, Paris, San Jose, and Malaga) and exchanges with other
country team embarked in similar processes (e.g., visits to Mexico by delegations from Turkey, Bolivia,
Brazil, Peru, Costa Rica).
As part of its supervision activities, Bank staff supported SSA in a pilot agreed with the Government of
Mexico for trying out the electronic procurement of goods using the country's internet website
COMPRANET, the first for a Bank-financed Project (now this mechanism has been replicated in other
countries). As evidenced in a recent evaluation of this mechanism, the net impact of COMPRANET was
very positive in that it reduced collusion of suppliers, led to cost reduction in bidding processes and
significant compression in the procurement timetable for goods and services.
Overall, the Bank team was recognized by the Government and by Bank management for its
professionalism and responsiveness as well as for its understanding and respect of Mexico's policies and
programs. Also, the Bank team worked closely and effectively with the Government teams in identifying
- 19 -



solutions to Project implementation bottlenecks, particularly after the mid-term evaluation, ensuring in this
way the long-term sustainability of Project activities (e.g. after the mid-term review of the Project, the
Bank team helped the Government to develop an action plan for the adoption of measures to ensure the
institutional and financial sustainability of Project activities at the state level; adjustments were also made,
with the Bank Board's approval, to the Project's financing plan to better reflect the economic changes in
the country as well as the expanded scope of the Project). As noted below, the comments of the
Government of Mexico (See Section 9) single out the quality, consistency and professionalism of the Bank
supervision missions.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
ICR Rating: Highly Satisfactory. As noted above, and as recognized by the Government, the Bank's
team was a supportive partner during Project preparation and implementation, providing technical
assistance and bringing international experience to bear, particularly for ensuring the technical,
institutional, financial, and political sustainability of Project activities in the medium and long term and
developing follow-up policy and institutional reforms to be supported under the PROCEDES Project.
Considering the complexity of supervising this operation and providing technical advice to a sophisticated
Bank partner, the higher ICR rating for supervision (vs. preparation) was considered appropriate for
overall Bank performance.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
ICR Rating: Satisfactory. Project preparation started in 1994 with national Presidential elections
scheduled for August 1994 and the change of administration in December 1994. Preparation slowed in
July 1994 and the pace quickened again in March 1995 once the new administration was firmly in place.
The new administration retained some staff of the previous administration enabling a quick restart of the
preparation and negotiation process. Loan signature followed then in October 1995.
In response to Mexico's demographic conditions characterized by a great population dispersion in rural
areas, (151,000 communities have less than 100 inhabitants), the Project developed a flexible and
innovative strategy to reach the 10 million people who did not have access to basic health care. The Basic
Health Services Package was designed following the recommendations of the Bank's 1993 World
Development Report as a universal, minimum, irreducible set of low-cost, high-impact health interventions
to address the main health needs in rural areas identified through a national epidemiological survey. It is
also applied, in a flexible manner, in each state according to local conditions, combining preventive and
treatment-related activities.
Overall, the country team incorporated the lessons learned during the First Basic Health Care Project and
designed a Project that was routed on solid technical principles and methodologies, as well as on results of
field experiences. The Government recognized early in the preparation stage of the Project that
decentralization of services was crucial to reach the underserved population and incorporated this as the
main pillar of the health sector reform program. In addition, the continuity of policies and reform initiatives
in spite of the political changes in Government ensured that well designed programs such as the Project
were affected or distorted.
In spite of the above innovations, Borrower performance at preparation stage was considered satisfactory
(instead of highly satisfactory) because of the delays suffered during the electoral period, as well as by the
initial uncertainty in counterpart funding between appraisal and project approval (see para. 7.6). These
issues were resolved at the initial year of Project implementation.
-20-



7.5 Government implementation performance:
ICR Rating: Highly Satisfactory. The high level of government commitment, country ownership and
political visibility of the Project were key for the outstanding Project implementation performance. These
factors were clearly evidenced by the adequate provision of counterpart funding in spite of economic
downturn at the beginning of Project implementation, as well as by the allocation of additional federal and
state resources outside the Project's financial plan that contributed to expand the geographical coverage
and the scope of Project activities. The Government's very strong commitment to decentralization was
perhaps the most important factor that facilitated Project implementation and achievements. Without
decentralization of authority and resources it would not have been possible to reach the number of
beneficiaries that were eventually covered under the Project.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
ICR Rating: Highly Satisfactory. The government - SSA, SHCP, NAFIN - assigned top priority to the
Project as an important instrument for poverty alleviation, as reflected in significant increases in health care
expenditures. In turn, the Decentralized Public Organizations (OPDs) in each participating state were
highly instrumental in the success of the Project, both in the guiding the preparation of annual investments
plans and in implementing Project activities.
Extemal financial audits confirmed the appropriate use and application of loan funds, as well as the
satisfactory implementation of the audit recommendations. Review of procurement processes carried out
during Project implementation showed satisfactory results. Legal covenants were respected and
implemented.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
ICR Rating: Highly Satisfactory. The Project was a fully-owned Mexican Govermment program, to
which the Bank contributed financing and technical advice. The Government "being in the driver seat" was
a key ingredient for its success. The commitment demonstrated by the Government to reducing the burden
of disease among the poorest population in the country, and to modernize health care organization and
financing was noteworthy. This has led to significant improvements in the health status of about 9 million
uninsured people through the implementation of a cost-effective basic health care package.  The
Government, by transferring more programming, managing and budgeting responsibilities to states and
jurisdictions, has promoted improvements in the efficiency and equity of resource allocation, quality of
service delivery and institutional capacity of states and jurisdictions. The decision to modernize the SSA
has allowed it to resume its leadership function in the sector.
8. Lessons Learned
What are the key factors that explain the successful implementation of this project?
Government ownership is key. In this Project, the Bank's role was mostly supportive, as commitment to
Project objectives was firmly entrenched in the Government's development program. Objectives were set
by the country and the Bank's flexible approach allowed timely achievement of development objectives.
Only in assisting in the definition of policy studies did the Bank take a more active stance.
Responsible risk-taking by the Bank and the Borrower. This Project was a traditional investment loan
infused with an adaptable lending spirit. The Bank agreed on a financial package but not on a five-year
blueprint detailing how to spend the money. It appraised the first year's activities and participated in the
annual planning, performance budgeting and evaluation process. Flexibility of design allowed the Project
to adapt and change to the needs of the participating states, especially when highly-dispersed population
- 21 -



groups need to be reached. In tum, the Bank's flexibility and limited control allowed the Borrower to take
risks and to learn while doing. Annual monitoring and evaluation of the Project carried out by an external
firm served as an important mechanism to provide inputs to the planning of the following year's program of
coverage and activities.
Political commitment contributed to a highly successful outcome. The country was politically
committed to raising the health status of the poorest, to decentralize health services delivery and to
modernize its operations for serving the uninsured population better. Project performance was prominently
mentioned each year in the President's State of the Union address. Progress was reviewed and discussed in
weekly meetings with the Under Secretary of Health and in monthly meetings with the Federal Health
Secretary. It was also recognized that reaching the poor in highly dispersed geographical locations requires
substantial amount of resources. The Mexican Government (federal and state) made a decision to finance
what it takes to provide a basic package of health care services to the hard-to-reach population residing in
rural areas of the country, thereby allocating an additional US$200 million to the Project over and above its
original financial plan as defined in the Loan Agreement.
Consistency of strategic approaches to reach the poor. The "symbiotic relationship" of the Project and
PROGRESA proved to be a highly effective mechanism to achieve the Government's priorities in the health
sector while using the comparative advantage of each program. While the Project strengthened the supply
of basic health services, PROGRESA combined a traditional cash transfer program with financial
incentives for families to invest in human capital of children. In order to receive the cash transfer, families
must obtain health care (provided by the Project), participate in growth monitoring and nutrition
supplements programs, and attend education programs about health and hygiene.
Managed Decentralization. Decentralizing the management of human, physical and financial resources to
the 32 federal entities and having states compete for resources may hurt the weaker states unless central
level technical assistance aggressively supports the economically lesser developed federal entities. Equity
must walk a fine line between letting go and being directive.
The Project's components were mutually supportive, and it is unlikely that the basic health care
component would have been as successful without similar progress in the implementation of the
Project's other two components (Decentralization of Responsibility for Health Services, and the
Modernizing and Restructuring of SSA). The Government's full commitment to decentralization
of health services, and to redefining and improving SSA's policy-making roles and stewardship
role within a decentralized context were fundamental for the Government's ability to provide
successfillly basic health care services in dispersed rural areas.
-22 -



Endnotes
1/ OMS 1.21 indicates that recurrent costs should be financed on a declining percentage basis during a
Project implementation period for the purpose of encouraging the necessary transition to eventual full
counterpart coverage of operational expenses. This rule was observed in the original loan allocation where
the financing share of 86 percent, 66 percent and 33 percent was applied at the time of mid-term
evaluation.
2/  Recurrent costs refer to expenditures for medicines, consumable medical supplies, incremental staff,
and other operating costs.
3/ The CONAPO poverty index ranked states, jurisdictions and municipalities based on results of
"principal components analysis," using the 1990 NEGI census. This ranking took the following variables
into account: population density, illiteracy in population >15 years, population >15 years without primary
schooling, availability of basic sanitation services, percent of households without electricity, availability of
drinking water, percent of overcrowded households, percent of households with dirt floor, percent of
population in localities of fewer than 5,000 inhabitants, per capita income of less than two minimum
salaries, and presence of indigenous population.
4/ The Education Secretariat had previously been decentralized--except for the Federal District education
sector--during the previous Salinas Administration.
5/ For additional data see "An Experiment in Incentive-Based Welfare: The Impact of PROGESA on
Health in Mexico", by Paul J. Gertler, UC-Berkeley and NBER and Simone Boyce, UC-Berkeley, April,
2002, available online as PDF [29p.] at http://www.worldbanklorg/research/Proiects/service delivery
/paper gertlerl.pdfl.
6/ The Education Secretariat had previously been decentralized--except for the Federal District education
sector--during the previous Salinas Administration.
- 23 -



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
I. Comments from the National Financing Agency (NAFIN)
Below is an unofficial translation of the comments received from the Borrower.
The Borrower's original comments in Spanish are presented in Annex 7.
Unofficial Translation
Loan 3943-ME
Second Basic Health Care Project
Comments on the Implementation Completion Report
Nacional Financiera, S.A.
This operation for US$310 million, in which NAFIN acted as Borrower and Financial Agent for
the Federal Government, was signed on October 8, 1995, and declared effective on March 15,
1996.
From the signing of the legal documents onwards, the excellent collaboration among the agencies
involved with the execution of the program was reaffirmed: the Secretariat of Health (SSA), the
World Bank and the Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit (SHCP).
a)    Legal Aspects
Several amendments to the loan's legal documents were negotiated with the World Bank during
the process of project execution related to the following topics:
>     Increases in the financing percentages
>     Incorporating eligible expenditures
>     Closing date extension
>     Reallocation of funds among categories
>     Modification to the Letter of Implementation
>     Expansion of coverage
>     Contracting procedures for consultants
b)    Supervision:
The supervision by the Bank's supervision team of program activities at the central and states
levels during the course of numerous missions was carried out consistently with a high degree of
professionalism, providing specialized technical assistance in all areas of concentration for each of
the components of the program, and always proposing in agreement with the authorities of SSA,
SHCP and NAFIN, several strategies to make the implementation of this operation more efficient.
- 24 -



c)    Procurement and Consultancy Services
Regarding the commitment of funds through contracting for goods, works and consultancy
services, it is worth noting that the organizational structure of SSA at the central and state level
was exemplary in following international and national competitive bidding as well as procurement
processes such as price comparisons and direct purchasing. It is worth noting that in the last year
of program implementation, it was the SSA that carried out a pilot effort agreed between the
Government of Mexico and the World Bank to procure goods and works by using online access
through the COMPRANET (Electronic procurement of the Federal Government) system, that
allowed eligible bidders to submit their bids through the internet. The result of this pilot was a
complete success since it allowed an increase in the number of bidders and a reduction in the cost
of products procured.
d)    Financial Aspects
The total amount of the loan for US$310 million was disbursed in its entirety, avoiding partial
cancellations y reaching the achievement of objectives agreed with the Bank. On September 17,
2002, the last disbursement was made for an amount of $537,044.23. The Table of Loan
Categories presented the following disbursements:
CATEGORY                             DISBURSEMENT
1.- Civil Works                                  16,407,755.07
2.- Goods
Publications                                   1,833,007.06
Harmaceuticals, Medical Supplies              85,263,699.57
Vehicles                                       7,691,974.33
Furniture and Equipment                       29,704,907.60
3.- Training                                       1,043,754.70
4.- Technical Assistance and Consulting           7,796,204.44
Services
5.- Incremental Operating Costs                 160,158,697.23
TOTAL                                           310,000,000.00
Conclusions
In view of the above, it is the opinion of NAFIN that the implementation of this operation was
successful, because of the participation of excellent professionals on the part of the implementing
agency (SSA) and on the part of the World Bank in the legal, technical and financial-economic
areas. Therefore this loan is considered one of the best in Mexico due to its impact and the
quality of its implementation.
December 3, 2002
EGD
- 25 -



H. Comments from the Federal Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit (SHCP)
Below is an unofficial translation of the comments received from the Guarantor. The Guarantor's
original comments in Spanish are presented in Annex 7.
Unofficial Translation
General Sub-Directorate for International Financial Organizations
Second Basic Health Care Project (Loan No. 3943-ME)
Comments on the Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
The General Sub-Directorate for International Financial Organizations (DGAOFI) considers
that:
1.    This Project was efficient as it not only complied in general with its objectives and
coverage targets, but also because of the efficient implementation on the part of SSA.
2.    It is important that this type of project be supported not only financially but also
technically by international financial organizations like the World Bank, since they have a very
favorable impact on the living conditions of the population and can be important factors in the
fight against poverty.
3.    It would be important for the Bank to strive to establish strategies and mechanisms so that
the design and implementation of future programs take into account the benefits and/or difficulties
of having worked the PAC with Bank financing, with the objective of perfecting future programs.
4.    The implementation of the Project was very satisfactory in view, among other factors, of
the close and efficient collaboration between the authorities of SSA and the Bank, as well as the
establishment of communication networks between the state and federal levels and health areas,
which resulted in effectively communicating, transmitting and recording information.
5.    Finally, it is recommended to use as a guide the key characteristics of this Program
applying them to future projects aimed at supporting the Federal Government's strategy of basic
health services provision to the most vulnerable population in states with the highest level of
disenfranchisement.
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
-26 -



10. Additional Information
The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Team consisted of:
- Willy De Geyndt (Task Team Leader)
- Maria Colchao (Program Assistant)
- Jorge Omar Moreno Trevifio (Economist)
The GOM counterpart team consisted of Dr. Jorge Saavedra and Dra. Carmen Rodriguez Dehaibes.
Comments were received from:
Evangeline Javier, Suzana de Campos-Abbot, Helen Saxenian, Maria-Luisa Escobar, Patricio Marquez,
Claudia Macias, Michele Gragnolati (LCSHD); Mariangeles Sabella (LEGLA); HernAn Montenegro, and
Manuel Vazquez (PAHO).
-27 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome/Impact Indicators:
-Oufcome Indicators for Basic Health Services        1995        1999
PfrvMied to PAC Beneficiaries in the Six Poorest                          Change
'-Sttes 1995-1999
Life Expectancy at Birth
Female                                           75.1         75.        0.4
Male                                             68.4         70.        3.2
National Female                                  76.2         77.         1.4
National Male                                    69.8         72.        4.3
Total Fertility Rate 1996 &2000 *                        3.17        2.75      -13.
Maternal Mortality /100,000 registered live births        72           55       -18
* Estimate from the Consejo Nacional de Poblaci6n
-28-



Output Indicators:
.)'Coverage 19,96-2001      a                    -         Jjf 1996           2001%
-  -c-.  -  ~     -    ______________                C hange
Population served
Total six poorest states                                       3,252,500      6,724,10          107
Total PAC beneficiaries                                        3,878,100      8,976,500         131
Number of Health Jurisdictions                                         31           10(         222
Number of Municipalities                                            380             878         131
Number of Communities                                              10,764        46,493         332
Number of Itinerant Health Teams
Mobile Units                                                                613
Foot Brigades                                                               181
Mixed                                                                       595
Number of Health Centers                                              505          2404         376
b) tlealbhSr                          J3T~A~ ,    .  U2     7 - t  I  1998 i .  2001   ./O Change
Medical Visits/1,000 people                                         605           1174          94
Nutritional control visits/1,000 children under 5 years              1081          2263         109
Visits for Diarrheal Diseases/1,000 children under 5                  531           724          36
Visits for Acute Respiratory Infections/ 1,000 children under 5       37            508          34
cl) Anii  Reso,urcesjAdmde            6             -      _                  2001 -'
Physicians                                                                        1552
Nurses                                                                            1538
Other Health Staff                                                                1604
Non-Health Support Staff                                                           434
Sources:
SSA Anuanos Estadisticos de la SSA 1995-2000.
SSA. Sistema de Informaci6n en Salud para Poblaci6n Abierta (SISPA) 1998 - 2001.
SSA Programas de Equidad y Desarrollo en Salud. pnncipales Resultados 1996 - 2001
SSA. Catfilogo de unidades m6dicas de pnmer nivel de atenci6n 1998 - 2001.
CONAPO Proyecciones de poblaci6n 1995-2020
INEGI. Xll Censo de Poblaci6n y Vivienda 2000. Tabuladores basicos.
- 29 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate     Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component            US$ million  US$ million
1. Basic Health Care Services                    335.30         618.90          184.6
2. Institutional Development and Decentralization  61.10          7.70           12.6
3. Modernization and Restructuring of the SSA     47.00          12.40           26.4
Total Baseline Cost                               443.40        639.00
Total Project Costs           443.40         639.00
Total Financing Required           443.40         639.00  _
Actual project cost (US639.0 million) include additional resources allocated by the Mexican Government.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category    -ICB          NCB         Othe         N.B.F.     Total.Cost
1. Works                    0.00         23.70        21.30        0.00        45.00
(0.00)      (16.20)       (15.10)      (0.00)      (31.30)
2. Goods                    37.10        13.40        108.60        0.00       159.10
(33.30)      (12.10)      (68.90)       (0.00)     (114.30)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00        86.70         0.00        86.70
(Training, Consultants,     (0.00)       (0.00)       (86.70)      (0.00)      (86.70)
Studies and Technical
Assistance)
4. Operating Costs           0.00         0.00        145.90        6.80        152.70
(0.00)       (0.00)       (77.70)      (0.00)      (77.70)
Total                     37.10        37.10       362.50        6.80        443.50
(33.30)      (28.30)     (248.40)       (0.00)     (310.00)
- 30 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate)
(US$ million equivalent)
Expending Category       ICB        NCB      Others 3'     NBF       TOTAL
1-WORKS                   0.00       8.70       30.90       0.00       39/60
(16.4)
2-GOODS                  53.80      50.20       86.80       0.00       190.80
(133.4)
3-SERVICES                0.00       0.00       10.10       0.00       10.10
(Training,                                                              (0.0)
Consultants, Studies
and Technical
Assistance)
4-OPERATING COSTS         0.00       0.00      398.50       0.00       398.50
(1 60.2)
TOTAL             53.80      58.90      526.30       0.00      639.0 4'
(310.00)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
3/ Costs by method correspond to Federal expenses only; State and geographic expansion expenses are included under
"Other methods"
4/ Actual project cost (US639.0 million) include additional resources allocated by the Mexican Government.
- 31 -



PAC Total Costs by Expenditure Category and by Financiers, 1996-2001 '
ACTUAL I LATEST ESTIMATE           % OF
APPRAISAL                                      APPRAISAL
EXPENDiTURE CATEGORY        ESTIMATE;    Word       GovBn ment              (Without
C  Bank           State   Total    ~~~~State
(Total)     Bak     Federalr    tt     31     otiuin
2____     Le'vel  Lenriueln
A. Civil Works                45.2        16.4      5.4     17.7    39.5     48.2%
B. Goods & Equipment           104       124.6     27.2    39.0    190.8     146%
C. Training                    8.6        1.0      0.1      0.1     1.2      12.8%
D. Consultants, Studies and   78.1        7.8       1.0     0.1     8.9      11.3%
Technical Assistance
E. Operating Costs            207.2      160.2    2151     23.2    398.5    181.3%
TOTAL                         443.3      310.0     248.8    80.1   639.0     126%
J__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _4 /
I/ Numbers may not add perfectly due to rounding.
21 This data includes the 'Geographic Expansion'account (US$ 50.6 million) that govemment not recognizes as a
budget part of the program.
3Y Data indudes both Federal Govemment and State
Govemment
4/ Actual project cost (US$639 0) indude additional resources allocated by the Mexican Govemment
Numbers may not add up due to rounding.
- 32 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
An ex-ante economic benefits analysis was carried out during project preparation in 1994. The analysis
assumed a target population of 15 million people and an estimated loss of 5 million DALYs in the eleven
states. The number of DALYs lost was based on a study of 100 health interventions by FUNSALUD and
the Government of Mexico that estimated 12.8 million DALYs lost prematurely in 1991 in the whole
country. Assumptions changed during project implementation as eight more states were added, a more
precise targeting mechanism reduced the targeted population by one third, and a basic health care services
package of thirteen interventions was defined. An ex-post analysis attempted to compare the results of the
project with the ex-ante analysis. The outcome of the ex-post analysis could not be retained as valid and
robust. Changes in the assumptions that occurred during project implementation strongly limited the
comparability and legitimate questions were raised about the reliability of the 1991 data.
- 33 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle             No. of Persons and Specialty       Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)  Implementation Development
Month/Year   Count         Specialty                  Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
01/10 1994               2   TASK MANAGER (1);
HEALTH ADM.SPEC. (1)
04/05/1994                1  PUBLIC HEALTH (1)
05/09/1994               S   TASK MANAGER (1); PUBLIC
HEALTH SPEC (1); HEALTH
ECON (1); HEALTH
ADM.SPEC (2)
06/05/1994               4   TASK MANAGER (1); PUBLIC
HEALTH SPEC (1); HEALTH
ECON (2)
07/18/1994               4   PUBLIC HEALTH SPEC (1);
HEALTH ECON (1); HEALTH
ADM.SPEC (2)
10/10/1994               5   TASK MANAGER (1); PUBLIC
HEALTH SPEC (1); HEALTH
ECON (1); PROCUREMENT
SPEC (1); OPERATIONS
ANALYST (1)
Appraisal/Negodation
11/7/1994                8   TASK MANAGER (1);
OPERATIONS OFFICER
(1); PUBLIC HEALTH
SPEC (1); HEALTH ECON
(1); PROCUJREMENT SPEC
(1); OPERATIONS
ANALYST (1); HEALTH
ADM.SPEC (1);
INFORMATION SPEC (1).
02/20/1995               2    TASK MANAGER (1);
DIVISION CHIEF (1)
11/28/1995               2   HEALTH ECONOMIST (1);
INFORMACION SPEC (1)
Supervision
02/12/1996                1   TASK MANAGER (1)              HS           HS
02/20/1997                2   TASK MANAGER (2)               S           S
04/29/1998                2   PUBLIC HEALTH (1);            HS           HS
POLMCAL ECONOMY (1)
12/09/1998                4  PUBLIC HEALTH (1);             HS           HS
OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
PROCUREMENT SPEC. (1);
MANAGEMENT SPEC. (1)
04/19/1999                8   TASK MANAGER (1);             HS           HS
OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
FIN. MANAGEMENT SPEC.
- 34 -



(1); PROCUREMENT SPEC.
(1); PROGRAM ASSISTANT
(1); MANAGEMENT
SPECIALIST (1); HEALTH
SPECIALIST (1); HEALTH
ECONOMIST (1)
04/19/1999             11  TASK MANAGER (1);           HS         HS
SECTOR MANAGER (1);
OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
ECONOMIST (1); SECTOR
LEADER (1); PROGRAM
ASSISTANT (1);
MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
(1); HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);
SOCIAL SECTOR SPEC. (I);
PROCUREMENT SPEC. (1);
FINACIAL MANAGEMENT SP
(1)
10/11/2000             8   TEAM LEADER (1);           HS          HS
OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
SECTOR LEADER (I);
PROGRAM ASSISTANT (1);
PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
(1); INSTITUTIONAL
DEV.(CON (1); PUBLIC
HEALTH (CONS) (1);
FINANCIAL MANAGEMEN.SP
(1)
10/03/2001             3   TEAM LEADER (1);            HS         HS
OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
PROGRAM ASSISTANT (1);
PROCUREMENT SPEC (1);
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
SP (I)
03/25/2002              6  TEAM LEADER (1);            HS         HS
OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
PROGRAM ASSISTANT (1);
INSTITUTIONAL DEV.(CON
(1); PUBLIC HEALTH (CONS)
(I); TEAM ASSISTANT(I)
ICR
10/15/2002             2   INSTITUTIONAL               HS         HS
DEV.(CON); ECONOMIST
(1) 3 
- 35 -



(b) Staff.
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
.        No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation             1 19(*)                   293,580
Appraisal/Negotiation
Supervision                               93                     356,361
ICR                                        3                      12,927
Total                                    215                     448,066
(*) Estimated based on data provided by BW, Fact and SAP
Appraisal and Negotiations information included in Preparation
- 36 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                      O H OSUOM O N * NA
OSector Policies                     OH OSUOM ON O NA
2|Physical                           OH   *SUOM      ON   ONA
? Financial                          O H OSUOM O N O NA
F Institutional Development          0 H O SU O M 0 N 0 NA
O Environmental                      O H OSUOM O N * NA
Social
FPoverty Reduction             * H OSUOM O N O NA
s Gender                       O H OSUOM O N O NA
D Other (Please specify)       O H OSUOM O N * NA
Fl Private sector development        0 H O SU O M 0 N * NA
O Public sector management           0 H O SU O M 0 N 0 NA
Oi Other (Please specify)            O H OSUOM O N * NA
-37-



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                 Rating
O Lending                                           OHS OS OU OHU
O Supervision                                       OHS OS       OU     OHU
O Overall                                           OHS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
OI Preparation                                      OHS OS       0 U    O HU
O Government implementation performance              0 HS OS     0 U    0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                 0 HS O S     0 U    0 HU
OL Overall                                          OHS OS O U O HU
- 38 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Staff Appraisal Report, August 30, 1995
2. Project reports
Back-to-Office Report January 5, 1994
Back-to-Office Report January 25, 1994
Back-to-Office Report April 19, 1994
Back-to-Office Report May 17, 1994
Aide Memoire June 11, 1994
Back-to-Office Report September 8, 1994
Back-to-Office Report October 31, 1994
Aide Memoire November 18, 1994
Back-to-Office Report March 7, 1995
Back-to-Office Report November 27, 1995
Supervision Report March 19, 1996
Supervision Report April 23, 1997
Supervision Report September 22, 1997
Supervision Report May 22, 1998
Supervision Report December 17, 1998
Supervision Report April 29, 1999
Supervision Report April 20, 2000
Supervision Report October 17, 2000
Aide Memoire October 3, 2001
Aide Memoire March 25, 2002
3. Other documents
Analitica Consultores. 2001. Primer Informe Expost del Programa de Ampliaci6n de Cobertura SSA
1996-2000.
Diario Oficial: Se Crea el Organismo Descentralizado de la Administraci6n Piblica Estatal Denominado
"Servicios de Salud de Yucatan", 13 de diciembre de 1996
Frenk Mora, Julio y otros. 1994. Economia y Salud: Propuestas para el Avance del Sistema de Salud en
Mexico. Fundaci6n Mexicana para la Salud.
Gragnolati, Michele y otros. 2002. El programa para la ampliaci6n de servicios de salud a poblaciones
pobres de Mexico (PA C). Un analisis de cobertura y costo-efectividad. Banco Mundial.
SSA (1999): Evaluaci6n de Medio Camino, April 12, 1999
SSA (2000): El Programa de Ampliaci6n de Cobertura 1996-2000
SSA (2000): Health Extension Services in Mexico
-39 -



SSA (2000): Evaluacion del Programa de Ampliaci6n de Cobertura, April 5, 2000
SSA (2000): Supervisi6n del Programa de Ampliaci6n de Cobertura, October 3, 2000
SSA (2001): Boletin informativo de los avances en la equidad y desarrollo de los servicios de salud, 2001
-40 -



4. Comments from the National Financing Agency (NAFIN) dated December 3, 2001
PRESTAMO 3943-ME
SEGUNDO PROGRAMA DE APOYO A LOS SERVICIOS BASICOS DE SALUD
COMENTARIOS AL INFORME DE EVALUACION EX - POST
NACIONAL FINANCIERA S.N.C.
Esta operaci6n por 310.0 mdd en la que NAFIN fungi6 como Prestatario y Agente Financiero del
Gobiemo Federal, se suscribi6 con fecha 8 de octubre de 1995, declarandose en efectividad el 15 de marzo
de 1996.
A partir de la firma de los documentos legales, se reafirm6 la excelente colaboraci6n que se tuvo con las
entidades involucradas en el proceso de ejecuci6n del Programa: Secretaria de Salud, Banco Mundial y
Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Puiblico.
a) Aspectos Legales.
Durante el proceso de ejecuci6n del programa, se negociaron con el Banco Mundial diversas enmiendas a
los documentos legales del pr6stamo en relaci6n a los siguientes aspectos:
Incremnento en porcentajes de financiamiento
>      Incorporaci6n de gastos financiables
);>    Extensi6n a la fecha de cierre
>      Transferencia de recursos entre Categorias
>      Modificaci6n de Carta de Implementaci6n
>      Ampliaci6n de cobertura
>      Procesos de Contrataci6n de Servicios de Consultoria
b) Supervisi6n:
El seguimiento que el Equipo de Supervisi6n del Banco realiz6 a traves de innumerables Misiones a las
actividades del Programa a nivel central y en los Estados, se llev6 a cabo de manera constante y con alto
nivel de profesionalismo, proporcionando asistencia tecnica especializada en todos los campos de acci6n de
cada uno de los Componentes del Programa, proponiendo siempre en acuerdo con las autoridades de la
SSA, SHCP y NAFIN, diversas estrategias para eficientar la ejecuci6n de esta operaci6n.
c) Licitaciones y Servicios de Consultoria
En materia de compromiso de recursos a traves de la contrataci6n de bienes, obras y servicios de
consultoria, seiialar que la estructura organizacional de la SSA a nivel central como estatal fue un ejemplo
en cuanto a la forma de operar los procedimientos de licitaci6n puiblica internacional, nacional y procesos
como comparaci6n de precios y adjudicaciones directas. Cabe sefialar que en el ultimo afno de ejecuci6n del
programa, la SSA fue quien realiz6 la prueba piloto acordada entre el Gobierno Mexicano y el Banco
Mundial para la licitar bienes y obras mediante la utilizaci6n de medios remotos por medio del sistema de
COMPRANET (Compras electr6nicas del gobierno federal), de tal forma que los licitantes elegibles
pudieran enviar sus ofertas via internet. El resultado de la prueba fue todo un exito ya que se logra
incrementar el numero de participantes y una reducci6n en el monto de los productos adquiridos.
-41 -



d) Aspectos Financieros
El monto total de la linea del prestamo por 310.0 mdd se desembols6 en su totalidad, evitando
cancelaciones parciales y alcanzando el cumplimiento de metas comprometidas con el Banco. Con fecha 17
de septiembre de 2002 se tramit6 el ultimo desembolso del prestamo por un monto de 537,044.23 d6Mares,
de esta forma, el Cuadro de Categorias del Prestamo, registro los siguientes desembolsos
CATEGORIA                                DESEMBOLSO
1.- Obra Civil                                       16,407,755.07
2.- Bienes
Publicaciones                                      1,833,007.06
Farmaceuticos, Consumibles Medicos                85,263,699.57
Vehiculos                                          7,691,974.33
Mobiliario y Equipo                               29,704,907.60
3.- Capacitacion                                      1,043,754.70
4.-  Servicios  de  Asistencia  Tecnica   y           7,796,204.44
Consultoria
5.- Costos Operativos Incrementales                 160,158,697.23
TOTAL                                               310,000,000.00
Conclusiones
Por lo anteriormente expuesto, en opini6n de NAFIN, la ejecuci6n de esta operaci6n fue exitosa, al contar
con la participaci6n de excelentes profesionales por parte de la Dependencia Ejecutora (SSA) y por parte
del Banco Mundial en el ambito legal, tecnico y econ6mico financiero, lo que permiti6 que este prestamo
sea considerado como uno de los mejores en M6xico por su impacto y calidad de ejecuci6n.
3 de Diciembre de 2002
EGD
-42 -



5. Comments from the Federal Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit dated December 16, 2002
DIRECCION GENERAL ADJUNTA DE ORGANISMOS FINANCIEROS INTERNACIONALES
PROGRAMA DE AMPLIACION DE COBERTURA (PRESTAMO NO. 3943-ME)
COMENTARIOS AL IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)
La Direcci6n General Adjunta de Organismos Financieros Internacionales (DGAOFI) considera que:
1.      Este Proyecto fue eficiente debido a que cumpli6 en general con sus objetivos y metas de cobertura,
asi como por la eficaz implementaci6n por parte de la SSA.
2.      Es conveniente que este tipo de proyectos sean apoyados tanto financiera como tecnicamente por
organismos financieros internacionales como el Banco Mundial, debido a que tienen un impacto muy
favorable en las condiciones de vida de la poblaci6n y pueden ser factores importantes en el combate a la
pobreza
3.      Seria conveniente que el Banco busque establecer los mecanismos y estrategias para que en el
disenlo y ejecuci6n de programas subsecuentes sean tomados en cuenta los beneficios y/o dificultades de
haber trabajado el PAC con el financiamiento del Banco, a efecto de perfeccionar futuros programas.
4.      La ejecuci6n del Proyecto fue muy satisfactoria debido, entre otros factores, a la estrecha y
eficiente colaboraci6n entre las autoridades de la SSA y el Banco, asi como por el establecimiento de redes
de comunicaci6n entre el nivel estatal, federal y las jurisdicciones de salud que dio como resultado una
eficaz comunicaci6n, transmisi6n y registro exitoso de datos.
5.      Finalmente, seria recomendable tomar como guia las caracteristicas de este Programa identificadas
como claves en la realizaci6n de futuros proyectos dirigidos a apoyar la estrategia del Gobiemo Federal en
la provisi6n de servicios bisicos de salud a la poblaci6n mas vulnerable de los estados con mayor nivel de
marginaci6n.
-43 -



- 44 -



ItO. Sr0                                                                                                            0 0*                   IBRD 235
qI/nodo 1 \hffi O                                                                                                              M    E X I C O
3D-                                                                                                                                                                                       30'-~~~~~~~~~~'
BAJA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
CAjIFORNIAD                                           /C     r;?C                        S2    2
R-Wi.                                      C Moilo>8  ;5<i2X5A /f ;ffJ5 UOi                                            r In A  c Uip citi. e o lo
Di 0d.d higFooy,
Selected mom rods
Railroad,
m rinipal o .*moLs
Stwol b..M.-rtS
ffluch boondorie.                                                                                           \  zf~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oaroiro  ondre
100'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~bo. .                             PCIAro 101,
ltiii~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rIC A                     tldl
CAS  ci~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BSC 
1.10000505 0  100  200  300  400  3120~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Th~~ .,oe Ir~. be..,, p~-epe,ed by The. World 8.,,W. n-lI e                                                     u  f     o  f    AFo IrC  
Oohk OrO.p. The. do O,rr., riO~~Ooo.d end the b dOne. .Iroonr err 0,,.
00)7. 0" Or. POtS ~  The. WOdd Oettk GOW. or). iorlon,.ntTopo~hua                                                                      ' HONDURA
errttelaeleetreot  t.tro,y- oy,,r,,rrorr,rt o~o~proe.o
Ito.                                                    ION                                                                97 ..L.eo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9  









Repoki No.:         25240
Type:     $C.I



