Page  1
September 24, 1999
Mr. Roberto Casillas Contreras Medellín 
Director 
Internacional Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.  
Torre IV, piso 8 Plaza Inn, Insurgentes Sur 1971 
01020 México, D.F. México
Mr. Carlos García Moreno 
Director General de Crédito Público 
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público 
Insurgentes Sur 826, piso 9 
03100  México, D.F. México 
Re:
Loan 3943-ME (Second Basic Health Care Project) Amendment to the 
Loan and 
Guarantee Agreements and to the Implementation Letter
Dear Sirs:
We refer to the Loan Agreement between International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank) and Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. (the Borrower), to the 
Guarantee Agreement between United Mexican States (the Guarantor) and the Bank and to 
the Implementation Letter, all dated October 8, 1995, with respect to the 
above-captioned Project.  More particularly, we also refer to the July 14, 1999 letter 
from the Bank, countersigned by the Borrower and the Guarantor, amending said Loan and 
Guarantee Agreements and Implementation Letter (the Amendment Letter).  We are pleased 
to inform you of our agreement to amend said Amendment Letter by replacing the final 
two sentences of its main body with the following:
“The terms of this letter shall enter into effect as of January 1, 1999, 
upon receipt  by the Bank of one original of this letter signed by you.  Consequently, 
the amendments 
reflected in the table set forth in Attachment A to this 
letter shall not apply to 
expenditures covered by Loan proceeds withdrawal 
requests received by the Bank prior to 
January 1, 1999; such amendments shall 
therefore only apply to additional expenditures 
covered by Loan proceeds 
withdrawal requests received by the Bank on or after January 1, 
1999.”
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing by signing and dating the three 
originals of this letter in the spaces provided below, and returning one to us.  The 
terms of this letter shall enter into effect as of its date first above written, upon 
receipt by the Bank of one original of this letter signed by you.
Sincerely yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Olivier Lafourcade 
Director, 
Mexico Country Management Unit 
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED: 
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
By /s/ Roberto Casillas Contreras Medellín
By /s/ Carlos García Moreno
Authorized Representative
Authorized Representative
Date:
October 4, 1999
Date:
October 14, 1999
Page  2
