Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3943 ME
                              Loan Agreement
                    (Second Basic Health Care Project)
                                  between
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                                    and
                        NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
                           Dated October 8, 1995
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3943 ME
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated October 8, 1995, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and NACIONAL
FINANCIERA, S.N.C. (the Borrower).
      WHEREAS (A) the Guarantor and the Borrower, having been
satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have requested the
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
      (B)   by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even
date herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor
has agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in
respect of the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as
set forth in the Guarantee Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan
Page  2
and Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the
Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
      (a)   "Decentralization Program" means the program,
contained in Attachment I of the Implementation Letter, for
transferring public administration functions in the health
sector in Mexico from the federal government to the States (as
hereinafter defined);
      (b)   "DSU" means a Decentralization Support Unit referred
to in Section 3.11 (c) of the Guarantee Agreement;
      (c)   "Federal Advisory Committee" means the committee
referred to in Section 5.01 (c) of this Agreement;
      (d)   "Implementation Agreement" means an agreement entered
into between the Guarantor and a State and containing the terms
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Guarantee Agreement;
      (e)   "Implementation Letter" means the letter of even date
herewith from the Guarantor to the Bank, containing, inter
alia, the schedule and targets referred to in Section 3.01 of
the Guarantee Agreement;
      (f)   "Jurisdiction" means a regional unit (Jurisdiccion
Sanitaria) of an SESA (as hereinafter defined) or of an SCSP
(as hereinafter defined) which participates in the
administration of health programs in a specified geographical
region within a State and is listed in Attachment II of the
Implementation Letter;
      (g)   "Operational Manual" means the manual referred to in
Section 5.01 (b) of this Agreement, as such manual may be
amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank;
      (h)   "PCU" means the Project Coordination Unit referred to
in Section 3.11 (a) of the Guarantee Agreement;
      (i)   "Project States" means:  (i) the States (as
hereinafter defined) of Oaxaca, Chiapas, Hidalgo, Guerrero,
Michoacan, Zacatecas, Puebla, Yucatan, Veracruz, Campeche and
San Luis Potosi; and (ii) any other States (as hereinafter
defined) as may be agreed by the Guarantor and the Bank;
      (j)   "SCSP" means the SSA's (as hereinafter defined)
Servicios Coordinados de Salud Publica (Public Health
Coordinated Services) in each of the States where
administration of public health services is carried out by the
federal government and where there therefore is no SESA (as
hereinafter defined);
      (k)   "SESA" means the Servicios Estatales de Salud (State
Health Services) or equivalent entity in those States where
administration of public health services is carried out by the
State and where there therefore is no SCSP;
      (l)   "SHA" means a State (as hereinafter defined) health
authority (i.e., either an SESA or an SCSP);
      (m)   "SHCP" means the Guarantor's Finance and Public
Credit Secretariat (Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico);
      (n)   "SPCU" means a State Project Coordination Unit
referred to in Section 3.11 (b) of the Guarantee Agreement or
Section 1 (a) (i) of Schedule 2 to the Guarantee Agreement;
Page  3
      (o)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (p)   "SSA" means the Guarantor's Health Secretariat
(Secretaria de Salud);
      (q)   "State" means any one of the states (Estados) and the
Federal District (Distrito Federal) that constitute the United
Mexican States;
      (r)   "Subproject" means a package of preventative services
and/or essential clinical care delivery initiatives (in the
areas covered by Part A.1 of the Project) to be carried out
under the Project in Project States at the Jurisdiction level;
and
      (s)   "TAPs" means tecnicos de atencion primaria (primary
care technicians), i.e, paramedics who are SSA or SESA
employees and provide rudimentary health care services in
remote areas where there are no medical facilities.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, an amount equal to three hundred and ten million
Dollars ($310,000,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods, works and services required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in Banco
de Mexico on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
in arrears on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
Page  4
                Transfer of Loan Proceeds; Other Covenants
      Section 3.01. The Borrower shall enter into contractual
arrangements with the Guarantor, satisfactory to the Bank,
providing, inter alia, for:  (a) the transfer to the Guarantor
of the proceeds of the Loan; and (b) the transfer by the
Guarantor to the Borrower of such funds as the Borrower shall
be required to pay to the Bank on account of principal,
interest and other charges on the Loan.  Except as the Bank may
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend or fail to
enforce any provision of such contractual arrangements.  The
Borrower shall exercise its rights under such contractual
arrangements in such a manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan.
      Section 3.02. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that
the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07,
9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating respectively
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules,
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition) shall be
carried out, or caused to be carried out, by the Guarantor
pursuant to Section 3.04 (a) of the Guarantee Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall participate in the annual
reviews referred to in Section 3.10 (b) of the Guarantee
Agreement.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records and separate accounts adequate to
reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the
resources and expenditures in connection with the execution of
the Project.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, and the records
                  and accounts for the Special Account for each
                  fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                  generally accepted auditing standards and
                  procedures consistently applied, by independent
                  and qualified auditors;
            (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
                  in any case not later than six months after the
                  end of each such year, the report of such audit
                  by said auditors, of such scope and in such
                  detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                  requested;
           (iii)  furnish to the Bank each month certified
                  statements of the Special Account; and
            (iv)  furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts as well as
                  the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time
                  to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall provide to the
Guarantor any information that may be required by the Guarantor
to comply with the Guarantor's obligations under Section 3.05
Page  5
of the Guarantee Agreement.
                                 ARTICLE V
                        Effective Date; Termination
      Section 5.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions:
      (a)   that the contractual arrangements referred to in
Section 3.01 of this Agreement have been entered into;
      (b)   that the Operational Manual, satisfactory to the
Bank, has been issued by SSA and put into effect;
      (c)   that the Federal Advisory Committee and PCU have been
established and staffed as set forth in Section 3.11 (a) and
(d) of the Guarantee Agreement;
      (d)   that an Implementation Agreement has been entered
into between the Guarantor and at least five Project States;
and
      (e)   that an SPCU is established for each of the Project
States which have entered into an Implementation Agreement in
satisfaction of the condition set forth in paragraph (d) of
this Section.
      Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
      (a)   that on behalf of each of the Borrower and the
Guarantor, the contractual arrangements referred to in Section
3.01 of this Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified,
and executed and delivered, by the Borrower and the Guarantor
and are legally binding upon the Borrower and the Guarantor in
accordance with the terms of such contractual arrangements; and
      (b)   that on behalf of the Guarantor and each Project
State which entered into an Implementation Agreement in
satisfaction of the condition set forth in Section 5.01 (d) of
this Agreement, the Implementation Agreement in question has
been duly authorized or ratified, and executed and delivered,
by the Guarantor and the relevant Project State and is legally
binding upon the Guarantor and said Project State in accordance
with the terms of such Implementation Agreement.
      Section 5.03. The date January 8, 1996, is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VI
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The Director Internacional of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
Page  6
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
      For the Borrower:
            Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
            Direccion Internacional
            Torre IV, piso 8
            Plaza Inn, Insurgentes Sur 1971
            01020 Mexico, D.F.
            Mexico
            Cable address:                      Telex:
                  NAFIN                           NAFIME 383-1775765
                  Mexico City                     Mexico City
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                          Latin America and the Caribbean
                        NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
                        By /s/ Federico Patino
                                                Authorized Representative
                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                                 Amount of the
                                Loan Allocated               % of
                                 (Expressed in            Expenditures
      Category                Dollar Equivalent)          to be Financed
(1)     Civil works              28,200,000                  70%
        under Part A
        of the Project
Page  7
(2)     Goods
(a)     Printed materials         4,500,000             100% of foreign
        under Parts A, B                                expenditures, 100%
        and C of the Project                            of local expendi-
                                                        tures (ex-factory
                                                        cost) and 87% of
                                                        local expenditures
                                                        for other items
                                                        procured locally
(b)     Pharmaceuticals          19,300,000             87% until with-
        and consumable                                  drawals under
        medical supplies                                this Category
        under Part A of                                 have reached an
        the Project                                     aggregate amount
        (including dis-                                 equivalent to
        tribution thereof)                              $8,200,000; 66%
                                                        until withdrawals
                                                        under this Category
                                                        have reached an
                                                        aggregate amount
                                                        equivalent to
                                                        $15,000,000; and
                                                        33% thereafter
(c)     Vehicles                 32,900,000             100% of foreign
        under Part A                                    expenditures, 100%
        of the Project                                  of local expendi-
                                                        tures (ex-factory
                                                        cost) and 87% of
                                                        local expenditures
                                                        for other items
                                                        procured locally
(d)     Furniture and            45,500,000             100% of foreign
        equipment                                       expenditures, 100%
                                                        of local expendi-
                                                        tures (ex-factory
                                                        cost) and 87% of
                                                        local expenditures
                                                        for other items
                                                        procured locally
(3)     Training                  7,700,000                 100%
(4)     Consultants' services,   70,000,000                 100%
        technical assistance
        and information
        campaigns
(5)     Incremental staff        66,700,000             87% until with-
        and operating                                   drawals under
        costs (not inclu-                               this Category
        ding items and                                  have reached an
        their distribution                              aggregate amount
        covered under                                   equivalent to
        Categories (2) (a)                              $25,600,000; 66%
        and (b) above)                                  until withdrawals
                                                        under this Category
                                                        have reached an
                                                        aggregate amount
                                                        equivalent to
                                                        $48,500,000; and
                                                        33% thereafter
(6)     Unallocated              35,200,000
                                ___________
           TOTAL                310,000,000
                                ___________
Page  8
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   "incremental staff and operating costs" means costs
that would not have been incurred absent the Project and which
are covered by the following SSA budget line-item
classification codes ("clasificadores") in effect as of August
1, 1995:  1200, 1300, 2400, 2600, 2700, 3400 (only for shipping
costs but not for insurance), 3700 and 4100 (only with respect
to TAPs and midwives).  In no case may any of such costs
include salaries or other staff remuneration other than with
respect to:  (i) hardship post incentives for doctors, nurses
and paramedics under Part A.2 (b) of the Project; (ii) SSA and
SHA technical-level temporary fixed-term staff hired for
purposes of carrying out Parts A and C of the Project; (iii)
temporary fixed-term PCU and SPCU staff hired for purposes of
the Project; and (iv) TAPs and midwives selected for purposes
of carrying out Part A of the Project).  In addition, in no
case may any of such costs include maintenance costs;
    (b)   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Guarantor for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Guarantor;
    (c)   "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Guarantor;
    (d)   "training" means remuneration for trainers and travel
and per diem costs for trainers and trainees in connection with
the training components set forth in Parts A, B and C of the
Project (but does not include educational and informational
materials);
    (e)   "vehicles" means ambulances, four-wheel drive fully-
equipped medical mobile units, bicycles and motorcycles; and
    (f)   "information campaigns" means expenditures for the
design, production and carrying out of health information
campaigns.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $3,100,000,
may be made in respect of Categories (1), (2) (d) and (4) on
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but
after November 21, 1994.
4.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure, under such
terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower, for expenditures:  (i) under Category (3) and
salaries or remuneration for temporary fixed-term staff under
Category (5); (ii) under contracts for works estimated to cost
less than $2,000,000 equivalent per contract; (iii) under
contracts for goods, materials and equipment estimated to cost
less than $350,000 equivalent per contract; (iv) under
contracts with individual consultants estimated to cost less
than $50,000 equivalent per contract; and (v) under contracts
with consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000
equivalent per contract.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to:  (a) support equitable
access to a cost-effective package of quality health services
for those in the Project States who lack health insurance and
those in the Project States who are underserved by the current
Page  9
public health system; (b) support institutional development of
public health authorities in all States through the improvement
and decentralization of technical, managerial and financing
processes pertaining to the health sector; and (c) support the
modernization and restructuring of SSA so that it may assume an
active leadership role in the health sector.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:  Basic Health Care Services
1.  (a)   Strengthening of public health outreach programs in the
Project States in areas to be selected per Project State from
among the following:  (i) reproductive health (by distributing
devices and medication for reversible birth control and for the
prevention of sexually transmitted disease, as well as by
training and equipping midwives to provide prenatal, pregnancy
and delivery care); (ii) infant care (by immunizing children
and childbearing-age women against measles, polio, diphtheria,
pertussis and tetanus, by providing well-baby clinics for
infant growth monitoring and maternal nutrition counselling, by
providing vaccine-related supplies such as syringes and
needles, as well as by providing, using and maintaining storage
and delivery equipment and facilities, such as refrigerators,
other cold chain equipment, mobile units and storage rooms, for
such vaccines); (iii) school-age care (by implementing programs
within schools with an emphasis on the provision of nutrition
counselling, ophthalmologic testing, bucodental health
examinations and deparasitation); (iv) infectious disease and
vector control (by detecting, treating and carrying out
surveillance of infectious diseases such as tuberculosis and
leprosy, as well as by providing fumigation equipment and
supporting mobile outreach teams for purposes of achieving
early detection and treatment of vector-borne diseases such as
malaria and dengue fever and controlling the relevant vectors);
and (v) water and sanitation (by constructing latrines and by
supporting drinking water testing, monitoring and chlorination
initiatives).
    (b)   Provision of support for health education and promotion
programs in the Project States by preparing, printing and
distributing educational pamphlets and posters, preparing
teaching materials and holding seminars at the school and
community levels, broadcasting messages through the electronic
media and implementing social marketing programs (all in
Spanish and other relevant indigenous languages and with
respect to priority topics to be selected per Project State
from among the following:  children's health, food hygiene,
reproductive health, nutritional education, early cancer
detection, mental health, accident prevention, addiction
prevention, oral health, vector-borne disease prevention and
healthy lifestyle promotion).
2.  (a)   Carrying out of Subprojects in the Project States; and
(b) supporting such Subprojects, as well as the initiatives
covered by Part A.1 (a) of the Project, through the
construction, upgrading, expansion and maintenance of first-
and second-level health sector physical facilities (health
posts, centers, clinics and hospitals) in small rural and other
underserved communities, the provision of basic equipment for
first- and second-level health care (such as surgical
instruments, scales and delivery tables), the provision of
essential office, laboratory and radio equipment for such
health facilities, the provision of ambulances, mobile units,
bicycles and motorcycles for use in connection with the
delivery of health services, the provision of pharmaceuticals
and birth control devices, the provision of technical training
and hardship post incentives to health sector staff, as well as
the provision of remuneration to incremental health sector
personnel (such as TAPs, midwives and community volunteers).
Page  10
Part B:  Institutional Development and Decentralization
1.  Provision of management training, consultant services and
technical assistance to SSA and SHAs in all States for purposes
of:  (a) defining and adapting health sector administrative and
financial (including budgetary) functions and responsibilities
to be transferred from the federal level to the state and local
level as part of a decentralization of the sector; (b)
designing an implementation plan for the carrying out of such
decentralization; and (c) adapting the relevant policy and
regulatory framework so as to coordinate an eventual merger of
health services provided by the public sector to the uninsured
population.
2.  (a)   Provision of training courses, seminars and study tours
to senior SHA managers in order to support the carrying out of
their responsibilities for health sector administration and for
providing technical support to local health sector
jurisdictions in their States; and (b) provision of general
management training to more junior SHA managers at the state
and local levels in order to support the carrying out of their
health service delivery management responsibilities.
3.  Provision of training to SHA staff on how to apply the
concept of total quality management in obtaining, organizing
and analyzing epidemiological information, as well as in using
such information to make, implement and thereafter evaluate the
impact of decisions with respect to health services delivery.
4.  Provision of training to SHA staff on how to take full
advantage of the management information system strengthened
pursuant to Part C.4 of the Project, including the presentation
to such staff of seminars on the usefulness and operation of
the management information system modules identified in said
Part C.4.
Part C:  Modernization and Restructuring of SSA
1.  (a)   Identification (through a diagnostic process) of the
mission, objectives and function of the SSA, as well as of its
organizational structure, human resource, technology,
infrastructure, training, information system and legal
framework needs required to support and optimize the
decentralization process referred to in Part B.1 of the Project
and make SSA's role congruent with the decentralized health
sector resulting therefrom; and (b) implementation of the SSA
modernization requirements identified pursuant to said
diagnosis, as well as provision of support for such
implementation in the form of training workshops for SSA
personnel.
2.  Carrying out of policy studies with respect to, inter alia,
the following health sector topics:  (a) regulatory
instruments; (b) financing mechanisms for the purchase from, or
sale to, third parties (including the private sector) of health
services; (c) health budgeting and planning systems; and (d)
cost-effective vaccine production and quality control (by
public, private or joint public-private entities).
3.  Pilot testing of innovative institutional, policy or
operational models designed to contribute towards the
modernization of the health sector, such as:  (a) alternative
health care delivery models involving private sector,
community, municipal or non-governmental organization
participation; (b) models for health care delivery through the
social insurance sector; and (c) incentive models to improve
performance of health sector personnel and institutions.
4.  (a)   Carrying out of an inventory and assessment of existing
SSA and SHA management information system procedures, hardware
Page  11
and software; (b) improvement of said management information
system on the basis of the findings of such inventory and
assessment; and (c) design, implementation and application at
federal, state and local levels of new management information
system modules in the areas of health service administration,
budgeting, planning, procurement and stock control,
epidemiological surveillance, sanitary regulation and hospital
management and accounting.
5.  Provision of technical assistance and operational support to
the PCU and SPCUs to assist in the monitoring, supervision,
continuous process evaluation and periodic impact evaluation of
the Project.
                                   * * *
    The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions
A.  General Definitions
    For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the
following meanings.
    (a)   "Disbursed Amount" means, in respect of each Interest
Period, the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
from the Loan Account in such Interest Period.
    (b)   "Interest Period" means the initial period from and
including the date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the
first Interest Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the
initial period, each period from and including an Interest
Payment date to, but excluding, the next following Interest
Payment Date.
    (c)   "Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
    (d)   "Rate Fixing Date" means, for each Disbursed Amount,
the first day of the Interest Period next following the
Interest Period in which such Disbursed Amount is withdrawn.
B.  Interest
1.  The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into
Disbursed Amounts.  Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed
Amount outstanding from time to time at a rate based on a
floating rate index prior to its Rate Fixing Date and at a
fixed rate from its Rate Fixing Date, as described in paragraph
2 of this Part B.
2.  (a)   From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each
Disbursed Amount withdrawn and outstanding, to but not
including the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount,
interest on each such amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to
the applicable:
          (i)   LIBOR Base Rate; plus
          (ii)  LIBOR Total Spread.
    (b)   From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount
until final repayment thereof, interest on such Disbursed
Amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the applicable:
          (i)   Fixed Base Rate; plus
          (ii)  Fixed Total Spread.
3.  For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following
Page  12
terms have the following meanings.
    (a)   "LIBOR Base Rate" means, for the Interest Period in
which a Disbursed Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank
offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value the
first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the
initial Interest Period, for value the day occurring on the
Interest Payment Date preceding the first day of such Interest
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as
a percentage per annum.
    (b)   "LIBOR Total Spread" means, for the Interest Period in
which each Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:
          (i)   one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
          (ii)  minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for
                such Interest Period, below (or above) the London
                interbank offered rates, or other reference
                rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the
                Bank's outstanding borrowings or portions thereof
                allocated by the Bank to fund single currency
                loans or portions thereof made by it that include
                such Disbursed Amount for such Interest Period;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
percentage per annum.
    (c)   "Fixed Base Rate" means, for each Disbursed Amount, the
equivalent of the London interbank offered rate for six-month
deposits in Dollars for value on the Rate Fixing Date for such
Disbursed Amount, expressed as a single fixed interest rate
based on the fixed interest rates corresponding to the
repayment installments of such Disbursed Amount, as reasonably
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
    (d)   "Fixed Total Spread" means, for each Disbursed Amount:
          (i)   one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
          (ii)  minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on
                the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount,
                below (or above) the London interbank offered
                rates, or other reference rates, for six-month
                deposits, in respect of the Bank's outstanding
                borrowings or portions thereof allocated to fund
                single currency loans or portions thereof made by
                it that include such Disbursed Amount; plus
         (iii)  the Bank's risk spread applicable on the
                Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
percentage per annum.
4.  The Bank shall notify the Guarantor and the Borrower of
LIBOR Base Rate, LIBOR Total Spread, Fixed Base Rate and Fixed
Total Spread applicable to each Disbursed Amount, promptly upon
the determination thereof.
5.  Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting
the determination of the interest rates referred to in this
Schedule, the Bank determines that it is in the interest of its
borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other
than as provided in this Schedule, the Bank may modify the
basis for determining the interest rates applicable to amounts
of the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6)
months' notice to the Borrower of the new basis.  The new basis
shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its
objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not
Page  13
apply to the Loan.
C.  Repayment
1.  Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the
Borrower shall repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semi-
annual installments payable on each April 15 and October 15,
the first such installment to be payable on the seventh (7th)
Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such
Disbursed Amount and the last such installment to be payable on
the eighteenth (18th) Interest Payment Date following the Rate
Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount.  Each installment shall
be one-twelfth (1/12) of such Disbursed Amount.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part
C, if any installment of principal of each Disbursed Amount
would, pursuant to the provisions of said paragraph 1, be
payable after April 15, 2011, the Borrower shall also pay on
said date the aggregate amount of all such installments.
3.  After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the
Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of
the amortization schedule for such Disbursed Amount.
                                SCHEDULE 4
                              Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $20,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be
limited to an amount equivalent to $13,000,000 until the
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered
into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of
$37,000,000.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
Page  14
                deposits into the Special Account at such
                intervals as the Bank shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                and other evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
                from the Loan Account and deposit into the
                Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall
                have requested and as shall have been shown by
                said documents and other evidence to have been
                paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively
for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
    (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
    (c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or
    (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to expenditures
covered by such eligible Categories, shall equal the equivalent
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank
Page  15
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if
the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to
the Bank such outstanding amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
