CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1238 BO
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Fourth Power Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
EMPRESA NACIONAL DE ELECTRICIDAD S.A.
Dated June 2, 1976


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 2, 1976, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and EMPRESA NACIONAL DE ELECTRICIDAD S.A. (hereinafter called
the Borrower).


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements off
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the con-
text otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General
Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Electricity Code" means the C5digo de Electricidad
(Supreme ED.ree No. 08438) of the Guarantor dated July 31, 1968;
(b) "Supreme Decrees" means the Supreme Decrees Nos. 05999,
06792, 07591 and 10388 of the Guarantor dated February 9, 1962,
June 9, 1964, April 20, 1966 and July 31, 1972, respectively;
(c) Estatutos means the statutes of the Borrower set forth
in Supreme Resolution No. 127462 dated November 4, 1965;
(d) "Third Project" means the project described in Sched-
ule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement (Third ENDE Power Proj-
ect) between the Guarantor and the Association dated October 17,
1973; and


﻿-3-
(e) "subsidiary" means any company, a majority of the out-
standing voting stock of which, or other proprietory interest, is
owned or effectively controlled by the Borrower or by any one or
more subsidiaries of the Borrower or by the Borrower and one or
more of its subsidiaries.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-five
million dollars ($25,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Bank and the Borrower, for expend-
itures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in res-
pect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the a
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in
respect of interest and,other charges on the Loan.
(b) On or before each of the semi-annual interest payment
dates specified in Section 2.07 of this Agreement, the Bank shall,
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay
to itself the amounts required to pay, on such date, interest and
other charges on the Loan accrued and payable on or before the date
set forth, and up to the amount allocated, in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement, as such schedule may be amended from time to time.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
goods and services (other than consultants' services) for the
Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be
procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.


﻿-5-
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1980 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and one-half per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on May i and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and engineering practices.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the design
of, preparation and evaluation of bidding documents for, and
supervision of the construction of the generating and transmission
facilities included in the Project, the Borrower shall employ en-
gineering consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, con-
tract documents and work and procurement schedules for the Project,


﻿and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in
such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to re-
cord the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and
to identify the goods, works and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan, and o disclose the use thereof in the Project;
(ii) shall, without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (c)
of this Section, enable the Bank's representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any
relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank
all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concern-
ing the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and
the goods, works and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, prop-
erty and equipment of the Borrower and any relevant records and
documents.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take all such action as shall
be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land, and rights
in respect of land as shall be required for the construction (and
operation) of the facilities included in the Project and shall
furnish to the Bank, promptly after such acquisition, evidence
satisfactory to the Bank that such land and rights in respect of
land are available for purposes related to the Project.


﻿-8-
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than Decem-
ber 31, 1976 or such later date as the Bank shall agree, prepare
a training program, (b) give the Bank a reasonable opportunity to
comment on such program, and (c) carry out such program thereafter.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall:
(a) not later than a month after the Effective Date or such
other date as the Bank shall agree, prepare a plan of action on
the basis of the recommendations of the management study included
in the Third Project; such plan to include, inter alia, the intro-
duction of a budgeting system and the carrying out of an inventory
of the Borrower's assets;
(b) give the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment on _m
such plan; and
(c) promptly carry out such plan.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (i) at all times maintain
its existence and right to carry on operations and shall, except
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, take all steps necessary to
acquire, maintain and review all rights, powers, privileges and
franchises which are necessary or useful in the conduct of its
business; (ii) operate and maintain all its plants, equipment and
property and from time to time make all necessary renewals and
repairs thereof, all in accordance with appropriate engineering,
public utility, administrative and financial practices; and (iii)
at all times manage its affairs, plan its future expansion and
maintain its financial position in accordance with appropriate
engineering, public utility, administrative and financial prac-
tices.
Section 4.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not sell, lease, transfer or assign any of its
property or assets, except in the normal course of its business,
and shall not engage in any activity other than power generation,
transmission and distribution.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate ac-
counting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to
the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than four
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) fur-
nish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of the Borrower and the audit thereof as
the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date of
this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security for
any debt except as otherwise currently reported to the Bank or
stated in writing.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any
of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally and


﻿- 11 -
ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such lien
express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to the.
Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any assets
of the Borrower as security for any debt, the Borrower shall grant,
at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank
to secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan; provided, however, that the foregoing provi-
sions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any lien created
on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security
for the payment of the purchase price of such property; or (B) any
lien arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and
securing a debt maturing not more than one year after the date on
which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall take all steps necessary or desirable to obtain
and maintain rates for the sale of electricity designed to produce
revenues sufficient to provide the Borrower with an annual rate
of return of nine per cent (9%) calculated as provided in the
Electricity Code.
(b) The Borrower shall, at least once every calendar year,
revalue its fixed assets to such extent as shall be necessary to
reflect adequately, at the time of each such revaluation, the
current value thereof, in accordance with methods of revaluation
acceptable to the Bank.
Section 5.05. The Borrower shall take all steps necessary or
desirable to charge as from a month after the Effective Date, its


﻿- 12 -
bulk consumers rates for the sale of electricity based on demand          .
and energy charges.
Section 5.06. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not incur any debt unless the net consolidated
revenues of the Borrower and its subsidiaries (if any) in the
twelve consecutive months immediately preceding such incurrence
shall be at least 1.5 times the estimated maximum debt service
requirements for any succeeding twelve-month period following
such incurrence on all debt of the Borrower and its subsidiaries
(if any), including the debt proposed to be incurred.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) "debt" includes the assumption and guarantee of
debt and shall mean all indebtedness of the Borrower
and its subsidiaries (if any) maturing by its terms
more than one year after the date of its incurrence,
but excluding any debt between the Borrower and its
subsidiaries (if any) or between such subsidiaries;
(ii) debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date
of execution and delivery of the contract providing
for such debt;
(iii) "net consolidated revenues" means gross revenues
from all sources, excluding any revenues arising
from the transactions between the Borrower and
its subsidiaries (if any) or between such subsid-
iaries, adjusted to take account of rates for the


﻿- 13 -
sale of electricity in effect at the time of in-
currence of the debt even though they were not in
effect during the twelve consecutive months to which
such revenues related, less operating and administra-
tive expenses including provision for taxes, if any,
but before provision for depreciation and interest
and other charges on debt;
(iv) "debt service requirements" means the aggregate
amount of amortization (including sinking fund
contributions), interest and other charges on
debt; and
(v) whenever for the purposes of this paragraph it shall
be necessary to value, in terms of the currency of
the Guarantor, debt payable in another currency,
such valuation shall be made on the basis of the
prevailing rate of exchange at which such other
currency is, at the time of such valuation, lawfully
obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt.
Section 5.07. The Borrower shall ensure that the obligations
assumed by it pursuant to the provisions of Section 5.04 of this
Agreement shall be applicable to any of its subsidiaries as though
such obligations were binding on any such subsidiary, and the Bor-
rower shall cause any such subsidiary to carry out such obligations.
Section 5.08. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall, until the Closing Date, retain internally generated
funds for reinvestment and shall not distribute any cash dividends.


﻿Section 5.09. The Borrower shall ensure that on the first
day of every calendar month, the aggregate amount due to the Bor-
rower on account of electricity supplied by the Borrower to its
customers, will be:
(a) by January 1, 1977, less than the aggregate amount
charged or to be charged by the Borrower to such customers on ac-
count of electricity supplied by it during the three calendar months
immediately preceding that day; and
(b) by January 1, 1978, and thereafter, less than the
aggregate amount charged or to be charged by the Borrower to such
customers on account of electricity supplied by it during the two
calendar months immediately preceding that day.
@1Ik


﻿- 15 -
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) The Electricity Code or any of the Supreme Decrees shall
have been amended, suspended, abrogated or repealed in such a way
as to affect materially and adversely (i) the management or opera-
tion of the Borrower, or (ii) the functions or responsibilities of
the Direcci6n Nacional de Electricidad of the Guarantor provided
therein.
(b) The Estatutos shall have been amended in such a way as
to affect materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower to
carry out the Project or the efficiency of its operations.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event specified pursuant to
paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that, any event specified in para-
graphs (a) and (b) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 16-
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following event is specified as an additional
condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely,
that the engineering consultants referred to in Section 3.02 of
this Agreement have been employed.
Section 7.02. The date August 2, 1976 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
MW


﻿- 1T -
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For the Borrower:
Empresa Nacional de Electricidad, S.A.
Casilla 565
Cochabamba, Bolivia
Cable address:
ENELECTRIC
Cochabamba


﻿- 18 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Adalbert Krieger
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
EMPRESA NACIONAL DE ELECTRICIDAD S.A.
By Is/ Oscar Morales
Authorized Representative
By /s/ Jorge Zamora
Authorized Representative


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expend-
itures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Materials, and              7,800,000        100% of foreign
equipment including                          expenditures
installation
(Parts A, B and C
of the Project)
(2) Materials, and              3,900,000        100% of foreign
equipment including                         expenditures
installation (Part
D of the Project)
(3) Materials, and              5,00,000
equipment including
installation (Parts
E and F of the
Project)
(a) Imported                                100% of foreign
expenditures
(b) Locally pro-                            100% of ex-factory
duced                                   cost


﻿- 20 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(4) Engineering serv-           1,300,000         100%
ices
(5) Interest and other          4,300,000         Amounts due
charges on the Loan
accrued on or be-
fore October 31, 1979
(6) Unallocated                 2,300,000
TOTAL      25,000,000


﻿mN                                       21
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of a country other than
the Guarantor and for goods or services supplied from the territory
of any country other than the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan shall
be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the
territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services, or on the impor-
tation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that end,
if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of any
item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases or
increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or
decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item
as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the
Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in
an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $300,000 may
be made in respect of Category (4) on account of payments made
for such expenditures before that date but after November 1, 1975.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of the
Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance
the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category, the


﻿- 22 -
Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Cate-
gory, to the extent required to meet the eestimated shortfall, pro-
ceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to another Category and
which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other ex-
penditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then appli-
cable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under
such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procure-
ment of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the proce-
dures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expenditures
for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting any
other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement,
by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as, in
the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such ex-
penditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing
out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿-23 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's expansion program for
the years 1976 through 1981 and consists of the following:
Part A.   Expansion of the Santa Isabel power station with
the installation of a Pelton unit (18 MW) and a
penstock (about 2,650 meters).
Part B.   Construction of a compensating pond with a capac-
ity of about 100,000 cubic meters at the intake
of the Santa Isabel power station to store water
from the Corani power station.
Part C.   Collection of water from the two arms of the
Vinto river at a maximum discharge rate of 3 cu-
bic meters/second for diversion to the Santa
Isabel Tunnel.
Part D.   Installation of a gas turbine with a capacity of
about 22.8 MW and related equipment at the Santa
Cruz Dower station.
Part E.   Construction of a power substation at Vinto, ex-
pansion of the Cochabamba and Sacaba power sub-
stations, and installation of shunt capacitors
at the Oruro power substation.


﻿- 24W
Part F.   Construction of a single circuit transmission
line at 115 KV, of about 150 kilometers long
between the Sacaba and Vinto power substations.
e         ex                  *
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1980.


﻿- 25-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
May 1, 1980                                          220,000
November 1, 1980                                     235,000
May 1, 1981                                          245,000
November 1, 1981                                     250,000
May 1, 1982                                          265,000
November 1, 1982                                     275,000
May 1, 1983                                          290,000
November 1, 1983                                     300,000
May 1, 1984                                          310,000
November 1, 1984                                     325,000
May 1, 1985                                          340,000
November 1, 1985                                     355,000
May 1, 1986                                          370,000
November 1, 1986                                     385,000
May 1, 1987                                          400,000
November 1, 1987                                     415,000
May 1, 1988                                          440,000
November 1, 1988                                     450,000
May 1, 1989                                          475,000
November 1, 1989                                     495,000
May 1, 1990                                          515,000
November 1, 1990                                     535,000
May 1, 1991                                          560,000
November 1, 1991                                     585,000
May 1, 1992                                          605,000
November 1, 1992                                     635,000
May 1, 1993                                          660,000
November 1, 1993                                     690,000
May 1, 1994                                          715,000
November 1, 1994                                     750,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 26-
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due (expressed in dollars)*
May 1, 1995                                         780,000
November 1, 1995                                    815,000
May 1, 1996                                         845,000
November 1, 1996                                    885,000
May 1, 1997                                         925,000
November 1, 1997                                    960,000
May 1, 1998                                       1,000,000
November 1, 1998                                  1,045,000
May 1, 1999                                       1,090,000
November 1, 1999                                  1,135,000
May 1, 2000                                       1,180,000
November 1, 2000                                  1,250,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿'Nw                                    -27 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                            Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                              1%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                          2-1/4%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                              4%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen years
before maturity                          5-1/2%
More than sixteen years but not
more than twenty-one years
before maturity                          7-1/4%
More than twenty-one years but
not more than twenty-three years
before maturity                              8%
More than twenty-three years
before maturity                          8-1/2%


﻿- 28 -
SCHEDULE L
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   The goods and works shall be procured under contracts to be
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in Part A of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and. IDA Credits" published by the Bank in August J975
(hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
2.   The Borrower shall procure:
(a) under separate contracts, the goods and works included
in Parts A, E and F of the Project;
(b) under a single contract, the works included in Parts B
and C of the Project; and
(c) under a single contract, the goods and works included
in Part D of the Project.
B.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the


﻿-29 -
ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and
similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded;
and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other ex-
penditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of
their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Bolivia may be granted a margin of pref-
erence in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be fol-
lowed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Bolivia if the bidder shall have established
to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the
Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Bolivia equal to at
least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such
goods.


﻿(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manu-
factured in Bolivia.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall
be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A
after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported goods offered
in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further comparison
only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the
importation of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15%
of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs duties and
taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in such further
comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if
not, the bid from group C which as a result of the comparison
under paragraph (c) is the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.


﻿- 31 -
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by Bank
Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and
the specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time
for its review, a detailed report, by the consultants referred to
in Section 3.02 of this Agreement, on the evaluation and compari-
son of the bids received, together with the recommendations for
award of the said consultants and such other information as the
Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the rea-
sons for such determination.


﻿- 32 -
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.


