Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4547-AM
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for the Rural Enterprise and Small-Scale Commercial 
Agriculture Development Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated February 26, 2009 
 
Page  2
2
Page  3
CREDIT NUMBER 4547-AM
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated February 26, 2009, entered into between REPUBLIC OF 
ARMENIA (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”) for the purpose of providing additional financing for activities related to 
the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Recipient and 
the Association hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Original Financing Agreement or in the Appendix to this Agreement.  
 
ARTICLE II 
–
FINANCING 
 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to one 
million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 1,300,000) 
(variously, “Credit” and “Financing”) to assist in financing the project described 
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
 
2.04 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with the 
repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
 
Page  4
2
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project through the PIU in accordance with 
the provisions of the Operational Manual and Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
5.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Minister of Finance of the Recipient. 
 
5.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 
1 Melik-Adamyan Street 
 Republic 
Square 
 Yerevan 
375010 
 
Republic of Armenia  
 
Telex:  
 
 
243331
LADA SU 
 5.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
Page  5
3
AGREED at Yerevan, Republic of Armenia, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA 
 
By: /s/ Tigran Davtyan 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By: /s/ Aristome Varoudakis 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  6
4
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is 
to support the development of the Borrower’s 
small and medium-scale rural businesses by: (a) improving the ability of farmers and 
rural entrepreneurs to access markets; and (b) stimulating market-oriented private and 
public investments in rural areas. 
 
The Project consists of Parts C and D of the Original Project. 
Page  7
5
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I
.
Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements
 
1.  
The Recipient shall maintain the PIU until completion of the Project with staff, 
resources and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and assign to it 
responsibility for overall management of Project implementation and coordination, 
including: 
 
(a)  
preparation of disbursement applications under the Credit; 
 
(b)  
management of the Designated Account;  
 
(c) 
maintenance of records and accounts related to the Project and arranging 
for the audit thereof; 
 
(d) 
preparation of bidding documents and participation in administration of 
bidding procedures and of contracts under the Project;  
 
(e) 
preparation of Project Reports and submission thereof to the Recipient 
and the Association in accordance with Section II.A. of this Schedule, the first such 
report to be furnished to the Association not later than seven (7) months after the 
effectiveness of this Agreement; and 
 
(f) 
management and supervision of all Project activities. 
 
B. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
C.  
Safeguards 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the EMP. 
 
Page  8
6
Section II
.
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
 
1. 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed with the Association.  Each Project 
Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than one month after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 4.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than four (4) months after the Closing Date. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
The Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the Association not later than forty- 
five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports 
for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Recipient.  The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Association not later 
than six (6) months after the end of such period.
 
Section III
.
Procurement
A. General 
 
1.
 
Goods and Works.
 
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with 
the provisions of this Section. 
 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
3.
 Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of particular 
Page  9
7
contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works  
 
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding.  
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, 
which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used: 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding, subject to the following additional provisions: 
(i) 
entities in which the Recipient owns a majority shareholding shall not 
be invited to participate in tenders for the Government unless they are 
and can be shown to be legally and financially autonomous and 
operate under commercial law; 
(ii) 
pre-qualification shall be conducted for large works projects; 
 (iii) 
pre- and post-qualification criteria shall only pertain to past contract 
performance, financial, managerial and technical capabilities of 
bidders; 
(iv) 
joint venture partners shall be jointly and severally liable for their 
obligations; 
 (v) 
estimated contract prices shall not be advertised; 
(vi) 
no bids shall be rejected at bid opening; 
(vii) 
no bids shall be rejected solely because they exceed the estimated 
price.  Bids can be cancelled and new bids invited, only if the 
conditions of clause 2.61 of the Procurement Guidelines are met; 
(viii) 
all bid evaluation criteria shall be quantifiable in monetary terms or 
expressed as a pass/fail criteria; and 
 
(ix) 
advance Association approval is required for any modifications in the 
contract scope/conditions during implementation. 
(b) Shopping 
Page  10
8
Procurement Method 
(c)  
Direct Contracting 
(d)  
Community Participation. Goods, works and services required for Parts C of 
the Project may be procured on the basis of community participation in 
accordance with the procedures stipulated in the Operations Manual, and 
which shall require, 
inter alia
,
the issuance of requests for price quotations 
from at least (3) local suppliers and use of standard contract forms specifically 
developed for community-based goods and services.  Non-governmental 
organizations, local suppliers and other community-based organizations, 
registered according to the Borrower’s legislation, shall be allowed to bid.  The 
comparison and evaluation of the quotations received shall be done as 
prescribed in the Operations Manual.  The Recipient, through the PIU, shall 
maintain records and accounts adequate to enable it to register and monitor in 
accordance with the provisions of the Operations Manual the financial, 
technical and procurement aspects of these procedures. 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1.
 Quality- 
and 
Cost-based 
Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, which 
may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
 
(a) 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualification  
(b) 
Single Source Selection 
(c) Commercial 
Practices 
(d) Individual 
Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Association’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Association. 
 
Page  11
9
Section IV
.
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional 
instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient (including the 
“World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from 
time to time by the Association and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to 
such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 
below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Credit to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
 
Category 
Amount of the Credit 
Allocated  
(Expressed in SDR) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
 
(1) 
Consultants Services and 
Incremental Operating 
Costs 
100,000 
 
100% 
 
(2) 
Grants under Part C of the 
Original Project 
 
1,200,000 100% 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
1,300,000
For the purposes of this Section, the term: 
 
(a) 
“Consultants’ Services” means fees and allowances for consultants 
(individuals or firms) hired to support the Project components through technical reviews 
and evaluation, committee work, support to solve specific problems of advisory system 
and for farm management advice, monitoring and evaluation services and impact 
assessments and any other technical assistance as may be agreed upon by the 
Association; 
 
(b) 
“Grants” means financing of Community Grants under Part C of the 
Project, in accordance with the Operational Manual and Schedule 6 to the Original 
Financing Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
“Incremental Operating Costs” means incremental expenses incurred 
with respect to the implementation of the Project, including costs of office and vehicle 
Page  12
10
maintenance, utilities, minor office equipment, minor office repairs, office rent, salaries 
and eligible social charges of staff in the PIU, translation services, communication and 
printing, transportation, local business trip expenditures, the PIU staff training, banking 
charges and any other reasonable and necessary activities directly related to Project 
implementation, management and monitoring as may be agreed upon by the Association. 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR 500,000 equivalent may be made for 
payments made prior to this date but on or after January 1, 2009, for Eligible 
Expenditures under Category (1) and (2). 
2.
 
The Closing Date is May 30, 2010. 
Page  13
11
SCHEDULE 3
 
Repayment Schedule 
 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
Repayable 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
*
On each June 15 and December 15 
 
commencing June 15, 2019, to  
 
and including December 15, 2028 
 
5% 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be repaid, 
except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Page  14
12
APPENDIX 
 
Section I
.
Definitions
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
4. 
 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006), with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
5. 
“Original Financing Agreement” means the development credit agreement for the 
Rural Enterprise and Small-Scale Commercial Agriculture Development Project 
between the Recipient and the Association, dated July 20, 2005 as amended to 
the date of this Agreement (Credit No. 4095 AM). 
6. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in the Original Financing 
Agreement. 
7. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October, 2006. 
8. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
updated and agreed between the Association and the Recipient on January 23, 
2009 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and 
paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from 
time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
Section II
.
Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions for Credits and Grants of the 
Association, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as follows:   
1. 
Section 2.07 is modified to read as follows: 
 
Page  15
13
“Section 2.07. 
Refinancing Preparation Advance 
 
If the Financing Agreement provides for the repayment out of 
the proceeds of
 
the Financing of an advance made by the Association or 
the Bank (“Preparation Advance”), the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Financing Account on or after the 
Effective Date the amount required to repay the withdrawn and 
outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of such withdrawal 
from the Financing Account and to pay all accrued and unpaid charges, if 
any, on the advance as at such date. The Association shall pay the 
amount so withdrawn to itself or the Bank, as the case may be, and shall 
cancel the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
 
2. 
Paragraph (i) of Section 6.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 6.02. 
Suspension by the Association 
 
... (l) 
Ineligibility
.
The Association or the Bank has declared the 
Project Implementing Entity ineligible to receive proceeds of any 
financing made by the Association or the Bank or otherwise to 
participate in the preparation or implementation of any project financed 
in whole or in part by the Association or the Bank, as a result of a 
determination by the Association or the Bank that the Project 
Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or 
collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any 
financing made by the Association or the Bank.” 
 
3. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The term “Project Preparation Advance” is modified to read “Preparation 
Advance” and its definition is modified to read as follows:  
 “‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the 
Financing Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 
2.07.”
 
