                                       Documentof
                                    The World Bank

                              FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                 ReportNo: 47274-AM




                          EMERGENCY PROJECTPAPER

                                          ON A

                PROPOSEDADDITIONAL FINANCING CREDIT

    INTHE AMOUNT OF SDR 1.3 MILLION(US$2.0MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                         TO THE

                              REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA

                                         FOR THE

   RURAL ENTERPRISEAND SMALL-SCALE COMMERCIAL AGRICULTURE
                              DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                    February9,2009




SustainableDevelopmentDepartment
SouthCaucasus CountryUnit
Europeand CentralAsia Region



This documenthas a restricteddistribution andmaybeusedby recipientsonly inthe
performanceo ftheir official duties. Its contentsmay not otherwisebe disclosedwithout
World Bank authorization.

                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                 (Exchange Rate Effective December 31,2008)

                       Currency Unit = Armenia Dram
                               US$ 1 = AMD307.63
                               US$ 1 = SDR0.64

                               FISCAL YEAR
                          January 1   - December31



                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


AF      Additional Financing
AMD     Armenian Dram
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CED     Community-focused Economic Development
CEDPs   Community Economic Development Plans
DA      Designated Account
PDO     Project Development Objective
EA      Environmental Assessment
EMP     Environment Management Plan
FMRs    Financial MonitoringReports
IDA     InternationalDevelopment Association
IFRs    InterimFinancial Reports
IP      Implementation Progress
IRR     Internal Rate of Return
PDO     Project Development Objective
PIU     Project ImplementationUnit
PRSP    Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
RESCAD  Rural Enterprise and Small-scale Commercial Agriculture Development
        Project
SDR     Special DrawingRights




                      Vice President:     Shigeo Katsu
                    Country Director:     Asad Alam
                      Sector Director     Peter D.Thomson
                    Country Manager       Aristomene Varoudakis
                     Sector Manager:      Dina Umali-Deininger
                  Task Team Leader:       Doina Petrescu



                                      ..
                                     11

                                                                                                 FOROFFICIAL USE ONLY


                                                   REPUBLICOFARMENIA


           RURAL ENTERPRISEAND SMALL-SCALE COMMERCIAL AGRICULTURE
                        DEVELOPMENT PROJECT.ADDITIONAL FINANCING



                                                     TABLE OF CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                               Page
          I Introduction.............................................................................................................
           .                                                                                                                                      1
          I1.     Background and Rationale for Additional Financing.............................................                                 2
          I11.    Proposed Changes...................................................................................................            4
                  Results Framework ................................................................................................. 6
          IV      Consistency with CAS ............................................................................................              7
          V.      Appraisal o f Restructured or Scaled-up Project Activities .....................................                               7
                  Fiduciary .................................................................................................................    8
                  Social.......................................................................................................................  9
                  Environment..........................................................................................................         10
                  Environment Action Plan......................................................................................                 11
          VI.     Expected Outcomes ..............................................................................................              11
          VI1.    Benefits and Risks.................................................................................................           '12
          VI11.   Financial Terms and Conditions for the Additional Financing ............................                                      13




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance o f
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.




                                                                          ...
                                                                          111

                              PROJECTPAPERDATASHEET

Date: February 9, 2009                         Team Leader: Doina Petrescu
Country: Republic o f Armenia                  Sector Manager: Dina Umali-Deininger
Project Name: Rural Enterprise and Small-      Country Director: Asad Alam
scale Commercial Agriculture                   Environmental Category: B
Development Project - Additional
Financing

Recipient:
Republic o f Armenia
Ministryo fFinance

Responsible agency:
ARSP Project ImplementationUnit
Ministry o f Agriculture
54B Komitas Street
Yerevan 0014

Revised estimated disbursements(Bank FY/US$m)
FY                   06             07              08            09              10
Annual               1.20          2.74            7.40          8.56            2.10
Cumulative           1.20          3.94            11.34         19.90          22.00
Current closing date: May 30, 2010




Revised project development objectivedoutcomes

The project development objectives remain the same, i.e. to support the development of
Armenia's small- and medium-scale rural businesses by improving the ability o f farmers
and rural entrepreneurs to access markets and by stimulating market-orientedprivate and
public investments inrural areas.

The additional financing will enhance the project's impact and development effectiveness
byincreasingthe total number o f communities benefitingfrom project activities under
the community-focused economic development (CED) component. It will generate
additional employment, improve incomes, and access to services for a wider segment of
Armenia's rural population than under the original project.

Does the scaled-up or restructured project trigger any new safeguard policies?
Nn




                                             iv

                              For Additional Financing
[ ] Loan  [XI Credit   [ 3 Grant
For LoandCreditdGrants:
       Total Bank financing (US$m.): 2.0
       Proposedterms: StandardIDA Terms - 20 years maturitywith 10 years grace
       Deriod




IBRD/IDA
Others
Total




                                         V

              PROPOSEDADDITIONAL FINANCINGCREDIT TO THE
                             REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA FOR THE
 RURAL ENTERPRISE AND SMALL SCALE COMMERCIAL AGRICULTURE
                                   DEVELOPMENT PROJECT


I. Introduction

1.      This Project Paper proposes an Additional Financing Credit in an amount o f
US$2.0 million to the Republic o f Armenia for the Rural Enterprise and Small-scale
Commercial Agriculture Development Project (RESCAD) (PO8701l),                       Credit Agreement
No. 4095 AM.

2.      The project development objective will not change and no major changes are
being proposed under the project.            The proposed additional credit would enable the
Recipient to cover the financing gap as well as scale up the community-focused
economic development (CED) component o f the project. The CED component provides
grants to communities in selected rural areas to stimulate economic development through
increased capacity o f the communities to plan and manage their resources, and prioritize,
fund and maintain key investments that have demonstrable market linkages.

3.      The current financing gap i s mainly due to exchange rate fluctuations and
increases in costs o f construction and construction materials'. In addition, the CED
component was scaled up under the original project from 100 communities to 134
communities. Therefore the additional financing for the financing gap will also cover the
completion o f works inthe 134 communities.

4.      The Recipient has also requested a scaling up o f activities under this component
as the ongoing success with its implementation has increased demand for similar project
support from other communities. More importantly, scaling up the CED component will
help the government o f Armenia to offset the critical vulnerabilities facing the country's
rural population in the face o f the global financial crisis where remittances, an important
source o f household incomes, and employment opportunities for rural households, have
dropped substantially. The aim i s to provide immediate employment, additional incomes
and access to services, such as drinking water, gas and irrigation, to a larger segment of
Armenia's rural communities than planned under the original project. Such scaling up
will have the added benefit o f enhancing the overall impact o f an already well-
performing project.

5.      The proposed additional financing in the amount of SDR 1.3 million (US2.0
million equivalent) i s being processed under the rapid response to emergency procedures
(OP 8.0), within the framework o f the IDA Financial Crisis Response (FCR) Fast Track

' The U S dollar depreciated against the Armenian dram by 35 percent, specifically from AMD 470/USD at
Project appraisal to AMD 306iUSD at the end o f 2008.       In the meantime, the producer price index
increased by approximately 10 percent between appraisal and end o f 2008.




                                                    1

Facility, as part o f the Bank's rapid response to help Armenia mitigate the impacts o f the
current global crisis on the Armenian economy and well-being o f its population.

11.     Background and Rationale for Additional Financing

6.      Country Background. Armenia has strong economic fundamentals going into
the crisis. It has had the highest policy reform (CPIA) ranking o f all IDA countries for the
past several years. GDP growth has averaged above 10% per year and poverty has fallen
from 55% to 26% over the past decade. Fiscal deficits and public debt remain quite
modest in relation to GDP, among the lowest in the Commonwealth o f Independent
States (CIS).

7.      Strong economic fundamentals have shielded the economy from the initial effects
o f the global output slowdown and the financial crisis, but economic vulnerabilities have
been accentuated by the financial crisis and global recession, and the situation is
deteriorating. Though Armenia entered the crisis from a relatively robust position, the
crisis may affect Armenia through three main channels: labor markets (through a decline
in remittances), product markets (through a decline in trade), and capital markets
(through a decrease in foreign direct investment (FDI) and bank borrowing).
Consequently, Armenia will require significant support from its development partners to
help withstand the economic shocks in a manner that does not undermine its development
agenda and considerable gains inpoverty reduction.

8.      GDP growth is likely, at best, to be negligible in 2009. The real estate sector has
already begun to experience a severe contraction, as has metallurgy, and signals are
emerging that other sectors are also under stress. Unemployment rose sharply in the last
quarter of 2008, as numerous gold and molybdenum mines closed. Agricultural growth
also slowed substantially toward the end o f 2008. Inflation i s estimated to have declined
to 5.2%. A marked slowdown in remittances-a         major fiscal transmission mechanism-
i s occurring as a result o f the close economic and investment linkages with Russia.
Remittances, an estimated US$1.6billion in 2008, accounted for nearly 20% o f GDP and
are expected to decline sharply. FDI i s also expected to drop significantly in 2009 to
4.9% o f GDP, down from 7.6% in 2007.

9.      Exports will be affected by sharply declining prices o f non-ferrous metals coupled
with plummetingexternal demand. Exports are estimated to have declined by about 6.3%
in2008 (inUS$ terms) and are projected to decline further in2009. The current account
deficit widened substantially from 6.4% o f GDP in 2007 to 13% in 2008, and it i s
projected to worsen further in 2009.

10.     The global financial crisis poses serious challenges for maintaining the robust
economic growth and poverty reduction that Armenia enjoyed for much o f the past
decade. Economic growth has been generally pro-poor. Consequently, the vulnerable
may be disproportionately affected by the economic downturn. Poverty simulations show
that for every percentage point reduction in the GDP growth rate, national poverty
incidence increases by 0.6 percentage points.




                                               2

11.      The crisis, which i s coming on the heels o f the food and fuel price increases in
2007 and the early part o f 2008, could have a wide ranging impact on the poor and
vulnerable through its effects on employment and remittances. The loss o f income and
employment opportunities would lead to declining current consumption and ability to
smooth consumption and further depletion o f productive assets. The extreme poor are
likely to be hit the hardest. For an income decline equivalent to 10 percent o f the food
poverty line, the proportion o f those whose consumption would be below the food
poverty line would double fiom 3.8 percent to 7.7 percent o f the population. The increase
inthe depth and severity ofpoverty could be even larger, pushingmany poor households
to the edge o f survival.

11.      The Armenia R E S C A D Project. The original credit for the Armenia RESCAD
Project in the amount o f SDR 13.3 million (US$20 million equivalent) was approved by
the Board o f Executive Directors on July 7, 2005 and became effective on December 16,
2005. The project's original objective i s to support the development o f Armenia's small
and medium-scale rural businesses by improving the ability o f farmers and rural
entrepreneurs to access markets and by stimulating market-oriented private and public
investments in rural areas. The project comprises the following four components: (i)
Small Rural Business Support;           (ii)Farm-focused Development Support; (iii)
Community-focused Economic Development; and (iv) Project Management.

12.      The project objectives and design have not changed, but the overall scope o f the
project has already been expanded to include more communities who will benefit fiom
project interventions than originally planned.            Under the original project, 100
communities were targeted for project interventions under the CED component.
However, this number has increased during implementation to benefit 134 communities.
The additional financing will cover the existing financing gap of US$1.25 million which
i s needed to complete 35 grants within the 134 communities, as well as provide US$0.60
million for scaling up the CED component to include five to seven new communities. As
such, a total o f approximately 140 communities would ultimately benefit from project
interventions. Thus, the additional credit would help the government o f Armenia reach a
larger segment o f the country's rural population which would also enhance the impact o f
the project's development objectives.

13.      The project i s performing satisfactorily. It i s meeting its development objectives
and i s in full compliance with the credit covenants. All project activities are progressing
well and are well advanced. To date, the project has disbursed US$17.5 million (87.75%
o f total funds) under the IDA credit and US$l,11 million (63.42% o f the total fbnds)
under the PHRD implementation grant.           Under the Small Rural Business Support
component, the project filled the gap o f much-needed long-term lending by providing
US$4.75 million equivalent for 87 sub-loans and mobilizing over US$8 million
investments in rural areas. Under the competitive grant program, a total o f 56 small
grants to farmer groups were approved.           These grants were provided to test and
demonstrate technical innovations, focusing mainly on crop-related areas, including
processing and marketing, and livestock production and marketing. As a result o f the
project, there i s increased capacity o f extension services to deliver technical advice to
farmers and rural businesses, with 15,000 farmers served on a regular basis and around



                                              3

40,000 small farmers in 295 communities accessing advisory services on an annual basis.
The project has also established a modem legal and regulatory framework for production
o f high yielding varieties o f seeds in support o f private seed production activities, with
2,800 tons o f seed being certified in 2008, and 37 new varieties added to the list o f
registered varieties. Under the community economic development component, a total o f
156 grants were selected by 134 communities. O f these, 92 are infrastructure (drinking
water, gasification, irrigation and sewerage) and 62 income generating (agricultural
machinery, rural bus service, milk collection coolers, flour mills). As o f January 2009,
97 grants have been completed (73 infrastructure and 24 income-generating) and 59 are
under implementation.

14.     Implementation progress (IP) and Project Development Objective (PDO) ratings
for the project have been satisfactory since the start o f project implementation in
December 2005. The project has not had any environmental, social or other safeguard
problems.

15.     Rationale.    The proposed additional financing would enable the Recipient to
cover the financing gap as well as scale up the CED component o f the project. The
current financing gap i s mainly due to exchange rate fluctuations and increases incosts o f
construction and construction materials which have affected the implementation of the
156 grants in 134 communities selected under the project.

16.     The Recipient has requested the scaling up o f activities under this component to
provide rapid employment and improved incomes to a larger segment o f Armenia's rural
communities than originally planned. The aim i s to help to offset the effects o f the global
financial crisis on the rural population.

17.     The project team has considered several possible approaches for financing this
request, including a new operation or a repeater'operation. Inthe interest o f maximizing
cost effectiveness and ensuring timeliness in processing, a new operation or a repeater
project were not considered as optimal options. A credit provided under an "Additional
Financing" arrangement in accordance with OP 13.20 would immediately and rapidly
help to meet the objectives o f the proposed additional credit and would also leverage the
Recipient's existing implementation capacity by utilizing existing implementation
arrangements o f the original project.

111.    Proposed Changes

18.     Supported Activities. No changes are envisaged in the project objectives and
component design. The proposed additional credit o f US$2.0 million would enable the
Recipient to cover the financing gap and scale up public works by adding an additional 5-
7 community infrastructure and income-generation grants under the CED component.
The component consists of:        (i)community mobilization and capacity building; (ii)
technical support; and (iii)implementation o f investment priorities.           Community
mobilization involves the development o f Community Economic Development Plans
(CEDPs).     Technical support i s provided to encourage effective participation in the
planning process, focusing on development and management o f shared economic



                                             4

infrastructure, including market infrastructure and rural roads.       The component i s
financing investments in infrastructure that supports the development o f small-scale
commercial agriculture, involving farmers, their associations, small and medium-scale
rural enterprises, such as agro-processors, marketing organizations and input suppliers. A
CEDP primarily includes activities in three broad categories:        (i)improved resource
management; (ii)rural market access infrastructure improvement; and (iii)income
generating activities with a proven broad beneficiary base.

19.     The additional financing would help with implementation o f this component in all
its aspects, with a special focus on employment and income generating activities, and
would be allocated as follows:

    (0       US$1,25million to cover the existing financing gap to complete the
             implementation o f all 156 CED grants in 134 communities designed under the
             original project.   O f this, 97 have already been completed; additional
             financing i s neededto complete implementation o f the remaining 59 grants.

    (ii) US$0.60milliontoscaleuptheCEDcomponentwithanadditional5-7new
             grants to be implemented. These grants may include infrastructure activities
             such as: repair and extension o f drinking water pipelines and reservoirs,
             repair and extension o f the gas network, repair and extension o f the irrigation
             network.

    (iii) US$0.15 million to cover incremental operating costs of the Project
             ImplementationUnit (PIU), including monitoring and evaluation.

20.     PDO. The project development objective will not change. Since the additional
financing will scale up the CED component, the Results Framework has been revised to
reflect new targets. Similarly, the Key Performance Indicators have also been revised to
reflect the increased scope and improved impact o f project activities.

21.     Outcome indicators would include: (i)number o f communities benefitingfrom
project interventions; (ii)number o f participating beneficiaries accessing services; (iii)
number o f additional jobs created; (iv) number of labor days created; and (v) value of
additional labor wages generated.




                                              5

                                   RESULTS  FRAMEWORK


PDO
Overall Proiect: To support the development o f Armenia's small- and medium-scalerural
businesses by improving the ability o f farmers and rural entrepreneurs to access markets
and by stimulating market-oriented private and public investmentsinrural areas.

Objective                                      Indicators               ProjectedTarget
                                                                      Values for the CED
                                                                       component under
                                                                      RESCAD (Original
                                                                        andAdditional
                                                                           Financing)
CED Component: To stimulate            Number o f communities                 140
economic development in selected       benefiting from project
rural communities through              interventions
increased capacity o f the
communities to plan and manage         Number o f participating              50,000
their resources, and prioritize, fund beneficiaries accessing
and maintain key investmentsthat       services
have demonstrable market
linkages.                              Numberof additionaljobs                1,300
                                       created                           (temporary and
                                                                           permanent)

                                       Numberoflabor days                   150,0000
                                       created

                                       Value o f additional labor       USSl.75 million
                                       wages generated



22.     Implementation Arrangements. The current institutional arrangements will
continue to be used for the implementation o f activities under the Additional Financing.

23.     Implementation Period. The implementation o f the proposed activities will be
completed within the closing date o f the original project, i.e. May 30,201 0.

24.     RetroactiveFinancing. Withdrawals from proceeds of the additional financing
in an amount not exceeding SDR 500,000 (US$750,000 equivalent) can be made for
eligible expenditures under the CED component and incremental operating costs for the
PIU, after January 1,2009.




                                             6

IV.     Consistency with CAS

25.     The Armenia Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), approved by the Board inMay
2004 i s based on the Government's PRSP objectives. From the broad range o f proposed
interventions in the PRSP, the CAS focuses on three areas that fit the Bank's comparative
advantage and complement other donor activities by: (i)      promoting private sector led
economic growth; (ii)making growth more pro-poor; and (iii)reducing non-income
poverty.    Activities to be financed with the additional financing will continue to
contribute to these CAS objectives as planned under the original project.

26.     The additional financing will support both income generation and infkastructure
investments. The income generation investments will promote small-scale commercial
agriculture that will improve agricultural productivity and strengthen linkages to markets
by smallholder farmers and small-scale rural enterprises. Such investments will not only
strongly contribute to the pro-poor objective o f the CAS but also promote private sector
economic growth. Through infrastructure investments, non-income poverty will also be
reduced as communities will be empowered to plan the use o f their resources more
efficiently and increase the amount o f resources at their disposal, resulting in improved
access to basic services such as water, gas and irrigation.

V.      Appraisal of Restructured or Scaled-up Project Activities

27.     Technical. The technical approach takes into account the experience o f project
implementation so far, as well as o f similar interventions in Armenia and other countries
in the region. The approach has been discussed with the government and with the
stakeholders and i s in line with the government's strategy and the needs o f the rural
communities. It uses an approach involving participatory development o f community
economic development plans, followed by financing selected grants from the plan that
can demonstrate an impact on employment generation, additional incomes and improved
access to services.

28.     Economic Analysis.      The proposed Additional Financing intervention would
contribute to stimulating the economy currently facing a downturn.         The immediate
economic impact o f the Additional Financing would be the generation o f jobs and labor
incomes in the construction sector and communities through labor-intensive
infkastructure construction and income generation grants.      Such grant would provide
immediate employment and cash incomes, and at the same time improve living
conditions inpoor communities, especially inthe rural areas.

29.     The economic analysis focuses on both the financing gap as well as the scaling up
o f the CED component. Duringappraisal, for the project as a whole, the average Internal
Rate o f Return (IRR) was forecasted at 16.8%. The economic analysis for the already
implemented CED grants showed that the average IRR for the component i s 23.45%;
18.3% for infrastructure grants and 26.24% for income-generating grants.




                                             7

30.    These estimates are based on the analysis o f the sample o f prior-review grants
(reviewed by the task team during implementation). It should also be noted that the
project would not fund any community grant that would have an IRR o f less than 12%.



Fiduciary

31.     Procurement. The existing Project Implementation Unit will work in the same
capacity under the additional financing. The Procurement Unit as assessed consists of
two procurement specialists and an assistant. The following action will be taken to
further strengthen the procurement capacity o f the Recipient for project implementation:
periodic post review, including physical inspection, by the Bank o f a representative
sample o f grants (approximately 5-10% o f total grants) during supervision missions,
including procurement and financial management missions.

32.     Procurement shall be carried out in accordance with the requirements set forth in
the procurement and consultants guidelines published by the Bank in May 2004 and
revised inOctober 2006. Furthermore, the Project shall be carried out inaccordance with
the provisions o f the Anti-Corruption guidelines, dated October 15, 2006.                he
Procurement Plan as prepared by the Recipient shall be updated from time to time in
accordance with paragraph 1.16 o f the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 o f the
Consultant Guidelines (Procurement Plan). The Bank, through the PIU, will ensure that
sound contract administration procedures are inplace.

33.     The PIU shall procure goods, works and services according to the procurement
arrangements set forth in the existing Credit Agreement o f the main Project, and in the
Project Operational Manual.      The project will not finance second hand goods and
equipment.

34.    The current grants range between approximately US$25,000 to US$300,000.
Grants under the Additional Financing would remain within this range. Taking into
account the dollar depreciation, it was agreed during appraisal o f the additional financing
to maintain the maximum investment within a community at AMD 36,000 (US$120) per
inhabitant.

35.     Financial Management. The financial management functions under the
additional financing including the flow o f funds, staffing, accounting, reporting and
auditing, will be handled by the PIU. Particularly, all the funds under the grants for the
CED component, including the community contributions, currently flow though the PIU,
which verifies all the payment supporting documents (including those for community
contribution) before processing the payments from the Bank and government sources, as
well as on behalf o f beneficiary communities. There would be no change in financial
management arrangements for the additional financing.         The financial management
arrangements o f the original RESCAD project implemented by the PIU have been
reviewed periodically as part o f the project supervision and have been found overall
acceptable to the Bank. According to the latest financial management supervision (June



                                            8

2008), the financial management arrangements o f the project were rated as moderately
satisfactory.   An action plan was formally agreed with the RESCAD PIU during the
previous supervision to improve the financial management arrangements and there i s
positive progress made by the PIU. The most important point was related to the manner
inwhich the project's commercial bank (which holds both the special/designated account
and government co-financing account) operates Letters o f Credit. The commercial bank
in essence "freezes" funding in the project's accounts for the value of the letter of credit
which in turn, restricts the rate o f disbursements for the project. The matter has beenalso
discussed with L O A and an acceptable solution found.

36.     The client i s in compliance with the audit covenant and the audit reports on the
project (covering the payments made by the PIU on behalf o f communities) have been
received by the due dates. While the auditor issued a qualified exception opinion on
RESCAD project's financial statements for FY2007 (which were received on time), the
qualification was due to the lack o f supporting documentation o f sub-loans beneficiaries'
co-investment, and was not considered as a significant matter since it i s not directly
related to the project and i s not reflected inthe legal agreement. The missinginformation
was also considered not to be informative as it did not provide any added value to the
users o f the financial statements. No serious internal control issues were raised in the
auditor's management letter. The overall FM risk for the RESCAD project remains
moderate.

37.     Similar audit arrangements to the original RESCAD project will be adopted for
the additional financing. The project audit will be conducted by independent private
auditors and on terms o f reference acceptable to the Bank, and contracted by the PIU.
The annual audited project financial statements will be submitted to the Bank within six
months o f the end o f each fiscal year and also at the closing of the project. The cost o f
the audit will be financed from the proceeds o f the credit. Project management-oriented
InterimUn-auditedFinancial Reports (IFRs) - previously known as Financial Monitoring
Reports (FMRs) - will be used for the additional financing monitoring and supervision.
The existing formats o f the IFRs will be used, and the PIU will produce a full set of IFRs
every quarter throughout the life o f the project and will submit them to the Bank no later
than 45 days after the calendar quarter end.

38.     Disbursements.Credit proceeds will be disbursed using the same Disbursement
Procedures established under the original Project. A separate Designated Account (DA)
for IDA funds under the Additional Financing Credit will be opened in a commercial
bank on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. Details on the ceiling o f the Designated
Account and MinimumApplication size are provided for in the Disbursement Letter.

Social

39.     The main social issues to be addressed by the additional financing are equity
(access to resources and information), governance (resource management for the benefit
o f all members o f the community), capacity building (economic, social, technical and
managerial) and inclusion (ensuring that the interest o f all stakeholders i s factored into




                                               9

decisions and actions). The project includes features to address these issues, such as
public posting in the villages and referendums held to establish priorities, training and
technical assistance to ensure sound contract administration, and maintenance o f
investments.

Environment

40.     The proposed additional activities do not require a modification of the
Environmental Category, which would remain as B.

41.     An Environmental Assessment was carried out for the original project, including
an Environment Management Plan (EMP) providing general environmental management
guidelines for the project. Implementation o f this plan i s a covenant in the Development
Credit Agreement for the original project. The EMP for the original project will continue
to be used for the additional financing and i s included as a covenant in the Financing
Agreement for the additional financing. It was agreed with Safeguards Coordinator and
the Government during negotiations, that there i s no need to have an updated EMP as a
condition o f effectiveness or disbursement in the Financing Agreement as the activities
under the additional financing are the same as the original project activities, and no new
activities are envisaged under the additional financing. The EMP under the original
project i s fully applicable and valid for the additional financing under the project. The
EMP for the original project was discussed with the Government and disclosed in-
country on January 22, 2009 as well as sent to the Bank's Infoshop to cover the
additional financing. An Operational Manual was developed for the CED component o f
the original project, which provides a blueprint o f action for the entire sub-project cycle,
including environmental due diligence to be applied in the process o f sub-project
selection and implementation. This covers guidance on environmental screening o f sub-
project proposals, conducting specific environmental studies as required, and tracking
performance o f civil works contractors.

42.     No significant or large-scale environmental impacts are expected to occur during
the additional financing implementation, given the relatively small size and type of the
grants to be supported.     The renovation of village infrastructure (e.g. water and gas
supplies, storage and marketing infrastructure, etc.) will improve the socioeconomic
conditions o f the rural populations and contribute to reducing rural poverty. At the same
time, the rehabilitation activities may raise certain environmental issues commonly
associated with small scale construction, such as dust, noise, degradation o f vegetation
and generation o f small amounts o f potentially hazardous wastes (e.g. asbestos tiles).
These impacts can be mitigated easily by applying relevant best construction practices as
laid out in the EMP.

43.     As was the case for the original project, the additional financing will not cover
any activities that would involve land acquisition or involuntary resettlement. It will also
not include activities which would involve procurement and use o f pesticides. The
project will finance new construction, defined as extension o f pipes network for gas,
drinkingwater and irrigation. These involve small diameter pipes intrenches dug around




                                             10

one meter deep and less then one meter in width. The extension o f the pipes networks
will be done on public / community lands, usually along side o f existing public local
roads, and will not involve any land acquisition or resettlement, including no
displacement o f economic activities.

44.     A review of the environmental safeguards performance for the original project
was conducted in May 2008 as part o f the midterm review. While the environmental
review did not identify any major problems, it highlightedsome issues to be addressed in
the future. In order to address these, the project team has prepared an Action Plan as
provided below.

                               ENVIRONMENT     ACTION PLAN

Description of Action                          Responsible party         Schedule
1. Strengthen the PIU capacity for                  WB team, PIU          March-April, 2009
providing environmental supervision o f the
project, through additional training,
including on-the-job training by the Bank
team's environment specialist
2. Diligent performance o f environmental             PIU, Local             Throughout
reviews o f sub-projects infull compliance            Consultant             Project life
with the Operational Manual and EMP
3. Documentation o f all steps for                       PIU                 Throughout
environmental review and supervision
applied through the sub-project cycle by
PIU and available on file.




44.     Sustainability.   The design o f the CED component has built-in sustainability,
which i s ensured through:     (i)community voting for priority investments through a
referendum; (ii)  beneficiary contribution o f at least 15 percent, o f which 5 percent cash,
which ensures buy-in and ownership; (iii)provision of permanent and temporary
employment within the community; and (iv) provision o f a multi-year budget line by
local authorities to ensure regular maintenance o f grants.

VI.     Expected Outcomes

45.     The additional financing will expand the scope o f activities under the project,
reaching a larger segment o f Armenia's rural population. By improving the ability o f
farrners and rural entrepreneurs to access markets and by stimulating market-oriented
private and public investments inrural areas, the US$2.0 million additional financing will
help to: (i)provide immediate employment in selected communities through investments
in rural projects; (ii)improve income levels o f peoples in these communities; and (iii)
improve services, and access to better services (such as drinking water, gas) in
communities benefitingfrom project interventions.




                                             11

46.    Outcome indicators would include: (i)number o f communities benefiting from
project interventions; (ii)number o f participating farmers' accessing services; (iii)
number o f additional jobs created; and (iv) value o f additional labor wages generated.

VII. BenefitsandRisks

47.
     ' Benefits. The additional financing will enhance the project's impact and
development outcomes by increasing the total number o f communities benefiting from
project activities under the CED component.             Approximately 100 communities
benefitting a population o f 40,000 were initially envisaged under the CED component
which had an original allocation o f US$9.8 million. However, with the growing success
o f the component and increasing demand by other communities, an additional 34
communities were added to the project. With additional financing, 5-7 new communities
are expected to benefit from project interventions - a total o f approximately 140
communities covering 50,000 beneficiaries.

48.    Project benefits are multi-fold. By financing a larger number o f investments that
support small-scale commercial agriculture the project will not only help more farmers
and rural entrepreneurs to increase their productivity and access to markets, but also
provide an environment that would encourage economic development within the
community and/or attract investments from outside the community, e.g.the establishment
o f new marketing and processing enterprises. Grants that focus on, inter alia, small-scale
community infrastructure projects such as gas, drinking water and sewage will not only
improve services or provide access to better services, but also help to generate
employment and improve incomes among rural populations in communities selected for
project interventions.   Given the types o f works and activities under the grants, it i s
estimated that the overall CED component will create an additional 2,600 jobs
(temporary and permanent), which translates to approximately 262,500 labor days.
Considering an average monthly salary o f US$400, the value o f additional labor wages
generated under the overall CED component amounts to approximately US$3.5 million.
Of these, the additional financing would create approximately 43,700 labor days and
generate approximately US$580,000 in labor wages.

49.    Risks. Underthe current project, the overall risk was moderate, while the risk for
availability o f cash income for co-financing under community development grants was
Substantial. This risk remains substantial. Part o f the additional financing would cover
the financing gap for community grants that have already started and for which the
community contribution has already been committed. For the new community grants
which would be financed, the availability o f co-financing, whether incash or inkind, will
be one ofthe selection criteria.

50.    The proposed extended project will adopt the same rigorous approach to
procurement as in the on-going project. At appraisal, the procurement risk was indicated
as substantial due to the existing country environment. This risk remains substantial
under the additional financing. Due to the decentralized nature o f the grants, there is a




                                             12

possibility that communities may not strictly adhere to Bank Procurement Guidelines.
Therefore, the P I U and the Bank supervision mission teams will undertake intensified
post review and physical inspection o f a randomly selected representative sample (5
percent  - 10percent) of the total grants.

51.     Due to the possibility that the economic situation will deteriorate further, there i s
a substantial risk that communities may not have adequate funds for maintenance of the
infrastructure and equipment procured under the project.            As communities must
contribute 15 percent in cash or kind to each grant, there i s a strong sense o f ownership
and support, thereby reducing the risk o f poor attention to implementation and
maintenance of grants.

52.      In light o f the strong progress under the project and the well established
institutional and implementation arrangements, the team considers that the overall risk
would be Moderate for the additional financing.

VIII. FinancialTerms and Conditionsfor the AdditionalFinancing

53.     The additional financing i s subject to IDA terms repayable in 20 years with a 10
year grace period.




                                             13

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               IBRD 36722

                                                             44°                                                            To Shulaveri                      45°                                                                                           46°                                                                               47°                                                             48°
                                    GEORGIA                                         To Dmanisi                                                BagrateshenBagrateshen                                                                                                              GEORGIA                                                                     A R M E N I A
           To Bagdanovka
                                                                DzoramutDzoramut                                                                          NoyemberianNoyemberian                                                                                                                                                        ARMENIA 2009 EMERGENCY
                                   BavraBavra                                   Tashir
                                                                                ashir
    ZorakertZoraker
                                        Tavshut
                                        avshut                                                              AlaverdiAlaverdi                                                             To Kazakh                                                                                                                                            PROJECTS LOCATION
                                               AshotskAshotsk

41°                  S H I R A K                                                 Step'anavanStep'anavan                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LRIP LIFELINE ROADS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT (LRIP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     41°

                   AmasiyaAmasiya               Verdaghbiur
                                                 erdaghbiur                             L O R I                              Toumanian
                                                                                                                              oumanian                                                                                                                                                                                              RESCAD    ADDITIONAL FINANCE FOR RURAL ENTREPRISE AND SMALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SCALE COMMERCIAL AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (RESCAD)
                  LRIP            RESCAD              SIF-3                      LRIP          RESCAD            SIF-3
                                                                                                                                                                    IjevanIjevan                            BerdBerd                                                                                                                    SIF-3 ADDITIONAL FINANCE FOR THE SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND-3 (SIF-3)

                                         Gyumri
                                         Gyumri                         SpitakSpitak                                                                          TAV U S H                                                                                                                                                                                   PRIMARY ROADS (DUAL CARRIAGEWAYS)
                                                                                       Vanadzor
                                                                                        anadzor
                                                                                                                                                    LRIP              RESCAD          SIF-3                                                                                                                                                               PRIMARY ROADS (OTHER)
       To Kars

                                 AkhuritAkhurit                                                                                                 DilijanDilijan                                                                                                                                                                                            RAILROADS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          RESERVOIRS
                                          ArtikArtik            Tsakhkahovit
                                                                sakhkahovit                                                                                                                                          ArtsvashenArtsvashen                          AZERBAIJAN
                          MaralikMaralik                                         AparanAparan                                                                                   Krasnosel'skKrasnosel'sk                                                                                                                                                  NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                                SevanSevan
                                                                                                               Tsakhkadzor
                                                                                                               sakhkadzor                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 MARZ (PROVINCE) CAPITALS
                                                                                 AragatsAragats
                                                                                                                                           HrazdanHrazdan                                                                                                                                                                                                 MAIN TOWNS/VILLAGES

    Akhurian                                          ARAGATSOTNARAGATSOTN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                RIVERS
                      Verin Talin
                        erin alin                                                                                 K O TAY K                                                            LAKE
                   AragatsAragats                   LRIP            RESCAD             SIF-3               Yegvard
                                                                                                            egvard                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                   SIF-3                      GavarGavar              SEVAN
             R.                                                         AshtarakAshtarak                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MARZ (PROVINCE) BOUNDARIES

                                                                                                                             AbovianAbovian                              G E G H A R K U N I K                                              MetsMets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            MazraMazra                                                                                                              Additional Finance for
                                                                    Echmiadzin
                                                                    Echmiadzin                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Lifeline Roads     Rural Entreprise and  Additional Finance for
                                   OktemberjanOktemberjan                                                     YEREVANYEREVAN                                                    LRIP     RESCAD                     SIF-3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Marz              Improvement      Small Scale Commercial  the Social Investment
                    BagaranBagaran  A R M A V I R                                                      YEREVANYEREVAN          GarniGarni                                                                                                  Vardenis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ardenis
                                                                                                                                                                                             MartuniMartuni                                                                                                                                       Project (LRIP)   Agriculture Development     Fund-3 (SIF-3)
                                         ArmavirArmavir                            DzhraratDzhrarat
                                                                                                           SIF-3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Project (RESCAD)
                                        LRIP                         Markara
                                                                     Markara
                                                             SIF-3                                                                A R A R AT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ARAGATSOTN             YES                   YES                    YES
40°                                     Araks                                                  MassisMassis
                                                    R.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               40°
                                                                                                              Artashat
                                                                                                              Artashat                       SIF-3                                                                                                                                                                               ARARAT                                                              YES

                                                                                                                                   Vedi
                                                                                                                                    edi                                                                                                                                                                                          ARMAVIR                YES                                          YES

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GEGHARKUNIK            YES                   YES                    YES
                                                                                                                               AraratArarat                                       VAY O T S -                        LRIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               JermukJermuk
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 KOTAYK                                                              YES
                                        T U R K E Y                                                                                                                                  D Z O R                        SIF-3
                                                                                                                                         Yeraskh
                                                                                                                                           eraskh                                                                                                                                                                                LORI                   YES                   YES                    YES
                                                                                                                                                                                             Yegegnadzoregegnadzor
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SHIRAK                 YES                   YES                    YES
                                                                                                                                                                                   GetapGetap
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SYUNIK                                       YES                    YES
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Vaik
                                                                                                                                                                                                              aik

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                To Shusha        TAVUSH                 YES                   YES                    YES
                                                                                                                                                      To Shakhtakhty
                                                                                                                                                  Araks                                                                                                  AngekhakotAngekhakot                                                    VAYOTS-DZOR            YES                                          YES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ZabukhZabukh
                                                                                                                                                       R.                                                                                              SisianSisian Vorot                                                        YEREVAN                                                             YES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             an                  GorisGoris
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           To Nakhichevan
                                                ARMENIA                                                                                                                                                                                                                             R.

                                                                                                                                                                                                        AZERBAIJAN                                                            Tatev
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  atev

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S Y U N I K
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       RESCAD            SIF-3

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        KapanKapan
                                                                                                                  ISLAMIC                                                                                                                                          KadzhKadzh

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           To Zangelan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    KajaranKajaran
            This map was produced by the                                                                         REPUBLIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0            10         20            30         40 Miles
39°         Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
            The boundaries, colors, denominations                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    39°
            and any other information shown on                                                                    OF IRAN
            this map do not imply, on the part of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0        10     20    30       40       50     60 Kilometers
            The World Bank Group, any judgment                                                                                                                                                                                                          To Ordubad                     MegriMegri
            on the legal status of any territory, or                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     To Zangelan
            any endorsement or acceptance of such
            boundaries.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Araks     R.
                                                 44°                                                                                                      45°                                                                                              46°                                                                                 47°                                                                48°

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             FEBRUARY 2009

