                                      Document of
                               The World Bank


                                                     Report No: ICR00001813



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                   (IDA-40950; IDA-45470; TF-54738)

                                 ON A CREDIT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 13.3 MILLION
                        (US$ 20 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                 AND THE ADDITIONAL FINANCING CREDIT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 1.3 MILLION

                        (US$ 2 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                       TO THE

                           REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA

                                      FOR THE

  RURAL ENTERPRISE AND SMALL-SCALE COMMERCIAL AGRICULTURE
                    DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                     June 22, 2011




Sustainable Development Department
South Caucasus Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

              (Exchange Rate Effective June 22, 2011)

                  Currency Unit = Armenian Dram
                      100.0 AMD = US$ 0.27
                     US$ 1.00 = 374.25 AMD

                         FISCAL YEAR
                     January 1 – December 31

              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AMD      Armenian Dram
ARSP     Agricultural Reform Support Project
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CARMAC   Community Agricultural Resource Management and Competitiveness Project
CGP      Competitive Grants Program
CDD      Community Demand Driven
CED      Community Economic Development
CEDP     Community Economic Development Plans
CPS      Country Partnership Strategy
DCA      Development Credit Agreement
ECA      Europe and Central Asia
EMP      Environmental Management Plan
ERR      Economic Rate of Return
FM       Financial Management
FMAP     Farmer Marketing Access Project (IFAD)
FMR      Financial Management Report
FSU      Former Soviet Union
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GoA      Government of Armenia
Ha       Hectare
I&D      Irrigation and Drainage
ICR      Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDA      International Development Association
IOIs     Intermediate Outcome Indicators
IRR      Internal Rate of Return
ISR      Implementation Status Report
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MASC     Marz Agricultural Support Center
MFI      Microfinance Institutions
MoA      Ministry of Agriculture
MoF      Ministry of Finance
MTR      Mid-Term Review
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
NPV      Net Present Value
                                ii
OI          Outcome Indicators
O&M         Operation and Maintenance
PAD         Project Appraisal Document
PDO         Project Development Objective
PFI         Participating Financial Institutions
PHRD        Japan Policy and Human Resources Development
PIU         Project Implementation Unit
POI         Project Outcome Indicator
PRSP        Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
RASC        Republican Agricultural Support Center
RFF         Rural Finance Facility
SA          Special Account
SME         Small and Medium Enterprise
SRA         Seed Regulatory Agency
TA          Technical Assistance
TAP         Technical Assessment Program
XDR/SDR     Special Drawing Rights




          Vice President:          Philippe H. Le Houerou
          Country Director:        Asad Alam
          Sector Director:         Peter D. Thomson
          Sector Manager:          Dina Umali-Deininger
          Project Team Leader:     Doina Petrescu
          ICR Main Author:         Juan Morelli



                                  iii
                                    ARMENIA
   Rural Enterprise and Small-Scale Commercial Agriculture Development Project


                                                         CONTENTS



1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design .............................................. 1

3. Assessment of Outcomes............................................................................................... 9

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome.......................................................... 15

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance..................................................... 15

6. Lessons Learned .......................................................................................................... 17

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ....... 18


Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 19

Annex 2. Outputs by Component .................................................................................. 20

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis .................................................................. 33

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ......... 37

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results............................................................................. 38

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ................................................. 42

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower’s ICR......................................................................... 43

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ................... 72

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ....................................................................... 73

MAP.................................................................................................................................. 74




                                                                  iv
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Rural Enterprise &
                                                                          Small-Scale
Country:                Armenia                 Project Name:             Commercial
                                                                          Agriculture
                                                                          Development Project
                                                                          IDA-40950,IDA-
Project ID:             P087011                 L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                          45470,TF-54738
ICR Date:               06/23/2011              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                          ARMENIA
Original Total
                        XDR 13.3M               Disbursed Amount:         XDR 14.6M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 14.6M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Agriculture
 RESCAD Project Implementation Unit
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       05/20/2004     Effectiveness:             12/16/2005        12/16/2005
Appraisal:            04/13/2005     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             07/07/2005     Mid-term Review:           03/17/2008        05/04/2008
                                     Closing:                   05/31/2010        12/31/2010

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:



                                                i
Overall Bank                                          Overall Borrower
                           Satisfactory                                         Satisfactory
Performance:                                          Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                                Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                            Quality at Entry
                           No                                                 None
at any time (Yes/No):                                 (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                               Quality of
                             No                                               None
time (Yes/No):                                        Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                             Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                     Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Agricultural extension and research                                      20                    20
Agro-industry                                                            20                    20
Agro-industry, marketing, and trade                                      25                    25
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector                         20                    20
Micro- and SME finance                                                   15                    15


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise support                               14                    14
Rural markets                                                            29                    29
Rural non-farm income generation                                         14                    14
Rural policies and institutions                                          14                    14
Rural services and infrastructure                                        29                    29

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                           At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:              Philippe H. Le Houerou                Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:            Asad Alam                             D-M Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Manager:              Dina Umali-Deininger                  Juergen Voegele
Project Team Leader:         Doina Petrescu                        Frauke Jungbluth
ICR Team Leader:             Doina Petrescu
ICR Primary Author:          Juan Bautista Morelli




                                                     ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of the project was to support the development of Armenia#s small and
medium-scale rural businesses by improving the ability of farmers and rural
entrepreneurs to access markets and by stimulating market-oriented private and public
investments in rural areas.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The PDO was not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target      Formally         Actual Value
                                              Values (from         Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                 approval           Target        Completion or
                                               documents)           Values         Target Years
                  Organizational and contractual arrangements for targeted farmers and
Indicator 1 :
                  entrepreneurs improved: Participating rural business entities# incomes increase
Value
quantitative or   N/A                       10%                               27%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2005                   05/31/2010                          12/31/2010
Comments          Targeted income increase surpassed by 170%: a survey covering 52 of the 132
(incl. %          rural business entities participating in the project with established links to
achievement)      farmers reports around 27% income increase.
                  Organizational and contractual arrangements for targeted farmers and
Indicator 2 :     entrepreneurs improved: Participating farmers access to services lead to income
                  increase
Value
quantitative or ARM 1,236,000              10%                              25%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2005                   05/31/2010                       12/31/2010
                Survey at completion shows average income increased to ARM 1,964,000 (59%)
Comments
                while the control group increased by 33%. Based on these results, the project
(incl. %
                had a 25% income increase over of the increase that would have taken place
achievement)
                without the project.
                Organizational and contractual arrangements for targeted farmers and
Indicator 3 :
                entrepreneurs improved: Proportion of farm production sold for cash increased
                                                                            Plant products 20%
Value           Plant products 46.4%
                                                                            increase; Livestock
quantitative or sold; Livestock products 20% increase
                                                                            products 24%
Qualitative)    47.7% sold
                                                                            increase
Date achieved 12/31/2005                   05/31/2010                       12/31/2010
                Data from the completion survey confirm that target was achieved: proportion of
Comments
                plant products sold grew from 46.4% to 55.3% of production (20% increase)
(incl. %
                while proportion of livestock products grew from 47.7% to 58.8% (24%
achievement)
                increase).



                                                  iii
                  Organizational and contractual arrangements for targeted farmers and
Indicator 4 :
                  entrepreneurs improved: Improved farm productivity, production and crop yields
Value
                                           Production                         Value of production
quantitative or N/A
                                           increased by 20%                   increased by 25%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2005                   05/31/2010                         12/31/2010
                Cropped area per farm grew by 35% (from 1.94 to 2.62 ha) twice as much as in
Comments
                the control group; grapes, fruit and fodder area grew while cereal areas
(incl. %
                diminished; yields increased, and also meat and other livestock production. Net
achievement)
                income was up by 25%.
                Organizational and contractual arrangements for targeted farmers and
Indicator 5 : entrepreneurs improved: Cash income earning opportunities increased in
                participating communities
Value           Limited experience in                                         Community mayors
quantitative or CDD approach in            N/A                                report a 25%
Qualitative)    Armenia                                                       increase in income.
Date achieved 12/31/2005                   05/31/2010                         12/31/2010
Comments        Achieved: CDD projects resulted in numerous sm household investments
(incl. %        improving the livelihood, income generation activities and improved access to
achievement) market. Program mainstreamed into other GoA/donor projects.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                                    Formally
                                                Values (from                         Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value                               Revised
                                                   approval                        Completion or
                                                                  Target Values
                                                 documents)                         Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Number of business entities dealing with farmers increased
                                             75 rural business
                                                                                 50 rural businesses
Value                                        innovation
                                                                                 proved innovative
(quantitative     N/A                        validated and
                                                                                 schemes adopted by
or Qualitative)                              adopted by 150
                                                                                 150 entities.
                                             entities
Date achieved     12/31/2005                 05/31/2010                          12/31/2010
                  An average of 3 emulators and 15 employees per succeeding grant. 5,000 people
Comments
                  participated in technology transfer activities. Dissemination (printing materials,
(incl. %
                  media, TV and radio spots, and seminars) was effective and evidence of
achievement)
                  replicators exists.
Indicator 2 :     Rural outstanding portfolio increased
Value                                                                            Agricultural
                  Agricultural portfolio was Increase by US$12
(quantitative                                                                    portfolio was
                  US$25 million              million
or Qualitative)                                                                  US$144 million
Date achieved     12/31/2005                 05/31/2010                          12/31/2010
                  RFF alone allocated more than $24 million (revolving fund included) via 17 PFIs
Comments
                  under RFF/several international development projects. RESCAD/financial
(incl. %
                  institutions own portfolio alone surpassed the threshold of $12 million as of the
achievement)
                  end of 2010.
Indicator 3 :     Small to medium rural business entities record improved access to finance



                                                 iv
                                                                                 38% of loans were
Value
                                             10% of small to                     in small loans
(quantitative   N/A
                                             medium entities                     (<$5,000), 2.9% of
or Qualitative)
                                                                                 portfolio
Date achieved     12/31/2005                 05/31/2010                          12/31/2010
                  Total number of agricultural credits (since 2006) within the RFF RESCAD
Comments
                  funding is 249 (February 2011) of which 38% for small users. In 2010 credit
(incl. %
                  was refocused in small and medium size loans: 68%. 72 out of the 107 were
achievement)
                  small (average US$1,960)
Indicator 4 :     Farmers and advisors communicate regularly and effectively
                                             20% more farmers                    72.5% more
Value             40,000 farmers served      with TA; 60% of                     farmers with TA;
(quantitative     with Technical Assistance farmers & 50% of                     60% of farmers &
or Qualitative)   (TA)                       communities are                     80% of community
                                             satisfied                           mayors are satisfied
Date achieved     12/31/2005                 05/31/2010                          12/31/2010
Comments          Farmers accessing advisory services surpassed target: from 40,000 increased to
(incl. %          69,000 out of which 39,500 are served permanently. Advisory services were
achievement)      provided in 911 rural communities, and 80% of mayors were satisfied.
                  Network of advisors trained in key skills like marketing, management and
Indicator 5 :     community development, and interlinked. Cost recovery by MASC and RASC
                  increased
Value                                                                            6 - 10% of
                  0% of operating cost       30% of operating
(quantitative                                                                    operating costs
                  recovered                  cost recovered
or Qualitative)                                                                  recovered
Date achieved     12/31/2005                 05/31/2010                          12/31/2010
                  The 30% target was not achieved due to low income level of farmers. However,
Comments
                  the system shifted from an entirely donor-funded to a combination of cost
(incl. %
                  recovery and core budget support and more than 50% of farmers are prepared to
achievement)
                  pay for extension.
                  Greater availability and use of improved seeds to increase yields: number of
Indicator 6 :
                  farmers using improved seeds and saplings, and volume of sales increased
                                                                                 Increase of farmers
Value                                        20% increase of
                                                                                 and of volumes of
(quantitative     N/A                        farmers & 30%
                                                                                 certified material,
or Qualitative)                              increase of volume
                                                                                 both > 60%.
Date achieved     12/31/2005                 05/31/2010                          12/31/2010
                  Target has been exceeded. 70,000 farmers used improved seeds and/or sapling in
Comments
                  2010. Volume of sales of certified materials grew more than 60% from 2006 to
(incl. %
                  2008. Increase in farm productivity of users of certified seeds and saplings was
achievement)
                  67-95%.
                  Communities have plans for better use of resources and prioritize investments,
Indicator 7 :
                  and identify additional sources of funding
Value                                        100 communities                     144 communities
(quantitative     0                          with development                    with development
or Qualitative)                              plans                               plans
Date achieved     12/31/2005                 05/31/2010                          12/31/2010
Comments          Target exceeded by 44%: 144 rural communities established CEDCs, prepared



                                                  v
(incl. %        CED Plans and completed 165 sub-projects. Many are now accessing other
achievement)    sources of funds to finance other prioritized investments through their mobilized
                and trained community.
                Increased infrastructure support for production and marketing: increased incomes
Indicator 8 :
                for existing and new enterprises and farmers using the constructed facilities
Value                                      100 market related                   165 community
(quantitative   0                          investments                          investments
or Qualitative)                            implemented                          implemented
Date achieved 12/31/2005                   05/31/2010                           12/31/2010
Comments        Exceeded by 65%: 104 sub-proj were for community infrastructure and 61 for
(incl. %        income-generation activities. Sustainability is likely (collection of fees for
achievement) services 70-90%) allowing for developing more income-generating activities.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                  Actual
         Date ISR
No.                              DO                           IP              Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                              (USD millions)
 1      12/01/2005           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     0.00
 2      07/28/2006           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     1.33
 3      11/21/2006           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     1.75
 4      05/21/2007           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     3.53
 5      08/31/2007           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     5.43
 6      12/20/2007           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     6.87
 7      06/20/2008           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                   10.93
 8      11/19/2008           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                   16.63
 9      05/13/2009           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                   19.07
 10     02/12/2010           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                   22.24
 11     10/10/2010           Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory            22.47


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                               vi
I. Disbursement Profile




                          vii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
Between 1990 and 2004 the rural sector in Armenia had suffered substantial disruptions due
to the collapse of the Former Soviet Union (FSU). The break-down of political authority and
the loss of markets, coupled with a rapid land reform early in the transition period, led to
land fragmentation and emergence of small mixed crop/livestock producers. These
developments were compounded by migration from urban areas and the need to absorb
some 300,000 refugees, mainly in rural areas. Most farms operated at semi-subsistence
levels with limited connection with markets. The disintegration of the agro-processing and
input supply network along with the loss of previously assured input and output markets
severely affected the sector. During the years preceding project preparation, however,
agricultural production was picking-up and agro-processing was starting to develop as a
result of new investments, a restructuring of the processing industry, some foreign direct
investment, improved availability of credit, and increased demand. An increasing number of
small and medium enterprises (SME) were being established in rural areas for production,
processing and services. These activities were mostly linked to agriculture activities and to a
large extent represented the starting engines of growth and a key source of rural
employment.
Agriculture was pivotal for the national economy and, together with agro-processing,
accounted for much of the country’s employment and export earnings. It was the main
source of rural livelihoods, with farm income accounting for some 51 percent of the total
income of rural households. There were about 335,000 farm households with an average
landholding of around 1.4 hectares, generally with diversified production systems and a
strong subsistence orientation. Livestock production contributed around 40 percent of total
output. Poverty incidence was declining, but in 2002, an estimated 45 percent of the rural
population still lived below the poverty line, while 15 percent of the population lived in
extreme poverty. Meanwhile, in 2004 growth in the agricultural sector was contributing
more than other sectors to economic growth.
Key concerns at appraisal included how to utilize most effectively the available means for
rural production, and how to provide support for employment and income generation
opportunities for a sustainable rural economy. Development of the agriculture sector was
central to generating viable farm and non-farm rural employment opportunities and an
improved agro-processing, distribution and marketing enterprises was required. Both
upstream and downstream direct investment in the sector was necessary to achieve broader
multiplier effects. The Government of Armenia (GoA) embarked on a program to address
the key rural issues within the framework of the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP).
Sustainable economic growth and employment generation were seen as important
preconditions for poverty reduction. Overall economic growth was expected to derive from
the promotion of small business activities and increased employment generation, as well as
improvements in the business environment.
The objectives of the GoA’s Agricultural Sustainable Development Strategy were to
promote sustainable agricultural development, to ensure greater food security, and to
increase rural incomes. Key priorities were to: (a) continue and deepen agrarian reform; (b)
ensure food safety and food security; (c) promote the application of advanced agricultural
technologies; (d) promote breeding of pedigree livestock and improve animal health; and (e)
promote agricultural processing and development of associated supply and service
infrastructure. The project was the response to a GoA’s request for continuing support in
line with its strategy, and was prepared concurrently with a WB Rural Sector Note that
                                              1
aimed to identify priority interventions in support of increasing productivity, incomes and
employment. The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) was based on the Government’s
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) objectives and focused on three areas that
matched the Bank's comparative advantage and complemented other donor activities: (i)
promoting private sector led economic growth; (ii) making growth more pro-poor; and (iii)
reducing non-income poverty. The Bank had broad experience implementing rural programs
in Europe and Central Asia (ECA) countries that faced similar challenges, and also had
long-standing experience through several operations in the rural sector in Armenia1.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators
The objective of the project was to support the development of Armenia’s small and
medium-scale rural businesses by improving the ability of farmers and rural entrepreneurs to
access markets and by stimulating market-oriented private and public investments in rural
areas. The main outcome indicators (OI) included:
ƒ    Improved organizational and contractual arrangements for farmers and entrepreneurs;
ƒ    Increased income by participating rural business entities by at least 10 percent;
ƒ    Improved access to services by participating farmers, inducing an increase in income of
     at least 10 percent;
ƒ    Increased proportion of farm production sold for cash by around 20 percent;
ƒ    Improved farm productivity, production and crop yields; and
ƒ    Increased cash income opportunities in participating communities.
Intermediate Outcome Indicators (IOI) are presented in section F(b) of the Data Sheet.

1.3 Revised PDO
The PDO was not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
The main target groups of the project were small and medium-scale farmers and rural
entrepreneurs who would benefit from improved information services, access to finance,
improved inputs and technologies, and support for marketing activities. Rural communities
also benefited, through an increased ability to develop, implement and monitor their
Community Economic Development Plans (CEDPs), an increased level of self-help and
mutual responsibility, and through empowerment to control their own resources.

1.5 Original Components
The project included four components following a three-tiered approach addressing critical
gaps at the farm level, at the rural business and agro-processor level, and at the community
level.
Component A - Small Rural Business Support (US$10.6 million) aimed to support rural
businesses to improve the link between their production and markets by developing their
supply chains efficiently, and the provision of adequate financial services and targeted
business support through: (a) enhanced rural financial services such as credit for working
capital requirements, long-term credit for investment purposes, and leasing programs for
processing and agricultural equipment; and (b) promotion of rural business linkages through
a program of small grants provided on a competitive basis to introduce and demonstrate


1
  The Bank’s portfolio in Armenia included an irrigation project, a dam safety project, an agricultural services project, and
a natural resources management project. The Agricultural Reform Support Project (ARSP) supported the development of
advisory services and rural finance initiatives, providing lessons that were incorporated in the project.
                                                              2
business and technological innovations that could improve market access and linkages
between producers and processors.
The Rural Financial Services Sub-component (US$7.8 million) would: (a) support capacity-
building of participating financial institutions (PFIs) to promote requisite lending skills and
to facilitate the development and widespread use of suitable financial instruments and
methodologies; and (b) provide badly needed long-term capital for on-lending to farmers
and farmer groups, agro-processors, and other agri-businesses through qualifying PFIs. To
continue revolving these funds for an extended period beyond the project’s implementation
phase, the project supported the establishment of a financially and administratively
autonomous unit, the Rural Finance Facility (RFF).
The Promotion of Rural Business Linkages Sub-component (US$2.8 million) would provide
around 100 small grants from US$8,000 up to a maximum of US$20,000 for a wide range of
innovative production and processing technologies, marketing, business management and
best business practices, through a competitive grant program (CGP) to: (i) accelerate the
transfer of improved technologies and business practices to others; (ii) build capacity of
rural service providers to support rural entrepreneurs; (iii) assist SMEs to take advantage of
opportunities; and (iv) help the Ministry of Agriculture (MoA) establish public-private
linkages for reaching farmers and rural businesses. A strong monitoring and evaluation
(M&E) program would ensure that implementation was monitored, and that costs and
benefits of the technologies were disseminated.
Component B - Farm-Focused Development Support (US$6.8 million) would enable
farmers to improve their productivity, production quality and market access through two
main sub-components: (a) strengthening the agricultural extension system to improve
linkages with village-level authorities to increase the effectiveness and outreach of the flow
of information on technological, management and marketing improvements; and to develop
further the technology assessment program (TAP) and on-farm demonstrations; and (b)
strengthening seed and seedling production capability of Armenian producers.
The Strengthening of the Agricultural Extension System Sub-component (US$4.9 million)
would develop a sustainable advisory system based on a public-private contracting model,
which was increasingly self-financing and responsive to the information needs of rural
producers, including: (i) streamlining the advisory system to improve effectiveness; (ii)
technology assessment and dissemination; and (iii) increasing village-level outreach.
Streamlining the existing system of Marz Agricultural Support Centers (MASCs) and the
Republican Agricultural Support Center (RASC) would be achieved through: (i) enhanced
farmer and staff training programs; (ii) introduction of a contracting system for provision of
consultancy services for farmers and SMEs; (iii) adoption of an expanded cost recovery
program; (iv) establishment of a cost-sharing agreement between Community Councils and
the MoA for operations and staff contracts; and (v) an increased outreach at the village
level2. Technology Assessment Programs (TAPs) would follow-up the ongoing IDA
financed Agricultural Reform Support Project (ARSP)’s TAPs, emphasizing the evaluation
and dissemination of results. Village outreach would be supported directly through
refurbishment and furnishing of village information rooms and improved communications3.


2
  Support would be provided for (i) staff contracts and operating costs on a sliding scale; (ii) a consultancy fund to
contract specialists, covering four key business areas (marketing, financial operations, accounting and legal know-how),
and specialized technical subjects, including processing technologies; (iii) in-country training programs; (iv) some re-
equipping of the advisory system; and (v) comprehensive surveys to assess impact and improve quality of services.
3
  Around 100 TAPs averaging US$1,250 will be conducted each year including around 33% in the livestock sector, with
beneficiaries expected to contribute 20 per cent of the costs either financially or in-kind. The most successful and
appropriate technologies will then be demonstrated on-farm.
                                                            3
The Strengthening of the Seed and Sapling Market Sub-component (US$1.9 million) would
enhance the efficiency of small-scale seed and sapling businesses; increase the availability
of good quality certified seed and planting material; and increase the efficiency and level of
trust in the seed regulatory system, through: (i) support to private seed and sapling
producers; (ii) strengthening the seed legal and regulatory framework and the Seed
Regulatory Agency (SRA); and (iii) improving public sector high-generation seed
multiplication. Support to private seed producers would be based on training and
information campaigns on seed production technology, marketing, business management
and on the legal and regulatory framework governing the seed trade. They would also be
eligible to apply for financial services and CGP, and the advisory services would contribute
through the assessment and demonstration of improved seed varieties. Strengthening the
legal and regulatory framework would include: (i) review of the seed legislation to bring the
laws and regulations fully into compliance with recognized international standards; (ii)
capacity building of the SRA in management, financial planning and technical procedures;
and (iii) upgrading facilities for implementing seed certification and variety testing
activities. Support would also be provided to selected public sector plant breeding
institutions to multiply pre-basic seed of new high-yielding varieties of grain crops for sale
to commercial seed producers.
Component C - Community-Focused Economic Development (CED) (US$9.8 million)
would stimulate economic development at the community level in selected rural areas
through increased capacity to plan and manage their resources, and prioritize, fund and
maintain key infrastructure investments with market linkages, including: (i) community
mobilization and capacity-building including the preparation of CEDPs; (ii) technical
support to encourage effective participation in the planning process focusing on
development and management of economic infrastructure, including market facilities and
rural roads; and (iii) implementation of investment priorities from the CEDP, which would
be the basis for delivery of project interventions to rural communities. The investments in
infrastructure would support the process of developing small-scale commercial agriculture,
involving farmers, their associations and SMEs, such as agro-processors, marketing
organizations and input suppliers. These would help farmers to increase productivity and
access markets, while also providing an environment to encourage economic development
and/or attract investment from outside the community. The component would cover 100
communities in priority Marzes selected on agreed and transparent criteria. Investments
would be limited to US$90 per inhabitant or an average of US$90,000 for the participating
community.
Component D - Project Management (US$1 million) would support the establishment and
operation of a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) under the MoA based on the previous
Project Management Unit (PMU) of the IDA financed Agricultural Reform Support Project
(ARSP).
The project was co-financed by a Japanese PHRD implementation grant in the amount of
US$ 1.74 million. The grant was instrumental in providing the needed technical assistance
support for all project components, including for capacity building of the rural finance
sector, extension system, seed market development and community driven economic
development.

1.6 Revised Components
No changes were introduced on the original components during project implementation.

1.7 Other significant changes


                                              4
During the fourth implementation year, the scope of the project was expanded to include
more communities to benefit from project interventions. The original target of 100
communities under the CED component was increased to help mitigate the effects of the
financial crisis, and to cover a financing gap of US$1.25 million for the already approved
community grants. The Additional Financing (AF), in the amount of SDR 1.3 million
(US$2.0 million equivalent) was processed under the rapid response to emergency
procedures (OP 8.0), within the framework of the IDA Financial Crisis Response - Fast
Track Facility, as part of the Bank’s support to Armenia to mitigate the impacts of the global
crisis. The Bank approved the AF on February 24, 2009, which became effective on April
13, 2009. The AF aimed to generate additional jobs, improve incomes and access to services
for a wider segment of the rural population than under the original project.
During the November 2009 supervision mission, the Bank was requested by the MoA to
extend the closing date of the Project. The justification was that while the IDA credit and
AF would be fully disbursed by the initial project closing date, the remaining PHRD grant
would need to be used for continuing the monitoring of CED investments and for the final
project surveys. The project closing date was extended by six months, until December 31,
2010. Proceeds for the project Credit No. 4095 AM, and the AF Credit 4547 were
reallocated to reflect minor changes in the various categories as a result of expanding the
grants for the CED component.
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
The project was not reviewed for Quality at Entry. The project design had a holistic
approach and addressed the main development constraints in rural areas, as it interlinked
multiple development concerns to address rural business, agricultural production and
community focused activities. It built on the previous joint efforts of the GoA and the
international community to foster development of rural areas. Government commitment and
involvement in project preparation was crucial in ensuring that the design was relevant.
Lessons learned from previous projects, and sound coordination with other institutions
active in the rural areas, were well addressed4. Synergies with other donors were positively
considered for implementation, including with the IFAD financed Rural Areas Economic
Development Program (RAEDP), and with the Japan Policy and Human Resources
Development (PHRD) grant supporting capacity building. The design also complemented
ongoing and planned activities of other institutions, filling critically needed gaps and
supported key policy measures.
Key lessons considered for the project design included:
    •    increased availability of finance and provision of marketing assistance strongly
         facilitates the development of rural businesses;
    •    prospects of employment generation and cash income in rural areas are closely
         linked to the agricultural sector performance in the short and medium-term;
    •    the failure of some banks supported under previous operations made clear the need
         for rigorous PFI selection and monitoring, and stronger capacity building was
         necessary;




4
  USDA and USAID were active in the promotion of market opportunities while the Bank, other donors and international
NGOs were supporting activities such as irrigation, formation of producer groups, micro-credit and community
development. IFAD had a project that was covering seven regions (Marzes) and DFID was strengthening local
Government in two Marzes to increase their capacity to develop PRSP-based regional development plans.
                                                          5
   •   the extension system should become financially and operationally sustainable with
       an increased focus on business development, marketing, accounting and legal issues
       that affect production of both farmers and other rural enterprises;
   •   technology assessment and demonstrations need to be coupled with a strengthened
       capacity to disseminate and transfer the technologies;
   •   the disconnect between producers and processors is an impediment to the growth of
       the agricultural sector; and
   •   local governments require substantial facilitation and technical support to assist
       communities to develop plans for prioritization, investment and maintenance of
       schemes.
The project design considered all potential project risks and introduced effective
mechanisms to mitigate their potential damage. For example, a careful selection of the
participating institutions, communities and beneficiaries was done to avoid implementation
delays due to insufficient counterpart funds, and the communities’ economic development
and income generation potentials were strongly considered in defining key selection criteria
for project activities. A strong capacity building, participation and information
dissemination effort helped to increase project ownership at all levels.

2.2 Implementation
The project implementation had a quick start as a result of good design, readiness for
implementation and the Borrower’s strong commitment. The project became effective on
December 18, 2005. The PIU, under the Ministry of Agriculture (MoA) was already fully
staffed, and operation manuals and implementation plans were already prepared. The IFAD
and the Bank’s financed projects shared the RFF starting and operating costs.
During the first six months of implementation the CGP had completed the first round of
grant applications and selected 9 out of 46 innovative proposals submitted by farmers and/or
rural SMEs. All MASCs had prepared satisfactory annual work plans and budgets, and
TAPs and demonstrations were underway with the support of 145 extension agents and 100
community agents. The requirement to self-finance 10 percent of the costs of RASC and
MASCs was achieved during the first year in spite of the very low income of assisted
farmers. The new Seed Law was approved in May 2005 and related legislation proposals
were prepared to comply with international standards. Infrastructure and equipment
upgrades, and improved procedures were in place for the restructuring of the Seed Agency
and the Gyumri Seed Selection Station. Their business and training plans were also defined.
The CED component, after some initial delays, was in full motion and gaining momentum.
The Rural Financial Services sub-component had a slower start due to two main factors.
First, the legal status and structure of the Rural Finance Facility (RFF), which was initially
established under the IFAD’s RAEDP, had to be amended to meet IDA’s requirements.
Second, the slow start of the RFF component was also due to difficulties at the PIU for
making payments to RFF from the special account (SA) given the high volume of payments
under other components. The Bank did an early identification of these problems and
suggested realistic solutions for addressing them, which the Government and the PIU
implemented in a timely manner. These included the adjustment of the RFF statute and of
the disbursement mechanism, with an increase in the SA allocation limit to US$1.5 million.
The RFF lending with RESCAD funds began at the beginning of the second year of project
implementation, in January 2007.
Some delays in the implementation of the CGP and the seed sub-components persisted
during the second year. In the CGP case, the reason was the excessive processing period
between the call for proposals and contract-signing. The seed sub-component delays were

                                              6
the result of slow procurement of field and laboratory equipment, which resulted in two
harvesting and fall cultivation seasons missed for accelerating seed production. These initial
constraints were timely recognized by Bank missions and solved through clear and realistic
action plans and adjustments to the PIU operation and procedures, allowing implementation
to pick-up pace. At Mid-Term Review (MTR) the GoA suggested that the CGP should be
finalized after one additional round (the fifth). The Bank agreed, given that about one and a
half years are needed for the grants to be processed, implemented and finalized. Outputs of
the CGP sub-component were time-sensitive, so the delays affected the final outputs of the
CGP, and only 53 CGP grants were completed instead of the targeted 100. The delays for
the seed sub-component were totally recovered, and in the end the outcomes of this sub-sub-
component exceeded the envisaged targets.
Since the first implementation year the project was affected by the appreciation of the
Armenian Dram (AMD) and the substantial price increases of construction materials. The
resulting financing gap continued to grow in the following years, until the Additional
Financing (AF) was required, prepared and approved by the Bank in February 20095. With
this AF the CED component was scaled-up from the original 100 communities to more than
140 communities, in response to its success and growing demand for support from other
communities. The AF also helped the GoA to mitigate the critical vulnerabilities facing the
country’s rural population during the global financial crisis in 2009. Since remittances, an
important source of household incomes, and employment opportunities for rural households
had dropped substantially, the AF also provided immediate employment, additional incomes
and access to services, such as drinking water, gas and irrigation, to a larger segment of rural
communities than the original plan. Scaling up had the additional benefit of enhancing the
overall impact of an already well-performing project.
Implementation progress (IP) ratings for the project have been Satisfactory since the start of
project implementation in December 2005, except for the last supervision in which IP was
rated Moderately Satisfactory due to some delays in transferring some CED agricultural
machinery to the communities. The transfer was finally completed through three
government decrees dated September 16 and December 30, 2010, and January 13, 2011. At
closing this transfer was successfully completed.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
M&E arrangements were based on a continuous and close monitoring of project activities
and components. Besides routine intermediate results monitoring for each component, a
baseline survey was commissioned, and mid-term and final evaluation surveys of the project
impact were defined. Reporting formats for each component were also defined, based on the
annual performance targets and monitoring indicators. The M&E system allowed rapid
access to information about the project activities and intermediate results. Each individual
component had its monitoring procedures which was integrated in quarterly reports by a PIU
specialist and made available to management and supervision missions with a summary of
key indicators. The data collection methods were specific to each project activity.
For the rural finance activities, the RFF and the PFIs provided quarterly and annual reports
on the loan portfolio. The CGP grants were continuously monitored by the CGP Secretariat
based on milestones for each grant defined as part of the contract, and each grant was

5
  The US dollar depreciated against the Armenian dram by 35 percent, specifically from AMD 470/USD at Project
appraisal to AMD 306/USD at the end of 2008. In the meantime, the producer price index increased by approximately 10
percent between appraisal and end of 2008.




                                                         7
evaluated within two months of completion including a cost-benefit analysis of the
technological innovation. For extension activities, impact assessment and client satisfaction
surveys were implemented, and a performance-based monitoring system was instituted
within the extension system, which provided routine information about the outputs and
performance of the extension system. For the seed sub-component, the monitoring was done
by collecting information at national level about the sales and availability of certified seeds.
At completion of component activities, a detailed survey collected data from all registered
seed producers and from a sample of seed users. For the CED component, a participatory
M&E system was in place, whereby the local CDC for each participating community
ensured that the community plan was implemented as envisaged and collected data on
performance and impact indicators of the financed sub-projects. PIU specialists regularly
visited participating communities to spot check and monitor activities.
Input and output indicators were used in daily management decisions, and for informing the
Bank supervision missions about progress. Results monitoring data were used to adjust
activities as needed. Management decisions about the project’s progress have been timely
responsive to the evolution and signals coming from the monitoring and results indicators.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
The financial management (FM) arrangements at the PIU, including accounting, financial
reporting, budgeting, staffing, external auditing and funds flow were overall adequate and
acceptable to the Bank for implementation and closing. There were reasonable internal
control procedures in place, and limited control reviews of sample transaction were
periodically conducted with few issues observed. PIU had acceptable planning and
budgeting capacity in place, and submitted quarterly FMRs/IFRs6 usually received on-time,
and acceptable to the Bank. The auditor issued unmodified (clean) opinions on RESCAD
(including the AF), which were received on time. The same happened with the audit reports
on the RFF financial statements. The FM arrangements under the RFF were reviewed in
detail in March 2007, with subsequent off-site follow ups and audit reports reviews in July
2010, September and June 2009, July 2008, and October 2007.
Procurement work was adequate since the beginning and training was provided to the PIU
procurement specialist. Questions related to the handling of second-hand equipment under
sub-loans provided by PFIs were raised by the Bank’s Procurement Specialist in June 2007.
Subsequently, an audit of procurement practices was commissioned by the Bank and a letter
was sent to the RFF requesting that financing of second-hand equipment be suspended while
waiting for results of the audit. The audit revealed that proper procurement methods were
used.
The project was assigned the Environmental category B, therefore a comprehensive
environmental assessment (EA) was conducted and an environmental management plan
(EMP) was developed during preparation. Sub-projects with potentially negative
environmental consequences included mitigation measures. Environmental mitigation plans
for sensitive proposals were prepared and revised by the Bank. The environment specialist
of the Bank carried out field visits during the MTR and in subsequent supervision missions,
and no major environment damage was identified in those sites. On-site advice for several
types of schemes was provided. Overall, compliance with environment safeguards,
including environment monitoring of different sub-projects, remained satisfactory
throughout implementation.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

6
    A consolidated IFR for IDA40950 and the additional financing – IDA45470, and a separate FMR for TF54738 grant.
                                                           8
Most targets have been achieved and sustainability on the operational phase seems to be
assured. Several new projects are following-up the project approach, including IDA, IFAD
and MCC financed programs. The new IDA financed Community Agricultural Resources
Management and Competitiveness Project (CARMAC) will follow the same approach for
targeting vulnerable people in mountainous areas and focusing on strengthening the
livestock sector competitiveness mainly to meet the growing demand on the domestic
market. It builds on the experience and successes in agriculture, rural development, pastures
and livestock management, and participatory community development to help address the
sector urgent challenges, and provide investment support. The new project would combine
and apply previous experiences, integrating RESCAD’s strategic approach to natural
resource management, human and animal health, and food safety. This includes the
successful participatory community development and competitive grants procedures, both
fully incorporated into the new project. The RESCAD’s effective agricultural advisory
system will continue to be used to deliver extension programs for project livestock-related
activities.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
Project objectives, design and implementation were highly relevant with the country and
Bank assistance strategies. The Sustainable Development Program approved by GoA in
October 2008 (the second PRSP) aims to reduce poverty, ensure human development,
deepen economic growth and accelerate development of lagging regions. Support for the
agricultural sector was seen as crucial to meet these goals. The 2009-2012 Country
Partnership Strategy (CPS) acknowledges the importance of agriculture and rural
development, and explicitly proposes a new agriculture project as a priority to address the
two main CPS pillars: protecting vulnerable populations and strengthening competitiveness
for post-crisis growth. The Bank is committed to assist Armenia to resume growth and
alleviate the impact of the crisis on the poor, and to help lay the foundation for a more
competitive economy – a key requirement for a more diversified and sustainable growth. To
attain these goals, the RESCAD strategy of stimulating market-oriented private and public
investments towards the development of farmers and SMEs to ensure food security and
increase rural income was perfectly aligned with the government priorities.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
The project aimed at filling the gap between rural producers and higher end markets by
assisting value-added business initiatives. Although agricultural production remained mostly
semi-subsistence in nature, there was evidence that farmers and processors were beginning
to move towards some vertical integration of the supply chain. There was an increasing
demand from individual farmers, producer associations, and SMEs for advisory services,
marketing support and access to financial services.
Progress towards achieving the PDO was rated by Bank supervisions as Satisfactory
throughout implementation. The PDO have been fully achieved and many target indicators
exceeded, with minor shortcomings on the outputs of the CGP sub-component. The project
has disbursed the total funds available under the original IDA credit, as well as those under
the IDA AF, and 99 percent of the funds under the PHRD grant. It helped to improve the
quality of life for about 220,000 people in over 900 rural communities. Main achievements
are summarized below.
Increased access of small rural businesses to finance, markets and innovations: The
Project directly benefitted 249 agribusinesses to access US$7.76 million of mostly long-term
                                             9
agricultural credit, and generated a total of more than US$12 million investments in rural
areas. Significant positive impact was achieved also in the field of knowledge development
and expansion of the financial services for the agricultural sector in Armenia. Training
sessions have notably increased the capacity of PFIs’ which are now increasingly providing
their own lending funds to agriculture. This is confirmed by the total agricultural portfolio in
Armenia, which evolved in the period 2005 – 2010 from US$25 million to US$144 million,
almost a six fold increase in line with the growth of loans for the overall economy. First time
borrowers increased substantially. The target of 10 percent increase of loans taken by MSEs
has been also largely exceeded. As a result, production diversification and output increased,
the income of borrowers grew by 27 percent and sales by 30 percent. Hundreds of new
permanent jobs were created in rural areas. New animal improved breed productive units,
modern greenhouses and poultry operations, and many other rural businesses were
established or enlarged, contributing to increased domestic consumption and food import
substitution.
Additionally, through the CGP, 53 farmer groups with around 460 direct beneficiaries tested
and implemented innovative agricultural technologies in livestock husbandry, crop and fruit
production and processing, packaging, improved storage and marketing, improved quality
and diversified products, off-season supply, and accessing specific higher value market
niches. Independent evaluations of each grant project confirmed both a substantial financial
benefit for innovators with an average Internal Rate of Return (IRR) of 90 percent, and a
multiplier effect with an average of 3 emulators and 15 additional jobs per grant at that early
stage. Interventions have contributed to revitalizing the rural economy and giving the
necessary ground base for entrepreneurial Armenians for developing a more dynamic sector.
Enhanced advisory services to farmers: The improved development of the advisory system
has enabled farmers in more than 900 villages to access information on production
technologies, markets, IPM, farm management and other topics. The system now includes
ten regional-level MASCs, the main bodies responsible for informing and advising farmers
and small rural businesses, with around six specialists at each center and a network of 145
village-level agents and some 345 small advisory rooms provided by community mayors.
The national-level RASC is functioning as the main coordinating body linking the MASCs
with new technologies and expertise, disseminating information through various methods
including its website, and organizing in-service training7. Both the RASC and the MASCs
are retaining earnings from paid services, with around 6 – 10 percent of total costs recovery
in 2006 -2010. In spite of not reaching the 30 percent cost recovery target, the development
of a stable and functional agricultural advisory system is a major achievement of the project.
This has involved a shift from fully donor-dependent funding to a system with core funding
provided through the government (MoA) budget and funds generated from cost recovery
and through consultancy services. In 2010, the MoA was covering 94 percent of the costs of
operations and salaries, with the balance covered by the RASC and MASCs revenues.
Overall, the agricultural extension system is directly serving around 69,000 farmers each
year, of which 39,000 are served on a regular basis and have permanent access to advisors.
Farmers report an average of 25 percent (US$1,100) increase in annual income per
household due to adoption of improved production practices, generating at least US$40
million annually due to production improvements just from those served permanently. A
high share of production is now being marketed for cash; for example 24 percent of wheat,
57 percent of potatoes, 36 percent of milk and 71 percent of meat, far beyond the levels
when the Project started and the target set at appraisal. Surveys in March 2004 and in

7
  In 2010, around 69,000 farmers were served including 39,500 on a regular basis; 2,850 seminars carried out with 51,000
participants; 70 radio and television broadcasts; 875 published materials; 243 field trials, 118 demonstrations and 427 field
days; and 380 business plans prepared.
                                                             10
September 2008 indicated that almost 92 percent of respondents see their advisor 2-4 times a
month (compared with 49 percent in 2004). Generally, the advice provided was valued, with
50 percent of farmers (up from 37 percent in 2004) and about 80 percent of village mayors
indicating that they would be prepared to pay for their extension services. The Project’s
extension services are so appreciated that many villages are already co-financing their
village advisors out of their limited budgets. The current cost financing mechanism
introduced by the Project looks sustainable.
Increased production and access to quality seeds. After independence, the country’s seed
testing and certification capacity collapsed. The Project helped reform the seed and sapling
market, introduce modern legislation and regulations to support the seed market
development, and established the new Seed Agency to implement the regulatory framework
and seed production infrastructure. In 2009 and 2010, around 6,500 and 5,680 tons of seed
were certified compared with 800 tons in 2007 and none in 2006 (when the legislation and
regulatory structure entered into effect). A total of 69 new varieties were registered and 124
added to the list permitted for use. The new seed and sapling development led to about
70,000 farmers using now certified seeds, representing an increase of more than 20 percent
of farmers and 60 percent increase of the certified seeds sales volume. A sample of farmers
using certified seeds in 2008 reported more than 70 percent improvement of yields
compared to 2006. The increased use of high quality seeds is contributing to the country’s
major goal of reducing poverty and enhancing food security. The new seed quality standards
and testing methodologies will also help to participate in the international seed trade.
Improved living standards, incomes and market access in villages. Through the CED
component the project had a significant impact on over 100,000 peoples’ lives in 144 village
communities. The Project’s support to CED generated more than US$12 million investment,
which included the project’s grants and the community contribution. 165 CED sub-projects
were financed, comprising both public infrastructure such as gasification, drinking water
and small irrigation; and community revenue-generating schemes such as agricultural
machinery, milk collection centers and transportation. Their sustainability is highly likely
since collection of fees for services is proceeding at a good level (70-90 percent with most
of the outstanding amount having been raised with some delay) and systems are being
improved.
These investments generated employment and enabled people to generate more cash and to
set up new businesses. For example, investments in gasification not only improved peoples’
access to cleaner and more affordable energy supplies, but also helped to reduce logging and
deforestation and generate new businesses in participating villages, such as greenhouses
(with gas being used for temperature control) and bakeries. Investments in new agricultural
machinery and in irrigation schemes replaced outdated equipment and structures, helping
communities reduce harvest losses, and increase their cultivated areas, increasing crop
productivity and cash incomes. Investments in drinking water reduced significantly the
occurrence of diseases in participating communities (from a total of 1,648 occurrences
before to only 6 after the project), eased burden on women by reducing the time needed to
fetch water, and improved the general living standards.
The participating communities are now implementing their medium term development
plans, with some key priorities financed through the project investments, and others through
funding from other programs which adopted the project’ community plans, contributing thus
to its sustainability. The participatory capacity building and investments improved the
community planning skills and organization potential. Regional governors report a higher
degree of mobilization and organization in the communities which are now able to better
prioritize their development needs and access financing available through other government

                                             11
and/or donor programs. They are also helping the communities in generating new cash
earnings, which are used to cover other individual and shared priority investment needs.

3.3 Efficiency
The overall ex-post economic analysis estimated the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) at
21.6 percent and the Net Present Value at US$21.3 million. ERR is almost 5 percent higher
than expected (details in Annex 3). The quantified returns of the CED grants are lower than
expected in the proposals due to some delays in reaching all planned community
beneficiaries, while returns of the credit component are in turn higher than expected due to
their more business-oriented nature. However, if returns from the credit component were not
taken into account, as considered in the PAD, the ex-post analysis shows that the project
ERR, would be at the level of 16 percent which is in line with the PAD expectations.
Therefore, it could be stated that the project has also achieved its goals from the efficiency
point of view. The completion survey found that the beneficiaries have increased their
income by 25 percent over the increase achieved by the control group. This finding is also
reinforced by the high satisfaction levels of beneficiaries of the project and their community
leaders.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory
Given the current relevance of the project objectives and effective implementation, together
with the achievement of its PDO, the overall outcome rating is considered as Satisfactory.
The project was awarded with the ECA 2010 “Improving the Lives of People” due to its
success in helping to improve the quality of life for over 220,000 people in over 900 rural
communities. In spite of the fact that there was limited previous experience with
participatory rural development activities for providing CED using a CDD approach in
Armenia, the newly validated approach already opened new and promising perspectives for
rural development including agricultural production, social infrastructure and other
economic activities with a strong participatory and pro-poor focus. This is confirmed by the
new IDA project and other donors’ programs adopting the same holistic and participatory
approach for the new generation of development interventions.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
The project had an overall positive impact on the rural population. Firstly, according to the
survey at completion (June 2010), total income of families have increased by 25 percent
over the control group as a result of project interventions. Secondly, it developed social
capital and trust within communities for self-help, by organizing them to analyze their
economic and social situation, plan for their own development and implement identified
priority needs. They are now prepared for accessing new sources of finance. Communities
have expressed their satisfaction for the participatory manner in which their priorities were
identified and for the direct and indirect benefits that improved their lives, strengthened their
management capacity to mitigate risks and paved their way to step up to commercial
farming and community development.
Women benefited mostly from infrastructure CED investments like water supply and
gasification schemes – which concentrated 60 percent of the CED component costs - as they
are now released from the time consuming activities related to the procurement of drinking
water from safe sources, and of firewood for their household daily needs for cooking or
heating. Women also benefited from the CGP, which helped them to start new businesses
such as carpet weaving, medicinal plants, etc.
                                               12
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
Sustainable changes have been achieved in increasing the institutional capacity of the
agricultural certified seed system, the extension and advisory services, the sector’s credit
system, and the community development organizations in Armenia. The development of a
stable and functional agricultural advisory system involved a crucial shift from a fully
donor-dependent system to a system with core funding provided through the government
budget and funds generated from cost recovery and through consultancy services. There is
now a dynamic government controlled system for the provision and use of improved seeds
and saplings. By strengthening the financial system and increasing the financing available
for agriculture, the project contributed to increase the banks’ agricultural portfolio in
Armenia from US$25 million in 2005 (2.3 percent of the agricultural GDP) to US$144
million in 2010 (8 percent of the agricultural GDP). The project also improved governance
by enhancing community solidarity and strengthening social bonds and local governance
structures.
General meetings for CED planning, implementation and monitoring of the completed CED
sub-projects were undertaken on a regular basis. Information sheets for each completed sub-
project are located on the notice boards in most villages containing the key data on sub-
project/s: title, objectives, expected results, donor, amounts invested, grant and community
contributions, revenues, etc. Communities got used to M&E activities and they are expected
to continue to undertake these activities to enhance keeping transparency of their CDD sub-
projects.
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
The effects of the financial crisis were mitigated. Due to the 2008 - 2009 global economic
crisis the real GDP contracted by about 8.8 percent in 2009. Unemployment rose sharply in
early 20098 due to the collapse of the mining and construction industry and the return of
migrants working abroad mostly from Russia, which was also suffering from significant
economic slowdown. The sharp decline in remittances (which has accounted for about 10
percent of GDP and 48 percent of exports until recently) made things even worse. Due to the
crisis, poverty in Armenia was projected to increase by 7.6 percentage points in 2009 if no
mitigation measures were taken. This would have had significant negative impact in rural
areas, especially with migrant workers returning to agricultural activities. The project
supported the Government to mitigate the impacts of the crisis on several rural communities.
The AF was utilized to generate quick employment in around 40 additional communities
through infrastructure works. It was also delivered on a fast-track basis, which helped
rapidly address the impacts on employment in rural communities. As a result, poverty
finally grew only by 3 percent, from 25.6 percent in 2008 to 28.4 percent in 2009.
The Project investments have also served as a model for other donors, such as MCC and
IFAD. Given the significant results achieved, the project was awarded with the ECA 2010
“Improving the Lives of People” distinction. Additionally, about US$100 million of
investments (US$60 million from IFAD and US$40 million from MCC) is to be, or is being
implemented in Armenia. These new programs capitalized over the project experience and
lessons learned scaling-up or replicating the project’s approach and activities. The project
approach became a model that is also being applied in other countries in the region.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
Several surveys were conducted. For the Rural Financial Services component, the RFF
collected information regarding the impact of the sub-component (September 2010) from

8
 NSS conducted in 2009 an evaluation of the unemployment rate following the International Labor Organization
methodology. Results showed that 18.7 percent of the economical active population was unemployed. (CBA website).
                                                         13
about 101 borrowers served by the RESCAD project line. Almost 30 percent were first-time
borrowers, which confirms that the project has improved the access to credit. The survey
also showed a significant increase in profits of borrowers due to the loan investments, and
that on average five to six new jobs have been created by each loan, of which more than half
for women. Almost 30 percent of loans amounts were already repaid and only about 5
percent of the outstanding portfolio (3.5 percent of the loan amounts) was in over 90 days
default, in spite of the effects of the economic crisis. For the CGP component, each grant
was analyzed after completion of the relevant CGP round. Individual evaluations assessed
the great majority of the 53 completed grants as being successful: 49 showed IRRs over 30
percent; 4 had IRRs between 10 and 30 percent; and only 2 schemes had IRRs below 10
percent or negative. The rate of success of the innovative CGP grants was higher than 95
percent.
Regarding the second component – the Farm Focused Development Support - baseline and
completion surveys were conducted in targeted communities in 2004 and 2008. Summary
details are presented in Annex 5. Table 1 shows the success of the extension services sub-
component in reaching beneficiaries: 9 out of 10 farmers of project communities were
visited 1 – 2 times a month, against 5 out of 10 in 2004. In addition, more than 86 percent of
farmers increased their income as a result of the extension services, and the increase was 25
percent above the increase in the control group. Reconfirming these results, 50 percent of
farmers and 80 percent of community mayors consulted were prepared to pay for the
MASC’s extension services.
Table 1 - Comparison of results of MASC activities


                                                                                   2008    2004
Share of respondents visited by extension advisors 1-2 times a month               91.8%   48.9%
Share of respondents not aware of extension advisors                               0.0%    31.8%
Share of respondents that were aware of the advisors’ visits’ schedule             78.9%   3.6%
Share of respondents that asked for advice to other sources                        24.1%   72.3%
Share of respondents that appreciated extension services and ready to pay 50.0%            37.0%
Share of mayors that are ready to pay to community advisors                        80.0%    n/a
Source: Impact Assessment of Advisory Services Provided by MASCs. September 2008

Another survey was conducted in 2009 for the impact assessment of seed producers and
seed users. The sample included 200 seed users in the 10 Marzes of Armenia. Results show
that 70 percent were using wheat and potato certified seeds, about 60 percent used
vegetable, fruit and grapes certified seeds and saplings, 50 percent used certified legume
seeds and 39 percent used fodder certified seeds. Users declared that productivity increases
due to the improved materials are in the range of 30 to 50 percent, depending on the crop.
The final completion survey (June 2010) questioned 746 respondents from 6 Marzes about
the overall project’s impact. Almost 13 percent of the sample was not involved in project
activities (control group). Average farm size of those involved in agricultural production had
an average of 2.97 ha. The average cropped area increased since 2007 by 31 percent (from
1.94 to 2.62 ha per farm), twice the increase declared by the control group (15 percent).
There were also significant changes in cropping patterns from cereals to fodder crops, as
well as increased livestock production among project beneficiaries: farmers involved with
livestock grew from 14.7 percent in 2007 to 24.1 percent in 2010, with average herd per
farm increasing from 3.9 big heads, and 5.5 small heads to 5.4 and 13.3 respectively. No
significant change was shown in the livestock parameters in the control group. Grapes and

                                                     14
fruits also increased production and the proportion being sold or bartered. These changes
resulted in income increase of about US$1,100 (25 percent) over the increases observed in
the control group.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Negligible to Low

No change in the technical, financial or economic environment appears to pose significant
risks to development outcome in the near future. There is still ample margin for
improvements to be introduced in the production systems in rural Armenia, and the
supported mechanisms are being continued in the operational phase through the
corresponding line agencies and organizations (PFIs, RASD/MASCs, Seed Agency, local
government and community organizations). The mentioned donor-funded follow-up and
parallel programs are expected to continue to strengthen the project supported institutions
and procedures. No negative political aspect seems to be capable of changing this positive
attitude towards the new grass-roots validated development strategy, which has been fully
endorsed by the GoA through the sector development strategy approved in 2008. The
growing financial system continues to increase lending amounts to the agricultural sector,
and SMEs and farms are having an increasing access to credit through a better prepared
financial system.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory
The Bank has provided qualified professionals for the project participatory preparation
stage, with a well balanced local and international task team. Analysis of bottlenecks and
identification of the main problems affecting the Armenian agricultural sector resulted in the
design of complementary and inter-linked project interventions that took care of the most
urgent needs for reducing production limiting factors and rural poverty. The process was an
empowering experience, where all stakeholders cooperated very effectively, resulting in a
well conceptualized and structured project where implementation and M&E arrangements
worked adequately and smoothly. The participatory design and knowledge shared among the
MoA, PIU, international and local specialists converged to a consistent and relevant project
design.
(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory
Similar proactive approach has been adopted by the Bank supervision missions. They
provided continuous guidance for implementation, monitoring, FM and procurement to the
PIU and RFF specialists, as well as through fielding international experienced specialists, in
order to adapt the intervention modalities to the Armenian environment. Openness to discuss
and apply necessary adjustments to project activities paved the way towards a successful
implementation and validation of a highly participatory and holistic strategy now being
adopted by other development programs in Armenia. Project Aide Memoires and ISR
documents are frank and proactive in finding effective solutions to implementation
problems. Flexible approaches allowed reacting to changing situations effectively and
without unnecessary delays. The AF fast-track approval for scaling up the CED coverage
and helping the GoA’s crisis mitigation policy and concerted measures is just an example of
this attitude. The additional financing of US$2.0 million was utilized to generate quick
                                               15
employment in around 40 communities through infrastructure works and helped to rapidly
address the impacts of the crisis on employment in rural communities. It generated short-
term labor through infrastructure works, which helped around 400 families cope with the
impact of the crisis on the short-term.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
The Bank contributed to the project success through a participatory and relevant design that
addressed the main development constraints in the rural areas, and through diligent and
proactive supervision that rapidly addressed bottlenecks, provided fast response to the
effects of the financial crisis and provided high quality implementation support.
5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
The Government was effective and proactive both at project preparation and
implementation. It was energetic in creating an enabling environment and providing
necessary counterpart funds for a successful project performance both through the PIU and
the RFF. Minor aspects that could have improved the efficiency of the project were: (i) the
delayed approval by the Parliament of the complementary seed laws regarding the
Protection of New Plant Varieties (Law on Selection Achievements) and of the Quarantine
and Phytosanitary Law, which were prepared and drafted with project support; (ii) some
delays in procurement of the field and laboratory equipment for the seed sub-component,
affecting the quantities of certified seeds produced; and (iii) delayed transfer of some of the
CED agricultural machinery schemes to the communities.
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
The PIU and the RFF conducted implementation activities and financed investments strictly
according to agreed operational procedures. They also diligently followed the safeguard
procedures and monitored all components’ activities, including the technical inspection of
CGP and CED sub-projects from design to completion. The quality assurance process and
the documentation included all necessary information for controlling the construction
process and ensuring the quality of works. External field inspections of selected CED sub-
projects for infrastructure rehabilitation confirmed that the quality of works and of materials
used was satisfactory and according to the designs, with no significant deficiencies. M&E
activities and progress reports were timely prepared for monitoring progress, outputs and the
project impact. PIU also adopted timely corrective actions to overcome initial delays and
provided very good support for the Bank missions. The PIU was essential in promoting the
project at all levels of central government, marzes and communities, and ensuring that the
project approach and activities were well understood and followed. The PIU brought people
and the authorities together, and showed early meaningful results. A virtuous circle was
created, as early success built social capital and brought more success on the way. The
publicity that the Project enjoyed due to PIU efforts – through fairs and exhibitions,
seminars, TV channels, public speeches and events, raised standards and intensified efforts
of everybody who wanted to be a part of this success.




                                              16
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
The Borrower finalized a successful project, validating a comprehensive participatory rural
development strategy that is also being used under other programs. The transition to the
operational phase was smooth and effectively paved the way to institutional sustainability.

6. Lessons Learned
   • Adopting a holistic approach and addressing the most relevant development
   priorities improves project impact. The project objective needs to address major
   problems affecting development. Reforms at the national and policy levels need to be
   promoted when necessary. Component activities should seek for complementarities to
   create synergies for helping multiply the individual effects. In the project, new businesses
   were set up as village infrastructure investments offered an enhanced environment:
   gasification opened opportunities for investments in greenhouses or bakeries that require
   cheap energy; and extension and the seed components converged to improved farm
   production and yields.
   • Early success builds on social capital and brings more support. Being well
   prepared for starting implementation early on during the project life brings stakeholders
   together and a virtuous circle is created. In addition, developing public awareness
   through fairs and exhibitions, seminars, TV channels, events, help to raise standards and
   intensifies stakeholders’ efforts.
   • If agricultural credit needs to be developed, interventions must follow the basic
   financial system rules for being effective and sustainable. The creation of a specialized
   agency managing donors’ and GoA’s funds and providing training for strengthening
   financial services for the agricultural sector through PFIs proved to be effective in
   assisting the financial system. PFIs received training and low cost funds, but assumed the
   risks and negotiated the loan conditions with borrowers.
   • The CGPs is an effective instrument in supporting emerging rural businesses. The
   CGP helped to introduce, test, and demonstrate innovative ideas to rural entrepreneurs
   and farmers. Developing, testing and disseminating new knowledge as a public good has
   costs and risks that need to be shared with the private sector. A broad-based information
   campaign, a strong M&E program, a clear focus on TA and dissemination of results, a
   simple milestone-based disbursement schedule, and clear and transparent procedures for
   separate grant processing, selection, and evaluation should be in the Operational Manual
   detailing procedures and criteria.
   • Effective agricultural advisory systems are necessary catalysts in the process of
   improving small farm productivity and development. A demand-driven and
   decentralized approach, clear work-plans and budgets, a continuing program of in-service
   training, modern information and communications technologies, and focus on increasing
   cost recovery and paid services help to improve process effectiveness and sustainability.
   • Funding of advisory services should be provided based on approved annual work
   plans. This approach increases the efficiency of systems whose structures are financed
   independently from performance, often resulting in limited flexibility and lower
   relevance.
   • Community mobilization helps interventions to be more relevant to peoples’ needs,
   giving them a voice at all levels. It facilitates achieving what is most important for them
   (cash income, jobs, more/better agricultural products, access to innovations and markets,
   better quality of life through community infrastructure, etc.). Participation should define
   priorities, demonstrate readiness by having development plans and cash or in-kind


                                              17
   contributions, and assume the implementation, monitoring and O&M of assets. This
   approach brings higher level of ownership and awareness of communities.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
The Borrower concluded that overall the RESCAD Project was highly satisfactory and the
overall development objective has been achieved, creating solid ground for further
sustainable development of the agricultural sector in Armenia. The Minister of Agriculture
mentioned that implementation of the Project was successful, since it allowed people to
reach their objectives, i.e. increased income, creation of new jobs, increased productivity,
improved quality of production, application of innovative technologies, and improved access
to markets. Combined, all the project achievements brought positive changes in the lives of
more than 100,000 people in rural areas in Armenia. The Government did not have any
comments on the final ICR.
(b) Cofinanciers. No comments were received from cofinancers.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders. No comments were received from other partners.
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                              18
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                       Actual/Latest
                                 Appraisal Estimate                      Percentage of
           Components                                 Estimate (USD
                                   (USD millions)                         Appraisal
                                                          millions)
Small Rural Business Support            10.50               9.23             88%
Farm-Focused Development
                                          6.50
Support                                                     6.85             105%
Community-Focused Economic
                                          9.80
Development                                                12.88             131%
Project Management                        1.00              1.57             157%

Total Baseline Cost                       27.80            30.53             110%
Physical Contingencies
                                           0.10              -                 -
Price Contingencies
                                           0.32              -                 -
Total Project Costs                       28.22            30.63             109%
Total Financing Required                  28.22            30.63             109%




(b) Financing
                                                      Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                          Type of     Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
           Source of Funds
                                        Cofinancing    (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                      millions)   millions)
Borrower                                                1.80        1.79        99%
Local Communities                                       1.30        1.38       106%
International Development Association     Credit       20.00       22.55       113%
JAPAN: MoF - PHRD                         Grant         1.76        1.74        99%
Borrowing Country’s PFI                                 0.54        0.27        50%
Sub-borrower(s)                                         1.47        1.91       130%
Local Farmer Organizations                              1.35        0.99        73%




                                             19
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component A: Small Rural Business Support
Armenia’s rural farmers and agribusinesses had limited access to lending, as banks were
reluctant to go to rural areas and had limited knowledge of agricultural lending. Hence, rural
investments were very limited, resulting in low productivity and limited access to markets
for enterprises. In addition, there was no specialized mechanism for supporting innovations
for developing new products, processes and markets, by nature always risky. The project
aimed to create these two services, working for filling these gaps for development of the
rural sector.
Sub-component A.1. Rural Financial Services (HS).
Provision of enhanced rural financial services for farmers, agricultural processing and
related businesses was implemented by the RFF as foreseen at appraisal. Due to increased
knowledge of agricultural lending, commercial banks are no longer reluctant to lend to rural
areas. The project’s credit line (US$5.5 million) was fully disbursed to PFIs by late spring of
2009. Together with the revolving fund from the recovery of initial short and medium term
loans, by the of end February 2011 the RFF had more than US$7.76 million of lending to
249 clients through eight PFIs, leading to approximately US$12 million of investments in
rural areas9. Table 2.1 shows that 179 out of 249 loans disbursed, or 72 percent of the
number of loans, were small and medium loans, capturing 16.6 percent of the disbursed
funds.
Table 2.1 Loans financed through RESCAD up to December 31, 2010.
        Number of loans                    Received         Approved          Disbursed
                                            Amount            Amount             Amount
    Loan Size (US$)                    No.              No.               No.
                                            (US$)             (US$)              (US$)
    Small (100 - 5,000)                103      244,941 102       239,427   95       222,704
    Medium (5,000- 25,000)              91    1,201,950   89    1,163,950   84     1,068,950
    Large (25,000 - 150,000)            79    7,472,494   76    6,880,494   70     6,468,852
    Total                              273    8,919,385 267     8,283,871  249     7,760,506

Funds were directed to finance agricultural production and processing activities. The major
part of this portfolio has been extended for mid or long-term maturity loans for funding
capital investments. Together with funding provided from other sources, the project funds
strongly contributed to meet the demand from the agricultural credit market of Armenia.
Access to financial resources generated good profits and expansion opportunities both in the
financial and agricultural sectors. Some PFIs established branches in rural areas.
Significant positive impact was also achieved in knowledge development and expansion of
the financial services for the agricultural sector in Armenia. Training sessions delivered
under the sub-component have notably increased the qualification of PFIs’, which are now
increasingly lending their resources to agriculture. This is confirmed by the evolution of the
agricultural portfolio in Armenia, which increased during 2005 – 2010 from US$25 million
to US$144 million, in line with the growth of lending for the overall economy (Table 2.2).
These achievements can be considered as highly satisfactory.


9
 Post-reviews of sub-loan files found them to be compliant with the Rural Credit Guidelines agreed to between the
Government and the World Bank.
                                                          20
 Table 2.2. Commercial Banks’ Total Loans
                                                                                                             Increase
                                                                                                             over
End of period                      2005        2006        2007        2008         2009         2010
                                                                                                             2005 (%)
(million US$)
Commercial banks’ total               398         627       1,355        2,014        1,850       2,438          613
loans to residents:
        of which to                       25          39          74        119           117       144          574
        agriculture sector
Commercial       banks’               154         302           820      1,239            890     1,038          673
AMD loans to residents:
        of which to                        9          16          34          29           20           20       227
        agriculture sector
Commercial banks’ FX                  244         326           535         776       1,399       1,399          574
loans to residents:
        of which to                       16          23          40          90          124       124          758
        agriculture sector
 Source: Central Bank of Armenia

 The financial system is now lending an amount equivalent to 8.2 percent of the agricultural
 GDP, while in 2005 they were only lending 2.3 percent of the sector’s GDP (Table 2.3).


 Table 2.3. Agricultural Credit and GDP
                                                                                                             Increase
                                                                                                               over
Indicator         2005              2006         2007             2008             2009          2010
                                                                                                               2005
                                                                                                               (%)
GDP            2,346,458 2,656,190 3,149,238 3,568,278 3,102,815 3,509,625                                       150
(million
AMD)
Agriculture       493,018          555,922       633,878          637,292          555,698       637,565         129
sector
GDP
(million
AMD)
Total loans 2.29%             2.55%            3.53%            5.72%         7.95%             8.21%            358
of banking
system      /
agriculture
GDP

 Source: Central Bank of Armenia




                                                           21
The RFF10 was established by the Ministry of Finance (MoF) in October 2005 following an
agreement between IFAD and the GoA for the implementation of the RAEDP. Since spring
2006, RFF worked very actively under the IFAD-RAEDP credit line. Operations under the
RESCAD credit line were mobilized only after December 2006, due to the need to adjust the
RFF status to comply with the IDA requirements, and to some initial difficulties for
disbursements from the project’s Special Account (SA). Procurement of assets and office
equipment for the RFF was completed in 2007. RFF has managed financial resources from
the project at the annual spread of 0.75 percent, lending to PFIs at LIBOR+1 percent. The
interest rate spread is being used by the RFF for financing its operational budget and the
remaining surplus (US$150,000 in 2010 alone) is transferred to enlarge the revolving fund
to be re-lent to PFIs.
Throughout implementation, the RFF became a specialized agency managing donors’ and
GoA’s funds11 for strengthening financial services for the agricultural sector through PFIs.
Short, medium and long term loans of up to US$150,000 with a maturity of 1-7 years, and
up to a maximum grace period of 18 months were made available for the sector. PFIs took
the risk for the sub-loans, being responsible for identifying and selecting borrowers and for
negotiating loan conditions. During the first years of implementation the average loan size
has been large, as PFIs were favoring clients that offered better guaranties; as they gained
capacity and confidence in rural lending, and the MFIs12 became eligible PFIs in 201013, the
average loan size has dropped from US$72,371 in 2007, to US$45,967 in 2008, US$35,247
in 2009, and US$9,676 in 2010. The structure of the portfolio disbursed in 2010 was clearly
focused on small and medium size loans: 72 of the 107 loans disbursed were small
(averaging US$1,960); 33 were medium size (averaging US$18,038) and only 2 were large
loans (US$150,000 each). The target of 10 percent increase of loans taken by MSEs has also
largely exceeded.
The breakdown of the RESCAD portfolio by PFIs, by year, by regions, by sector of
agriculture, by maturity, by interest rate and by quality of portfolio can be found in Annex 7.
While a very small number of sub-loans experienced arrears due to the on-going crisis, the
sub-loans are generally being repaid on time and the portfolio at risk is minimal. RFF is
currently being reimbursed approximately US$200,000 per month, which is immediately re-
lent to PFIs for further investment sub-loans. No original project funds were made available
to the microfinance institutions (MFI) as, by the time the Subsidiary Loan Agreements were
signed between the Government and the MFIs, all project funds had been disbursed.
However, based on the MFI’s good track-record reaching small farmers and ensuring
repayments, MFIs are now actively operating from the reflows to serve their clients.
Commercial banks working with the RFF credit line had indicated the importance of the
project in enhancing lending to agriculture. For some banks, these funds represent the

10
    RFF has a Credit Council headed by a representative of the MoF, the Directors of the RESCAD and RAEDP PIUs. The
head of RFF is appointed by the MoF. The Credit Council’s main responsibilities are the strategic management of the RFF
activity, and the review/approval of refundable loan applications. Annual operational costs of the RFF are approved by the
MoF. Annual budget for the period of 2006-2009 grew from ARM 69 million to ARM 109 million. Salaries represent more
than half of operational expenses.
11
    RFF is operating with 5 projects: the IFAD-RAEDR (US$8.95 million); IDA-RESCAD (US$5.5 million); IFAD-
Marketing Accessibility Project (US$2 million); Millennium Challenge Corporation (US$8.5 million) and a GoA program
(ARD 212 million).
12
    MFI usually extend comparatively small amounts, while bigger banks prefer working larger loans. Besides, the decrease
of the average loan amount somehow reflects also the situation in Armenian economy in general; during the period of
global economic crisis financial institutions significantly revised their policy and applied measures for mitigating risks.
13
    By the time the Subsidiary Loan Agreements were signed between the GoA and the MFIs, all original project funds had
been disbursed. However, based on the MFI’s good track-record at sustainability, reaching small farmers and ensuring
repayments, in 2010 MFIs was eligible to withdraw from the reflows to serve their clients, and RFF increased its coverage
of small clients.
                                                           22
overwhelming majority of agriculture lending and, without the project funds and training
they admit that they may have not tried to expose their portfolio to this market. Whether or
not they will continue lending to agriculture is still unclear given the general economic
slowdown and a deterioration of some banks’ portfolio, which has led some banks to review
their lending practices and return to more conservative markets. But for some PFIs such as
Converse Bank, and for MFIs, the commitment to agriculture seems clear. However, in spite
of the huge progress, the loan products being offered to the rural sector can still be made
more responsive to the sector’s needs. Usually they are limited to a repayment period of at
most 3 – 4 years, and requiring collateral several hundred percent higher than the loan
amount. In addition, while interest rates have declined in recent years, they still remain high,
averaging 12 percent.
The sub-component also provided intensive training for almost 20 PFIs’ and RFF staff. In
total, 301 specialists including branch managers were trained, including on environmental
aspects. Sessions were organized on investment lending and commodity chain financing
topics (Table 2.4). The participants’ evaluation of the knowledge they received and the level
of satisfaction was very high. In addition, the Finance and Banking College (FBC) agreed to
include these trainings in their curriculum and a FBC specialist was trained along with a
project funded trainer. It is now expected that more training would be available on a regular
basis in Armenia for banks and credit entities.
Table 2.4 - Training delivered to PFIs

                  Branch Managers and Heads
                                                              Loan Officers
                     of Credit Departments
 Number of                                                                               Total
 participants      Investment        Commodity         Investment       Commodity
                     lending       chain financing       lending      chain financing
                        36               42                121              102           301

In September 2010 the RFF collected information in order to measure the impact of the sub-
component from 101 RESCAD credit line borrowers. The main indicators are shown in
Table 2.5.
Table 2.5. Impact of the sub-component

                             Indicator                                          Value
First-time borrowers as a % of total borrowers                                  29.6%
Number of new jobs created as a result of the sub-loans:                          597
        of which jobs for women                                                   318
Increase in the volume of sales in the project-supported companies              28.8%
Increase in profits of the project-supported companies                            26%
Source: RFF

The number of first time borrowers increased substantially; about 6 new jobs per borrower
have been created, totaling 597 new jobs, of which more than half for women; sales of
borrowers have increased for almost 29 percent, and their profits increased by 26 percent.




                                              23
Sub-component A.2. Promotion of Rural Business Linkages (S).
Activities under the CGP sub-component were adequately completed with 53 innovative
schemes implemented, out of the original 100 targeted at appraisal. Overall, 276 grant
applications were submitted through five rounds of open and transparent procedures: 81
proposals were rejected during screening by the CGP Secretariat for non-compliance with
the budgetary and selection criteria and 26 did not receive a sufficiently high score during
the technical review process. The Competitive Grants Commission (CGC) reviewed 219
applications (including 50 that were re-submitted by the applicants), from which 59 projects
were selected. Three of these were rejected during the verification process by the
Secretariat or not endorsed by the Project Management Board (PMB). Contracts have been
signed with 55 grant winners, including two that were closed during the implementation
period. The majority of the remaining 53 grants were finished satisfactorily14.
The grants have been awarded to informal farmer groups except three which were awarded
to registered farmers’ cooperatives. The average number of direct beneficiaries per scheme
was nine. There has been a wide range of service providers of technical assistance, including
specialists from MASCs, consulting groups, local NGOs, university lecturers and scientists.
The grants covered a broad range of topics in livestock husbandry, crop production,
vegetables, greenhouses, fruit processing and packaging, and improved storage and
marketing (see details in Annex 7). Around 48 percent were focused on livestock production
and marketing including fisheries, 33 percent were focused on crop production, processing
and marketing, and the remaining 19 percent were focused on other products and services.
Although not all grants were aimed specifically at creating market linkages, all schemes
indicated the probable markets for the products, and most of them addressed various market-
related issues such as product differentiation, improved quality of products, off-season
supply, opening of specific market niches, as well as improved storage or processes.
An independent evaluation of all of the grant sub-projects was commissioned. The
evaluation was done by independent experts15 based on: (i) 10 evaluation criteria16, (ii)
visits to all schemes, and (iii) interviews with stakeholders and innovators. A set of
conclusions and recommendations were also provided by the assessment. Given the
innovative nature of the schemes and the risks involved in developing new products,
processes and markets, the high success rate obtained by the CGP could be considered as
highly satisfactory.
The processing of the initial rounds was however delayed, due to issues related to the
effectiveness of the information dissemination campaigns and the quality of grant
applications. These issues was timely raised by Bank missions and were properly addressed
by the PIU during the next rounds. Lessons learnt were taken into account and the process
was substantially improved. Nevertheless, these initial shortcomings resulted in delays that
did not allow for completing more than five rounds during implementation, and the initially
allocated funds could not be fully spent. The total disbursed amount for the 53 CGP grants
was US$899,613 (47 percent of the allocated IDA budget), with an average cost per grant of
about US$16,974. Beneficiary contribution was US$884,385 or 50 percent of the total cost,
including a cash contribution of around US$162,388 or 18 percent of the total cost. Table

14
   Grant 8/1 was closed and the first tranche money repaid back because the applicant was not able to obtain Romanov
sheep. Grant 34/1 was extended until January 2009 due to procurement difficulties and delays, but is now on track. Grant
18/3 was approved, but the grant winners canceled the grant before contract-signing due to their inability to provide the
beneficiary financing.
15
   Evaluation Reports for 5 phases of CGP implementation and economic effectiveness and analyses of all grants.
16
   The evaluation criteria included: (i) level of novelty of the project; (ii) technology transferred; (iii) implementation of
transfer plan; (iv) costs of transfer; (v) achievement of objectives; (vi) priority problems; (vii) economic efficiency; (viii)
market availability; (ix) project provisions and achievement of objectives; and (x) level of reporting.
                                                               24
2.6 below provides the financial summary and the number of direct beneficiaries of the
CGP.
Table 2.6 Summary of CGP Progress in the Five Rounds

                                    First         Second        Third          Fourth        Fifth
                                                                                                           Total
                                    Round         Round         Round          Round         Round
Number of grants
                                              8             5             7            15            18               53
completed
Average grant amount
                                      16,529        18,354         18,273        16,826        16,406           16,974
(US$)
Total project cost (US$)             251,714       177,955       231,114       526,400        596,815       1,783,998
Grant amount (US$)                   132,235        91,770       127,908       252,395        295,305         899,613
Beneficiary contribution
                                     119,479        86,185       103,206       274,005        301,510         884,385
(US$)
       Of which: Cash
                                      32,285        15,490         24,431        70,012        20,170         162,388
       Contribution
Number of direct
                                            49            57            91           120           139              456
beneficiaries

The number of direct beneficiaries was proportional to the cost of the sub-projects. Some
sub-projects had many other beneficiaries beyond the original direct beneficiaries. The
number of total beneficiaries is estimated at over 1,500.
Technology transfer activities included 118 seminars with around 4,977 participants, 29
field days, 53 television spots, 116 information leaflets, 6 newspaper and magazine articles,
40 brochures and 83 posters. A first one-day workshop and exhibition of the new products
and results to widely disseminate CGP findings took place in September 2008, where sub-
projects from the first three rounds were presented. A second similar event was organized in
October 2009, where sub-projects from the last two rounds and best cases from the previous
rounds were presented. Grant products and information materials prepared by the CGP
winners were displayed. The workshops focused on the results of completed grants and
featured power-point presentations by winners and/or their technical service providers. A
booklet summarizing the grant projects was also prepared and distributed. Both events were
attended by hundreds of interested farmers, representatives of regional and local authorities,
high officials from the MoA, and other stakeholders17. Overall, the events were received
very positively and attendants considered the CGP as one of the best implemented programs
in the agricultural sector of Armenia. The overall achievement of the CGP is considered as
Satisfactory.

Component B - Farm-Focused Development

This component aimed to improve the productivity and efficiency of farmers and the quality
of production to better serve the market needs. To accomplish this goal, the main
intervention areas were: (i) strengthening of the advisory services system, including farm
and business management, marketing and livestock advice; and (ii) improving access to
good quality seeds and planting material. Progress had been previously made in establishing
17
   Some examples of disseminated innovative technologies include: (i) three new farmers joined the group producing
mushrooms from grant 61/3, and enquiries from 27 different farmer communities on the technology. The group was able to
borrow US$ 15,000 to establish a mushroom processing facility; (ii) following grant 29/1 other mini-breeding centers have
been established in four communities and farmers from 12 different communities obtained Balbas sheep for breeding
purposes; (iii) grant 30/1 derived in 24 farmers communities obtaining lean-meat Landrace/large white pigs for breeding
purposes; and (iv) wax sheets produced by the grant 57/2 winners were provided to some 250 bee-keepers who are
members of Bee-Keepers Associations in 7 Marzes.
                                                           25
a demand-driven, decentralized extension system through the preceding ARSP, where the
TAPs had proven to be a good way to ensure applicability and acceptability of research
results. However, the system was not yet in a position to operate without donors’ support
and was considered not sustainable. Rural producers had limited access and understanding
of markets, poor knowledge of credit and finance, limited skills in accounting and cash flow
analysis, and difficulties in obtaining legal advice.
There was also a need to improve farmers’ access to quality seeds and seedlings, including
introduction of new varieties that might more effectively meet the requirements of the
developing agro-processing sector. Lack of good quality seeds resulted in major losses for
farmers and reduced productivity of key crops, including wheat, potatoes, fruits and
vegetables crops. Support for the whole system included bringing the laws and regulations
in line with international standards, improving seed certification and variety testing capacity,
and increasing the availability of pre-basic or elite seed of locally-produced Armenian crop
varieties for multiplication by private seed producers.
Sub-component B.1 - Strengthening the Agricultural Extension System (S)
The sub-component activities have mostly been completed as of the end of 2009. Overall,
the achievements are Satisfactory, as demonstrated by the following: (i) the number of rural
farms served with technical assistance and those permanently served grew by 72 percent and
138 percent respectively, which compares outstandingly well with the 20 percent increase of
farmers accessing to the service targeted at appraisal; (ii) 88.1 percent of the 270
respondents to the Impact Assessment of Advisory Services Provided by the MASCs
(September 2008) considered that their farm operations would suffer if the service was not
present, and 94.9 percent indicated that due to the MASCs’ service an increase in
productivity was observed in agriculture and livestock production, which also exceeded the
appraisal target of 60 percent of farmers satisfied; (iii) to the survey statement, “MASCs
reaches all the farmers in my community,” 16 out of the 18 community mayors consulted
(88.9 percent) answered “I strongly agree,” while 2 answered “I agree”. Again the
assessment is far over the target of 50 percent of communities satisfied. Moreover, 77.8
percent of community mayors also said they were willing to pay for the cost of the service.
The main purpose of the component was to shift the extension system from an entirely
donor-funded system to a system financed through a combination of core budget support
and cost recovery, which has been achieved. The system is now more sustainable18.
However, the continuous financing of an adequate agricultural extension system still remain
an important issue in the upcoming years. During 2009 the extension system has been
financed by three sources: 55 percent from the national budget, 35 percent from the Project
and 10 percent from its own revenues. The MTEF for 2009-2011 envisaged that the national
budget would pick up its share of the project financing starting 2010, and that 90 percent of
the costs of the system would be borne by the fiscal budget. Due to the on-going economic
crisis, the GoA had to reduce expenditures, and the 2010 actual expenses for the system
were just 55 percent of the initial budget. Therefore, the MASCs and RASC had to reduce
their work-plans, out of which 93.7 percent was covered by the state budget, and only 6.3
percent by farmers19. The appraisal target of 30 percent of operating cost recovery was not
reached.

18
   In the recently approved Community Agricultural Resource Management and Competitiveness Project (CARMAC),
there will be no further funding of operating costs and salaries of MASC or RASC staff. The MoA and users are paying
100% of these costs since 2010. Instead, the project will provide contracts for specific tasks, such as continued assessment
and demonstration of new technologies; IPM including production management; and introduction of good agricultural
practices and food safety systems.
19
   For 2010 the budget of the 10 MASCs comprised AMD 265.0 million, out of which AMD 248.3 million from the state
budget and AMD 16.7 million from MASCs revenues co-financing (6.3 percent). However, the financing targeted at the
                                                             26
The project assistance significantly improved the MASCs’ service delivery capacity,
provided much better working conditions for the extension advisors, and contributed to the
sustainability of the extension system. As of 2006, the extension system had 145 regional
advisors plus 50 village (regional) advisors selected under the ARSP Project. During the
project period, additional village advisors were selected and contracted for one-two year
periods. The cost of village advisors’ salaries was equally shared between the project,
villagers and production groups. Advisors got trained and involved in MASCs’ information
dissemination programs. In 2011, only 145 regional advisors continued their activities;
contracts with village advisors were completed and some continue under direct contract with
the communities20. The evolution of village and production groups’ advisors is presented in
the Table 2.7 below:

Table 2.7. Number of advisors, as of the end of year
                                                             2006         2007        2008         2009        2010
  Number of regional advisors
                                                                 145          144         144          145         133

  Number of village advisors inherited
                                                                   50            0            0           0           0
  from ARSP
  Number of newly contracted village
                                                                   50          49           40          11            0
  advisors

Selection of village advisors was coupled with provision of village advisory rooms as actual
workplaces for them. A total of 345 such rooms have been refurbished and furnished to a
good standard, including provision of publications, seating and working tables, copying
machines, digital cameras, 2 computers, etc. Costs were shared, with communities covering
at least 20 percent. The village advisory rooms provide an excellent focal point for the
extension agents and their clients. In addition, each MASCs was provided with one 4WD
vehicle, and the small tools and equipment provided to MASCs allowed them to expand
their services and get additional income generation sources, thus contributing towards the
sustainability of extension system activities.
At appraisal 445 TAPs and demonstration programs were budgeted, but only 205 TAPS and
17 demonstration programs were conducted under the project. Farmers and representatives
of the MoA are highly satisfied with the results. About 1,255 TAP requests were reviewed
and those that brought new ideas and were in compliance with priorities of the agricultural
sector were selected and implemented. The RASC prepared, printed, and disseminated
thousands of copies of 114 factsheets through the MASCs, ensuring effective technology
transfer and dissemination.
International technical assistance and training activities aimed at improving the RASC’s and
MASCs’ delivery capacity included: business planning skills, streamlining of marketing
assistance, best practices of extension methods and operational aspects of the extension

MASCs office operational costs and salaries of the employees (6 employees per Marz) under the project was conducted
from three sources: IDA funds, the state budget and MASCs revenues for co-financing (10 percent). Financing of salaries
of the regional advisors was under IDA funds and the state budget. But since 2010 MoA is financing also 100 percent of
salaries including regional advisors.
20
   150 village advisors were appointed for a fixed two-year period with 50% cost-sharing between the project and the
community (village mayor or producers’ association). Ten of these were contracted through producers’ associations. The
contracts of these advisors have been completed. However, many remain employed by the community after the completion
of their contract and are continuing to participate in MASC information and training programs. A survey in mid-2007
indicated that about 66% of the first 50 were still employed by the village mayor’s office, and a second survey in mid-2008
indicated that 84% of those that completed their contract in December 2007 were still employed.
                                                            27
system. Farm management methods, new sources for income generation, costs and tariffs of
services, and impact assessment were also included in the training program. Several RASC
and MASCs officers participated in similar seminars abroad. All these activities provided
opportunities for gaining new skills and knowledge, exchanging ideas, and getting
awareness on good practices, contributing to increase the effectiveness of the advisory
system. Details of training events organized by the RASC are presented in the Table 2.8
below:
Table 2.8. Training sessions delivered by the RASC
                                        2006        2007        2008     2009        Total
 Number of training sessions                10             10      10            7           37
 Number of trainers                         18             19      19           14           70
 Training topics/themes                  38/81       45/71       39/82   31/110      153/343
 Number of participants                    299         304        278        228       1,109
 Leaflets prepared                          45             60      69           60       234
Source: PIU and RASC
An Integrated Pest Management (IPM) pilot program under the Farmers Field Schools (FFS)
approach with 120 farmers in 8 villages of Lori and Tavush regions was implemented
through the Green Lane NGO. The focus was on IPM for agricultural production systems.
Participants received certificates, successfully implemented IPM in their farms and became
trainers and advisors for other members of their communities. RASC prepared and printed
1,000 copies of a Pest Control Handbook, and distributed them among MASCs and
extension advisors. It contains detailed and practical information on available registered
pesticides, their correct doses and effective use, concentration of active ingredients, periods
and seasons for their use, and other relevant information. The NGO now works to expand
the IPM approach and new FFSs to other projects working in rural development. Marketing
of the fruits and vegetables produced under the environmental friendly technologies by these
groups opened new opportunities to access promising higher value market niches.
The list of specific outputs of the extension sub-component is wide, including trainings and
seminars, implementation of demonstration programs and information dissemination,
provision of consultancy services on marketing and management issues, etc. Major outputs
are presented in the Table 2.9 below. Further details are presented in Annex 7.




                                               28
Table 2.9. Summary results of the extension sub-component activities

                                                  2006      2007     2008      2009     2010
Number of communities served                         911      911       911       911      905
Total number of rural farms                     344,448 344,648 344,673 346,454 351,494
Number of rural farms served                      40,331 42,726 46,156 50,203 69,292
Number of permanently served farms                16,644 19,980 23,171 25,133 39,583
Number of MASCs’ staff, of which:                    304      306       292       256      218
   MASCs specialists                                  30        30       29        30        30
   Extension system regional advisors                145      144       144       145      133
   Village advisors                                  100        99       89        51      n.a.
Number of groups worked with                         456      478       508       516      679
Completed trainings and seminars                   2,762    2,720     2,003     2,226    2,851
Number of participants to trainings events        47,397 45,465 38,705 42,558 51,202
Number of demonstrations                             292      364       242       262      118
Number of field trials                               381      400       426       185      243
Number of prepared business plans                  1,044      592       695       562      380
Radio and TV broadcasts                               85        85       43        57        70
Marketing and matchmaking services                 2,345    2,872     2,894     2,978    2,992
Number of published materials                        627      917       637       483      875

Sub-component B.2. Strengthening the Seed and Sapling Market (S)
Armenian agriculture was facing substantial problems with the access to higher quality
seeds and saplings, and lacked seed selection and testing facilities. The sub-component
envisaged to improve the situation with the purpose of increasing the crop productivity and
providing better income generation opportunities to rural population. It required
restructuring the state entities engaged in this activity, provision of laboratory and field
equipment for testing seed varieties and certification, training and technical assistance for
reforming the regulatory framework. With a total cost of about US$1.75 million the sub-
component achieved its target in spite of a slow start and delays in completing some
investments. The creation and sustainable operation of the seeds and saplings production
system was completed and its targeted indicators were surpassed by more than 100 percent.
According to the Impact Assessment of Seed Producers and Seed Users (November 2009)
the number of users of wheat, potato, melon/watermelons and fodder certified seeds grew by
50-59 percent between 2006 (first year of production under the project) and 2008, while
users of legume certified seeds and fruit saplings grew by 28 percent and 75 percent
respectively in that period. Moreover, from the time of the survey data (2008) and today,
production of certified seeds has doubled. The 2008 figures already surpassed by more than
100 percent the target of 20 percent increase of farmers using certified seeds set at appraisal.
At the same time, the sub-component completion survey also confirms that the increase in
crops productivity due to the use of certified seed had varied between 66 percent in the case
of legume and fodder seed users, and 90 percent in the case of potato and vegetable seed
                                               29
    users. Wheat certified seed users, who constitute the majority of the beneficiaries, declared
    that their productivity has increased by 78.8 percent in 2008 compared to 2006.
    The Law on Seeds was approved in late 2008. The legislation on the Protection of New
    Plant Varieties (Law on Selection Achievements), and on Quarantine and Phytosanitary was
    prepared and drafts submitted to MoA, but are still to be approved by the Parliament,
    awaiting for Armenia to become a member of the International Union for the Protection of
    New Varieties of Plants (UPOV). The Seed Agency, created in 2005, is satisfactorily
    carrying out the seed certification and variety testing programs, and has published a
    handbook of registered varieties including the results of testing. Table 2.10 below presents a
    summary of sub-component results.
    Table 2.10 - Results of the seed sub-component, 2006-2010
               Results                     2006          2007         2008         2009         2010
Types of tested crops                              8             7           13           17           14
Varieties and hybrids of tested crops             69            62           49           66           54
Number of test sites                               6             6            6            6           6
Number of seed samples tested                  496           662          772         1271            960
Number of new varieties added to the
                                                   -            37            4           18           10
list of registered varieties
Number of new varieties added to the
                                                   -            51           29           23           21
list of permitted varieties
Quantity of certified seeds, tons                  -         808        2,820        6,500        5,680
Total income of Seed Agency, AMD         1,447,000      2,288,000    2,156,000    2,200,000    2,050,000
Number of registered seed producers,
                                                   -            35           40           47           74
cumulative
    The number of registered seed producers in 2010 was 74. About 6,500 and 5,680 tons of
    seed were certified in 2009 and 2010 respectively, compared with none and 800 tons in 2006
    and 2007, respectively. 69 new varieties were registered and 124 added to the list of
    permitted varieties for use at the time of project closing. In 2010, 960 varieties were tested,
    with 10 new varieties registered and 21 added to the list of permitted varieties for use,
    confirming that the program continues to develop. Production of adequate super-elite and
    elite seed at the Gyumri Selection Station (GSS) is also satisfactory. Effective training has
    been carried out for the Seed Agency and GSS staff, as well as for seed producers and seed
    production crops’ inspectors. All laboratory equipment and furnishings are installed at the
    Seed Agency headquarters and the five regional seed laboratories. Vehicles have also been
    provided for the six mentioned sites, as well as a mini-bus for training use and staff
    transportation. Field equipment for the variety testing sites include four small tractors (from
    25 to 50 hp) and associated cultivation equipment and seed drills. Equipment allows the
    Seed Agency to carry out a variety of testing and planting of control plots, as well as to
    generate income from crops grown on land planted for rotation purposes. Operating costs for
    the Seed Agency were provided by the project until 2009, primarily for cultivation and
    planting of about 80 ha at six testing sites, as well as to derive income in line with their
    business plans.




                                                   30
Component C. Community-focused Economic Development (HS)

Rural areas in Armenia faced many problems that needed urgent attention: deterioration of
the economic potential and food security, shrinking forest areas and soil degradation, limited
access to drinking and irrigation water, unsustainable agricultural production and animal
husbandry practices, low living standards, limited access to trade routes and markets,
inadequate access to information and mass media, unemployment, emigration, and lack of
funds to address these issues. As problems were interlinked, they were addressed under this
component in the framework of a comprehensive community economic development (CED)
strategy. The original target was to implement about 100 CED sub-projects in 5 regions.
Additional funds in the amount of SDR 1.3 million were approved for this component in
early 2009 for overcoming the effects of the financial crisis, the cost escalation problems
derived from the depreciation of the US dollar, and for expanding the number of assisted
communities. At closing, 144 communities received support (44 percent beyond original
target) through 165 sub-projects in six regions. Of the total 165 demand driven sub-projects,
104 were for community infrastructure and 61 for income-generation activities21. Their
sustainability is likely since collection of fees for services is proceeding at a good level (70-
90 percent with most of the outstanding amount been raised with some delay).
All 144 Community Economic Development Committees (CEDCs) were established in
participating villages with the heads of communities, members of the Community Council,
and community representatives elected in village meetings. Their responsibilities included
making decisions on objectives and activities for developing their economic base,
management, implementation, monitoring, and for sustainable operation and maintenance
(O&M) of all project assets provided. In parallel, Marz Community Selection Committees
(MCSCs) were created in all regions with representatives from Regional Government
officials, local NGOs, private businessmen, and from other local development projects.
Their major responsibility was the final selection of communities based on strategic priority
criteria for the region. Initially it was planned to contract one local NGO for assisting the
CEDCs in designing their plans and prioritizing needs, but during implementation it was
decided to replace them with Marz Support Teams (MSTs) in each region. These were
formed with 4 specialists including a community development specialist as coordinator, an
engineer-constructor, an agricultural business development specialist and a
secretary/assistant. MSTs were responsible for capacity building of CEDCs, development
and submission of plans and work specifications. They actually managed implementation of
sub-projects, acting as grass-routed branches of the PIU.
The Community Economic Development Secretariat (CEDS), operating centrally within the
PIU, was the focal point between the WB, GoA, and communities for the CED program,
assuming the overall responsibility of implementation, monitoring, and control. CEDS hired
4 specialists, including a coordinator, a community development specialist, an engineer-
constructor, and an agricultural business development specialist. The project provided an
international CED specialist for assisting the process and providing training to CEDS
personnel, reviewing and guiding activities, coordinating the work, developing the M&E
system, etc. The PIU and the Project Management Board (PMB) supervised project
implementation activities, and conducted interventions and processes effectively and
successfully towards the achievement of planned results.



21
    Community infrastructure sub-projects included 61 for drinking water systems, 31 for gasification of villages, 8 for
irrigation and 2 for sewerage systems; and income-generating schemes included 52 for community agricultural machinery,
5 for rural bus service and 4 for milk collection points. Details of CED sub-projects per type of activity, region and
monitoring results are presented in Annex 7.
                                                          31
The project Baseline Survey (November 2007) and Completion Survey (June 2010)
questioned a sample of 50 CEDC members and 23 heads of communities to assess the
starting situation, and the impact of the project six months before completion. All 50 CEDC
members shared the same opinion during both surveys, that the selection of CEDC in their
communities was fairly done and that they completely voiced the needs of their
communities. They considered that priorities were fairly selected and expressed the
community’s needs. If, in 2007, 2 CEDC members had expressed their doubt about the
productivity of the CEDC activities, at completion all respondents said that the CEDC
creation promoted the successful implementation of the project. A number of 35 of the
CEDC members evaluated the implementation of sub-project(s) in their communities as
“good”, 14 as “satisfactory” and only 1 as “bad”. The latter respondent was from a
community where a drinking water project was implemented, but water was still not
available for all the community members.
Regarding the Secretariat’s assistance in 2007, 54 percent of the CEDC members assessed it
as “good”, 30 percent as “satisfactory”, 2 percent as “bad” and the remaining 14 percent
found it difficult to assess it. Assessment had significantly improved at completion: 72
percent responded “good” and the other 28 percent as “satisfactory”. Heads of communities
had expressed that the annual actual incomes of the average community included in the
survey amounted to 15.1 million AMD in 2010 while in 2007 it was 8 million AMD,
varying among communities between 2.8 and 51 million AMDs. Income has increased by
almost 89 percent over three years.
The overwhelming majority of sub-projects are proceeding satisfactorily with only one
which is problematic. This is a milk collection point implemented as a joint scheme in three
villages of Tavush Marz that was completed in April 2008, with a capacity of collecting two
tons of milk per day. A tentative agreement with a milk processing plant that provided
AMD 15 million as co-financing had been previously arranged, but milk has not been
collected so far. The main reason is failed negotiations on the price of milk, due to the
influence of sharp decreases of powder milk from US$5 to 1.5 per kg22, which became more
attractive for the milk processor.




22
   A local consultant was contracted to assist the beneficiaries in resolving the issue. The consultant carried out several
activities including mobilization of beneficiaries; explanation of different quality categories of milk and their matching
prices; contractual arrangements; training on milk safety, hygienic collection techniques, importance of collecting the
appropriate quantity of milk, improved technologies for increased milk yield, livestock inventory, fodder balance
calculations, all with identifying a perspective to increase milk production, etc., but still the center is not working.
                                                              32
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

The objectives of this economic and financial analysis are to compare project results at
completion with the ex-ante analysis, as well as to assess outcomes and the degree to which
the project achieved its development objectives and the performance indicators. The ex-ante
economic and financial analysis of the project was carried out during the design stage and
was presented in the PAD. The ex-post analysis was conducted during 2010, in line with the
ex-ante assessment in terms of methodology and approach; however some of the used
models are not identical: most of the data and parameters were taken or derived from the
available project assessment reports; and some data and information were also collected
during the field visits and interviews with sub loan borrowers and other project stakeholders.
A conservative approach was applied to the present analysis.
The ex-post analysis shows overall good investment returns – 21.6 percent, which is
almost 5 percent higher than expected. The quantified investment returns of the CED grants
are lower than expected, while investment returns of the credit component are higher than
expected due to their higher business-oriented nature. However, the investment return of the
credit sub-projects was not taken into account under the ex-ante analysis. Accordingly, the
present analysis shows that without the benefits of the credit components’ sub-projects the
project’s IRR would be at the level of 16 percent which is in line with the PAD expectations.
Therefore, it could be stated that the project has achieved its expected goals from the
economic point of view.
Table 3.1. Summary of Ex-Ante and Ex-Post Economic Analysis of RESCAD

                                    Investment Costs, US$ NPV, US$                            IRR, %
     Ex-ante analysis                       18,841,300       7,081,900                                     16.8%
                                                             23
     Ex-post analysis                          21,303,800                 14,501,000                       21.6%

Table 3.2 presents results obtained in representative sub-projects analyzed for this
assessment. Details are presented below and supporting tables are available in the project
files.
CED Grant Sub-projects
A total of 165 Community Economic Development (CED) grant sub-projects with a total
investment of US$12 million were completed. More than 85 percent of the investments fall
under the gasification, drinking water and machinery sub-projects. The incremental annual
net benefits per US$1 of investments are US$0.47 on average and the investment return is
39 percent. These rates are lower than projected in the ex-ante analysis (US$0.71 and 64
percent respectively). This is due to the fact that communities demanded more for the
gasification sub-projects. Returns from gasification projects are lower than returns from
other CED sub-projects, but they have non-quantified social and environmental benefits.
The lower returns are also linked to a slow process of connecting households to the main gas
pipeline, due to high connection costs24. The calculations show that a one year delay in
connection to the gas pipeline leads to a one percent reduction of IRR for gasification sub-
projects.




23
    In 2009, the project received an AF amounting to US$2 million for implementation of additional CED sub-projects and
to cover the cost escalations. Approximately US$462 thousand was also invested additionally from the beneficiaries.
24
    According to the existing legislation, connection of households to gas pipelines is carried out solely by the ArmRossGas
                                                            33
Table 3.2: Summary of the sub-project models (economic)

                                                          Annual Net Benefits
                         Estimated Costs (Thousand
                                                         (Thousand USD)-after
                                   USD)                                               Increm. annual net                            NPV-before   NPV-after
                                                              financing                                    IRR-before   IRR-after
                                                                                       benefits per USD                              financing    financing
       Model             CED/                                                                               financing   financing
                                                                                         of investment                              (Thousand    (Thousand
                        Credit/                       Without    With                                          (%)         (%)
                                  Benef.     Total                        Increm.            (USD)                                     USD)         USD)
                         CGP/                         Project   Project
                         TAP
CED - Construction      161.0      74.0     235.1         -      52.4      52.4                  0.22           16         N/A         112.8        N/A
of a Gas Pipeline
CED - Rehabilitation     42.1       7.5      49.6         -      29.8      29.8                  0.60           41         N/A           0.2        N/A
of a Drinking Water
Supply Scheme
CED - Community          87.5      15.6     103.1         -      59.2      59.2                  0.57           59         N/A         138.6        N/A
Owned Agricultural
Machinery
CED – average            96.9      32.4     129.3         -      47.1      47.1                  0.47           39                      83.9
Credit- Refrigerated    150.0      60.0     210.0         -      42.2      42.2                  0.20           13        12%           23.1        12.3
Warehouse
Credit - Expansion of    40.0     197.0     237.0       5.7     129.6     123.9                  0.52          131            -        458.7       581.3
Dairy Herd
Credit - Milk            57.0      57.0     114.0       5.8      56.1      50.3                  0.44           52                     177.2       224.8
Processing
Credit – Greenhouse     140.0     175.0     315.0         -      64.2      64.2                  0.20           66                     248.8       270.1
Credit - Fish           150.0      53.2     203.2         -      81.6      81.6                  0.40           94                     348.7       385.7
production
Credit – average        107.4     108.4     215.8       2.3      74.7      72.4                  0.35           71          12         251.3       294.9
CGP sub-projects –        15        15        30        1.7      24.5      22.9                  0.76          104         N/A          38.3        N/A
average
TAP – Potato                2,6       0,9       3,5       3,5       5,4         1,9                0,54           31         N/A           4,0         N/A
TAP - tomato                1,0       1,1       2,1      21,3      30,5         9,1                4,30          140         N/A          34,5         N/A
TAPs – average              1,8       1,0       2,8      12,4      18,0         5,5                1,98           85         N/A          19,2         N/A


                                                                          34
The gasification and drinking water sub-projects had also un-quantified spillover effects, as they
led to the development of different types of small businesses like greenhouses and bakeries. The
agricultural machinery sub-projects, besides their contribution to reducing prices for agricultural
works, also allowed for the expansion of additional cultivated lands that led to growth of
agricultural production and revenues.
Credit Sub-projects
Financing of sub-projects was provided through the project Rural Finance Facility (RFF) and
participating commercial banks. These investments have led to US$7.56 million of lending to
17725 clients representing approximately US$12 million of investments in the rural areas. Most of
these investments were directed to livestock production and processing, horticulture and fishery
sub-projects.
The incremental annual net benefits per US$ of investments are US$0.35 on average, and the
investment return is 71 percent, indicators that are approximately corresponding with the levels
estimated in the ex-ante analysis (US$0.41 and 54 percent respectively). Co-financing of sub-
projects by the beneficiaries significantly exceeded the level envisaged at the design stage. The
level of credit repayment is very high, due to good supervision from PFIs and RFF. Resources of
the revolving fund are being already used for lending to new clients, showing the sustainability of
the project financial services improvements.
Competitive Grant Scheme (CGS) sub-projects
As reported, 53 CGS sub-projects were fully implemented. In total, around US$1.8 million were
invested including grants amounting to approximately US$0.9 million and beneficiary contribution
in the amount of US$0.9 million. About 60 percent of sub-projects were implemented in crop and
livestock production, poultry, beekeeping, fishery and agricultural support services. The
incremental annual net benefits per US$1 of investments are US$0.76 on average, and the average
investment return is in the order of 90 percent. These are higher result indicators than expected
during the design phase (US$0.37 and 71 percent respectively). Actual co-financing of sub-
projects by beneficiaries was 50 percent, which also exceeded expectations during the design stage
of the project.
Technical Assistance sub-projects (TAPs)
According to the PIU data 43 TAPs costing US$75,000 were implemented at the time of this
assessment. These TAPs have demonstrated different technologies for improving production and
processing in crops, livestock, horticulture, feed, as well as in weed control and pest management.
The incremental annual net benefits per US$1 of investments are US$1.98 on average, and the
investment return is 85 percent26. These results correspond to PAD expectations (US$1.18 and 110
percent respectively). However, there were less resources allocated for the TAPs than it was
planned (it was planned to invest US$1.7 million). TAP sub-projects have almost no direct
influence on the estimated total project’s IRR but they certainly have significant effects on actual
benefits. The TAP sub-projects have contributed to further development and strengthening of
MASCs’ informational and consulting services through the dissemination of newly adopted
technologies.
Seed/Sapling Component
The project provided assistance to the seed certification sector of the country through provision of
institutional capacity-building, field and laboratory equipment and legal and regulatory

25
     Approved by the RFF as of 30.06.2010.
26
   Average calculations were made on the basis of assessments of CGS sub-projects conducted by PIU. The findings of these
assessments were rechecked during field visits and they were taken as a basis for further analysis as reasonably reliable and
credible.
                                                                35
framework. As a result, according to the Seed Agency’s data, the volume of wheat certified seeds
reached 2,800 tons and the volume of certified potato seeds reached 3,700 tons in 2009. Therefore,
about 8 percent of the wheat cultivated area was cropped with certified seeds, compared to 10
percent estimated at appraisal. The actual incremental economic benefits per ha is about US$117,
compared to around US$44 estimated at appraisal. The incremental net benefits from the
certification of wheat seeds would reach about US$1.6 million annually (mostly due to increase of
yield), which is double of the value estimated at appraisal (US$888 thousand).
Around 50 different seed farms, companies and organizations purchased certified seeds, which,
considering that in 2006 there was no certification of seeds in the country, demonstrates the rapid
development of this sector. The total number of farmers using the improved and/or certified seeds
has increased rapidly. For example, an interview of ten seed farms and organizations showed that
the number of such farmers increased from 12,038 in 2006 to 42,107 in 2009 (an increase of 350
percent) and further increases were observed also in 2010.




                                                36
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                      Responsibility/
           Names                        Title                Unit
                                                                        Specialty
Lending
Frauke Jungbluth          Sr. Rural Development Economist     AFTEN Task Team Leader
Elmas Arisoy              Lead Procurement Specialist         ECSO2 Procurement
Beatrice Koshie Michel    Program Assistant                   SDNOK Assistant
Gayane Minasyan           Sr. Environmental Economist         EASER Environment
Arman Vatyan              Sr. Financial Management Specialist ECSO3 Fin. Management
Artavazd Hakobyan         Operations Officer                  ECSS1 Operations
Yingwei Wu                Sr. Procurement Specialist          LCSPT Procurement
Satochi Ishihara          Social Development Specialist       ECSSD Social
David Lugg                Agronomist                         FAO-TCI Extension
Anara Jumabayeba          Agricultural Economist             FAO-TCI Evaluation
Supervision/ICR
Doina Petrescu            Sr. Rural Development Specialist    ECSS1 Task Team Leader
Sandra Broka              Sr. Rural Finance Specialist        ECSS1 Rural Finance
Pierre Olivier Colleye    Sr. Microfinance Specialist         ECSS1 Microfinance
Artavazd Hakobyan         Operations Officer                  ECSS1 Operations
Darejan Kapanadze         Sr. Environmental Specialist        ECSS3 Environment
Paula F. Lytle            Sr. Social Development Specialist   AFTCS Social
Valencia M. Copeland      Program Assistant                   ECSSD Assistant
Meeta Sehgal              Operations Analyst                  ECSS1 Operations
Arman Vatyan              Sr. Financial Management Specialist ECSO3 Fin. Management
Yingwei Wu                Sr. Procurement Specialist          LCSPT Procurement
David Lugg                Agronomist                         FAO-TCI Extension
Anara Jumabayeba          Agricultural Economist             FAO-TCI Evaluation

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                      Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                     USD Thousands (including
                                    No. of staff weeks
                                                           travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY04                                          ..                    98.99
  FY05                                          ..                   279.68
              Total:                            ..                   378.67
Supervision/ICR
  FY06                                          ..                   105.16
  FY07                                          ..                    87.98
  FY08                                          ..                   104.76
  FY09                                          ..                   141.20
  FY10                                                                97.80
  FY11                                                                34.09
              Total:                            ..                   570.99

                                         37
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results


RESCAD Completion Survey (June 2010) – Final Report - Summary

Method

    • The method of baseline survey carried out in 2007 was also applied for the completion survey.
    • The interviews were held with the same 746 out of 750 farm households that were included during
      the 2007 baseline survey.
    • Interviews were carried out based on the 3 questionnaires of the baseline survey (farm household,
      head of the community and CEDC) through direct visits to the farms.

Respondents

   • 565 out of 750 respondents (75.3 %) are male and 185 (24.7 %) are female. The representation of
     male and female respondents in 2007 was distributed in the following way: 590 (78.7 %) male and
     160 (21.3 %) female.
   • As in 2007, also at present, the age of the youngest respondent is 19 years old and of the oldest is 94
     (in 2007 was 90 years old). The average age of the respondents has increased with about two years.
   • 97 farm households, which comprise 12.9% of the sampling unit, were not involved in any project at
     the time of interviewing. Farm households not included in the project are from the 12 communities of
     five (except for Tavush marz) out of six marzes included in the survey. This group of farm
     households has been taken as a “control group” for further comparisons and analyses.

Implementation of sub-projects

   • The level of awareness in the communities about the projects being implemented by RESCAD has
     increased after the implementation of the projects. If at the start of the project 94.4% of the
     respondents said “Yes” to the following question “Are you aware of the projects implemented in
     your community?”, then presently the level awareness has increased up to 99.6 %.
   • The level of popularity of the RESCAD project as an implementing structure has increased during
     the project implementation period. Thus, 63.7 % (in 2007 only 45.9 %) of the respondents mentioned
     RESCAD project as the source of financing, 16.7 % (in 2007 - 43.6 %) – the World Bank and 7.7 %
     (in 2007 - 2.1 %) the RA Government.
   • If in 2007, 83% of the respondents were familiar with the project implementation body, then at
     present this number has grown up to 88%. It proves the necessity of creation of CEDCs’ and of the
     effectiveness of their activities.
   • 192 respondents of the baseline survey or 27% of those that are aware of the project were not eager
     to pay the community share for the sub-project implementation. It was deemed that the respondents
     not aware of the project, also were not potential payers and that about 1/3 of the total number of
     respondents did not want to pay for the implementation of sub-projects. According to the data
     provided by the complete survey it came out that 32.4% of the respondents did not pay their part of
     the community investments for the project implementation.

Family and employment

   • The average size of the farm household is 4.39 (in 2007 it was 4.67), from which 0.98 (1.16) are
      children under 16 years old, 2.88 (2.90) are family members between the ages of 16 and 64 and 0.54
      (0.61) are above 64 years old. The smallest farm households are comprised of 1 member (63 farm
      households, as compared to 55 in 2007), the largest - 25 members (only one farm household).
    • 14.3% of the adult members (366 persons) have higher or incomplete higher education, 19.1 % (488
      persons) – secondary or technical education, 56.9 % (1456 persons) – general secondary, 9.3 % (239
      persons) incomplete secondary and elementary education. 11 people were illiterate.

                                                    38
     • The average interviewed farm household has 2.8 (in 2007 - 2.8) adult members capable of working
       that are mainly involved in farming. Compared to 2007 the level of unemployment has increased
       from 1.2% to 2.9 %.
     • The diversification index of non-agricultural employment is 18.9 % (9.7% for the control group).
                                27

     • In the average interviewed farm household, 2.23 (in 2007 – 2.4) members are employed and only
       0.02 (0.02) are hired workers.
     • 115 (15.3%) farm households out of surveyed 750 farm households had family members leaving for
       work abroad in 2007. The number of such people has increased in 2010 and reached 126 (16.8 %). In
       2007, 24 (24.7%) of the 97 farm households and in 2010, 27 (27.8%) farm households of the control
       group had migrant workers.

Use of land and irrigation

   • The size of the land area recorded during the interviews had not been changed after the baseline
     survey. The average farm household works (owned + rented) 2.97 ha (in 2007 – 2.99 ha) land area.
   • The level of agricultural land use among the surveyed communities has increased by more than 1%
     (in 2007 - 77.3 %, in 2010 - 78.4%) during the past period. 148 farm households out of surveyed 750
     or 19.1% of the total (in 2007 - 116 farm household or 15.5 %) expressed their willingness to
     increase their land area by at least 0.5 ha, maximum by 30 ha. Due to the activities implemented
     during the project period the economic activity of female population has increased, and the specific
     weight of their involvement almost doubled (in 2007 -13.8 %, in 2010 - 25.9 %).
   • The availability of agricultural machinery has increased during the project period. The number of
     farm households that reported yield losses because of unavailability of agricultural machinery or their
     late provision had decreased to 68 farm households in 2010, compared to 109 farm households in
     2007. According to the farm household assessments the loss averaged 2.3 million AMD in 2010 (in
     2007 - 4.1 million AMD).
   • No significant changes were recorded during this period in transportation used by the farm
     households to reach their land areas. 67.9 % of farm households (in 2007 - 69 %) walk to their land
     areas, 11 % (in 2007 -13.3 %) – by private car, 17.7 % (in 2007 - 10.9 %) by passing car, 1.6 % (in
     2007 - 3.3 %) on horse or donkey and 1.5 % (in 2007 - 2.6 %) by the community bus.
   • According to the survey data 118.3 ha arable lands and 51.6 ha grape and fruit gardens were
     completely or partially irrigated during the last season. These data exceeds the ones from 2007 when
     30 ha of the arable lands and 27.9 ha of fruit and grape yards were irrigated. The major part of the
     81.2% increase of actually irrigated land areas among the surveyed 25 communities belongs to four
     communities where the RESCAD project has implemented irrigation projects.
   • According to the baseline survey data only 29.2 % of the farm households that irrigate their land
     areas pay for the water. According to the data of the complete survey the number of farm households
     paying for the water had decreased and reached 20.6%.
   • The number of farm households not involved in land farming has increased and reached 57, from 43
     in 2007.
Production and consumption

     • The land area of an average surveyed household farm has increased by 0.61 ha during the project
       period (in 2007 - 1.94, in 2010 - 2.62 ha). At the same time, the increase of the land area of the
       control group comprises 0.30 ha. Therefore, it can be concluded that more than half of the increased
       areas took place due to the RESCAD project.
     • The significant change in the structure of cropped areas is the rotation of cereal crops with fodder
       crops.
     • The commercialization level of agricultural production in 2010 (the share of sold, bartered products
       and salary of the hired work in the produced volume) was relatively high for grapes (89.0 %), fruits
       (68.2 %) and wheat (64.3 %). In 2007 only fruits and potato did have a high commercialization level,
       63-64 %.


27
    Index of non-agricultural employment (reasoned with the activities) = number of actively involved people in non-agricultural
activities / total number of active population
                                                                39
   • The products are brought to the market mainly by passing cars - 77.4% (in 2007 – 76.8%) or by own
     cars - 9.6 % (in 2007 - 18.4 %).
   • The number of household farms involved in animal husbandry had significantly increased during the
     project period. According to the baseline survey data, the number of household farms involved in
     animal husbandry was 110, or 14.7% of the baseline sample. According to the data provided by the
     final survey this number increased by 71, or 24.1% of the sampling.
   • Most of the household farms with small numbers of cattle heads discontinued their business in
     animal husbandry. The enlargement of farms involved in cattle breeding has mostly taken place in
     the RESCAD beneficiary communities. Therefore, it can be concluded that the RESCAD project has
     contributed to the enlargement of entities involved in animal husbandry.
   • The average farm household involved in animal husbandry annually produces 462 kg (in 2007 - 354)
     of meat, 4510 (4741) liter of milk, 2177 (1980) eggs, 23 (18) kg of wool and 264 (208) kg of honey.
   • According to the completion survey data, the commercialization level of the sample livestock farm is
     58.8%, as compared to 47.7% in the baseline survey. The commercialization level of animal breeding
     has decreased by 8.7% in the control groups during the project period. The commercialization level
     of animal breeding in the beneficiary communities has increased by 19.8 %, which could mainly be
     attributed to the RESCAD project.
   • 23.1% of milk producing household farms (in 2007 - 20.8 %) use the services of milk collecting
     points. 89.2% of farm households are satisfied with the services provided by the milk collection
     centers.
   • The average surveyed household farm with processing business activities annually bakes 844 kg
     bread (in 2007 - 864), processes 38 kg (57 kg) bulgur, crushes wheat and flour from fried wheat and
     bakes 33 kg cookies (32 kg), prepares 155 kg (125 kg) cans, processes 46 kg meat (44 kg), 2118
     liters of milk (2700 liters), and prepares 105 liters (62 liters) alcoholic beverages.
   • 656 out of 750 surveyed household farms (in 2007 - 676) bake bread for their own use, from which
     433 (432) buy flour and 210 (243) grind flour in the mill.

Incomes and costs

   • The total income of the average surveyed household farm during the project period has increased by
     730 thousand AMD. The income growth of farm households from the RESCAD beneficiary
     communities was a result of the RESCAD project implementation.
   • In 2007 and at project completion the main income sources were salaries, followed by income
     received from migrant labor and pensions. Agricultural income mainly includes income from
     marketing of plant and animal products. The share of non-agricultural income in total income
     increased during the project period.
   • Wood and pressed dung were used for heating purposes by 63.5% of household farms in 2007 and by
     50.6% of the control group; in 2010 the use of wood and pressed dung decreased to 55.8% and
     50.8%, respectively.

Living conditions and welfare

   • Based on the data obtained from the completion survey, 6.9% of households (Table 20) living in bad
     and very bad houses had improved their living conditions.
   • 556 out of the surveyed 750 household farms (in 2007 - 554) or 74.1 % (73.9%) use drinking water
     also for animals and 261 farm households (191) or 34.8 % (25.5 %) for the irrigation of small
     holdings.
   • The daily supply of drinking water has increased on average by 1.2 hours and reached 16 hours as
     compared to 14.8 hours in 2007. The average household time spent daily for fetching water has
     decreased from 42 minutes in 2007 to 32 minutes at the project completion.

Interviews with CEDC members

   • A number of 50 CEDC members, two from each community, were interviewed based on a separate
     questionnaire. These members were also interviewed during the baseline survey.

                                                  40
   • All 50 CEDC members share the same opinion during both baseline and complete surveys that the
     selection of CEDC in their communities was fairly done and that they completely express the needs
     of their communities.
   • 35 of the interviewed CEDC members evaluated the implementation of project(s) in their
     communities as very good, 14 as satisfactory and only one as bad.
   • At the start of the RESCAD project, 54% of the CEDC members assessed the Secretariat’s assistance
     as very good, 30 % as satisfactory, 2 % as bad and the remaining 14% found difficulty in assessing
     the Secretariat’s assistance. Evaluations have significantly improved after the project completions –
     very good - 72 % and satisfactory - 28 %.
   • 10 CEDC members think that the implementation of the community priorities was hindered because
     of the financial constraints, which limited project investments to 80 US$ per person.

Interviews with community heads

   •     A number of 23 heads of the project communities had participated in the interview. Village council
       members participated in the interview from other two communities.
   •   The actual number of the population in the communities included in the survey during the project
       period has decreased by 842 people. The total number of household farms is 7937 and the average
       size of the farm household is 3.8 people.
   •     As a result of the migration flow during the last one year, the population of the surveyed
       communities has decreased by 0.7% (214 people). 492 people had left from the project communities
       and only 278 had returned.
   •     The population of 24 surveyed communities regularly migrates for work abroad (Table 22). The
       number of migrants is 2129 people, or 89 (in 2007 - 113) migrants per community.
   •     According to the survey data, 421 ha (63.6%) of the arable land areas is being cultivated. The
       primary reason mentioned by the heads of the communities for not cultivating the arable land is the
       lack of financial resources and irrigation, and low productivity.
   •     The annual budget of the average community included in the survey is 15.1 million AMD (in 2007
       - 8 million AMD) and it varies among communities between 2.8 and 51 million AMD.
   •     According to the heads of the communities, the average percent of middle income population is
       31.6 % (in 2007 - 42 %), poor – 51.1 % (45 %) and extremely poor - 17,3 % (13 %).
   •     The heads of the communities unanimously think that the selection of the CEDC in their
       community was objectively done and that the CEDC plans completely reflected the community
       needs. A number of 16 out of 25 community heads had evaluated the implementation of RESCAD
       projects in their communities as very good, eight as satisfactory and only one as bad.




                                                    41
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

No RESCAD stakeholder workshop was organized.




                                          42
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower’s ICR


Assessment of the Implementation of RESCAD Components

Bottom-up approach of the analysis was adopted for the assessment of RESCAD Project
implementation. In particular, this means addressing all sub-components and activities of designed
components. Having general understanding of the components implementation coupled with
information provided by RESCAD Project independent evaluators and other stakeholders (such as
representatives of the RA Ministry of Agriculture, line and top management of the PIU, other
development projects implemented in parallel with RESCAD, and other) shall be able to make
well-grounded judgments on the completion results of the whole Project. Specific activities and
measures to be conducted, amounts to be spent within each activity, and respective results
expected to be achieved were designed prior to the inception of the Project. Below we shall present
all mentioned issues and will compare their actual results registered after the implementation. This
will allow us to draw respective bottom-lines and summarize outputs.
Implementation of Sub-Component A1 (Provision of Enhanced Rural Financial Services)

Background information and organizational issues

Provision of enhanced rural financial services for farmers and agricultural processing and related
businesses has been implemented by Rural Finance Facility (RFF), which became a hub and focal
point for accumulating international funds for further crediting to the agricultural sector via
commercial banks and NBFIs. The highest management body of the RFF is the Credit Council
consisting of representative of the RA MoF, the heads of RESCAD and RAEDP PIUs, and the
head of RFF. The Credit Council has twofold responsibilities: strategic management of the RFF
activity, and review/approval of refundable loan applications. RFF has been provided all necessary
facilities under the RAEDP and RESCAD Projects, attracted highly qualified specialists, procured
necessary office equipment and software, and received valuable training. RFF has attracted
financial resources from RESCAD Project at the annual rate of 0.75% and extends to PFIs at
LIBOR+1%. The difference in interest rates comprises the RFF’s benefit which is used for
financing the approved budget of the RFF. Procurement of assets and office equipment were
mainly completed in 2006-2007, and currently operational costs comprise the overwhelming
majority of expenses. Salaries and respective expenses comprised more than half of RFF
operational expenses.
Completion of the sub-component
RESCAD Project completed the negotiations’ stage with the GoA and RFF in November 2006 and
the latter started its activity under the sub-component. The first 4 Subsidiary Loan Agreements
(SLAs) have been concluded with ArdshinInvest Bank (ASHIB), ACBA-Credit Agricole Bank
(ACBA), Anelik Bank, and Ineco Bank. Converse Bank joined a little later. Finally, in 2008 two
NBFIs - Aregak and SEF-International UCOs joined the project. Detailed analysis of the RFF
portfolio (including also the revolving fund) is presented in Annexes (see Table 1). Disbursements
made from the revolving fund comprised 22% of the total amount lent so far. Disbursements from
the revolving fund increased notably in 2009, when grace-periods of extended sub-loans finished.
Three banks that joined the project from the beginning allocated more than 97% of total portfolio.
NBFIs joined the project later; they extended comparatively small loans and were able to utilize
only a small share of the total portfolio mainly from the revolving fund. Over 90% of RESCAD
Project loan portfolio has been extended in Kotayk, Armavir, and Ararat regions.
The major part of RESCAD Project portfolio has been extended for a mid or long-term maturity. It
can be concluded that proceeds have been used for funding capital investments and procurement of
                                                43
facilities. It was already mentioned that such loans were mainly extended by banks. Significant
amounts being directed to mainly agro-processing businesses were transformed to facilities
increasing and modernizing capacities. The issue of the interest rate is very important since it
directly affects the cost of production of agricultural and processing products, thus affecting also
the final price of those products for consumers. About 97% of RESCAD Project loan portfolio has
been allocated with the annual interest rate equal or less than 14%.
Financial component has been implemented purposefully. Funds were directed to financing the
primary agriculture and agricultural products processing activities. Together with funding provided
by other sources the RESCAD funds strongly contributed to meet the demand for agricultural
market of Armenia. Besides, differentiated loan products were suggested to various operators of
agricultural market. Finally, significant support was provided also to the financial market of the
country. From the viewpoint of design, launching, and implementation of such a project, the
performance of RFF and main PFIs seem to be highly satisfactory.
Quality of RESCAD loan portfolio
Quality of the RFF loan portfolio under the RESCAD Project is suggested to be measured by the
share of overdue amounts in total outstanding portfolio. These coefficients were provided by PFIs
and are presented in Annexes (see Table 4). Shares of the overdue amounts are in general in line
with major requirements. Obviously, the overdue portfolio of the Converse Bank is quite high and
immediate measures should be undertaken. Meanwhile, the bank took the risk and meets its
requirements against the RFF completely and with no delays.
Impact of the sub-component implementation
Unfortunately no comprehensive impact assessment has been implemented with the purpose of
measuring the impact that the implementation of the sub-component has had. As of September
2010 the RFF collected some information regarding the impact of the project. The information has
been collected from only 101 borrowers being lent within RESCAD Project. Overall picture is
highly satisfactory; the number of first time borrowers increased substantially, which means
improved access to finances. 3-6 new workplaces have been established (more than half for
women) in each supported enterprise total turnover of borrowers has increased for almost 30%
despite the problems and global economic crisis. Increase in profits of borrowers is also quite
impressive and the overall impact appears to be highly satisfactory. Meantime, it is recommended
to conduct a comprehensive impact assessment of the sub-component implementation.

Implementation of Sub-Component A2 (Promotion of Rural Business Linkages)

Organizational issues
Promotion of rural business linkages in the frame of RESCAD Project was implemented via
application of Competitive Grants’ Program (CGP). The major responsibility of CGS (which
actually appeared to be the PIU respective division) was the initial review and assessment of grant
applications. The workload of CGS was extremely high. Professors and other academicians from
the Armenian Agrarian Academy were usually selected as trainers and technical reviewers, which
resulted in ultimate outputs from three aspects. Finally, the Operations Manual and Applicants’
Guide were finalized and translated, as well as templates for the winning grant projects’ contracts
were prepared. In total, 5 phases of CGP were organized. In the beginning of the Project some
shortcomings could be observed concerning the effectiveness of information dissemination and
explanatory campaigns. This somehow affected the quality of grant applications at initial phases.
Program completion
Major features of CGP are presented in Annexes (see Table 6). In total, less than 20% of submitted
applications were approved and became implemented grant projects. Initially, this figure was
                                                44
considered to be about 40%, but the policy of evaluating the applications and selecting winning
projects was tougher, which resulted in fewer accomplished projects. At the same time, we repeat
that this approach allowed the implementers of CGP to ensure better quality of grant projects,
which is more important. This situation was thoroughly explained to WB supervision missions and
the initially planned number of grants (100 projects) was decreased on a mutually agreed basis. In
this situation the overall implementation of CGP can be scored as more than satisfactory.
Implementation of CGP is not limited by only evaluation of projects and conclusion of contracts.
Actually, only those projects that were implemented completely (i.e. whole amount disbursed,
procurements accomplished, the sustainable operations ensured) can be considered as successfully
finished. Some projects were stopped due to not complete disbursements from the applicants’ side;
other projects were not able to make necessary procurements due to various reasons. The progress
of CGP projects in terms of financial implementation is presented in Annexes (see Table 7).
Average grant amounts were balanced at less than USD17,000, although the maximum amount
was assigned USD20,000. Beneficiaries’ contribution comprised about 50% which is in line with
requirements of CGP and RESCAD PAD. 98.87% of scheduled grant amounts was funded by
PIU; small amounts of savings were made in the process of actual procurements due to exchange
rate fluctuations and changes of prices of procured goods.
The number of direct beneficiaries is proportional to the amount of investments. In some cases
grants were extended to associations that have tens and hundreds of members. Besides, further
activity of grant projects has had and will have strong positive influence to other beneficiaries, too.
For example, operation of farms producing highly productive animals will give other farmers an
access/opportunity to better quality animals. Although this second-layer beneficiaries do not
benefit directly, but the importance of positive changes stays unarguable. In reality, the number of
all beneficiaries appears to be much higher, up to 1,500 (according to estimation of PIU and
CGC). This is one of the most important results of CGP implementation, and the project may be
considered as highly satisfactory, from this viewpoint.
Sector and regional distribution
The PAD of the RESCAD Project defines that some 30% of grants had to be implemented in
livestock sphere. The distribution of implemented grant projects by their spheres is presented in
Annexes (see Table 8). As the figures from the table attest, 12 grant projects have been
implemented purely in the livestock sector. Having in mind that poultry and fish farming, as well
as livestock product processing projects can also be attributed to the livestock sector, the
requirement can be considered as met, and results are satisfactory.
Technology transfer
No specific/measurable technology transfer indicators were assigned at the preparatory stage of the
Project. Nevertheless, results are quite tangible. And here are the achievements:
1.      118 seminars were organized and successfully conducted;
2.      4,977 people participated in those seminars;
3.      29 additional field days were allocated for on-farm presentations;
4.      53 TV spots were broadcasted;
5.      116 information leaflets were introduced;
6.      6 articles were printed in newspapers and magazines;
7.      40 brochures were prepared and printed; and
8.      83 posters were prepared and printed.
The best practice of technology transfer was experienced with organization and successful
implementation of 2 national conferences. These actions became some kind of summarizing events
for the whole CGP. Conferences were participated by hundreds of farmers, representatives of
regional authorities, high officials from the RA MoA, and the WB. Participants appreciated the
                                                  45
overall achievements of the CGP, as one of the best implemented programs in the agricultural
sector of Armenia.
Problem grants
The number of problem grants in the frame of CGP is few. Actually, main grants that might create
substantial problems were closed and the funds that were allocated (first tranches) were returned to
the PIU’s special account; those grants are not accounted in summary tables presented above. Two
projects (8/1 and 56/3 contracts) were closed since beneficiaries were not able to conduct their
procurements of animals (sheep). The grant under the contract 18/3 was cancelled since the
beneficiary was not able to make its contribution. Some projects faced certain difficulties
conditioned by mainly external factors (such as swine flu epidemy, wolves attack to livestock, and
other) but they succeeded to overcome problems, and further implementation of projects was
estimated by independent evaluators as either satisfactory or successful.
It is obvious that projects of such a scale cannot be implemented without any problems and
difficulties. Meantime, CGP and the Secretariat succeeded to minimize those problems via
application of strong and regular monitoring activities. Problems were identified at the very early
stages of implementation and respectively addressed. CGS was aware of all potential problems and
did its best for either assisting beneficiaries to overcome problems, or stop failed projects without
any losses. Satisfactory and successful implementation of CGP is the legitimate output of
motivated and consistent work of CGS, CGC, PIU, and PMB, under the supervision of WB Task
Team.
Implementation of Component B1 (Strengthening the decentralized agricultural extension
system)
Background information and organization of activities
During the ARSP implementation the extension system significantly developed. Primarily being
established as mainly involved in technology transfer activities, these entities transformed to
providers of a wide range of advisory services, as well as regional-level projects’ implementation.
Successful implementation of ARSP Program was the major recommendation for the continuation
of agricultural extension system development via RESCAD Project as a separate sub-component.
Organization of activities has always been a subject of thorough and consistent planning. The
RASC and MASCs prepared and submitted their working plans on the beginning of each year for
the approval to Science, Education and Advisory Services’ Division of the MoA.
Extension system advisors, community advisors, and advisory rooms
Advisory services to farmers have been provided by extension system advisors and additional
community advisors in the frame of RESCAD Project. Dynamics of village and production
groups’ advisors’ selection is presented in Annexes (see Table 9).
Selection of village advisors was coupled with provision of village advisory rooms, i.e. actual
workplaces of those advisors. In total it was planned to refurbish and furnish 345 advisory rooms
within the period of the implementation of the sub-component. RESCAD Project allocated
US$360 for renovation of advisory rooms (US$180) and procurement of furniture (US$180). All
works have been completed in time. The quality of the work was estimated to be highly
satisfactory. All advisory rooms were accurately refurbished, relevant furniture was procured:
rooms were equipped with desks, chairs, shelves.
Technical assistance to MASCs
Provision of technical assistance to MASCs continued in parallel with refurbishment of advisory
rooms in communities. This assistance from RESCAD Project significantly improved the MASCs
capacity, provided much better working conditions, and substantially contributed to sustainability
of extension system activity. Each MASC was provided with equipment for soil-testing, milk
                                              46
analysis, identification of pests and diseases, sugar content measurement in honey, and land
surveying. Provision of small tools and equipment to MASCs allowed them to expand the range of
services and enhance additional income generation sources, thus contributing to the sustainability
of extension system activities.
Implementation of TAPs and demonstrations
Initially, it was planned to spend US$1,235 per each TAP and US$3,500 per demonstration
activity. This approach was followed in 2006, but later it was practically proven the need for
revising the amounts. Further during the implementation it was decided to limit the number and
decrease the funding of demonstration programs, and increase the amount allocated per each TAP
to US$1,800. Dynamics of the number of implemented TAPs and demonstration programs is
presented in Annexes (see Table 10).
At the preparatory stage, it was planned to implement some 445 TAPs and demonstration
programs. Only 205 TAPS and 17 demonstration programs were conducted during the
implementation of RESCAD Project. Meantime, the representatives of PIU and MoA are highly
satisfied with results of implemented programs. Some 1,255 initial applications were reviewed and
only programs that brought new ideas and were in compliance with current priorities of
agricultural sector of Armenia were selected and implemented. Large number of applications was
skipped due to repetitions and lack of innovative ideas. The RASC prepared, printed, and
disseminated through MASCs 114 factsheets in tens of thousands of copies ensuring effective
technology transfer and information dissemination. Thus, the implementation of TAPs and
demonstration programs is considered to be highly satisfactory.
Self-financing of the extension system
As of the beginning of RESCAD Project, the extension system contribution to funding the
activities of MASCs comprised about 10%. The figure with the RASC appeared to be somewhat
higher. It was obvious that the extension system would not be able to generate sufficient funds for
covering all operational costs in the coming years. At the same time, the RASC and MASCs had to
revise their strategies towards more sustainable and self-sufficient operations with lesser
contribution from aside.
In 2006, the extension system succeeded to meet the requirement of self-financing in the amount
of 10% of operational costs. MASCs achieved 13%, and the RASC - more than 20%. In 2007,
achievements were not much better; MASC were able to cover 14.4%, and the RASC - 23% of
their operational expenses. From the very beginning of RESCAD Project implementation the
extension system representatives had serious concerns about reaching the scheduled level of self-
financing. Their concerns became true, and the RASC and MASCs found resources for co-
financing only at 13% of operational expenses on average.
Actually, during the first half of the RESCAD Project implementation the extension system
activities were funded in accordance with financial arrangements. By the end of 2008 the MoA
had to increase its share of co-financing to 55%, since the RASC and MASCs simply were not
able to generate enough revenues to meet the scheduled financial requirements. Currently, about
90% of their activities are financed by the MoA.
The most important reason for that stays the same even today: agricultural sector of Armenia, i.e.
farmers, does not generate enough income to consume services of the extension system in sufficient
volumes. Farmers are not payable to that extent. Secondly, the extension system must continue
building up its capacities with the purpose of delivering more up to date and effective advice and
other services to farmers that will result in higher productivity and income generation. It is
strongly recommended to continue the provision of the assistance to the extension system via
improving their capacities and knowledge, expansion of the range of services, and provision of
technical assistance (in the form of practical equipment and knowledge).
                                                47
Summarized results
The list of specific outputs of the extension system is quite wide, including trainings and seminars,
implementation of demonstration programs and information dissemination, provision of
consultancy services on marketing and management issues, etc. Major indicators are presented in
Annexes (see Table 11). Conclusions that can be derived from the data presented in the table are
quite impressive. Overall achievements of the Extension System are highly satisfactory.
Impact assessment and stakeholders perception
Impact assessment of the sub-component has been conducted by an independent consultant in
September 2008. Major findings concerning the activity of the extension system in regions are
presented in Annexes (see Table 12). Information presented in the table is self-explanatory. The
substantial number of respondents is completely satisfied with the services provided by advisors.
As the data in the table 13 (see Annexes) attests, significant improvement has been registered since
2004. The share of positive answer multiplied several times which is a very valuable achievement
for the implementers of the sub-component. Thus, it can be concluded that the impact of the sub-
component implementation is highly satisfactory.

Implementation of Component B2 (Strengthening seed and seedling production capabilities)

Background and organizational issues
Strengthening seed and sapling production capabilities sub-component of the RESCAD Project
was envisaged to improve the situation and ensure the farmers’ access to higher quality seeds and
saplings having in mind the ultimate purpose of increasing the crop productivity and providing
better income generation opportunities to rural population. Substantial changes within this sub-
component also took place at the preparatory stage of the RESCAD Project. The State Center for
Selection Achievements, Testing, Protection and Seed Quality Control was reformed to Seed
Agency SNCO (SA) on August 2005. New facilities (building) for this agency was provided by
the MoA in Merdzavan community with much larger territories and better conditions. Gyumri
Seed Selection (GSS) was formed as a separate entity to coordinate the activities in the North of
the country.
Assistance in regulatory framework improvement
The process of reforming the seed market started from the adoption of the RA Law on Seeds.
Although this Law addressed internationally required major requirements some further elaboration
and preparation of by-law regulation was required. The Law was reviewed by international
consultants and relevant amendments were suggested. International consultants also reviewed the
RA Law on Selection Achievements and Variety Protection with the purpose of bringing this
document in compliance with International Union for the Protection of New Varieties of Plants
(UPOV) model and EC regulations. Similarly, the legislation on Quarantine and Phytosanitary was
respectively reviewed and relevant amendments were suggested for bringing this regulation in line
with IPPS and ISPM.
Assistance in facilities’ improvement
Prior to actual investments, the SA and GSS prepared business plans of their activities outlining
the investments in a more detailed manner. Those business plans were submitted to the WB and
thoroughly reviewed by specialists. Further elaboration/improvement of business plans created
some changes and modifications in the structure of investments and other costs. Implementation of
those investments allowed these two seed agencies to further improve their capacities for
producing super-elite and elite seeds and propose relevant testing and certification services to
farmers. Housing the seed entities in new buildings and renovation/refurbishment of facilities was
the next important step towards improving the seed sector in Armenia. Renovation works have
                                                 48
been conducted in SA Headquarter and 4 regional testing stations of Lori (Stepanavan), Kotayk
(Abovyan), Syunik (Sisian), Shirak (Gyumri) regions. Gegharkunik region seed testing station in
town of Gavar was also involved in the project, but no need for renovation activities was registered
and scheduled there.
Changes in scheduled amounts and time for renovation/ refurbishment works took place during the
course of implementation of the sub-component. Such modifications are usually unavoidable. The
whole process has lasted quite a long time, prices have changed (usually got higher), exchange rate
fluctuated, new problems advanced and had to be solved, etc. Refurbishment and renovation works
have finished at SA in spring 2007.
Assistance in modernization of equipment
Procurement of equipment was the hardest part of the sub-component implementation. Due to
some external reasons (mainly not accurate planning of procurements) this activity lasted much
longer than it was scheduled. Ultimately, all necessary activities have been carried out and
procurement of necessary equipment has been completed. Despite all the problems the PIU
completed the procurement of almost all necessary equipment, including field machinery and
tools. Main equipment was delivered as of May 2008, and the field equipment was procured until
the beginning of 2009 and delivered to seed testing sites at regional laboratories. A separate set of
assistance measures has been provided to “Cucurbitaceous and technical Plants” Scientific Center
SNCO. Some transportation and agricultural equipment has been provided to this entity.
Although the procurement of equipment and machinery delayed the implementation of the
component significantly, some of necessary laboratory equipment was already in place in the early
stage of the component implementation, and some results were ensured even at that stage. Those
results will be presented further. Most importantly, the major part of investments was ultimately
implemented and overall implementation of the sub-component from this viewpoint can be
considered as satisfactory.
Delivery of trainings
Delivery of training and knowledge transfer was another very important aspect of the sub-
component implementation. Trainings were required for the assessment of the best practices of
establishment of respective equipment and laboratories, continued with exploitation of certain
equipment, and finished by testing and inspection practices. The first 4-day international study
visit was paid by the Head of SA and PIU Seed Specialist; they visited two laboratories accredited
by International Seed Testing Association (ISTA) in Cambridge and Edinburgh (UK) in March
2006. The knowledge gained from the visit was used at the stage of establishment of relevant
facilities in Armenia.
The second international training session was organized in July-August 2006 at Scottish
Agricultural Science Agency (SASA) laboratory in Edinburgh and was participated by the Deputy
Head of SA, Head of SA central Laboratory, and PIU Seed Specialist. International study visits
continued also in 2007. Deputy Head of SA and the Head of Agricultural Development Division of
the RA MoA, accompanied by the PIU Seed Specialist completed a 2-week training program at
SASA. The major topics were cereal and potato seed inspection practices, certification, and new
variety testing in accordance with internationally adopted standards. International study tour in the
beginning of 2008 was made by the Head of SA and the PIU Seed Specialist: they visited 2 ISTA
accredited laboratories - National Institute of Agricultural Botany (NIAB) at Cambridge and
SASA at Edinburgh, UK.
The practiced organization of training sessions can be considered as quite effective. Trainings
were planned to cover the most important aspects of seeds production, testing, protection,
certification, overall regulation of the sector, etc. Key players of the sector represented by top
management of SA successfully transferred the knowledge they gained to local producers and
                                                 49
specialists, introducing the best practices applied in the world. Intensive training program (both
international and local) within the implementation of sub-component was quite fruitful concerning
the nature of knowledge gained. Overall implementation of training activities is estimated as
highly satisfactory.
Summarized results
The purpose of the table presented below is to summarize specific results of implementation of the
sub-component. The list of results includes all aspects of the sub-component implementation (see
the Annexes Table 14).
Impact of the sub-component
Impact assessment of the sub-component was conducted by independent consulting company. The
assessment included the qualitative survey of 47 certified seed producers and quantitative polling
of 200 users of seeds. Special methodology was developed for conducting the assessment. The list
of indicators included 14 major coefficients. Some indicators were attributed to seed producers;
others were assessed with users of seeds. Special scale of rankings applied to each indicator
allowed the consultant to measure overall impact of the sub-component. Summarization of figures
resulted in a coefficient of 3.2 out of a maximum 4 for the impact of sub-component. In particular,
the following achievements have been registered as a result of the sub-component implementation:
Producers of certified of seeds

1.  Changes in volumes of production of certified seeds, (2008 volumes vs. 2006 volumes)
   1. Producers of wheat seeds                                         +18.7%
   2. Producers of potato seeds                                        +0.9%
   3. Producers of melon and water-melon seeds                         +5.1 times (415.0%)
   4. Producers of legumes seeds                                       +45 times (4400.0%)
   5. Producers of fodder seeds                                        +20.5%
   6. Producers of fruit saplings                                      +73.3%
2. Changes in volumes of sales of certified seeds, (2008 volumes vs. 2006 volumes)
   1. Producers of wheat seeds                                         +9.1%
   2. Producers of potato seeds                                        +33.3%
   3. Producers of melon and water-melon seeds                         +31.1 times (3010.0%)
   4. Producers of fodder seeds                                        0.0%
3. Changes in volumes of seeds certification, (2008 volumes vs. 2006 volumes)
   1. Producers of wheat seeds                                         +17.1%
   2. Producers of potato seeds                                        +70.9%
   3. Producers of melon and water-melon seeds                         +5.1 times (415.0%)
   4. Producers of fodder seeds                                        +2.5 times (150.0%)
4. Changes in number of sorts (2008 vs. 2006)
   1. Producers of wheat seeds                                         +19.2%
   2. Producers of potato seeds                                        +54.2%
   3. Producers of melon and water-melon seeds                         +3 times (197.8%)
   4. Producers of fodder seeds                                        +60.0%
   5. Producers of fruit saplings                                      +80.0%
Users of certified seeds
Increase of use of certified seeds (2008 vs. 2006)
   1. For users of wheat seeds                                            +59.1%
   2. For users of potato seeds                                           +56.5%
   3. For users of melon and water-melon seeds                            +52.4%
   4. For users of legumes seeds                                          +27.8%
   5. For users of fodder seeds                                           +50.0%
                                                50
        6. For users of fruit sapling                                        +75.0%
     Increase in productivity due to use of certified seeds and saplings (2008 vs. 2006)
        1. For users of wheat seeds                                          +78.8%
        2. For users of potato seeds                                         +91.3%
        3. For users of melon and water-melon seeds                          +95.5%
        4. For users of legumes seeds                                        +66.7%
        5. For users of fodder seeds                                         +68.8%
     The consultant applied acceptable, logical and consistent methodological approach. The overall
     impact of the sub-component implementation can be concluded as highly satisfactory.

     Implementation of Component C (Community Focused Economic Development)

     Background and organizational issues
     Implementation of the component has been conducted via the Community Economic Development
     (CED) Program. Marz Community Selection Committees (MCSCs) were created in all regions
     involved in the Program. The major responsibility of the MCSCs was the final selection of
     communities based on strategic priorities of the region. MCSCs were represented by Regional
     Government officials, local NGOs, private businessmen, and representatives of other regional
     development projects. The Community Economic Development Secretariat (CEDS), operating
     within the PIU, has been the focal point of the CED Program implementation. CEDS undertook
     the overall responsibility of the CED Program implementation, monitoring, and control.
     It is good to conclude that all mentioned structures, under the strict control of PIU and PMB, have
     conducted their responsibilities very effectively and successfully. Coordinated and cooperative
     manner of work conditioned the achievement of planned results. Special mentioning of the CEDS
     should be made; the commitment and professionalism of CEDS staff significantly contributed to
     the almost problem-free implementation of the Program. The overall organization and
     implementation of the Program from this viewpoint is considered to be highly satisfactory.
     Program completion
     Initially, it was planned to implement about 100 CED sub-projects in 5 regions. Further
     discussions between the RA MoA and WB resulted in expansion of the component activities in at
     least 134 communities of 6 Marzes. During the implementation of the Program significant changes
     in financial conjuncture of the country and additional funds in amount of $1.3 million were
     allocated by the WB for overcoming difficulties. This additional funding allowed the PIU to
     increase the number of sub-projects and communities. In total 144 rural communities were
     involved in the implementation of CED Program. Some concentration of implemented sub-
     projects is observed in Aragatsotn region, although the deviation is not substantial.
     Problem sub-projects
     CED Program is quite a large scale; 165 sub-projects in 144 rural communities. Obviously, such a
     program could not be implemented without any problem and difficulty. Although problem sub-
     projects were really few, their closer analysis is very important for gaining lessons for future
     programs.
i.       Establishment of milk collection point in Tavush Marz. This sub-project has been
         implemented for Choratan, Norashen, and V.K.Aghbyur villages. Once established, the
         collection point did not operate properly. Representatives of communities and CEDCs argue
         that Ashtarak-Kat was supposed to procure the milk from the population of mentioned
         communities at an agreed price.


                                                     51
ii.       Provision of agricultural machinery sub-project in Artsvanist community of Gegharkunik
          Marz. The “no objection” for the sub-project has been received in February 2007 and the
          implementation finished in December 2008. The machinery was used for providing services to
          the population and respective payments were collected by the Head of Community.
      CED Program impact
      Complete monitoring and impact assessment of the CED Program has not been conducted.
      Assessments were implemented for a limited number of selected projects that were completely
      implemented at the moment of assessment. Assessments have been made for 4 major types of
      projects, i.e. construction/renovation of drinking water pipelines and reservoirs, provision of
      agricultural machinery, construction of gasification networks, and provision of transport units.
      Monitoring and impact assessment of drinking water related projects has been conducted in 45
      communities of 5 regions.
      Drinking water pipeline projects resulted in substantial indirect positive results. In particular, the
      population of the above mentioned Marzes communities started using 825 automatic washing
      machines, 409 families has installed water heaters, approximately 1,655 house bathrooms were
      constructed and renovated. 46 permanent jobs have been created for the staff operating the
      drinking water pipeline. Assessment of agricultural machinery provision projects was conducted in
      51 communities of 6 regions. Conditionally, indirect impact was the following: in communities
      where the agricultural machinery has been provided, the rent of others have dropped by
      approximately 16%; additionally 68 permanent jobs have been created. Some Heads of
      Communities are not very successful in using this machinery effectively and collecting the rent
      amounts. Assessment of gasification projects was conducted in 10 communities of 5 regions.
      Aggregated results of the projects are presented below. Implementation of gasification projects had
      the following indirect results: 3 bakeries and 2 greenhouses were established, 392 bathhouses
      were constructed and renovated, 92 automatic heating systems were installed, 792 home gas
      heaters and 271 water heaters were installed. 126 temporary and 14 permanent jobs during and
      after completion of the project have been created. Finally, monitoring of transportation provision
      projects has been conducted in 5 communities of 3 regions, i.e. all projects of this type were
      involved. Aggregated results of the projects are presented below. Implementation of projects
      resulted in following indirect achievements: the number of people marketing their own production
      has increased by 18.5 %; and additionally 5 permanent jobs have been created.
      Overall, impact of the CED Program is quite impressive. Given the fact that some time is needed
      for real impact to appear completely, results and achievements of implemented projects are very
      good. The number of direct beneficiaries of these projects is very big; in fact all the population of
      targeted communities was positively affected. Major indirect results (also positive) were already
      introduced.
      Assessment of the World Bank Performance

      Preparation of the RESCAD Project started back in spring of 2004. Since then, almost a year and
      half, the WB Task Team regularly visited Armenia with identification and preparation missions in
      order to design the Project in a most appropriate way. Substantial volume of information was
      collected via direct interviews with officials and specialists, as well as from the review of
      secondary sources. High qualification and professionalism of the Task Team members helped
      them to identify and analyze the priority problems of Armenian agricultural sector of the moment,
      and concentrate efforts on the Project design.
      Specialists of the Task Team constructed their work in a logical manner: each of their visits
      consisted of several groups of straightforward activities. They have organized and participated in
      meetings and seminars, opening a floor for wider discussions and identification. The ongoing
      situation of the Project design was assessed and respective arrangements towards the improvement
                                                       52
were made. Special tasks have been assigned for local specialists and achievements within
implementation of those tasks were checked primarily during the next visit.
Both the MoA and PIU are very satisfied with the work conducted during the preparatory stage.
That was a participatory experience and all stakeholders cooperated very effectively. Such
cooperation resulted in a really well thought and structured multi-aspect project. The guidance of
the WB Task Team, the knowledge and experience they transferred to PIU significantly
contributed to accurate design and consistent logic of the RESCAD Project.
The similar approach has been adopted by the WB Task Team also during the implementation
stage of the Project. Ongoing guidance of the Project implementation has been provided via
everyday correspondence with PIU specialists, as well as regular Supervision Missions. Most
importantly, they were open to discuss and apply necessary modifications to the Project activities
with PIU. Flexible approach allowed reacting to changing situations effectively and without long
delays. In general, the attitude of the MoA and PIU towards the work conducted by the WB Task
Team during the implementation stage is the same. Both structures are highly satisfied with results
of cooperation.
At the same time, the RA MoA would appreciate closer cooperation with the Task Team during the
implementation stage. The changing social-economic environment dictate new challenges and
sometimes even more flexible approach should be applied for meeting those challenges effectively.
During the implementation of the RESCAD Project some activities had to receive the WB’s “no
objection” prior to being implemented. PIU specialists noted that sometimes those approvals took
a lot of time that resulted in delaying the overall process of implementation. Although these cases
were few, certain improvements could have been applied.




                                                53
RESCAD Project: Implementation Completion Report
                               Overall Impact and Estimate of the Project

Set of intermediate objectives and respective indicators was developed to be achieved via
implementation of the RESCAD Project. This system addresses both the overall implementation
results, and intermediate results framework. Also it assigns specific targets for separate components
and sub-components.
Table 1 - Targeted and actual achievements of the implementation of Component A
       Indicator                      Target                                Achievements
Volume of rural           1. Rural outstanding loan        Since 2006 only RFF allocated more than
lending by PFIs              portfolio increases by        US$24 million (although revolving amounts
                             US$12 million.                are included) via 17 financial institutions in the
                                                           frame of different international development
                                                           projects. Separate increase of financial
                                                           institutions’ own portfolios is not even
                                                           calculated. The threshold of US$12 million
                                                           was passed as of the end of 2008.
                          2. 10% of small to medium Total number of agricultural credits (since
                             rural business entities   2006) only within the RFF funding is more
                             record improved access to than 1,360 as of July 2010.
                             finance.
Number of business        3. 75 rural business             53 rural business entities and production
entities dealing with        innovations conducted         groups applied innovative solutions. 450 direct
farmers                      satisfactorily                beneficiaries were registered. Almost 5,000
                                                           people participated in technology transfer
                             demonstrating improved
Business entities able                                     activities. Information dissemination has been
to introduce high            ways of doing business to     organized via printing materials, media, TV
quality innovations          at least 150 rural business   and radio spots, and seminars.
linking farmers and          entities.
markets
Improved linkages         4. People selling produce for Increase in sales of 30%. Commercialization
between farmers and          cash increased by 20%.     level decrease was observed due to global
markets                                                 financial crisis.

Overall implementation of Component A is highly satisfactory. Establishment of RFF and allocation of
funds (provided by the RESCAD Project and other development programs) for rural credits has had
substantial, positive influence on the financial market concerning accessibility of those funds for rural
and related businesses, as well as in terms of decrease of interest rates. This changes were available
both for the first-time and already credited farmers and rural businesses.
Global Financial Crisis harmfully affected all spheres of Armenian economy including also the
agricultural sector. The commercialization level (i.e. the volume of products sold for cash) of the
primary agricultural produce decreased significantly, and implementation of the RESCAD and other
programs only mitigated the negative impact of the crisis.




                                                      54
RESCAD Project: Implementation Completion Report


Table 2 - Targeted and actual achievements of the implementation of Component B
            Indicator                              Target                         Achievements
Farmers and advisors                9. 20% increase of farmers         Number of farmers accessing
communicate regularly and              accessing advisory services;    advisory services increased to about
effectively.                           at least 60% of farmers and     10,000 or 25%. More than half are
Network of advisors trained in                                         permanent clients of the extension
                                       50% of participating
key skills, like marketing,                                            system. 40-60% of farmers are
management and community               communities satisfied with      completely satisfied with the quality
development, and interlinked.          the advisory services           of advice received .
                                       received.                       Advisory services were provided in
                                                                       911 rural communities (almost
                                                                       100%). 345 communities have had
                                                                       permanent access to advisory
                                                                       services via advisory rooms.
                                                                       80% of communities are completely
                                                                       satisfied with advisory services and
                                                                       are ready to pay for them.
                                                                       205 TAPs and 17 demonstration
                                                                       programs have been implemented.
Cost recovery by extension          10. Increased cost recovery by     About 13% of costs have been
system                                  MASCs covering at least        covered by MASCs. RASC covered
                                        30% of their operating         about 20% of costs.
                                        costs.
Greater availability and use of     11. Number of farmers using        Number of farmers using
improved seeds to lift yields           improved and/or certified      improved/certified seeds and
                                        seeds and saplings increased   saplings increased by 20.9% by the
                                                                       end of 2008. 70,000 farmers use
                                        by 20%, and 30% increased
                                                                       improved seeds and sapling.
                                        in volume of sales.            Total increase in volumes of sales
                                                                       of improved seeds and saplings
                                                                       comprised 62.7% by the end of
                                                                       2008.
Improved technologies lifting       12. Increase in farm               Increase in farm productivity of
productivity and incomes                productivity and production    users of certified seeds and saplings
                                        by 20% from participating      was 67-95%.
                                                                       Increase in volumes of certified
                                        farmers and rural business
                                                                       seeds and saplings use was 28-75%.
                                        entities.


Overall implementation of the Component B is highly satisfactory. Advisory services of the extension
system became accessible in almost all rural communities of Armenia. Almost all farmers became
aware of the nature of provided services. Many farmers became permanent clients of the system by
gaining knowledge and skills for managing their farms. The majority of Heads of Communities
appreciates the provided services and is willing to pay for them.




                                                       55
RESCAD Project: Implementation Completion Report


Table 3 - Targeted and actual achievements of the implementation of Component C


            Indicator                              Target                       Achievements
Communities able to produce         1. Communities having            144 rural communities had
plans for better use o f their      completed prioritization of      successful experience of
resources, highlighting key         investments and identified       establishing CEDCs and
investment priorities and                                            preparation of CED Plans.
                                    additional sources of funding.
leading to increased tax and
other revenue collections.

Communities are able to             2. At least 100 key market       165 projects have been completed
produce economic development        related investments              (also thanks to increase of allocated
plans for three years, allowing     implemented satisfactorily in    funds). Only 1 project is partly
them to plan their resources        participating communities.       problematic due to changes in
better and that are highlighting                                     market conjuncture.
their key investment priorities.

Increased participation of
community in building and
maintaining their assets.
Increased infrastructure support 1. Increased incomes for            A number of new enterprises has
for production and marketing. existing and new enterprises           been established conditioned by
                                 and farmers using the               implementation of infrastructure
                                                                     projects. New workplaces have
                                 constructed facilities.
                                                                     been created and increase in
                                                                     productivity of crops is registered.
                                    2. Increased income              Completed projects resulted in
                                    generated by community           hundreds of small household
                                    investments.                     investments (heating systems,
                                                                     washing machines, etc.) improving
                                                                     the livelihood and income
                                                                     generation (access to market) of the
                                                                     population.

Overall implementation of the Component B is highly satisfactory. Implementation of the Component
C first of all resulted in social dividends. Provision of drinking water significantly improved the living
conditions of the population, decreased the number of diseases, and lightened the workload of women,
saved a lot of time initially spent for the collection and transportation of water. Construction and
renovation of irrigation systems resulted in better crop cultivation and increase of productivity, thus
notably increasing the income of farmers. Provision of agricultural machinery resulted in similar
outputs.
Real impact of CED Projects cannot be observed in a short run. Many projects have been completed
recently and their positive and continuously increasing influence will be observed in future. At the
same time, only establishment of infrastructure and facilities is not enough for ensuring successful
results. Sustainable operation and maintenance of those facilities are of key importance. Currently,
some communities face difficulties with collection of payments for used water and rent amounts of the
agricultural machinery. Appearance of these problems is understandable and their solution is another
challenge for CEDCs and MSTs.

                                                       56
RESCAD Project: Implementation Completion Report
Thus, it can be concluded that overall implementation of the RESCAD Project has been conducted
highly satisfactorily. Although some problems need further addressing the overall development
objective has been achieved. Results of the RESCAD Project created solid ground for further
sustainable development of the agricultural sector in Armenia.
The best estimate for the Project implementation and results is the fact that RESCAD has been
announced as one of the winning ILP (Improving the Lives of People) projects implemented in Europe
and Central Asia in 2010. The RA Minister of Agriculture mentioned that implementation of the
Project was successful since it allowed people to reach their desired results, i.e. increase in income,
establishment of workplaces, increase in productivity, improvement of the quality, application of
innovative techniques, and improvement of the access to markets. In combination, all these
achievements brought improvement to the livelihood of people in rural areas of Armenia. Substantial
positive changes have been registered in the lives of more than 100,000 people.




                                                   57
          Annex 7 Appendix

          Table 4 - Disbursements under RESCAD Project by years
                                                                                  2010 (Jan –
                                       2007          2008           2009                            Total
                                                                                     Jul)
   Disbursements under
                                     1,858,365      2,768,677           872,958               0     5,500,000
   RESCAD, $
   Total disbursements, including
                                     2,098,767      2,849,960      1,727,091           376,993      7,052,811
   from revolving fund, $
   Number of loans                            29             62             49               28             168
   Average amount of sub-loans, $         72,371      45,967             35,247           13,464       41,981

          Table 5 - Distribution of RESCAD Project loan portfolio by PFIs and years
                  2007              2008         2009            2010               Total
  PFIs                                                                                                 Share in
            No       $       No       $        No       $          No       $         No        $      RESCAD
                                                                                                       Portfolio
Ineco        10   1,152,000 7        476,000 8         768,000 5 226,700 30 2,622,700                   37,2%
Converse     4      312,000 18      1,051,950 30       668,710 9 107,057 61 2,139,717                   30,3%
Anelik       14     484,767 37      1,322,010 4        274,784 1          15,878 56 2,097,439           29,7%
ACBA         1      150,000 0                0 0                  0 0             0   1      150,000        2,1%
SEF-
             0            0 0                0 4            8,966 11      18,090 15           27,056        0,4%
Intern.
Aregak       0            0 0                0 3            6,632 2         9,268     5       15,900        0,2%
  Total      29   2,098,767 62      2,849,960 49     1,727,092 28 376,993 168 7,052,812                 100,0%




                                                                                                       59
          Table 6 - Distribution of RESCAD Project loan portfolio by sectors of agriculture
          and years

                    2007            2008           2009          2010                  Total
 Sectors of                                                                                    Share in
agriculture No         $       No      $      No      $     No      $       No     $           RESCAD
                                                                                               Portfolio
Horticulture    6    584,630   9     481,050 5      188,000 2     21,323 22 1,275,003            18%
Animal
                7    124,682 30      703,830 16     285,153 15 109,551 68 1,223,216              17%
breeding
Wine-
                1     47,455   0           0 0            0 0           0   1     47,455            1%
making
Land-
                2    140,000   1      60,000 0            0 0           0   3    200,000            3%
cultivation
Poultry
                1    150,000   2     105,000 3      315,000 0           0   6    570,000            8%
farming
Fruit
                2    144,000   1     150,000 0            0 0           0   3    294,000            4%
processing
Milk
                3    164,000   0           0 1      110,000 0           0   4    274,000            4%
processing
Fish
                3    314,000   8     461,430 5      498,250 3 197,000 19 1,470,680               21%
breeding
Bee-keeping     0          0   0           0 2       28,000 4      3,819    6     31,819            0%
Other           4    430,000 11      888,650 17     302,688 4     45,300 36 1,666,638            24%
   Total       29 2,098,767 62 2,849,960 49 1,727,091 28 376,993 168 7,052,811                  100%




                                                                                               60
    Table 7 - Quality of the PFIs credit portfolio under the RESCAD Project
                                                                                     Share in
                                            Outstanding        Overdue amounts,
        PFI            Total portfolio                                              outstanding
                                             Portfolio         90 days and more
                                                                                    portfolio %
Converse Bank                 2,253,836           1,503,168            156,234          10%
Inecobank                     2,640,700           1,729,679              52,447         3%
Anelik Bank                   2,129,431           1,262,117              22,366         2%
ACBA                            150,000             120,000                  0          0%
SEF- International
                                 51,755              41,707                  0          0%
UCO
Aregak UCO                       21,519              13,982                  0          0%

    Table 8 - Impact of the sub-component
                              Indicator                                       Share
    Amount of first-time borrowers as a % of total portfolio                  29.6%
    Number of new jobs created as a result of the sub-loans                       597
            Including jobs for women                                              318
    Increase in the volume of sales in the project-supported
                                                                              28.8%
    companies
    Increase in profits of the project-supported companies                        26%




                                                                                             61
Table 9 - CGP features, as of September 2010
                                      I      II   III   IV    V
            Feature                                                                                   Total
                                    round round round round round
Number of new applications                       46         72         83         58          17       276
Number of applications after initial
                                                 30         31         66         52          16       195
screening by CGS
Number of applications after
                                                 25         27         56         45          16       169
technical review
Number of applications reviewed by
                                                 25         27         66         61          40       219
CGCa
Number of applications
                                                  9          7          9         16          18        59
recommended by CGC
Number of applications after
                                                  9          6c         8e        16          18        34
verification by CGS
Number of applications endorsed to
                                                  9          5d         8         16          18        42
PMB
Number of contracted grant winners                9          5          8         16f         18        56
Number of implemented
                                                  8b         5         7g         15          18        33
(completed) grant projects
Date of announcement                           Apr 06 Aug 06 Mar 07 Nov 07 Jun 08
Date of conclusion of grant                                                       May
                                              Aug 06 Mar 07 Oct 07                        Dec 08
contracts                                                                         08

     Details:
     1. Applicants might resubmit proposals;
     2. One project from Round I was closed and money were paid back to PIU account;
     3. One project was rejected during verification due to conflict of interest;
     4. One project was postponed by PMB till the necessary legislative amendments are in
        place;
     5. One project was rejected during verification since the applicant submitted the
        wrong data on the application;
     6. Applicant cancelled the grant since they could not ensure own contribution; and
     7. One project from Round III was closed and money were paid back to PIU account.

Table 10 - CGP implementation, as of September 201028
          Feature          I round      II     III                           IV           V         Total

28
  Sources: Monitoring and evaluation factsheets, PIU Sub-Component Coordinator, and WB Supervision Missions
Aide-Memoires

                                                                                                              62
                                        round    round    round    round
Number of implemented
                                 8        5        7       15       18        53
grants
Average grant amount
                               16,529   18,354   18,273   16,826   16,406   16,974
(weighted), USD
Total amount of projects,
                               251,714 177,955 231,114 526,400 596,815 1,783,998
USD
Total amount of CGP grants,
                               132,235 91,770 127,908 252,395 295,305 899,613
USD
Beneficiaries’ contribution,
                               119,600 88,995 103,206 274,005 301,510 887,316
USD
       of which: cash
                               32,285   15,490   24,431   73,017   72,051   217,274
contribution
Number of direct
                                 49      57       91       114      139      450
beneficiaries
Disbursements (PIU), USD       131,574 88,960 125,293 251,002 292,624 889,453




                                                                                   63
    Table 11 - Spheres of CGP implementation
                                          I    II    III   IV    V
                  Sphere                                             Total
                                       round round round round round
    Cattle breeding and dairy production       2    1        0          1    2     6
    Pig production                             2    0        0          0    1     3
    Sheep and goat breeding                    2    0        0          0    1     3
    Poultry                                    0    1        1          0    3     5
    Fish farming and fish fodder
                                               0    1        0          1    2     4
    production
    Animal products’ processing and
                                               0    1        0          1    1     3
    marketing
    Fodder and forage production               1    0        1          2    3     7
    High-value vegetable growing and
                                               0    0        0          2    0     2
    sales
    Fruit growing, processing, and sales       0    0        2          1    0     3
    Aromatic plants (herbs) growing,
                                               0    0        2          1    0     3
    processing, and sales
    Bee-keeping and honey products
                                               0    1        1          1    2     5
    processing and sales
    Establishment of nurseries                 0    0        0          1    0     1
    Crop storage, processing , and sales       1    0        0          1    0     2
    Establishment of slaughterhouses           0    0        0          1    0     1
    Other projects (services, fertilizers,
                                               0    0        0          2    3     5
    forage)
                     Total                     8    5        7         15    18    53

    Table 12 - Number of advisors, as of the end of year
                                                     2006        2007       2008       2009
Number of Extension System regional advisors        145          145        145         145
Number of village advisors inherited from ARSP          50        0          0           0
Number of newly selected/contracted village
                                                        50       49         40          11
advisors




                                                                                       64
   Table 13 - Implementation of TAPs and demonstration programs
                                 2006           2007          2008   2009
 Years/TAP applications
                          TAPs     Demos    TAPs Demos TAPs Demos TAPs Demos
Number of new applications      338        10            334       10      265        0      298          0
Number of applications after
                                107         7             61       10       80        0      43           0
the first review
Number of implemented
                                 68         7             53       10       41        0      43           0
applications
Total amount of TAPs, $        94,054     18,107        87,657 26,544 70,618          0     74,707        0
Average amount of TAPs, $       1,383     2,587          1,654   2,654     1,722      0     1,737         0
Number of factsheets                                      33 (28,500        23 (17,100       28 (14,100
                                30 (27,400 copies)
prepared                                                   copies)           copies)          copies)

    Table 14 - Summarized results of the extension system activities
                                          2006          2007                       2008            2009
Total number of communities                      916              916               916             916
Number of communities served                     911              911               911             911
Total number of rural farms                  344,448             344,648         344,673       346,454
Number of rural farms served                    40,331           42,726            46,156         50,203
Number of permanently served farms              16,644           19,980            23,171         25,133
Number of MASCs’ staff, of which:                304              306               292             256
       MASCs specialists                          30               30               29               30
       Extension system regional
                                                 145              144               144             145
advisors
       Village advisors                          100               99               89               51
Number of groups worked with                     456              478               508             516
Completed trainings and seminars                2,762             2,720            2,003           2,226
Number of participants to trainings and
                                                47,397           45,465            38,705         42,558
seminars
Number of demonstrations                         292              364               242             262
Number of field trials                           381              400               426             185
Number of prepared business plans               1,044             592               695             562
Radio and TV broadcasts                           85               85               43               57
Marketing and matchmaking services              2,345             2,872            2,894           2,978
Number of published materials                    627              917               637             483

                                                                                                     65
    Table 15 - Major results of the extension system activities’ impact assessment
                                                Share of respondents
                                                                            Assistance was
                                                    that received
                 Subjects                                               considered to be “very
                                                   assistance from
                                                                              valuable”
                                                       MASCs
Business Management
  Assistance in accounting documentation              50.7%                    32.2%
  Legal assistance                                    48.5%                    14.8%
  Business plan development                           32.6%                     8.1%
  Marketing strategy development                      16.7%                     0.7%
  Assistance in entering international markets         6.3%                     3.0%
  Assistance in obtaining credit                      43.7%                    24.8%
  Business analysis                                   34.1%                     5.2%
  Problem identification and problem solution         39.6%                    11.1%
  Assistance in obtaining inputs                      14.4%                     4.4%
  Assistance with obtaining agric. services           45.6%                    10.0%
Crop Production
  New varieties                                       61.1%                    30.4%
  Protection against crop pests                       97.8%                    45.2%
  Soil fertility and plant nutrient requirements      93.7%                    27.8%
  Market news                                         51.5%                    14.8%
  Post harvest handling of products                   72.2%                    21.9%
Livestock Production
  Breeding                                            64.8%                    39.3%
  Feeding                                             71.9%                    24.1%
  Protection against animal diseases                  90.4%                    52.6%
  Livestock handling and shelter facilities           66.7%                    16.3%
  Market news                                         54.8%                    14.1%
  Handling and processing of livestock
                                                      74.1%                    23.0%
  products




                                                                                       66
     Table 16 - Comparison of results of MASC activities
                                                                 2008    2004
Share of respondents visited by extension advisors 1-2 times a
                                                                 91.8%   48.9%
month
Share of respondents not aware of extension advisors              0%     31.8%
Share of respondents that were aware of the advisors’ visits’
                                                                 78.9%   3.6%
schedule
Share of respondents that asked for advice to other sources      24.1%   72.3%
Share of respondents that appreciated extension services and
                                                                 50%     37%
ready to pay
Share of mayors that are ready to pay to community advisors      80%      n/a




                                                                            67
     Table 17 - Results of the activity of seed entities, 2006-2009
                     Results                              2006      2007          2008         2009
Types of tested crops                                     8            7           13           n/a
Varieties and hybrids of tested crops                     69           62          49           n/a
Number of test sites                                      6            6           6            6
Number of seed samples tested                            496       662            772           n/a
Number of new varieties added to the list of
                                                          -            37          4            6
registered varieties
Number of new varieties added to the list of
                                                          -            51          29           35
permitted varieties
Quantity of certified seeds, tons                         -        808            2,820        6,500
Total income of SA from activities, AMD                1,447,000 2,288,000 2,156,000            n/a
International trainings and study visits                 1/4        1/3           1/15          3
Local trainings                                          1/19          n/a         n/a          n/a
Number of registered seed producers, cumulative           -            35          40           47

     Table 18 - Distribution of CED Program sub-projects, number
                                                                                                Share
     Sub-projects         Geghark. Tavush       Lori    Shirak Aragats Syunik Total              in
                                                                                                Total
Drinking water
                              9            7    10        2       12         21           61   36.97%
pipeline
Agricultural machinery       12            9     7        12       8         4            52   31.52%
Gasification                  0            3     7        7       11         3            31   18.79%
Irrigation system             3            0     3        0        1         1            8    4.85%
Transportation means          0            0     3        1        1         0            5    3.03%
Milk collection and
                              0            3     0        0        1         0            4    2.43%
processing unit
Sewerage system               0            0     0        0        0         2            2    1.21%
Electricity network           1            0     0        0        0         0            1    0.61%
Anti-hail station             0            0     0        1        0         0            1    0.61%
         Total               25            22   30        23      34         31          165    100%
    Share in Total         15.15%       13.33% 18.18% 13.94% 20.61% 18.79% 100%




                                                                                               68
       Table 19 - Distribution of CED Program sub-projects, amounts (thousand AMD)
                                                                                                          Share
   Sub-                                                                                                     in
               Geghark.     Tavush        Lori        Shirak       Aragats.       Syunik     Total
  projects                                                                                                Total
                                                                                                           (%)
Drinking
water          179,208.3 202,884.7 246,262.7           40,364       260,630 400,683 1,330,033.1 35.54
pipeline
Agricultural
             218,689.7 236,825.7          148,063 186,044.8        165,785.6       38,988   994,396.8 26.57
machinery
Gasification            0    121,101 166,905.3        330,696      272,229.6       64,836   955,767.9 25.54
Irrigation
                179,556              0     67,041              0      16,000       13,536     276,133 7.38
system
Transport
                        0            0     24,104       5,866          8,192           0     38,162.2 1.02
means
Milk
collection-             0   15,315.8              0            0       8,172           0     23,487.8 0.63
processing
Sewerage
                        0            0            0            0              0    68,976      68,976 1.84
system
Electricity
                 10,060              0            0            0              0        0       10,060 0.27
network
Anti-hail
                        0            0            0    45,792                 0        0       45,792 1.22
station
   Total        587,514 576,127.2         652,376     608,762      731,009.6 587,019 3,742,808.8 100
  Share in
               15.70%       15.39%       17.43%       16.26%       19.53%         15.68%    100.00%
   Total




                                                                                                     69
      Table 20 - Drinking water related projects monitoring results
                                                                             Indicators
                                                                                        Indicators
                                         Prior to    Projects-    Factual     Prior to
                                                                                         Based on
              Indicators                   the        Based        data         the
                                                                                         Projects
                                         Projects      Data      annually     Projects
                                                                                          Data
                                                                             Implement
Number of households supplied with
                                          4,922       7,851       7,686        156%        98%
water
Daily average water supply (per hours)      9           21          20         222%        95%
Water supply fee (per capita per
                                           404         175         125          31%        71%
month)
Funds to the budget for actually
                                            0       50,016,681 29,804,200        -         60%
supplied water (AMD/per year)
Amortization funds to the budget for
water system rehabilitation (AMD/per        0       28,929,884   9,281,162       -         32%
year)
Number of the community residents
infected with water-borne diseases        2,202        618         238         925%       260%
(person)
Annual average time spent for
                                         13,767        339         214        6433%       158%
carrying water per family

      Table 21 - Agricultural machinery provision projects monitoring results
                                                                         Indicators Indicators
                                     Prior to Projects-      Factual
                                                                          Prior to   Based on
             Indicators                the       Based        data
                                                                       the Projects Projects
                                     Projects     Data      annually
                                                                        Implement.    Data
Number of households
renting community agricultural              0         9,413        6,758             -       72
machinery (item/per year)
Funds from the rent of agricultural
machinery to the community budget           0       168,255,001 89,750,800           -       53
(AMD/per year)
Amortization funds from the rent of
agricultural machinery to the               0       56,250,253 18,773,100            -       33
community budget (AMD/per year)
Total yield produced within
                                         32,940       45,488      41,333         125         91
communities (tons/per year)



                                                                                           70
      Table 22 - Gasification projects monitoring results
                                                                     Indicators Indicators
                                        Prior to Projects- Factual
                                                                      Prior to   Based on
               Indicators                 the     Based      data
                                                                    the Projects Projects
                                        Projects   Data    annually
                                                                    Implement.    Data
Amount of liquid gas consumed by the
                                     132,300           0       47,845       276           -
community Residents annually, (kg)
Amount of natural gas consumed by
the community residents annually,       1,351,900 5,482,720 2,916,800       216          53
(m3)
Electricity consumed by the residents
                                        5,129,580 3,223,040 4,576,115       112          70
annually (kw)
Pressed dung used by the community
                                         5,799        535       3276        177          16
residents annually (tons)
Firewood used by the community
                                         36,900      9,485     23,900       154          40
residents annually, (m3)

      Table 23 - Transportation provision projects monitoring results
                                                                           Indicators Indicators
                                        Prior to   Projects-   Factual
                                                                            Prior to   Based on
              Indicators                  the       Based        data
                                                                          the Projects Projects
                                        Projects     Data      annually
                                                                          Implement.    Data
# of residents using communities
                                         4,100      17,300      9,535        233          55
transport (per person/year)
Per capita cost for residents using
                                          575         344        389         148          88
transport (AMD)
Funds from the rent of community
transport to the community budget          0       11,301,800 6,464,400        -          57
(AMD/per year)
Amortization funds from the rent of
community transport to the                 0       3,339,000   670,400         -          20
community budget (AMD/per year)




                                                                                        71
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders




                                                                    72
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

   1. Country Assistance Strategy for Armenia. June 30, 2004, N28991.

   2. Country Partnership Strategy for Armenia. June 11, 2009, 48222-AM

   3. Social Economic Indicators, Food Security and Poverty, Central Bank of
      Armenia, 2011.

   4. Project Appraisal Document for the Rural Enterprise and Small-Scale
      Commercial Agriculture Development Project, June 6, 2005, Report No: 32351-
      AM

   5. Emergency Project Paper for Additional Financing for the Rural Enterprise and
      Small-Scale Commercial Agriculture Development Project, February 9, 2009,
      Report No: 47274-AM

   6. Project Appraisal Document for the Community Agricultural Resource
      Management and Competitiveness Project, February 23, 2011, Report No: 57525-
      AM

   7. Rural Enterprise and Small-Scale Commercial Agriculture Development Project,
      Baseline Survey, Final Report, November, 2007.

   8. Rural Enterprise and Small-Scale Commercial Agriculture Development Project,
      Impact Assessment of the Advisory Services Provided by the Marz Agricultural
      Support Centers (MASCs), September, 2008.

   9. Rural Enterprise and Small-Scale Commercial Agriculture Development Project,
      Evaluation of the Competitive Grants Projects Reports, October, 2009.

   10. Rural Enterprise and Small-Scale Commercial Agriculture Development Project,
       Impact Assessment of Seed Producers and Seed Users, November, 2009

   11. Rural Enterprise and Small-Scale Commercial Agriculture Development Project,
       Completion Survey, Final Report, June, 2010.

   12. Rural Enterprise and Small-Scale Commercial Agriculture Development Project,
       Borrower’s Implementation Completion Report, October, 2010.

   13. Economic and Financial Analysis Working Paper, FAO-TCI, 2010

   14. Aide Memoires of the Supervision Missions

   15. Project Status Reports and ISRs

                                                                                73
                         43°E                                                                             To T’bilisi                To T’bilisi                                                                                          46°E                                                   47°E
                                                        GEOR GI A                             44°E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 G E OR G IA
                                                                      To Borjomi

                                                                                   L e s s Tashir
                                                                                           Tashir
                                                                                            er C       Alaverdi                                                                                   To Gäncä
                                                                                                    auc                                                                                                                         Ku
                                                                                                        asu                                                                                                                          ra                                                Mingechevir
                 41°N                                                                       Stepanavan          s M                                                                                                  To Gäncä                                                          Reservoir
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           41°N
                                                                                                                    ou
                                                                                                  LORRI                nt
                                                                             SHIRAK                                       ai                                                       Ijevan
                                                                                                                             n                                          s
                                                                                       Gyumri                           Vanadzor
                                                                                                                        Vanadzor                                            T AV U S H
                                                                                                                                                                              AV
                                                                       To
                                                                      Kars                                                                                   Dilijan


                                                                                                Artik
                                                                                                Artik                                                                                                    Artsvashen
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Artsvashen
                                                                                                                                                                                      Karmir
                                                                                                                                                                                      Karmir
                                                                                                        Aragats                                         Sevan                                                 To
                                                                      pa                                                                                                                                     Gäncä
                                                                 Ar                                     (4090 m)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ARMENIA
                                                                                                                                                   Hrazdan
                                                                                         A R A G AT S O T N




                                                                                                                            Hraz d a n

                                                                                                                                          KO
                                                                                                                                          KO
                                                                                                                                          KO
                                                                                                                                                                       Gavar               Lake
                                                                                                        Ashtarak
                                 T UR KEY                                                                                                                                                 Sevan




                                                                                                                                               T
                                                                                                                                               TA
                                                                                                                                               T
                                                                                                                                                                             GEGHARK’UNIK’




                                                                                                                                                   YK
                                                                                                                              YEREVAN
                                                                                                                              YEREVAN                                                                         Vardenis
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Vardenis




                                                                                                                                                    ’
                                             Aras
                                                                                     AV
                                                                               A R M AV I R                             YEREVAN
                                                                                                                        YEREVAN
                                                                                   Armavir
                                                                                   Armavir                                                                                                   Martuni
                                                                                                                                                                                             Martuni
                                                                                                                                                                                                            nge
                                                                                                                                                                                               ni      s Ra                                                                                                40°N
                 40°N
                                                                                                                                                                                      r     de
                                                                                                                             Artashat
                                                                                                                             Artashat
                                                                                                                                                                                   Va
                                                                                                                                              A R A R AT
                           This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                                                  VAY
                                                                                                                                                                                            VAY O T S ’
                                                                                                                            Ar



                                                                                                                                               Ararat
                                                                                                                            as


                           The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                           shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                                                                                        Jermuk
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Jermuk
                           Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                                                                                    DZOR
                           endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                                                     Yegegnadzor
                                                                                                                                                                                             Yegegnadzor
                        43°E                                                                  44°E
                                                                                                                                                                                     Arpa                                                                        AZ E RB AIJ AN
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Vaik
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Vaik
                                                                                                                                                                To
                                                                                                                                                              Naxçivan                                                                    Angekhakot

                                 ARM E NI A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Goris       Qubadli




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Vo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         o tan




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Z
                                                                                                                                                                                                         To Naxçivan
                                                                                                                                                                    A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           To
                                                                                                                                                                       ra




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          a
                                       SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                                                                                                                         Qubadli
                                                                                                                                                                         s




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ng
                                       PROVINCE (MARZ) CAPITALS                                                                                                                       A ZERBA IJA N                                              SYUNIK’




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ez
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ez
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ez
                                                                                                          I SLA MIC REPUBLIC                                                                                                                                     Kapan




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ur
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ur
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ur
                                       NATIONAL CAPITAL

                                       RIVERS                                                                   O F IRA N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ra
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ng
                                       MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                                        0   10                20    30        40          50 Kilometers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             s




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 e
                                       RAILROADS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ara
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           39°N
SEPTEMBER 2004




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IBRD 33364
                                       PROVINCE (MARZ) BOUNDARIES                                                       0                10             20              30 Miles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   To Füzili
                                       INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                                         Megri

                                                                                                                                                                   45°E                                                                   To Ordubad                                                    47°E
