Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB5367 
Project Name 
Nigeria Statistics Development Program (NSDP) 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Information technology (100%) 
Project ID 
P119872 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF NIGERIA 
Implementing Agency 
 
National Bureau of Statistics 
Plot 762 Independence Avenue 
Central Business District 
Nigeria 
 
VOakinyosoye@Nigerianstat.gov.ng 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
January 19, 2010 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
January 20, 2010 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
June 30, 2015 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
The rationale for the Bank’s involvement and leadership in this project can be explained by five 
reasons. 
 
i. 
World Bank mandate on statistical capacity 
 
First the Bank has a mandate to lead the statistical capacity initiative particularly in IDA 
countries. The IDA 14 replenishment negotiations and the more recent IDA 15, have emphasized 
the importance of managing for development results and the central role that developing 
countries’ statistical systems have in this process.  IDA countries and the World Bank have been 
mandated to take active steps to strengthen national statistical systems and to support the 
compilation and use of data for results management. Secondly, an efficient and effective 
statistical system is seen as essential not only for the proper operation of government at all 
levels, but also for the Bank’s own operations in Nigeria.  In view of many data users that will 
emerge, especially in the policy-making and research community, Bank involvement in this 
project is seen as critical. 
 
ii Donor 
Partnerships 
 
The Bank has a strong commitment to the Partnership approach.  It is the DP lead for the M&E 
and statistics Theme Group.  The Bank is also involved in: i) the Partnership in Statistics 
Page  2
(PARIS21
1
)
and ii) the General Data Dissemination System (GDDS), which aims to improve the 
quality, access and integrity of macroeconomic, financial and socio-demographic data.  Nigeria 
has also benefitted from the Trust Fund for Statistical Capacity Building (TFSCB).  The former 
was used to help prepare the NSDS and Nigeria has applied to the latter for NSDS 
implementation.  
 
iii 
Consistency with National and International Commitments 
 
The project is in line with the commitments from the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness, 
stating that DPs will base their support on countries’ national development strategies, will work 
so their actions are more harmonized and collectively effective and will help to strengthen 
developing countries national statistical capacity and information systems.   It is also consistent 
with i) the Bank’s draft Africa Strategy for Statistical Development which has the overall 
objective to assist Sub-Saharan African countries to strengthen and develop their NSS through 
the design and implementation of the NSDS; ii) the Bank supported drive towards managing for 
Development Results in Africa which has led to an unprecedented increase in the need for better 
statistics as a tool for the country to manage for achieving their development objectives and iii) 
the Reference Regional Strategic Framework (RRSF) which sets out a coherent framework to 
build the capacity to produce better statistics, in line with the Marrakech Action Plan for 
Statistics (MAPS).  
 
iv 
Longer term commitment to the Statistical Capacity Building in Nigeria 
 
The proposed project contributes to the Nigeria Country Program Strategy (CPS II) objectives 
and the DPs commitment that has emphasis on development results and the need to monitor 
growth and poverty reduction.  The project will assist the country to increase capacity to collect, 
compile, disseminate and use relevant and reliable statistics. As set out in the Nigeria Joint 
Assistance Strategy; to support evidence based decision-making through, amongst other 
initiatives, strengthened national statistics.   
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The overarching Program Development Objective (PDO) is to create an environment of evidence 
based social and economic policy making, to support growth, poverty reduction and achievement 
of important goals of the nation. The main beneficiaries of the program outcomes are: the NBS, 
the NPoPC, the Government and the general public of Nigeria as well as the international DPs.    
 
The specific development objective of the project is to integrate the activities of all players in the 
NSS including the NBS, the NPoPC, the state statistical agencies, and the Sector Statistics Units 
through the NSDS so as to provide reliable, timely and credible social and economic statistics, to 
assist decision making within and outside the Government. This will stimulate research and 
promote informed debate relating to conditions affecting people’s lives.  This will be measured 
by the PDO outcome indicators:   
 
1
(PARIS21) is an international consortium sponsored by the United Nations (UN), the Organization for Economic 
Co-operation and Development (OECD), the World Bank, the IMF and the European Commission.  
Page  3
·
Enhanced NSDS document adopted by government and stakeholders; and 
·
Institutional reform roadmap being implemented on track.  
 
The specific intermediate outcome indicators of the project are: 
 
•
Statistics Act 2007 implemented and compliance by all the component parts of NSS 
enforced;  
•
The entire NSS uses the compendium of official statistics as compiled by NBS to 
maintain uniform standard in terms of definitions and concepts;  
•
Survey program and timeliness developed; and 
•
Data dissemination policy developed.  
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
The proposed financing instrument is a Statistics for Results Facility (SRF) Catalytic Fund which 
will continue the momentum that has been built and fill the time gap from the implementation of 
the SMP 2004-2009, (whose achievements are listed in annex 1), other capacity building 
activities either financed by other DPs or own resources. The TF is the first of two financing 
mechanisms being proposed to provide support to statistical capacity development in Nigeria 
through implementation of the NSDS.  The other is a $126m IDA credit for statistics over a 5-
year period, planned for the latter half of 2010. The IDA credit along with the SRF-CF will be 
designed to finance parallel activities/expenditures of the wider NSDS, with expanded 
beneficiaries, agencies, and indicators. 
 
The SRF-CF is a global partnership initiative to scale-up investments in statistical capacity. The 
SRF-CF is managed by the World Bank and provides grants to support countries that commit to 
the principles of the Catalytic Fund Charter. Grants from the Catalytic Fund aim to make 
sustainable improvements in the production, availability and use of quality statistics, to increase 
capacity in policy formulation and decision-making for development. In each participating 
country, the grant from the SRF-CF aims to: (i) Promote a system-wide approach in statistics at 
country level; (ii) Substantially increase resources for implementing country-owned National 
Statistical Plans
2
;
(iii) Explicitly link improvements in the statistical system to the needs of 
national and sectoral monitoring frameworks, and promote an improved national dialogue and 
partnership between statistics users and statistical producers; and (iv) Deliver more efficient and 
effective aid and technical assistance for strengthening statistical systems and results 
measurement. 
 
Nigeria was one of five pilot countries invited to apply for the funds. NBS accepted the 
invitation and applied for funding and can access resources to help prepare the application and 
other project documentation.  A consultant will be funded by the SRF-CF to help finalize the 
NSDS implementation and budget plan.  This step is critical for the SRF-CF and IDA financing 
as it will help identify priority activities for this funding. 
 
2
A
National Statistical Plan is a plan for improving national statistics and statistical capacity. A National Strategy 
for the Development of Statistics or similar strategic document may be used provided it meets the criteria set out in 
the SFR-CF Charter document (para. 4a).  
Page  4
The TF is fully aligned to the NSDS. Performance monitoring will be based on performance 
indicators that will be developed during appraisal, as well as annual work programs to be 
prepared by the PCU.  Special attention will be given to monitoring progress on the institutional 
reform and staff skills development, as this is critical to the success of the entire program. The 
focus will be on: the NBS, NPoPC, the MDAs and state statistical offices, and will be on 4 key 
areas as follows: (i) Organizational, Institutional & Human Capital Development (ii) Statistical 
Infrastructure and  Information Technology; (iii) Data Development, Management and Surveys; 
and (iv) Monitoring and Evaluation. 
 
The project components to be financed under the TF are: 
 
Component 1: Organizational, Institutional and Human Resource Development 
 
Organizational and Institutional Development
 of the NSS to provide a national framework for 
data management and development in the country as well as a guideline for overall coordination 
to harmonise and eliminate duplication of responsibilities will be enhanced. It will also focus on 
strengthening the NBS, building capacity at the NPoPC and reforming the statistical systems at 
the state level to deliver effectively on their mandate as statistical and demographic agencies.  
Activities will include strengthening the Statistics Training Institute to position it for role as a 
regional statistics training institute.  There will also be provision for hands-on training for 
statisticians at the state level at the NBS.  Other training and human capacity building will be 
based on a comprehensive Training Needs Assessment (TNA). 
 
Component 2: Statistical 
Infrastructure and Information Technology
 
Developing a 
Statistical Infrastructure and Information Technology
 for the NSS as contained 
in the Compendium of Statistical Terms, Concepts, Definitions and Methodologies for Data 
Production and Management in Nigeria. This will provide a unified and consistent definition of 
concepts and methods used for the collection and compilation of data as well as common 
indicator specifications and classifications of variables to be used in the compilation of official 
statistics and indicators to eliminate inconsistency of statistical data within the NSS.  It will also 
include the roll-out of the Statistical Template for the compilation of administrative statistics at 
the states level. Also, the basic legal framework is now in place to support statistical work of the 
NBS and NPoPC but this is absent in most of the states.  Where necessary, it will include 
investment in Physical Infrastructure & Equipment within the NSS to ensure that it has adequate 
physical infrastructure and equipment that enhances access to data and other information 
available in the NSS to facilitate the productivity of staff. To this end providing a conducive and 
congenial office accommodation especially at the state level to promote institutional 
development and enhanced productivity in the five-year period for state statistical offices, and 
other MDAs like setting up of the automated Births and Deaths registries by the Department of 
vital statistics, is a key objective of this project. Details of the activities will be provided during 
Appraisal 
 
Component 3: 
Data Development, Management and Surveys
 
Page  5
Promoting 
Data Development, Management and Surveys
 within the NSS to ensure that it is 
able to generate and disseminate diversified products and services, responding to the needs of 
planning, monitoring and evaluation of national development programmes and its broad 
constituents of stakeholders. Again, the capacity of the various MDAs and states will be 
developed to generate quality statistics to feed NSS to be able to compile and effectively 
disseminate the necessary official statistics from the administrative sources. Adherence to an 
agreed time schedule between the States, the MDAs and NBS through Memorandum of 
Understanding (MOUs) on release of the various administrative data to be developed will be 
monitored and regularly reviewed. A dissemination strategy will also be formulated from the 
onset of the project covering the national, regional and state levels. Information and 
communication infrastructure of NBS, NPoPC and key MDAs as well as the statistical units at 
the state level will be strengthened to ensure the effective use of Information and 
Communication Technology (ICT) to enhance the productivity of the national statistical system. 
 
The component will also finance the direct electronic data capture of birth and deaths and 
migration data in Nigeria in all existing registration centers of the Federation. The greatest 
challenge faced so far, has been to develop better strategies of data capture that will facilitate the 
attainment of  60% birth registration coverage by 2010 and 100% by 2015.  
 
Component 4: Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) 
 
This component will finance monitoring and evaluation of the project.  Monitoring is essential to 
track inputs, outputs and to determine whether the project implementation is on course and also 
to assess how much is being achieved.  Monitoring should cover inputs, outputs and process.  
Monitoring of outputs should cover availability, timeliness, and quality of key statistics, 
indicators and series.   
The SRF will finance each component listed above as shown in the table below 
 
Component Estimated 
cost 
1. 
Organizational and Institutional Development 
5,145,730
2. 
Statistical Infrastructure & Information Technology 
5,145,730
3. 
Data Development & Dissemination (Including setting up birth & 
death Registration Centres) 
9,255,029
4. 
Program Management and M&E 
1,182,165
Total amount requested from the SRF-CF (c) 
20,728,654 
4.  Safeguard policies that might apply 
No Safeguard Policies apply
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 0 
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT - Associated IDA Fund 
0 
Statistics for Results Trust Fund 
21 
 Total 
21 
 
Page  6
6. Contact point 
Contact: John Y. Ngwafon 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: 
234-9-314-5269-75 Cell: 07037419287 
|DAMA 5359-276
 
Fax:  
Email: Jngwafon@worldbank.org 
Location: Abuja, Nigeria (IBRD) 
 
