                                                          CONFORMED COPY



                                          SRF-CF GRANT NUMBER TF099783




               Grant Agreement
        (Statistical Development Strategy Implementation Project)


                                  between


                  FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA


                                    and


          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
acting as administrator of the Statistics for Results Facility Catalytic Fund




                           Dated June 16, 2011
2
                                                SRF-CF GRANT NUMBER TF099783

                               GRANT AGREEMENT

         AGREEMENT dated June 16, 2011, entered into between the FEDERAL
REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA (“Recipient?) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (“World Bank?), acting as administrator of the Statistics for Results
Facility Catalytic Fund (“SRF-CF?).

The Recipient and the World Bank hereby agree as follows:

                                      Article I
                           Standard Conditions; Definitions

1.01.   The Standard Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
        constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

1.02.   Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
        Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Standard Conditions or in
        the Preamble and the Appendix to this Agreement.

                                       Article II
                                      The Project

2.01.   The Recipient declares its commitment to the objective of the project described
        in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project?). To this end, the Recipient shall
        carry out: (a) Parts 1.1, 1.2 (a), 2.1, 2.2, 2.4 (a), 3.1, and 3.2 of the Project
        through its National Bureau of Statistics; and (b) Parts 1.2 (b), 2.3. 2.4 (b) and
        3.3 of the Project through its National Population Commission, in accordance
        with the provisions of Article II of the Standard Conditions.

2.02.   Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, and
        except as the Recipient and the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient
        shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
        Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

                                       Article III
                                       The Grant

3.01.   The World Bank agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions
        set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equal to ten
        million United States Dollars ($10,000,000) (“Grant?) to assist in financing the
        Project.
                                             2



3.02.   The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with
        Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

3.03.   The Grant is funded out of the SRF-CF for which the World Bank receives periodic
        contributions. In accordance with Section 3.02 of the Standard Conditions, the
        Recipient may withdraw the Grant proceeds subject to the availability of such funds.

                                          Article IV
                            Recipient’s Representative; Addresses

4.01.   The Recipient’s Representative referred to in Section 7.02 of the Standard
        Conditions is its minister responsible for finance.

4.02.   The Recipient’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard Conditions
        is:

        The Honorable Minister
        Federal Ministry of Finance
        Ahmadu Bello Way
        Abuja, Nigeria

        Cable address:           Facsimile:
        FEDMINFIN                234-9-2343609
        Abuja

4.03.   The World Bank’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard Conditions
        is:

        International Development Association
        1818 H Street, N.W.
        Washington, D.C. 20433
        United States of America

        Cable:                   Telex:                   Facsimile:

        INDEVAS                  248423 (MCI)             1-202-477-6391
        Washington, D.C.
                                          3




       AGREED at Abuja, Federal Republic of Nigeria, as of the day and year first
above written.



                     FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA




                      By: /s/ Imiya Kifasi

                                                       Authorized Representative



                      INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




                      By: /s/ Onno Ruhl

                                                       Authorized Representative
                                                4




                                       SCHEDULE 1
                                     Project Description

        The objective of the Project is to initiate the implementation of the National
Strategy for the Development of Statistics by producing reliable statistics in Participating
States.

          The Project consists of the following parts:

Part 1.           Organizational, Institutional and Human Resource Development

1.1.      Organizational and Institutional Development. Carrying out of capacity building
          activities aimed at developing the organizational and institutional framework of
          the national statistical system through: (a) the conduct of assessments and
          formulation of measures to strengthen the national framework for statistical data
          management and coordination; and (b) the preparation of a training needs
          assessment and provision of hands-on training for NBS officials and other
          stakeholders in accordance with such assessment.

1.2.      Human Resource Development and Management.                   (a) Design and
          implementation of a human resource development and management framework
          aimed at attracting and retaining qualified professionals and managers in
          NBS; and (b) provision of training to staff of NPoPC and Participating States in
          relevant technical areas such as data entry packages, research methodology,
          population dynamics, gender issues, reproductive health and population
          coordination, scanner technology and spatial database management systems, and
          provision of equipment and vehicles for NPoPC field supervision.

Part 2.           Statistical Framework and Information Technology

2.1.      Roll-out of Statistical Template.         Provision of technical assistance and
          equipment to assist the Participating States in the roll-out of a statistical template
          for the compilation of administrative statistics at the state level.

2.2.      Information Technology. Provision of IT equipment, including hardware and
          software and related technical assistance, to improve communications between
          NBS, NPoPC and the Participating States and enhance the use of the operating
          geographical information system.

2.3.      Pilot Phase of Electronic Birth and Death Registration Centers. Carrying out of
          a pilot capacity building program aimed at strengthening the capacity of NPoPC
          registration centers in the Participating States to provide electronic data capture
                                                5



          of births and deaths.

2.4.      Data Development, Management and Dissemination. Carrying out of a capacity
          building program aimed at improving the generation and dissemination of quality
          statistical data at: (a) NBS through: (i) development and dissemination
          of a comprehensive manual including a standard definition of concepts and
          methods of conducting statistical research and data collection for selected sector
          areas; (ii) assistance to statistical bodies in the Participating States to develop and
          manage statistical data; (iii) development and implementation of a strategy for
          the publication and dissemination of statistical data by NBS; and (iv) adoption of
          direct electronic data capture at NBS; and (b) NPoPC through technical
          assistance for the adoption of direct electronic data capture at NPoPC.



Part 3.           Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation, and Statistical

                  Communication



3.1.      Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation by NBS. Provision of technical
          and operational support to the NBS Project implementation task team to carry out
          the day-to-day implementation of its respective parts of the Project.



3.2.      Statistical Communication. Carrying out of a program of activities aimed at
          facilitating and enhancing the coordination and communication of statistical data,
          products and services among data producers, data users and other stakeholders.



3.3.      Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation by NPoPC. Provision of
          technical and operational support to the NPoPC Project implementation task team
          to carry out the day-to-day implementation of its respective parts of the Project.
                                           6



                                        SCHEDULE 2

                                       Project Execution

Section I.      Institutional and Implementation Arrangements

A.      Technical Committee

1.      The Recipient shall maintain, at all times during the implementation of the
        Project, a technical committee for the Project with a mandate, composition and
        resources satisfactory to the World Bank.

2.      Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part A, the
        technical committee shall: (a) be headed by a representative of the
        Recipient’s Federal Ministry of Finance and comprise representatives of NBS,
        NPoPC, the National Planning Commission, the governor of the Recipient’s
        central bank, and the Nigerian Statistical Association; (b) meet semi-annually or
        more often as required; and (c) be responsible for: (i) facilitating the
        overall coordination of Project activities; (ii) providing strategic and
        policy directions on the implementation of the Project; (iii) reviewing and
        recommending for approval by the World Bank the proposed Annual
        Work Plans and Budgets; and (iv) reviewing progress made towards achieving
        the Project’s objectives and making recommendations for removal of any
        obstacles to the implementation of the Project.

B.      National Bureau of Statistics Project Implementation Task Team

1.      The Recipient shall maintain at all times during the implementation of the
        Project, a Project implementation task team within the coordination department
        of the National Bureau of Statistics, with functions, staffing and resources
        satisfactory to the World Bank.

2.      Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 1 of this part B, the NBS
        Project implementation task team shall comprise a Project coordinator, a Project
        officer and a procurement officer, and shall be responsible for the day-to-day
        implementation of NBS’ respective parts of the Project.

C.      National Population Commission Project Implementation Task Team

1.      The Recipient shall maintain at all times during the implementation of the
        Project, a Project implementation task team within the coordination department
        of its National Population Commission, with functions, staffing and resources
        satisfactory to the World Bank.
                                         7



2.   Without limitation of the provisions of paragraph 1 of this part C, the NPoPC
     Project implementation task team shall comprise a Project coordinator, a Project
     officer and a procurement officer, and shall be responsible for the day-to-day
     implementation of NPoPC’s respective parts of the Project.

D.   Federal Project Financial Management Division

1.   The Recipient shall dedicate and retain throughout the implementation of the
     Project staff from the accounts unit of the FPFMD, in adequate numbers and with
     qualifications and terms of reference satisfactory to the World Bank, to be
     responsible for the financial management of the Project in accordance with the
     provisions of this Agreement including, but not limited to, the preparation of
     interim unaudited financial reports and annual financial statements.

2.   The Recipient shall dedicate and retain throughout the implementation of the
     Project staff from the audit unit of the FPFMD, in adequate numbers and with
     qualifications and terms of reference satisfactory to the World Bank, to perform
     internal audit functions for the purposes of the Project including, but not limited
     to, the application and reliability of managerial, financial, operational and
     budgetary controls.

E.   Annual Work Plans and Budgets

1.   The Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the World Bank for its approval, not
     later than November 1 of each year during the implementation of the Project (or
     such later date as the World Bank may agree), an annual work plan and budget
     containing all eligible Project activities and expenditures planned for the
     following Recipient’s fiscal year, including a specification of the source or
     sources of financing for all eligible expenditures.

2.   The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is implemented in accordance with the
     Annual Work Plans and Budgets approved by the World Bank for the respective
     Recipient’s fiscal year; provided, however, that in case of any conflict between
     the Annual Work Plans and Budgets and the provisions of this Agreement, the
     provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.

3.   The Recipient shall not make or allow to be made any change to the approved
     Annual Work Plan and Budget without prior approval in writing by the World
     Bank.

F.   Anti-Corruption

     The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
     provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
                                            8



Section II.     Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation

A.      Project Reports; Completion Report

1.      The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
        Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.06 of the Standard
        Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the World Bank. Each
        Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be
        furnished to the World Bank not later than one month after the end of the period
        covered by such report.

2.      The Recipient shall: (a) on or about the date eighteen (18) months after the date
        of this Agreement, submit to the World Bank a mid-term report, in such detail
        as the World Bank shall reasonably request, documenting progress achieved
        in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date
        of the mid-term report, taking into account the monitoring and evaluation
        activities performed pursuant to paragraph 1 of this Part A, and setting out the
        measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project
        and the achievement of the objective thereof during the period following such
        date; and (b) review with the World Bank the mid-term report, on or about the
        date one month after its submission, and thereafter take all measures required to
        ensure the efficient implementation of the Project and the achievement of its
        objective, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the mid-term report
        and the World Bank’s views on the matter.

3.      The Recipient shall prepare the Completion Report in accordance with the
        provisions of Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions. The Completion Report
        shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than six months after the Closing
        Date.

B.      Financial Management; Financial Reports; Audits

1.      The Recipient shall ensure that a financial management system is maintained in
        accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of the Standard Conditions.

2.      The Recipient shall ensure that interim unaudited financial reports for the Project
        are prepared and furnished to the World Bank as part of the Project Report not
        later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter, covering the quarter, in
        form and substance satisfactory to the World Bank.

3.      The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements for the Project audited in
        accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 (b) of the Standard Conditions.
        Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of
        the Recipient. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be
                                            9



        furnished to the World Bank not later than six months after the end of such
        period.

4.      The Recipient shall, not later than six months after the date of this Agreement,
        appoint the independent auditors referred to in Section 2.07 (b) of the Standard
        Conditions, in accordance with the provisions of Section III of this Schedule,
        with qualifications and terms of reference satisfactory to the World Bank.

Section III.    Procurement

A.      General

1.      Goods. All goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
        of the Grant shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
        referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
        this Section.

2.      Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to
        be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be procured in accordance with
        the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I and IV of the Consultant
        Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.

2.      Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
        particular procurement methods or methods of review by the World Bank of
        particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the
        Procurement Guidelines, or the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.

B.      Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods

1.      International Competitive Bidding.         Except as otherwise provided in
        paragraph 2 below, goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
        of International Competitive Bidding.

2.      Other Methods of Procurement of Goods. The following methods, other than
        International Competitive Bidding, may be used for procurement of goods for
        those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) National Competitive
        Bidding; (b) Shopping; and (c) Direct Contracting.

C.      Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services

1.      Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
        2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
        basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
                                           10




2.     Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following
       methods, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
       procurement of consultants’ services for those assignments which are specified in
       the Procurement Plan: (a) Least Cost Selection; (b) Selection based on
       Consultants’ Qualifications; (c) Single-source Selection; (d) Selection of
       Individual Consultants; and (e) Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of
       Individual Consultants.

D.     Review by the World Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.     The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
       World Bank’s Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review
       by the World Bank.

2.     All terms of reference for consultants’ services, regardless of contract value shall
       be subject to the World Bank Prior Review.

3.     All training and workshop activities under the Project shall be specified in the
       relevant Annual Work Plan and Budget for approval by the World Bank,
       including: (a) the type of training and workshop; (b) the purpose of the
        training and workshop; (c) the personnel to participate in the training and
       workshop; (d) the institution or individual who will conduct the training and
       workshop; (e) the location and duration of the training and workshop; (f) the cost
       of the training and workshop; and (g) the outcome and impact of the training and
       workshop.

E.     Procurement Complaints Database at NBS

       The Recipient shall, not later than three months after the date of this Agreement,
       ensure that a centralized procurement complaints online database for the Project,
       satisfactory to the World Bank, has been established at NBS.

Section IV.    Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds

A.     General

1.     The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance
       with the provisions of: (a) Article III of the Standard Conditions; (b) this Section;
       and (c) such additional instructions as the World Bank may specify by notice to
       the Recipient (including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects?
       dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the World Bank and as made
                                             11



         applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible
         Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.

2.       The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
         financed out of the proceeds of the Grant, the allocations of the amounts of the
         Grant to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for
         Eligible Expenditures in each Category:

                                       Amount of the        Percentage of Expenditures
               Category                Grant Allocated             to be Financed
                                     (expressed in USD)         (inclusive/of Taxes)

(1) Goods, consultants’                   5,000,000                    100%
    services, Training and
    Workshops, and Operating
    Costs for NBS under Parts
    1.1, 1.2(a), 2.1, 2.2, 2.4(a),
    3.1, and 3.2 of the Project

(2) Goods, consultants’                   5,000,000                    100%
    services, Training and
    Workshops, and Operating
    Costs for NPoPC under
    Parts 1.2(b), 2.3. 2.4(b) and
    3.3 of the Project

TOTAL AMOUNT                             10,000,000


B.       Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

1.       Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
         made for:

         (a)       payments made prior to the date of this Agreement; and

         (b)       payments made for any Eligible Expenditures under Category (2) unless
                   NPoPC has: (i) appointed a procurement consultant with qualifications
                   and terms of reference satisfactory to the World Bank; and (ii)
                   established a procurement tracking system and a procurement complaints
                   database and/or hotline, satisfactory to the World Bank.
                                      12



2.   The Closing Date referred to in Section 3.06 (c) of the Standard Conditions is
     February 28, 2014.
                                           13




                                      APPENDIX

                                      Definitions

1. “Annual Work Plan and Budget? means the plan and budget referred to in Section I.E
   of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

2. “Anti-Corruption Guidelines? means the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating
   Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and
   Grants?, dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.

3. “Category? means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
   Agreement.

4. “Consultant Guidelines? means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
   Consultants by World Bank Borrowers? published by the World Bank in May 2004
   and revised in October 2006 and May 2010.

5. “FPFMD? means the Federal Project Financial Management Division of the
   Recipient’s Office of the Accountant General, responsible for financial management
   of donor-assisted projects at the federal level.

6. “National Bureau of Statistics? and “NBS? means the Recipient’s Bureau of
   Statistics, established pursuant to the Recipient’s Act 9 of 2007, and any successor
   thereto.

7. “National Planning Commission? means the Recipient’s National Planning
   Commission established by the Recipient’s Decree No. 12 of 1992 and amended by
   the Recipient’s Act 71 of 1993, and any successor thereto.

8. “National Population Commission? and “NPoPC? means the Recipient’s National
   Population Commission established pursuant to the Recipient’s Decree No. 23 of
   1988, and any successor thereto.

9. “National Strategy for the Development of Statistics? means the Recipient’s strategy
   for the development of its national statistical system, approved by the Recipient’s
   Federal Executive Council on March 17, 2010.

10. “Nigerian Statistical Association? means the Nigerian Statistical Association founded
    in 1976 pursuant to the laws of the Recipient as a non-profit making professional
    body of statisticians, economists, planners, demographers, analysts and corporate
    organizations with interest in statistics.
                                             14



11. “Operating Costs? means the operating costs incurred for the purposes
    of the implementation of the Project including office rental expenses, maintenance
    and insurance of vehicles and equipment, fuel, office supplies, utilities, consumables,
    bank charges, advertising expenses, travel, per diems, accommodation, and salaries
    of selected support staff, but excluding salaries of consultants and salaries of officials
    of the Recipient’s civil service.

12. “Participating States? means the Recipient’s States of Anambra, Bauchi, Edo,
    Kaduna, Niger and Ondo.

13. “Procurement Guidelines? means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans
    and IDA Credits? published by the World Bank in May 2004 and revised in October
    2006 and May 2010.

14. “Procurement Plan? means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, referred
    to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the
    Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance
    with the provisions of said paragraphs.

15. “Standard Conditions? means the “Standard Conditions for Grants Made by the
    World Bank Out of Various Funds?, dated July 31, 2010.

16. “Training and Workshops? means the costs associated with the participation of
    personnel involved in Project supported activities in training activities and
    workshops, including travel and subsistence costs for training and workshop
    participants, costs associated with securing the services of trainers, rental of training
    and workshop facilities, preparation and reproduction of training and workshop
    materials, and other costs directly related to training course or workshop preparation
    and                                                                     implementation.
