Z,A sS %r / - S 
Docimnet of
The World Ban
FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
RPOrt N.e P-6466-UA
REPORT AND RECOMMNDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
IECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED  RE ILITATION LOA
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$500 MILLION
TO
UKRAINE
NOVEMBER 30, 1994
9=~~t-.-   S   r. _ . !t
This do t has a resicted distribution and may be used by reoipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents tay not otherwise be dilosed withoet Wold Bank autborization.



URAIAE - REHABILITATION LOAN
Currency Equivalents
Currency unit = Karbovanets
US$1.00 = 78,600 Karbovanets (October 27, 1994)
Weights and Measures
Metric System
Abbreviations and Acronyms
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CG           Consultative Group
CPAR         Country Procurement Assessment Report
CPI          Consumer Price Index
EBRD         European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ESW          Economic and Sector Work
FIAS         Foreign Investment Advisory Service
FSU          Former Soviet Union
GATT         General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
GNP          Gross National Product
IAS          Internationally Accepted Standards
IBL          Institutional Building Loan
EBRD         International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
IDA          International Development Assistance
IFC          International Finance Corporation
IMF          International Monetary Fund
KBV          Karbovanets
MIGA         Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
NBU          National Bank of Ukraine
PHRD         Population and Human Resource Development
SOE          Statement of Expenditures
SPP          State Property Fund
STP          Systemic Transformation Facility
UNCTAD       United Nations Conference on Trade and Development
VER          Voluntary Export Restraints
WTO          World Trade Organization
Governent Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICAL USE ONLY
Table of Cotoents
PART 1. COUNTRY POLICIES AND IBRD ASSISTANCE STRATEGY  ......1......... 
1.     Recent Econoomic Developments .-............................. -.1
A. Background ............................  1
B. Recent Economic Trends  .............................1
C. Status of Systemic Reforms ............       ................  3
II.    The Government's Economic Refonn Program  ........          ...............  4
A. Overview  .....................................   4
B. The Stabilization Programn .  ............................  S
(i)    Fiscal Policy .............        ................  5
(ii)    Monetay Policy ...........................  6
(iii)   Income Policy  ....6..... .        ....                  6
C. The Structural Reform Program  ......................    6
(i)    Creating a Competitive Environment.                       6
(ii)    Hardening of Enterprise Budget Constraits.              10
(iii)   Social Safety Net and Labor Markets .15
Hi.    Macroeconomic Prospects and External Financing Requirements .20
A. Inflation and Output .20
B. External Sector .21
C. External Financing Requirements and Debt .21
IV.  The Bank Group's Assistance Strategy .24
A. Background and Objectives .24
B. The Legacy of the Past .24
C. A New Relationship .25
D. The Lending Program .26
E. Implications for World Bank Exposure .,                             27
F. Resource Mobilization and Aid Coordination .27
G. Economic and Sector Work Program .28
H. IFC and MGA Activities .28
PART II. THE PROPOSED LOAN             ................. ...................... 29
I.     Background and Rationale for IBRD Involvement ..................... 29
II.    Project Objectives and Description  .............................. 29
m.    Environmental Safety ...........           ............................ 30
IV.    Project Implementation and Key Measures for Disbursement ....        .......... 30
V.  Procurement ............................................. 33
VI.    Disbursement ............................................ 33
ViI.   Reporting, Accounting, and Auditing ............................. 34
VIII.  Agreements Reached ............            ........................... 34
IX.    Program Benefits and Risks ................................... 34
PART mI. RECOMMENDATION  ............                   ............................ 36
This document has a rstricted distribon and may be usd by r=49=0 only in the _      6
official dutes. Its coten may nwot  owis be dlos without Wold    u ftn



ANNEX I Key Economic Indicators
ANNEX 2 Rehabilitation Loan- Tunetable of Key Events
ANNEX 3 Memorandum of Economic Reform Policies
ANNEX 4 Policy Matrix
MAP



UWRAE - REHABIUTATION LOAN
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUfMARY
Borrower:           Ukraine
Amount:             US$500 million equivalent
Terms:              Seventeen years maturity with a five year grace period, at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate.
Objectives
and Description:    The main objective of the loan is to support the Govemment's economic reform program
to stabilize the economy and create th"e conditions for a resumption of economic growth.
Other objectives are to (i) provide foreign exchange for the purchase of critical imports,
including for the private sector; (ii) provide budgetary support for the strengthening of
the socia safety net for the neediest; (iii) improve the functioning of the foreign exchange
market; and (iv) provide a framework for financial assistance from other donor agencies.
The loan supports policies that: (a) promote the development of competitive markets; (b)
result in improved financial discipline and hard budgets for entelprises, farms and banks;
and (c) improve the targeting of benefits to the most needy and strengthen the social
safety net. Among the key reforms are price and trade liberalization; development of the
private sector, and the aboliton of the system of state orders; privatization of small,
medium and large enterprises, and agricultural land; restrcturing of the electricity
sector; and improved targeting of benefits to protect vulnerable groups, especially
children in poor families and poor pensioners.
Benefits:           The implementation of reforms will help restore macroeconomic stability and reverse the
decline in economic activity, thus creating new jobs and improving living standards.
This objective will also be served directly through the increased availability of foreign
exchange to alleviate critical production bottlenecks. The local counterpart funds from
the Bank loan will direcdy benefit the poor insofar as these are used to augment the
resources targeted for them.
Risks:              The main risks relate to slippage in implementation of reform measures. This can happen
either becase of effective opposition to the stucnral reforms in Parliament (especially
pnvatization and agriculture sector reform) or the weak implementation capacity of
Govermment. The first risk is being mitigated by designing the loan so as to address the
legitimate concerns of those opposed to reforms. Thus, special atteion is devoted to
improved targeting of social assistance. The mass privatization program is designed to
ensure that every citizen gets a share in state property and the mass publicity campaign
will inform the population of the Government's plans and their rights. The Bank is also
contimuing its pr%lic economic education efforts, and man ig  close contact with
Parliamentar  including those that oppose reforms. The risk from the weaknesses in
implementation capacity wiUl contimne to be addressed through technical assistance in



various sectors, as well as by efforts to design policies that minimize the burden on the
various agencies. A third risk is the deterioration of economic relations with Russia and
Turkmenistan that are also Ukraine's main energy suppliers and creditors. This could
lead to an abrupt disruption in supply of energy, forcing the Government to reinstate
administrative controls and reverse the liberalization process now underway. This risk
is being partly addressed by the policies supported by the loan that enable energy
importers to recover the full cost of imported energy from final users, including the
liberalization of prices, the unification of the exchange rate, and measures to ensure
payment discipline. The participation of the IMF in bilateral negotiations to regularize
previous arrears, and the commitment of the Government to prevent the accumulation of
new arrears should also reduce this risk. Finally, the" is a risk that external funding to
the extent required will not be forthcoming, forcing the Government on an adjustment
path that is socially hard to susain. This risk will be mitigated by the Bank's loan, its
efforts to auract cofinancing from other donors, and the leadership by the Banlk in efforts
to mobilize extemal donor support later in FY96.
Rate of Return:     Not applicable
Poverty Category:   Poverty focussed. The program includes specific measures to (i) protect low income
households from the impact ' increases in prices; (ii) strengthen mechanisms to deal
with unemployment; and    monitor the impact of adjustment on the poor and the
unemployed.
Apprai  Report:   Not applicable
Disbursemn_t:       - US$250 million would be available for disbursement upon effectiveness. US$100
million (20 percent of the proposed loan) could be used to finance retroactively eligible
imports procured in the four months preceding effectiveness. Effectiveness is expected
on December 22, 1994.
- A further US$250 million is expected to be disbursed after April 1, 1995 on the basis
of a satisfactory review of the progress in the overall program.
Map:                IBRD No. 24253



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED REHABILITATION LOAN
TO UKRAINE
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan to Ukraine for
the equivalent of US$500 million to provide support for the Government's economic reform program. The loan
would be at the Bank's standard variable interest rate, with a maturity of 17 years including a grace period of
5 years.
2.    Formal contacts between the World Bank and Ukraine began in January 1992. Ukraine joined the IBRD
in September 1992, IFC in October 1993, and MIGA in July 1994. The first country economic memorandum
(Report No. 11029-UA) was distributed to the Board in June 1993.
PART I. COUNTRY POLICIES AND IBRD ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
I. Recent Economic Developments
A.    Background
3.    Ukraine, a country with a history that goes back to Kievan Rus in the tenth cenury, gained its
independence from the Soviet Union in August 1991. It has a land mass of 603,700 square kdlometers that is the
largest in Europe (with the exception of the European part of Russia), and a population of 52 million that ranks
fifth in Europe. Per capita GNP is estinated at US$1,910 (1993), placing Ukraine among the lower middle-
income countries.' Ukraine has a highly educated labor force, fertile agricultural land, and diverse natural
resources consisting of raw materials and metals. However, currently more than 50 percent of energy needs must
be met through imports, principally from Russia.
4.    For 70 years under Soviet control, the economy of Ukraine was shaped by the centrally planned allocation
of resources, with the attendant administrative controls over prices and high investment ratios. In 1991, industry
accounted for 46 percent of GDP, owing to the predominance of such fields as metallurgy, machine-building, and
the military industrial complex in the economy. Agriculture constituted 26 percent of GDP, reflectng Ukraine's
position as the "bread basket" of the Soviet Union.
B.    Recent Economic Trends
5.    Economic conditions in Ukraine, already difficult at the time of independence, have since worsened
dramatically. There has been a large drop in officially recorded output, prices cortinue to rise steeply, and the
stock of external debt (including anrears) has mounted significantly. While the growth in the parallel economy
If    Atlas methodology. GNP estmates for the economies of the fonmer Soviet Union are sbject to mcie
than the usual range of uncertny, and should therefore be regarded as preliminary and subject to revision.



-2-
has helped cushion the impact of the output collapse in the official economy, it remains a source of social tension
and undermines the capacity of the Goverment to perform essential social services.
6.    Real GDP fell by a total of 38 percent during the period 1990-93, a trend that accelerated in the first half
of 1994. During that period, real GDP is estimated to have declined by 27 percent compared to a year earlier
and industrial production by almost 40 percent. Particularly hard hit have been the energy-intensive industries
and those facing shrinking markets for their products, such as metalurgy, machine-building, and construction
materials.
7.    On the supply side, the disintegration of long-established supply and customer links, both within Ukaine
and with other FSU countries, has hurt many industries. Frequent disruptions in the supply of energy and raw
materials have led to growing shortages. As noted above, with domestic production meeting only about half the
country's energy needs, Ukaine is heavily dependent on imports, mainly from Russia and to a lesser extent,
Turkmnenistan. Energy supplies from the FSU have been cut off intermittently in response to ale accumulation
of payments arrears by Ukaine. Given the rigid speciization of enterprises inherited from the FSU, the
declining fortmes of one industry or enterprise has often had a ripple effect throughout the economy. On the
demand side, a number of specialized markets have dwindled, notably military equipment, which in 1990
accounted for as much as 10 percent of GDP, and a significant share of exports to the FSU. The large decline
in real wages - in the order of 60 percent in 1993 - has also contributed to waning demand.
8.    Inappropriate economic policies also contributed to depressing economic activity. Throughout the period,
the state continued to maintain and tighten a wide range of controls on economic activity, particularly in the area
of prices, domestic and foreign trade, and the exchange system. These controls, and ad-hoc and frequent changes
in regulations, hampered exports and inhibited the growth of a dynamic private sector that could have cushioned
the impact of the declining state enterprise sector. Furthermore, as attested to by the rapid erosion in living
standards, these controls failed in their objective: prices continued to rise, an increasing share of the labor force
became underemployed, capital flight accelerated and an increasing volume of economic activity went
underground, further worsening the external balance of payments and the Government's budget.
9.    Pfices continued to rise rapidly throughout the period since independence. The average inlfation rate
clinbed from 91 percent in 1991 to 1,210 percent in 1992 to 4,735 percent in 1993. And by the fall of 1993,
inflation approached rates characteristic of hyperinflation, with prices rising by about 65 percent per month in
the last quarter. Following a drastc tightening of credit policies in autumn 1993 and a freeze in adjustment in
administered prices, particularly of energy after December, the rate of iflation came down markedly in 1994,
reaching 4-5 percent per month in the second and third quarters.
10.   The acceleration of inflation was due in large part to loose fiscal and monetary policies. Though the
expenditures of the state budget (including directed credits) wete sharply reduced in 1993 compared to 1992 (by
20 percentage points of GDP), the need for monetary financing of the deficit still remained excessive (9.7 percent
of GDP) in relation to the economy's need for liquidity, given the public's dwindling confidence in the domestic
currency. In the first half of 1994, expenditures were cut further by an additional 25 percent in real terms from
their level in the second half of 1993, but revenues fell sharply too in real terms, and domesdc financing of the
general Government budget deficit remained as large as 8.7 percent of GDP. The financing needs of the budget
was largely accommodated through credit expansion by the National Bank. Despite the growth of domestic credit
so far in 1994, inflationary trends remained subdued. This has been attributed in part to (i) increased demand
for money, due to the de-monetization that occurred in 1993 and the positive real interest rates; and (ii) an
accumulation of excess reserves by banks in recognition of the poor financial situation of client enterprises,
declining demand for credit due to high interest rates, and increased demand for cash probably linked to the
growth of the underground economy.



-3-
11.   The continuing sharp fall in production, combined with the rapid increase in prices has significantly
eroded the standard of living of the population, especially of those at the low end of the income distribution.
As already mentioned real wages fell 60 percent over 1993 and have remained broadly unchanged since. Though
officially reported unemployment reains mninuscule (0.4 percent of the labor force), it is estimated that as much
as 16 percent of the labor force is underemployed in one form or other. While the growth of the informal
economy and increased recourse to non-wage payments to workers in the official economy may have moderated
the fall in wage incomes of workers, living conditions have no doubt worsened for most of the population. This
has been compounded by the deteriorating conditions of hospitals and schools brought about by the need to
control Government expenditures. One indication of the deterioration is provided by the increase in mortality
rates in recent years: the life extectancy at birth for men has declined from 67 years in 1989 to 64 years in 1992,
and from 75 to 74 years for women during the same period.
12.   The exteral trade of Ukraine, of which about three quarters was conducted with the FSU, came under
serious strain as the prices of traded goods rose to world levels after 1992. Between 1991 and 1993, the ruble
price of gas rose by a factor of 570, and that of oil by a factor of 1,055. Despite a large drop in energy import
vohlmes, the share of gas and oil imports shot up from 12 percent of FSU imports in 1991 to above 50 percent
in 1993. This sharp deterioration in the terms of trade resulted in a widening of Ukraine's trade and current
account deficit. The deficit in merchandise trade with the countries of the FSU increased to about $3 billion in
1993 and an estimated $2.1 billion in 1994. The merchandise trade deficit with the rest of the world was
estimated at about $460 million in 1994. Taking account of the surplus on trade in services (mainly from fees
for transit of gas), the overall deficit on goods and services rose to $970 million in 1993 and to an estimated $1.8
billion in 1994.
13.   Instead of promoting exports and improving energy efficiency, the increase in the cost of energy imports
was met partly by compressing non-energy imports, but increasingly through accumulation of payment arrears,
particularly for energy imports. Exports continued to fall steeply throughout 1992-94, and are estimated to have
fallen by 15-16 percent per year in 1993 and 1994. The distortions in the foreign exchange regime and extensive
quantitative restrictions on exports were important explanatory factors. The failure to adjust domestic prices of
energy to fully reflect the higher import costs and the unwillingness to close down loss-making enterprises
resulted in maaining a low level of efficiency in energy utilization. And while the volume of energy hiports
fell during the period, they fell by less than GDP. On the other hand, non-energy imports declined steeply -
30 percent in 1993 and by an additional 38 percent in 1994 - which may have weakened Ukraine's capacity to
export.
14.   Increasingly, Ukraine accumulated arrears on payments for its energy imports. By end of June 1994,
the total stock of net arrears, mostly on account of non-payment for energy imports, had risen to $2.2 billion.
Most of those arrears are to Russia and Turkmenistan. Since then, payment arrears have continued. Ukaine's
total externl ibilities as of end-September 1994 amounted to $6.-; billion, or about one half of exports of goods
and services, and close to 10 percent of GDP.
C.    Status of Systemc Reforms
15.   As already mentioned, economic policy failed to address the deep macro-economic imbalances brought
about by the collapse of the FSU and the deterioration in the terms of trade. In an unsuccessful bid to maintain
the existing pattem of production, and prevent the erosion in living conditions that was inevitable in the short run,
the Government tightened the administrative management of the economy, thereby preventing an efficient private
sector from emerging. When some reforms to loosen the state's role were implemented, these were piecemeal
and lacking in coherence. The necessary adjustment of the real economy to external shocks was postponed



-4-
largely through increased indebtedness, and these policies failed ., prevent a sharp deterioration in living
conditions of the population.
16.   The state continued to play a dominant role in the economy, with budget expenditures constituting almost
50 percent of GDP.  Price regultons remained pervasive and took several forms.  These regulations
undermined budget discipline, created presssire on the external balance of payment, and discouraged the entry
and growth of the private sector in production and trade. In addition, the state order system has remained
important for major products accounting for 40% of total trade turnover in 1993. This further undermined the
signalling role of prices and hampered the development of domestic private trade. Large state monopolies
continue to dominate such sectors as the distribution system. With respect to foreign trade, export quotas and
export taxes were pervasive in 1993. Some liberalization was achieved during 1994 when export duties were
eliminated and the list of goods subject to export quotas was reduced by half Nevertheless, quotas continue to
apply for about 30 percent of exports, limiting Ukraine's growth potential. Equally damaging for exports was
the multiple exchange rate system in place since August 1993. Under this system, exporters were required to
surrender a certain portion (initially 50 percent) of their foreign exchange at a relatively appreciated official
exchange rate, which constituted a significant tax on their earnings and contributed to capital flight and barter
trade.
17.   Very limited progress was achieved in privatzation. Despite the passage of enabling legislation, only
some municipalities began privatizing small enterprises and retail outlets, but these have been local initiatives and
insignificant for the overall picture. In early 1994, the Cental Government announced its intention of
accelerating the privatization process for medium and large enterprises as well as for small-scale units, but the
entire privatization effort was temporarily suspended by ParLiament by mid-year. In agriculture, only a minuscule
fraction (11%) of the total land is privately owned. While the land code allows for individual members of
collective and cooperative farms to obtain title to an identifiable piece of land on the farm, this has not been
implemented.
18.   As for the emerging private sector, their growth has largely been in the informal economy. The business
environment is still subject to frequent changes in regulations and taxes, and too many uisiness decisions remain
at the discretion of the central Govermnent or local authorities. The overall tax burden is too high, with payroll
taxes alone amounting to about 53 percent of the wage bill. Critical infastructure such as transport, storage
space, retail shops, etc. remain under state ownership and the private sector's access to them is limited. The
contiuig soft budget constrait on state enterprises keeps resources locked up in inefficient activities and
denies their use to the emerging private sector.
19.   The economic environment in Ukraine has thus provided few incentives for economic agents to respond
efficiently to market signals (includg changes in the exteral  ms  of trade) and to business opportunities, both
at home and abroad. Widely fluctuating prices and exchange rate have eroded confidence in the future, and made
individuals and enterprises reluctant to save and invest. The state enterprises do not adjust to changing economic
conditions in the expectation that the state will bail them out of their financial difficulties.
II. The Govrmment's Economic Reform Program
A.    Overview
20.   In democratic elections held in July 1994, Ukaine chose a new President, Mr. Leonid Kuchma. In his
inaugural speech to Parliament on October 12, 1994, the President called for a radical break from the past in



-5-
economic policies. A bold and comprehensive program of macroeconomic stabilization and structural reforms
was developed with the assistance of the IMF and the World Bank, with the objectives of reducing the rate of
inflation and promoting sustainable economic recovery a&d better living conditions for the population. A series
of difficult and far-reaching measures were implemented up-front to demonstr;ne the Government's commitment
to break with the past. These included the lifting of a majority of price controls, the imiflcation of the exchange
rate, the elimination of most export quotas, the sharp reduction in subsidies on bread and other public utilities,
the adjustment of imported energy prices to full cost recovery levels, as well as the implementation of a moxm
targeted safety net. On October 26, 1994 the IMF approved a first purchase of SDR 249.325 million
(approximately $365 million) under the System Transformation Facility (STF). The Rehabilitation loan from the.
World Bank supports the implementation of structural reform measures necessary for effective stabilization and
to promote economic growth led by a growing private sector.
21.   The Government's program calls for accelerating the transition to a market-oriented economy. Within
this broad framework, the economic package that the Government has adopted aims to break inflationary
expectations and promote a sustained recovery in economic growth and living standards of the population. To
this end, the program focuses on four key interdependent elements. First, a stable macroeconomic enviro-nent
is required so that producers and consumers can make sound business decisions without excessive uncertainties
about policies and prospects. The stabilization of the economy will rest upon tight fiscal and monetary policies
supported by wage restraint. Second, competfiton in markets is essential for an efficient allocation of resources.
In an effort to promote free and open markets, the Government will rely upon a variety of policies, nan4ely the
liberalization of domestic prices as well as the foreign exchange and trade regime; the dismantling of the state
order system; and demonopolization. It will also promote activity in the emerging private sector, much of which
has been forced into unofficial channels because of burdensome controls. Third, the hardening of enterprise
budget constraints will encourage enterprises to respond to the new market forces. This shift in enterprise
behavior is to come about through privatization, the enforcement of bankruptcy laws, and an overhaul in
enterprise management. A strict financial policy (including the elimination of directed credits and credits to settle
inter-enterprise arrears) and reform of the fimancial sector will serve to support the changes at the enterprise level
that are envisaged under the progran. Finally, the social safety net is to be strengtened and made sustainable,
primarily through better targeting, in order to protect the population groups most vulnerable to the adjustments
associated with the structural transformation of the economy, and to fulfill its legitimate role in a market
economy.
B.    The Stablzaon Progm
i)    Fiscal Pohcy
22.   The authorities recognize that a stable macroeconomic environment is essential for promoting investment
in the economy and generating economic growth. It is also recognized that in the past inflation was fueled by
the large Government budget deficit which had to be financed through credit expansion by the central bank. To
bring about a lasting reduction in inflation, the Government is committed to implementing tight fiscal and
monetary policies. Consistent with the objective of reducing the monthly rate of inflation to less than 5 percent
by end 1995, the deficit of the consolidated state budget, including directed credits and the Pension Fund, is to
be limited in 1994 to no more than 10 percent of expected GDP. Given the limited scope for increases in tax
revenues in this period, the reduction in the deficit is expected to come from expenditure cuts equivalent to 2 1/2
percent of GDP compared to the level of expenditures in the first half of 1994. These cuts comprise reductions
in subsidies on coal, housing and communal services, cuts in net credit and support for agriculture, reduced
expenditures on commodity reserves and steep cuts in other expenditures as well. To protect the most vulnerable
groups of the population, a program of targeted assistance has been developed and adequate resources have been



-6-
budgeted. In 1995, the ratio of the general Government deficit to GDP is to be reduced to at least half the level
of 1994, through improvements in the tax system as well as further cuts in expenditures.
(O)    Monetary Policy
23.   The Government will continue to rely on tight menetary policy. Consistent with the targeted rate of
inflation, the increase in net domestic assets of the NBU is to be limited and the growth of money supply
restricted to 40 percent in the fourth quarter of 1994 (when noniinal GDP growth is estimated at 58 percent) and
21 percent in the first quarter of 1995 (when nominal GDP is projected to grow by 25 percent). Because of the
large credit needs of the Government, no increase in credit to the non-Government sector is expected to be
possible in the fourth quarter of 1994. As a temporary measure, the outstanding stock of credit of each bank to
the non-Government sector has been frozen during the fourth quarter under a system of credit ceilings. As the
Goverment's financing needs diminish in 1995, direct credit controls are to be relaxed and increased reliance
placed on indirect instruments of monetary policy.
24.   To increase the attractiveness of deposits in local currency (relative to foreign exchange or goods), in end
October 1994 the NBU raised its refinance rate from 11.5 percent per month to 25 percent and intends to
maintain it at a level that is positive in real terms with respect to expected inflation. Also as of end October, the
NBU ceased issuing directed credits, and all refiance credits are allocated partly in proportion to the banks'
capital and increasingly through auctions. The NBU is committed not to issue credits to settle inter-enterprise
arrears. All ceilings on interest rates of banks were eliminated as of end October 1994.
(lj)   Income Policy
25.   During 1993-94, the growth of wages was limited because of tne difficult financial situation of enterprises.
However, as a safeguard against an unsustainable growth in wages, a ceiling is being applied on the wage bills
of state enterprises for the fourth quarter of 1994 when the wage bill will not be allowed to increase by more that
80 percent of the programmed rate of inflation.
C.    The Strtural Refor  Progran
26.   The Government's structural reform program has three main components. First, measures will be taken
to promote competition by letting markets function and removing the inhibiting role of the state towards the
private sector. Second, policies will be implemented that will harden the budget constraint on enterprises, farms
and banks through privatization, elimination of subsidized credit and other transfers to loss-making enterprises,
and the restructuring of state enterprises into commercial entities. And third, the social safety net will be
strengthened for the most needy groups of the population through improved targeting of benefits. All these
measures are necessary to promote a more efficient use of resources and to create the conditions for a stable and
sustainable improvement in the living conditions of the population.
i)    Creating a Competitive Environment
Price Liberalization
27.   Until recently, with few exceptions, price regulations were pervasive and took several forms. These
included: (i) administrative setting of prices for housing, conmunal services, and public transport; (ii) limits on
profit margins for selected commodities such as some types of bread, baby food, and other "essential" consumer
goods; (iii) required approval of local authorities for price increases of commodities identified as "socially



-7-
significant"; (iv) limits on trade mark-up; (v) required approval by Government of price increases by industrial
enterprises that are 'monopolists' including in particular enterprises producing fertilizers, chemical products and
agricultural machinery; and (vi) allowing enterprises to deduct only 'justified' costs for tax purposes. Most
commodities fell under one of these regulations. These regulations had a direct adverse impact on the economy.
Thus, maintaining administered prices too low in relation to cost recovery levels led to increased subsidies from
the budget and contributed to inflationary pressures. Limits on profit margins and trade mark-up discouraged
entry of the private sector, and weakened the incentive to reduce cost. The different degrees of price controls
for different commodities and sectors has also distorted relative prices. Thus, for example, it is estimated that
the average price of agricultural inpUts rose 38 times in 1992 while output prices rose only 15 times, resulting
in a significant deterioration in agricultural terms of trade.
28.   The overall goal in the area of pricing is to significantly reduce (central and local) Government
intervention in setting and regulating prices. This will not only promote efficient resource allocation, including
in particular of scarce energy imports, but will also strengthen the budget. At end October 1994, through a
decree of the Cabinet of Ministers the Govermnent abolished a majority of state interventions in price setting,
including direct price controls, most ceilings on profit margins, as well as advance notification/approval for prices
including for goods produced by "monopolies".
29.   At the producer level, price controls remain only for natural monopolies (electricity, gas, central heating,
water supply and sewage), public transport, rents, and for a small and declining number of artificial monopolies.
In two steps, on October 25 and November 5, 1994, the domestic price of imported natural gas for industrial and
agricultural users and Governmental organizations was raised by a factor of 3 and 1.5, respectively.2 In 1995,
natural gas prices for these consumers will be periodically adjusted to maintain a level that fully covers import
plus domestic transmission and distribution costs valued at the market exchange rate. On November 5, 1994,
the price of domestic coal was raised by 90 percent to reduce subsidies to no more than 20 percent, from 60-65
percent before. The Government intends to liberalize coal prices as of Jamnary 1, 1995 except for coal for
household use. Electricity prices were also raised 2.5 times on October 1 and again in November 1994 to reflect
fully recent increases in fuel costs, and a system of periodic price adjustments has been put in place to compensate
for additional changes in fuel and other basic input costs. The Government intends to liberalize electricity prices
for producers by late-1995 when a competitive wholesale electricity market is established (see para. 60).
30.   Retail prices of most foodstffs and other commodities were liberalized as of October 21, 1994. At the
retail level, price controls remain only on bread, public utility charges, fares for public transportation, fuel for
households, and housing rents. Bread prices were raised by 4 to 5 times in October 1994 in order to achieve full
cost recovery at the 1994 procurement price for grain.3 However, as a temporary measure, ceilings were
maintained on profit margins for bread products, baby food and flour. The control of bread prices and the profit
margin ceilings on bread products, baby foods and flour are to be abolished as of January 1, 1995. Public utility
tariffs and housing rents were also increased in late October sufficient to increase the proportion of costs that is
recovered from about 5 percent to 20 percent. This led to a 7-fold increase in housing costs. Fares for public
transport were raised 6 times in October 1994 to cover 20 percent of cost (from 2-3 percent cost recovery before).
31.   The Government is committed to further liberalization of prices in early 1995, and to essentially complete
its process by the end of the year. The domestic prices of coal and bread are to be liberalized on January 1, 1995
ZI    In the first half of 1994, the average wholesale price of natural gas was 25 percent of the border price
at the market exchange rate.
3/     Conmr subsidies covered 75-80 percent of the cost of bread in mid-1994.



-8-
and the list of artificial monopolies subject to price controls sharply reduced. Limits on profit margins for crude
oil and oil products will be eliminated as of January 1, 1995. Household electricity prices are to be increased
in January 1995 to cover at least 40 percent of costs and increased further in June 1995 to cover at least 60
percen of costs. Housing rents and other public utility charges are also to be raised significantly.
32.   To protect the most vulnerable groups from the full impact of these large price increases, the Government
is implementing a program of targeted assistance, using in part the savings generated by eliminating the untargeted
consumer subsidies that goes to the better-off population (see paras. 74-80).
Private Sector Development
33.   The Government recognizes that the rapid development of the private sector provides not only the main
source of growth in the economy, but is also a source of competition for existing state enterprises. Consequently,
economic policy seeks to encourage more rapid growth of the private sector and to bring the informal economy
into the maintrem. Implementation of the program to stabilize the economy and to liberalize prices and the
external regime will go a long way in establishing an environment favorable to the private sector. A series of
more specific measures to promote private enterprise are also planned. First, the Government has already adopted
the Law on Entrepreneurship, simplifying the process of licensing and registration for new businesses. Guidelines
on the application of the revised procedures have been issued to local authorities. These guidelines will impose
mandatory deadlines of five days within which city authorities must respond to new business applications. Entry
is allowed in all branches of economic activity, including transport and distribution of goods. Second, rapid
implementation of mass- and small-scale privatization programs will increase the availability of former state
owned enterprises' assets to the private sector. State owned enterprises are already free to sell their assets
through public auction up to a book value of 2000 minimu wages without permission of the State Property Fund
(SPF) or line Ministry. Third, the Govermnent is undertaking a thorough review of the taxation system, with
a view to reducing the overall tax burden on economic activity and eliminating discrimination, if any, against
private sector activity. Finally, a high leve, task force has been established to develop a comprehensive plan to
create a legal framework conducive to private sector development.
34.   The Government recognizes the importance of foreign direct investment to facilitate and speed up the
process of creating an efficient and competitive private sector. Foreign investors will not only bring capital, but
also technology, management skills, and access to foreign markets. The economic reform program will
significaly improve the prospects for attracting serious long term investors. The Government is aware that
changes should only be adopted cautiously, and never retroactively, as stability and predictability of laws and
regulations are crucial to the confidence of investors,
35.   With the improved overall framework in mind, the Govermnent considers it no longer a priority to create
special incetives for foreign investors, nor will efforts be continued to guide foreign investors to "priority areas".
The Government is planning to abolish tax holidays and other tax exemptions in the context of the broader tax
reform effort, as well as other special incentives. The leading principle will be to ensure equal treatment of local
and foreign investors.
Liberalization of Domestic Trade
36.   State orders (purchases financed out of enterprise's own revenues, but intermediated through the state)
and state contracts (intermediated by the state and financed out of budgetary funds and directed credits) continued
to be in place in 1994. But both have declined significantly since 1990, and accounted for 40 percent of
domestic trade turnover in 1993 (compared to 70 percent in 1990). State orders and contracts remain significant
for fuel, exportable industrial products and agricultural crops. The continued use of state orders and state



-9-
contracts hinders the role of markets and free prices in resource allocation, and maintains a role of the state in
the economy that is not consistent with a market economy.
37.   The wholesale storage bases formerly under the Ministry of Trade have been largely abandoned as storage
ceers for goods traded through the state system. Part of these storage ateas are leased out to commercial
companies, but much of their capacity currently is idle. Grain silos are also underutilized as many fams choose
to store grain on farm (under inadequate conditions) rather than sell it to the state which rarely makes timely
payment. The operations of retail stores, some of which have been leased out to workers' collectives, are tightly
restricted by local regulations, including profile restrictions. The lack of access of the private sector to this
infrastructure is an important constraint to the development of private trading activity.
38.   Consistent with the Govermment's policy of liberalization, and to promote private sector activity, the
system of state orders is to be dismantled as of January 1, 1995 and replaced by ordinary contracul obligations.
From January 1, 1995 purchases by the state will be confined to goods and services necessary for the activities
of budgetary organizations (these include the armed forces, schools, hospitals, agencies and other organizations
which are wholly financed from the budget). These goods will be procured through competitive tenders within
the resources allocated in the budget for this purpose. With the removal of formal obstacles and informal
impediments to wholesale and retail marketing (see below), intra-regional and inter-regional trade will be allowed
to develop along commercial lines.
39. Also as of January 1, 1995 the earlier Presidential decree that imposed a maximum ceiling of 55 percent
on mark-ups over producer cost in domestic trade is to be repealed and all central and local Goverment ceilings
on mark-ups will be eliminated. The ceilings inhibited the growth of wholesale trade as enterprises' ability to
recoup the costs of transporting, storing, and retailing goods was severely limited. An expert group is to be
formed in the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations (MPER) to receive complaints about regional and local
Governments' attempts to regulate or otherwise interfere with inter-regional trade. The tax on profits from
intermediary activities is also to be lowered to 30 percent by end of 1994, which is more in line with profits tax
in other sectors. This will serve to reduce the discriminon against intermediary activity and greatly increase
the incentive to develop commodity markets and private wholesaling activities.
40.   The Goverment recoges that the above measures wil be most effective in generatg dynamic private
sector trade if the supporting infrastructure is available. Wholesale storage bases and trucking enterprises will
be included in the Government's mass privatization program for 1995, and privatized rapidly. The first pilot
auctions, beginning in the first quarter of 1995, will include these facilities. Grain silos and clevators will be
included in the privatization program for 1995. Retail stores, including food stores, will be privatized quicldy
under the small scale privatization program.
Reform of the External Regtme
41. The removal of exchange and trade restrictions is a critical element in the Govermment's strategy to
itroduce a rational strucure of relative prices, promote exports and use the foreign exchange earnings to ease
domestic shortages, and to expose monopolist producers to import competition.
42. Until recently, the external regime was highly complex and restrictive. Through most of 1993-94, 50
percent of foreign exchange earnings had to be surrendered to the authorities, most (or a large share) of it at a
highly appreciated official rate. The share of foreign exchange turned over to the Govermnent was channeled
through the Tender Committee, which allocated this foreign exchange to priority imports, mostly energy. The
remaining 50 percent of the foreign exchange earnings could be kept in foreign exchange accouns or sold at the



-10-
foreign exchange auctions run by the NBU (or sold to the NBU at an administered rate when the auction market
was terminated in November 1993).
43.   The controls on foreign trade applied mainly to exports as the Government sought to prevent the outflow
of goods for which domestic prices were lower than world market prices. In the case of key cotmnodities, an
intricate system of controls was anchored by licenses, and consisted variously of quotas (which enterprises
obtained for the most part by signing state orders and state contracts), a "special regime", and export taxes. With
a Presidential decree issued in May 1994, the scope of export control was substantially narrowed. Export taxes
were eliminated. Licenses and quotas were limited to slightly more than 100 products accounting for about one
third of total export value, down from 240 goods equivalent to almost two thirds of total export value in
December 1993; and the special regime was replaced by a system of quarterly auctions of quotas. To prevent
capital flight, a system of indicative prices is also used to ensure that export prices conform to world market
levels. Imports are free from quotas, and licenses are required only for a few products for health and safety
reasons. The average import tariff in 1993 was about 12 percent, but tariffs are widely dispersed, with the
ma=imum rate in excess of 300 percent.
44.   To promote exports and open up the Ukrainian economy to international trade and competition, the
Government has moved decisively to reform the external regime. On October 5, 1994 the interbank auction
market for foreign exchan-e was re-opened. The official rate for the surrender of foreign exchange was abolished
on October 26, the exchange rate was unified, and the rate is now determined in the inter-bank market. The
inter-bank market is being progressively opened to all licensed banks and bids are being processed, and the
exchange rate determied without administrative interference. The allocation of foreign exchange through the
Tender Committee was abolished at end October and a high degree of current account convertbility of the
karbovanets was re-established, with full convertibility for all trade and related activities.
45.   All export quotas and licenses, with the exception of ferrous and non-ferrous scrap metal, cast iron, coal,
grain, and goods subject to voluntary export restraints (VER) and other contingent inteaional agreements were
abolished as of November 1, 1994. All export quotas and licenses are to be removed by January 1, 1995 except
for goods subject to VER and other contingent international agreements. With the unification of the exchange
rate and the elimination of quotas, the rationale for indicative prices to monitor and control exports no longer
exists. Consequently, indicative prices will no longer be used for purposes of obtaining MFR's approval of
export conacts and licenses expect for goods subject to VER and other contingent international agrements.
46.   The Govermnent is committed not to impose any quantitative import restrictions, except for the licenses
that are currently in place for health and safety reasons. The import tariff regime will be modified to maintain
low and uniform rates. This is to be achieved by reducing the maximum tariff rate to 30 percent by January 1,
1995 and by low.ring it further by end of the 1995. Tariffs may be temporarily raised above the maximum rate
in strict conf&amity with GATTIWTO norms. However, the share of goods whose import tariffs can exceed the
established maximum rate will be limited to 1 percent (measured on the basis of 1993 import shares). The excise
duties on imported and domestically produced goods are to be unified by March 1995. The Government intends
to avoid frequent revisions to the tariff structure.
(i)   Hardening of Enterprise Budget Constraints
47.   Economic liberalization will be most successful in transforming the economy if flanking reforms that make
households, enterprises, and commercial banks responsive to market signals are implemented. The Government
considers three areas to be of special importance, i.e. privatization; stricter financial disciple and improved
corporate goverance; and reform of the financial sector.



-11-
Privatization
48.   The state sector dominates activities in Ukraine: there are roughly 100,000 small-scale enterprises and
20,000 medium and large-scale enterprises, and only a minuscule number have been privatized. The legal and
institutional framework for privatization has been established and a range of laws on ownership, the privatization
of state-owned companies, small-scale privatization, etc. have been adopted. In 1991, the State Property Fund
(SPF) was given the mandate to prepare and exece a privatization program. However, progress has been
disappointingly slow. The slow pace of privatization reflected numerous obstacles, including a lack of political
sponsorship and the widespread phenomenon of leasing with a right to buy out. Against this backdrop, the
Government has expressed its commitment to accelerating the process of privatization.
49. Small-Scale Privadtzadon. During the spring and summer of 1994, small scale privatization accelerated
but by the end of June 1994, orly about 5000 small enterprises were privatized. The Govermment intends to
complete at least 6000 transactions by the end of 1994 and to complete the privatization of 90 percent of all small
scale enterprises by end 1995. To meet this objective the State Property Fund has instructed local privatization
bodies to implement the program and has mounted an extensive public information campaign to promote small
scale enterprise auctions and buy-outs. This will be backed up by a system of incentives and penalties for
enterprise directors and officials of local Government bodies. A system of incentives/disincentives for the rapid
privatization of leased enterprises is also to be set up.
50.   Mass Priatzadon. Very limited progress has been achieved in the privatization of medium and large
enterprises. As of mid-1994, only about 1000 enterprises had been privaized, mostly by transfer of ownership
to the workers' collective. The Govemment is determined to accelerate the privatizaton program for medium
and large enterprises. To enable this, the procedures for mass privatization have been greatly simplified and the
Government has amnounced its intention of privatizing in 1995 at least 8000 medium and large enterprises
including freight trucking companies, warehouses and storage facilities. Public auctions using paper privatization
certificates are to start in the first quarter of 1995. Simplifications to the procedures included the merging of the
formerly separate corporatization and privatization processes into a single track, the appointment of a single board
for each enterprise which now exercises the role of all the various commissions required by the legislation, the
bottom-up preparation of streamlined standard documentation packages for privatization by the enrprise
themselves, and approval of the completed packages according to tight deadlines by the State Property Fund.
According to the new procedures, the book value and most recent inventory are to be taken as the standard
valuation for each enterprise, there will be automatic allocation of blocks of shares to the public auction process,
and a simple bidding system in the auctions that will allow proportional allocation of shares to all bidders.
51.   By mid-December, 1994 the Govermment intends to distribute paper privatization certificates to the
population in five pilot oblasts and by Jamnary 1995 regional bidding networks will have been created in these
oblasts. Distribution to the population in all remaining oblasts will begin in Jamnary, 1995. A national public
information program is already underway explaining the mass privatization program to the public with the
emphasis on the benefits of the program, the use of cerdficates, and the new streamlined privatization procedures.
The first certificate auctions following the new procedures will take place in February-March 1995 with sales of
shares in at least 200 enterprises. These will include freight truckng enterprises and wholesale storage bases.
The auctions will be extended to the entire country by April, 1995 and between January 1 and June 15, 1995
around 1000 medium and large enterprises will have been privatized through the mass privatization program.
The process will accelerate further in the second half of 1995. Grain silos and elevators are to be privatized in
1995.
52.   Over 50 private investment fumds have already been created and they will be encouraged within the
established regulatory framework to participate in the certificate auctions as a means of concentrating share



-12-
ownership and enhancing corporate governance of privatized enterprises. Shares in all privatized enterprises will
be inunediately tradable and secondary securities markets infrastructure is being developed.
53.   Privazation in Agriculture. Only a very small share (11 %) of total agricultural land is privately owned
and cultivated. The Land Code of March 1992 specifically allows for private as well as state and cooperative
ownership of agricultural land. 't also stipulates that collective and state farm members and those providing social
services in villages (as well as pensioners who previously worked in agriculture) are entitled to receive equal
average shares of the available agricultural land at the local level. The official right to farm or otherwise exploit
these land plots is obtained, according to the Land Code, only after the plot has been surveyed and a document
issued certifying the property right. Plots can then be farmed, leased, used as collateral, given as a gift, or
bequeathed. However, they can only be sold after six years of possession.
54.   The development of private farning and an agricultural land market is being constrained by the failure
to distribute identifiable land shares to the members of the state and collective farms which can be registered and
mortgaged, and by the six year moratorium on land sales. To promote the development of a land market, the
Government will seek to amend the Land Code to achieve three goals: (i) provide physically identifiable average
land share to eligible beneficiaries using clear and implementable procedures; (ii) reduce the moratorium on sale
to two years after receiving possession, or January 1, 1996, whichever occurs first and (iii) enforce lease
payments by farmers for land received above the local average land share, or transform these leases into
purchases from the land reserve. Land from the reserves is to be made available to all buyers, and its resale
thereafter will be subject to the same limited moratorium period. The procedures for land mortgage (and other
encumbrances) will be clarified in the amendments to the Land Code as well. The amendments to the L-and Code
and a draft Law on Registration of Land and Other Real Estate is to be submitted to Parliament by January 1,
1995. The draft Law on Registration of Land and Other Real Estate wi1l explicitly specify the procedures for
registering both urban and rural land and other real estate.
Enterprise Management and Retruct
55.   Notwithstanding privatization and growth of the private sector, state enterprises will remain important
in the near term. Strengthening their economic performance will be critical to the improvement in the
Government's fiscal position, to the recovery of output, the development of the private sector, and the viability
of the banking system.
56.   Financial discipline in enterprises will be strengthened by measures outlined above that increase
competition and promote macro-economic stability, including in particular the liberalization of prices and trade,
and the elimination of directed credits and su.bsidized loans from NBU and commercial banks. The NBU will
continue not to provide credits to settle inter-enterprise arrears.
57.   In order to deal specifically witi the problem of non-payment by budgetary organizations and enterprises
to energy suppliers, the Government has established an inter-departmental Commission to initiate actions to reduce
payment arrears for gas, electricity and heat. The utilities would report non-payment to the Commission, which
would explore mechanisms to ensure payment to the supplier, or if no such arrangement can be made, authorize
the utility to reduce or discontinue service.
58.   Additional measures will oe taken to enforce financial discipline. The enterprise sector will be exposed
to the provisions of the Bankruptcy Law and the state will not block the implementation of bankruptcy
proceedings by the courts. To demonstrate the Governments' firm commiatment in this area, and to signal the
change in regime, a mber of large non-viable state owned enterprises will be liquidated by mid-March 1995.



-13-
The impact of these measures on enterprise behavior will be reviewed dunng the course of 1995 and other
measures will be implemented as necessary.
59.   The Government has identified 20 large state enterprises that have either huge losses, or arrears, or
receive large budgetary support, and has instructed them to prepare restructuring plans by nid-March 1995.
These plans will include partal or complete privatization, partial or complete closure, splitting up of large
monopolies, divestment of social assets etc. The Government has also established a mechanism by which it can
control the flow of subsidies to these and other large enterprises, makdng transfers conditional on meeting
restructuring targets. As a means of iproving their corporate governance, the Government will also begin
corporatizing all state enterprises that will not be subject to privatization.
60.   The Government is committed to a radical restructuring of the electricity sector with the aim of
establishing a competitive market for electricity in 1995. In line with Decree 244/94 of the President of Ukraine
"On Market Transformation Measures in the Electricity Sector of Ukraine" and the Govermment's Action Plan,
a National Electricity ReWatory Commission was established in December 1994. The functions of the
Commission, which are to be fully defined by the end of the year, may include the issue of licenses to electricity
generating, transmission and distribution companies, monitoring of compliance with the licenses, and promotion
of the development of competition in electricity production and supply. The Govermnent has also initiated the
corporatization of hydropower plants.
Financial Sector Reform
61.   The Government recognizes that financial sector reforms are critical for enforcing fimancial discipline,
increasing domestic financial saving and for ensuring that credit is allocated to the most efficient users. The
elimnation of directed credits from the NBU and its commitment not to interfere with the credit decisions of
banks are important steps towards making banks truly commercial entities. The maintenance of real positive
interest rates on refinance credits, and the elimination of ceilings on interest rates of banks should allow a more
vigorous mobilization of saving and a more efficient allocation of credit. In order to further develop the financial
sector, the Government has presented proposals to Parliament to lower the presently high tax rate on banks to
40 percent of profits. The new rate, which will become effective by end of the year, is more in line with profit
tax rates in others sectors.
62.   In addition to these urgent macro-financial reforms, there are a wide range of structural and institution
building reforms in the financial sector which are also essential for the effective operation of a successful market
economy.
63.   The legal basis to underpin the operations of banks and the NBU is changing rapidly and in a direction
which has rapidly removed the "administrative guideline" basis which characterized the legal arrangements of the
former centrally planned economy, to a system which is more appropriate to the oversight of a system of
voluntary private contracts. Particularly important is draft legislation which, if passed, would establish the NBU
in a more independent and powerful role at the pinnacle of the processes involved in monetary management and
financial sector development. This would relate in particular to control over lending for budgetary purposes and
to the manner in which the NBU can provide temporary support to the commercial banks.
64.   Problems persist since neither this draft law nor the parallel law relating to commercial banks has yet been
legislated through Parliament. In spite of this, and tirough a gradual strengthening of its own internal orders and
regulations, the NBU has succeeded in tighteni  many procedures and in particular those reiating to the
establishment of new banks. However, in the absence of Parliamentary discussion and approval of the new law,



-14-
the authority which the NBU ultimately requires if it is to snforce tighter discipline on the sector is less than
complete. Progress in this area is expected in the coming months.
65.   The Government recognizes that the commercial banking and other financial institutions adapted from the
old Soviet system are in a distessed state and in other ways are poorly equipped to support the needs of an
emerging private sector. Equally it is well understood that as enterprise budgets are hardened and other pressures
from macroeconomic and price reform emerge, the presently hidden losses of the former state banks in particular
will become increasingly visible and transparent. Thus in addition to the corporatization of the fonner state banks
which has already occurred, and the upgrading of some of their payments and other systems which has been
carried out with World Bank and other donor support, a major restructuring program, including possible re-
capitalization and break-up, for the banks may be required. This will have unavoidable feed-back effects on the
budget as well as other macroeconomic variables.
66.   As a first step, by March 15, 1995 the Government will complete a study, with technical assistance from
the World Bank, which will define, cost and evaluate alternadve restructuring proposals for the former state
banks. These proposals will form the basis for developing concrete restructuring plans by mid-June 1995 for
subsequent implementadon. Restructuring proposals for the banks will be closely integrated with the restructuring
of major loss-making enterprises.
67.   As regards the subset of new private "commercial" banks which have proliferated during the past three
years (there are now 235 in total), the actions needed and proposed are rather different. For the larger, better
managed and capitalized of these banks, accelerated action is already underway to upgrade the organization and
presentation of accounts to Internatonally Accepted Standards (IAS). Among other things this will enable at least
some of these banks to benefit quite soon from internationally financed lines of credit - an early example is the
EBRD credit line expected to benefit six banks from early 1995. The NBU is engaged in a program which will
extend this accounting and other upgrading to the other new commercial banks to create new banking structures
that can conform to international standards in all major banling functions.
68.   A crucial element in this involves the ongoing strengthening and upgrading of the National Bank of
Ukraine's department of Bank Supervision and Inspection as well as more stringent standards applied by the
separate Bank Registration Department. Much progress has already been made to better define and also
implement the framework for prudential supervision during the past two years including:
far stricter procedures and requirements to register new banks including a minimum capital requirement
now set at ECU 3 million. While this will stop the reckless establishment of banks which was evident
from 1991 onwards, it is not yet being extended to banks established under the previous and more lax
arrangements;
*     the prompter closure, management removal or merger of banks persistently in breach of regulatory
requirements;
*     the introduction of control of banks assisted by the electronic transfer of information;
*     the regionalization of the NBU's regional networks which now enables closer supervision of the branches
of the regional banks;
*     the establishment of a separate audit division within Bank Supervision which is providing the NBU with
some ability to assess the quality of the external audits of the commercial banks;



-15-
69.   One problem is the apparent lack of coordination between the processes for licensing new banks and the
separate processes for licensing insurance companies and various other non-bank fincial institutions. Whfle
progress has been made with the establishment in 1993 of the first prudential regime for insurance companies and
an Insurance Supervisory Committee now exists, coordination with bank registration and supervision still seems
relatively limited. This is worrisome given the weak capitalization of many banks and their potential ability to
transfer their own risks to the providers of insurance. More generally the whole matter of the risks in the
financial sector and the associated techniques for managing risk need to receive far more prominence than thus
far has been the case.
(iii)   Social Safety Net and Labor Markets
70.   Resolute execution of the reform program described above will generate sustainable economic growth in
the mediumn-term and allow living standards in Ukraine to improve. Rapid and decisive action in implementing
tis economic package is the best possible way to avoid and alleviate poverty in Ukraine; social protection
measures in the absence of a vigorous adjustment program can only redistibute poverty. Effective stabilization
policies will dampen inflation and restore confidence of investors, domestic and foreign, in the currency. This
will promote investment, and economic growth and employment. The de-regulation of prices and exports will
also stimulate business activity in the private sector, thus providing good jobs, especially in the export industries.
Privatization of small shops, medium and large enterprises, agricultural land and housing constitutes a direct
transfer of potentially producdve assets to the population, and if used well could be an important source of
income.
71.   Yet the benefits from Ukraine's stabilization and adjustment programs will be neither instanus, nor
available to all. The Government recogmzes that there will be social costs during the transition and social needs
over the longer term for which provisions must be made. Spending on social programs in Ukraine has been
relatively high, 25.4 percent of GDP in 1993, and also unfocused. Moreover, these expendiures are financed
by a very high payroll tax (53 percent), which damages Ukraine's international competitveness and inhibits
growth and job creation. Considerable efforts are needed to restructure the major social programs and target
them to the most vulnerable groups, thereby increasing their effectiveness within the overall goal of limiting the
state budget deficit.
72.   In the short term, the most immediate concern is to deal with the couences of the significant increases
in prices of key goods and services that were a necessary component of the stabilization program. Before the
recent price adjustments, the consumer prices of bread and housing (including housing-related services such as
water/sewer and energy) reflected only a small fraction of production costs. Consumer subsidies were a major
source of macroeconomic imbalance, and the low prices encouraged wasteful consumption (and smuggling of
bread). Large increases in these prices have placed a particular strain on certain groups within the population.
It is the Government's intention to assist needy groups rather than to continue to fund new programs aimed at
subsidizing the consumption of specific goods and services by all population groups. The goal is to raise benefits
for the truly needy, financing the increases with decreases in general consumer subsidies and other improvements
in targeting. Not everyone can be fully protected against changes in relative prices - that would defeat the
purpose of the changes, and in any case it would be unaffordable. Yet substantial protection must be provided
to the groups most likely to fall toward the bottom of the income distribution. Three groups are of particular
concern: low income families with children, low income pensioners, and the unemployed. The first two groups
are already subject to means test and an adequate delivery system exits. A comprehensive system of assistance
for the unemployed also exits, though it has been largely unutilized thus far.



-16-
Children
73.   Studies in neighboring countries have shown that children are disproportionately represented among the
poor, and that the incidence of poverty among families with children (especially more than three) is very high.
Survey research in Ukaine will probably reveal the same pattern.
74.   To protect poor families with children, in October 1994, the Government increased the eligibility
threshold and benefit levels for the means-tested child allowances to reflect inflation since December 1993. The
Government will continue to ensure that the eligibility cut-off and benefit levels are adjusted monthly to at least
keep pace with inflation. Because the real average wage riay decline during the initial phase of the adjustment
program, this approach could lead to an increase in the number of eligible families and in the amounts that they
receive. Under these circumstances, the overall balance between means-tested and non-means-tested benefits
would improve, and the overall structure of benefits would become more progressive (i.e. more effective in its
targeting).
75.   In the past, the eligibility cut-off for means-tested family allowances (and also for supplemental pension
benefits) was based on the value of a particular consumption basket. Studies in other FSU countries indicate that
such baskets tend to reflect social desiderata instead of absolute subsistence minima. For exanmle, in Russia,
poverty lines based on these baskets proved to be so high that more than half the population had fallen into
poverty by 1992. Such high standards are of little use in framing social policy or targeting benefits. Hence, the
Govermnent plans to move toward a concept of eligibility for means-tested benefits that reflects fiscal realities.
76.   As part of its efforts to enhance targeting in social programs, the Government will strengthen means-
testing procedures. Under current practice, only income from employment in budgetary agencies or state-owned
enterprises is captured. Economies of scale in household size are ignored; income in kind is not fiuly taken into
account; and rural/urban and regional differences in the cost of living are ignored. Survey research will help
overcome these deficiencies.
77.   In addition to the allowances presented here, many other benefits are available to large, needy families.
Rents may be cut in half, or waived entirely, and vouchers can be provided for food and clothing. These
benefits, which are administered in a decentralized fashion by local social protection offices, will continue.
Measures will be considered to assure their even application over all geographic areas.
The Elderly
78.   Preliminary indications are that pensioners, as a group, are actually a bit better off than the general
population in Ukraine. However, some pensioners are among the poor and the large increases in certain
administered prices, for example for housing, could significantly increase their numbers.
79.   The pension system, which is the largest component of the social benefit system other than consumer
subsidies, provides old-age, disability, survivors', and "social" pensions to eligible workers or their families as
well as certain allowances to children under the age of 18 months. There are 14 million pensioners in Ukraine,
about 27 percent of the population. The Pension Fund, which is financial by a 33 percent payroll tax, is facing
boti short-term and long-term difficulties. In 1993, the Pension Fund posted a deficit equivalent to 3 percent
of GDP (covered by a transfer from the state budget) because (i) the lag between increases in the minimum wage,
to which benefits are tied, and the average wage to which contributions are linked; (ii) the number of workers
receiving taxable wages declined, mainly on account of shorter working hours and unpaid leave; and (iii) some
enterprises may have delayed their payment of pension contributions. The minium wage was last raised in



-17-
November 1993, and the average wage has now adjusted. Accordingly, the pension system has been
approximately in balance so far in 1994.
80.   In the short term, the financial vulnerability of the Pension Fund seems manageable since the economic
reform program should lead to a decline in the real minimum wage that is more rapid than the corresponding
decline in the average wage. The resulting contracdon in benefits will affect all pensioners in proportion to the
size of their pensions. Without corrective action, this contraction in real benefits would push poor pensioners
deeper into poverty, and some pensioners into poverty for the first time. To protect the living standards of
pensioners in the face of increasing prices, all pensions vere doubled as of October 1, 1994. The bread
allowance for pensioners was also increased from KBV 44,000 to KBV 170,000. To protect the poor pensioners,
the Government will continue to provide means-tested supplements to the pensions of low-income pensioners.
In October 1994, the eligibility criteria and the existing means tested supplementary payment were increased to
reflect inflation since December 1993. For the future, these will be indexed on a mondtly basis to the targeted
rate of inflation. As a result, more pensioners will become eligible for supplementary benefits, and the amounts
for which they are eligible will rise. Overall, a shift from the untargeted portion to the targeted portion of the
pension bill will take place. While this will weaken the link between contributions and benefits, that link is not
strong now and this step is necessary in the short term to protect the poorest pensioners. This step will open up
scope over time for private pensions. The Government proposes to ensure that eligible pensioners are aware of
their rights to the supplement and that enough resources are available in every Ministty of Social Protection office
to administer and pay the supplement in a timely fashion.
81.    In the long term, the Pension Fund will be burdened by rapid growth in the number of pensioners and
slow growth in the number of workers on whose behalf contributions are made to the system. Therefore, it will
be necessary to take measures designed to reduce the dependency ratio as well as the ratio of average benefits
to the average wage. The normal pension age, currently 55 for women and 60 for men, is not sustainable over
the longer term since the required contribution rate is already very high and there are clear limits to reducing the
average pension in real terms. The increase in retirement age to levels typical of other European countries will
have to be phased in over several years, starting as soon as possible. Actuarial studies that will serve to elevate
public awareness and focus discussion are in progress now. In addition to changing the retirement age, the
Government will seek to remove special pension supplements from the public pension system. Under current
arrangements, many categories of workers, such as coal miners, bus drivers, and other protected workers receive
public pensions under especially favorable rules; for example, workers in some industries are entitled to retire
before the normal pension age, while others receive generous supplements to the standard pension. This system
provides an unwarranted subsidy to production in favored industries and imposes an excessive payroll tax on
workers in the less favored industries. In the future, such enterprises will have to pay the extra compensation
either directly in wages or in benefits such as a voluntary supplemental pension. Other system features, such as
treatment of working pensioners, must also be re-evahated.
82.   Informal assistance to the elderly is provided by famnily members, just as it is everywhere in the world.
This assistance takes the form of cash transfers, housing, or other services, but very little is known about it.
Survey research will be undertaken with the objective of designing social assistance policies that complement
rather than crowd out existing informal mechansms. However, there are elderly people who are "solitary"
(without close relatives) or whose relatives are also poor. With this in mind, the Government intends to
strengthen the local social protection offices which, under the current system, are funded to provide limited
amounts of ad hoc social assistance to such individuals.



-18-
The Unemploved and Disgised Unemoloyed
83.   Despite the contraction of the economy, open unemployment has remained negligible. At end-July 1994,
there were only 92,000 registered unemployed (less than 0.4 percent of the labor force). Yet by mid-1994, it
has been estimated that as many as 4 million workers (about 16 percent of the labor force) were subject to some
form of underemployment.
84.   The Employment Fund was established in March 1991 with a mandate to provide benefits and job
placemem assistance to the unemployed. In both 1992 and 1993, it posted comfortable surpluses, while
consuming a high level of resources to serve the very small numbers of openly unmloyed workers. A limited
share of the Employment Fund's resources, obtained from a 3 percent payroU tax, has gone to pay unemployment
benefits or provide training. Most of it has been spent on administration and infrastucture as well as credits to
enterprises - many of them state-owned - that promise to create jobs. Under the econonmc package adopted
by the Government, the focus of the Employment Fund will be redirected to respond to the needs of the
unemployed whose ranks will increase as industial restructurng takes place.
85. This reorientation could go in several directions. At present, the training financed by the Employment
Fund seens designed to prevent the jobless from becoming officially unemployed and registering for benefits,
rather than to prepare them to compete for jobs in a market economy. The Employment Fund could consider
replacing the present traimng arrangements with a training voucher scheme. Individuals already unemployed,
or threatened with unemployment, would be given vouchers, financed by the Employment Fund, that could be
used to purchase training either at state-run training institutions or at private training facilities. Individuals, not
the state, would dictate the kind of training that was offered.
86. With respect to job creation, until recently, the Employment Fund financed investments in enterprises
promising new jobs. Although cooperatives were included among the entities receiving loans, the loans went
predominandy to large state enterprises. Thlis practice has been stopped. The Government believes that the
Employment Fund should not extend credits to enterprises promising to create jobs, a task best left to financial
institutions that possess the capacity to weigh credit risks. These savings may be deposited in banks to earn real
positive returns, to be utilized when unemployment increases. Another option the Govenunent may consider is
to cut the payroll tax by a corresponding amount, which will promote economic growth and job-creation.
Alternatively, the Employmept Fund might strengthen its program for "social works". At present, the
Employment Fund may finance the costs associated with the organization of social works, leaving contimuing costs
to regional authorities. Restricting the Employment Fund to orgation costs has prevented the social works
program from getting off the ground. It might be more effective to permit the Employment Fund to finance a
social investment fund whose clients would be municipalities who competed for limited resources with locally-
generated and controlled project proposals. Another use of social works resources might be support for a work
cadre to insulate schools and public buhdings. The point here is that the Employment Fund's job creation efforts
should be directed to areas of legitimate state intervention.
87.   In order to strengthen its ability to pay cash benefits further, the Employment Fund may have to consider
gradually elimmating unemployment insurance for vohmtary quits, school leavers, and other new entrants to the
labor force. At the same time, the coverage of unemployment insurance benefits to those who are laid off by
banupt firms may have to be epanded. Under current law, separated workers are entitled to collect 3 months'
wages as severance pay from the enterprise that dismissed them; two months' wages are lpaid immediately upon
separation. Unemployment insuance benefits, which last for nine months, do not begin until workers have been
separated from their last employer for 3 months plus 10 days. The Govemment is studying the possibility of
integrating the severance and unemployment compensation systems by shifting responsibility for severance pay,
at least in part, to the Employment Fund.



-19-
Social Insurance Fund
88.   The Social Insurance Fund, financed by a 4.44 percent payroll tax, provides benefits that do offer some
protection to the poor even though they are untargeted. In 1993, approximately two-fifths of insurance outlays
went to pay for wages lost to sickless and temporary disability; another two-fifths to provide allowances for
workers and their famnilies to receive care in sanatoria and holiday homes; and the remaining one-fifth to finance
pregnancy, childbirth, and maternity allowances.
89.   The operations of the Social Insurance Fund have been in surplus in the past two years, but this surplus
fell in 1993. For the short term, the authorities have identified some programs that are poorly targeted and not
cost-effective in providing benefits (such as expenditures on vacation homes and sanatoria). The Government will
review the expenditures of the Social Insurance Fund and propose measures to cut untargeted spending by the
Fund.
Comprehensive Refonn of Sodal Assistane ald Social Insurance
90.   The measures listed above, in general, represent incremental changes that can be implemented quickly.
There is a need for deliberate, comprehensive reform of Ulkaine's social assistance and social insurance systems,
reform that extends well beyond the horizon of the present Rehabilitation Loan. The Government wil launch
this reform in two ways. First, measures are underway to improve the quantity and quality of data that is
available on living standards and other topics germane to social assistance and social insurance. The World Bank
is supporting surveys on employment, unemployment and disguised unemployment, on household income and
expenditure, and on pensioners. These studies are intended to complement studies such as the recent ILO labor
force flexibility study and also the efforts of the Ministry of Statistics. Second, the Govermment is undertaking
comprehensive reviews of socia assistance and social insurance that will evaluate the efficiency and effectiveness
of existing policies, programs and institutions and recommend thoroughgoing reform. This work is expected to
be completed by March 15, 1995 and will form the basis for comprehensive reforms that will be initiated later
in 1995.
Labor Mobility
91.   In a market economy, labor must be free to respond to wage differentials among regions and occupations.
Labor mobility is especially important during the transition when inefficient activities will close and new activities
will emerge. At present, labor mobility is constrained primarily by the shortage of housing, caused in large part
by the absence of an active private market for housing. The Law on Privatizaton approved by Parliament on
June 9, 1992 allows occupants of apartments in buildings owned by state enterprises, collecdve enterprises and
municipal or district councils to become owners, either without charge or by paying for excess space. Yet,
progress in privatization has been very slow and less than 13 percent of dwellings eligible for privatization have
been privatized so far. With the objeetive of creating a private market for housing, the Government will identify
obstacles to rapid privatization and take measures, such as increasing rents, to accelerate privatization. In 1995,
the Govermnent also plans to take steps to eliminate the use of propyska as a requirement for applying for a job.
This means that propyska, the system of regulations governing the movement of workers between regions, will
no longer be an obstacle to labor mobility.



-20-
I. Macreconmic Prospects and Extern  Fincing Requ
92.   The economic program described in Section II should have a far-reaching impact on the Ukrainian
economy when the policies are implemented. This section describes the macroeconomic outcomes of these
policies in the short and medium term. Caution is however warranted given the high degree of uncertainty.
Nonetheless, some basic elements of an indicative scenario for the period 1994-2003 can be identified. After an
initial jump in prices associated with the implementation of the reform program, inflation is expected to be
brought down to low single-digit levels by end 1995. Following a moderate decline in GDP in 1995, real growth
will resume in 1996, led by strong export growth and the growth of small and medium enterprises in the private
sector. The improvement in living standards would occur only gradually and it is only after the end of the decade
that the level of per-capita private consumption would reach that of 1992. Even this modest recovery requires
substantial extemal financing in the coming years. Without such assistance, the reform program could be
jeopardized.
A.    nflation and Output
93.   After a temporary surge in the price level at the start of the program when prices are freed, administered
prices are raised and the exchange rate unified, the monthly rate of inflation would be brought down by year-end.
Prices are expected to rise again at the beginning of 1995 when a new round of adjustments in administered prices
occurs. Contirling fiscal restraint and tight monetary policies should bring down the monthly rate of inflation
to low single digits by end 1995.
94.   Real GDP is projected to fall by about 23 percent in 1', reflecting the 27 percent decline that has
already occurred in the first half of 1994 and contination of inappropriate policies for most of the year. Indeed,
even in 1995, with satisfactory implementation of the economic reforms, the best that could be achieved would
be to slow the decline in production. A number of factors are expected to produce a further contraction in
economic activity. The market for Ukrainian products will remain depressed given tight domestic demand
policies and slow growth of neighboring markets. In addition, substantial cuts in Government subsidies and
consumption spending, and an end to directed credits will adversely affect some sectors and induce structural
adjustment, while the positive supply response will occur only with a lag. Economic growth should resume in
1996, and could accelerate to 6 percent per annum by the end of the decade. On the demand side, the pick-up
in the economy would reflect the growth in domestic imvestment demand, Pnd in exports to the FSU and the rest
of the world. On the supply side, it would rest upon improvements in productivity and resource mobilization.
The main source of recovery should be small and medium-sized enteprises, mostly in the private sector, and
particularly in construction and services; these activities would absorb some of the labor set free in such sectors
as heavy industry.
95.   Recent years have witnessed a very substantial reduction in the rate of investment in the economy. The
private sector has not invested because of economic instability, uncertainty over the legal, institutional and policy
framework, and formal and informal restrictions on its activity. Likewise, the public sector has not invested
because of shortfalls in revenues and large budget deficits. As the commitment to policy reform is maintained,
and there is increased confidence among domestic and foreign invest rs, these trends will be reversed. Public
investment wouid also expand in order to create the human and physical infrastructure necessary to support the
growth of the prvate sector. The recovery in public sector investment would, however, be much slower,
reflecting the continuing need to cut Government spending from its already high levels, the gradual expansion
of the tax base, and the progressive improvement in the capacity to identify and implement good public
investment projects.



-21-
96.   Financing the growth of investment would require icreasing the rate of domestic savings. This implies
that private and Govenunent consumption would have to be restrained now in order to boost efficient investment
and permit rapid growth in consumption in the future. Thus, despite the decline in private consumption
expenditures that has already taken place since independence (the index of private consumption fell from 140 in
1992 to 100 by 1994), private consumption is projected to stop falling only in 1996. And despite steady growth
thereafter, the level of private consumption in year 2003 would remain below the level in 1991. Government
consumption would continue to decline throughout the decade, and by the year 2003, it would be about 25 percent
less in real terms than in 1993.
B.    External Sector
97.   A rapid expansion of exports is essential to finance both the higher levels of imports required during the
economic recovery and the imcreasing burden of debt service. The recovery of exports is also likely to provide
a major demand side impetus to growth in the next few years as domestic demand will remain compressed.
98.   Because of extensive production and trade linkages between Ukraine and other FSU economies, a large
share of total exports (and imports) in the short term will conine to be directed to and from these countries.
However, as the competitiveness of Ukrainiai products gradually increases, the growth rate of exports to the rest
of the world should outstrip the growth in exports to the FSU. Thus, as of 1997, exports to the FSU countries
can be expected to grow at an anmual average rate of 5.5 percent in real terms, while exports to the rest of the
worId, starting from a low base, could incease at an average annual rate of 7 percent.
99.   Economic recovery would require a large increase in imports to satisfy not only the need for inputs and
raw materials, but also for equipment and capital goods that has been severely constrained in the last several years
owing to the breakdown in trade and the shortage of foreign exchange. Consequenly, imports are likely to
expand as soon as there is greater availability of foreign exchange, and trade and payments arrangements
improve. After growing at an average annual rate of 3.5 percent in 1995-96, import volumes are projected to
increase at an average anmnal rate of 5.5 percent during the period 1997-2003, i.e. at a slower pace than exports.
100.  The overall curet account deficit is projected to widen inially from an estimated US$1.8 biHlion in 1994
to US$ 2.2 billion in 1995. The deficit peaks at 2.8 percent of GDP duing 1996-97 and declines steadily
thereafter to 1.3 percent by year 2003. It is worth noting that the current account deficit would be easier to
finance over time as foreign investors and creditors become incresingly confident about policy-making and
economic prospects in Ukraine. In these circmstanc, it may be expected that foreign direct investment will
pick up, and Ukraine wil regain access to voluntary lending by commercial sources. Overall, the deficit on
current account with the PSU is projected to fall, while that with the rest of the world would increase. This
pattern reflects increased interest payments on foreign debt as well as growing imports of modern equipment and
technology from the rest of the world that are more suited to a modern market economy.
C.    External Fling Reqarments and Debt
101.  Ukraine will need considerable external capital inflows to finance its transition to a market economy.
In the fourth quarter of 1994, a financing gap of $1 billion was financed through the assistance of the international
financial community. This assistance took the form of debt rescheduling, as well as balance of payments
financing from international financial institutions and other donor countries. In 1995, Ukraine's current account
deficit is projected to increase to $2.2 billion. With amortization payments due of about $1 biUlion, and assuming



-22-
a modest accumulation of foreign exchange reserves, the total financing requirement is close to $4.0 billior4.
This gap will also have to be financed largely through borrowing from official bilateral and multilateral sources,
and debt rescheduling arrangements.
102.  During the period 1994-2003, total financing requirements are projected at about US$3.9 billion annually
on average. This amount would be necessary to finance an average annual current account deficit of US$1.1
billion, a modest build up of reserves, with the reserve cover increasing from less than 1 week of imports in 1994
to about 2 months from 1997 on; and amortization payments coming due. These calculations assume that Ukraine
and Russia agree to the "zero option" treatment of the foreign liabilities and assets that Ukraine inherited from
the FSU.
103. In the next one to two years, as Ukraine seeks to regain commercial creditworthiness, the bulk of external
resources would have to come from official sources. A good portion of official multilateral assistance would take
the form of balance of payments support aimed at financing critical imports and mitigating the decline in living
standards. Of the fimancing requirements between 1994 and 2003, official financing is projected to meet 38
percent of total need, with 27 percent coming from bilateral sources and 11 percent from multilateral institutions.
As noted above, more financing options should become available as confidence in the Ukainian economy grows
and the external position strengthens. Thus, the weight of official sources in the financing package would
gradually diminish. Concomitantly, financing from pAvate creditors and foreign private investors is expected
to become important. Its share in the financial resources made available to Ukraine would increase from an
average of 20-30 percent in the 1990s to 70 percent by 2003. At the end of the period, debt owed to the
multilateral institutions - mostly to the World Bank - would represent 27 percent of total debt outstanding.
104.  While Ukraine's external debt is projected to increase significantly, the debt burden would remain within
manageable limits. External debt as a percent of GDP would increase from 7.3 percent in 1994 to around 20
percent during 2000-2003, which is below the average for middle-income countres. The overall debt service
ratio is projected to increase from 8.6 percent in 1994 to a peak of 15.1 percent in year 2001, and decline
thereafter. Even if export growth is much slower than projected, the debt service ratio remains within prudent
limits.
4/    If Ukraine were to repay all its enal payment arres, which is etmated at $3.3 billion by end
1994, the financing gap would be about $6.4 billion in 1995.



-23-
Key Mawoecowmlc Indicators (In Perentage)
1993         1994        1995        1996            1997-2003
Acual        Estmawed -------                       ---e-t
Real Growth Rates
GDP at Factor Cost                -14.0         -23.0          -5.0           1.5          6.5
Exots                             -16.0         -18.0           0.3           5.3          5.9
Inorts                            -23.4         -17.4           2.7           4.3          5.5
Private Consumption               -10.0         -22.4          4.5            1.7          4.4
(index: 1994=100)               127.2          100.0         95.5          96.6        108.5
As % of GDP
Domestic Savings                    7.0           2.7           4.9           7.3         12.9
Gross Domestic Investment           8.0           5.0           7.5          10.0         14.5
Total Consumption                  93.0          97.3          95.1          92.7         87.1
Resource Balance                   -1.0          -2.3          -2.6          -2.7         -1.6
General Budget Balance             -9.7          -9.3          4.3           -1.7         -1.2
Total Debt Outstanding              4.9           7.3          11.3          14.8         20.7
Infhlation (Annl Avg)           4735.0          842.0         210.0          19.6          8.3
Sources: Ukainian authodtes and staff estmates.
Note: lhe underlig monthly rate of inflation drops to 5 pcent in March 1995, and to a low single digit by die end of the year. In 1996, die
averawe ra of inflaion is projected to be 1.5 percent per month.
Exe3a F1ancng (in mlions of US Dollars)
1993            1994               1995                1996
Actual   Estimated              . Projected-
Gross Fnancng Needs                 1,197                 3,935               3,945               3,862
Balance on Goods and Services         970                 1,800               2,220               2,228
Amortization                          130                 1,505                 975                 784
Changes inReservesa                    97                   630                 750                 850
Assumed Identffled FIandig           1197                 2,970              -2,480               1,200
Official Transfers                    120                   200                 200                 250
Foreign Direct Investment              50                    90                 120                 200
MediumALong-term Creditb              774                   420                 500                 750
Othee                                 253                 2,260             -3,300'                   0
Fiamncg Gap                             0                   965               6,425               2,662
Covered by
Net IMF Purchases                   0                   365               1,575               1,000
othe                                0                   600               4,850               1,662
Soues: Ukin  audwtres and staff esimates.
al Official reserves are pojected to incrase to about one week's impotts in 1994, to one and a half month impots in 1996.
b/ The medium and long-term credit in 1995 inchtdes mainly disburseom frn a World Bank rehablitato loan of US$500 million,
c/ Net of changes in payment atteast. Also iWludes short-term capial flows, reductin in monetay iabs, and use of correspondent accounts.
d/ The t  amount of payment arrars, mainly energy arrears witb Russia and Turlm tn, is estimated to reach US$3.3 billion by the end of
1994. It is assmaed that an of it wi be tepaid in 1995.
ef Inludies new money and debt rescheduln.



-24-
IV. The Bank Grous Assitce Stra
A.    Background and Objectives
105.  The proposed Rehabilitation Loan has been prepared on an accelerated schedule to respond to the rapidly
evolving economic and political events in Ukraine. A Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) will be finalized by
the second half of 1995. A limited CAS is described below.
106.  The overriding objective of the World Bank's asistance strategy is to help Ukraine in reversing the
present economic crisis, and to facilitate the transition to a market-based economy for sustained economic
growth. The World Bank will support the Government's stabilization program and the emerging agenda of
structural reforms and assist in building the necessary institutional capacity through lending, economic and sector
work (ESW), policy dialogue and an active role in resource mobilization and aid coordination. It will support
sector-specific reforms and investments that build productive capacity in critical infrastructure sectors such as
energy. The Bank will assist the authorities in strengthening the safety net and in developing human resources
commensurate to a modern market economy.
107.  The launching of an IMF-supported stabilization program in October 1994 paved the way for increased
assistance from the Bank. The proposed Rehabilitation Loan supports the first steps in the Government's reform
program.
B.    The Legacy of the Past
108.  In formulating the Bank's assistance program, it is necessary to recognize constraints that have prevented
a more active role in the past. While some constraints have been relaxed, others remain likely to condition the
magnitude, composition and pace of the assistance program. The Bank must consider the possibility of policy
reversals, and be prepared to respond to changing conditions.
109.  The most important ipdiment in the past was the lack of commitment to market-oriented reforms, at
the level of the overall economy as well as in the sectors. Reservations at the top mirrored hostility to change
at the level of the bureaucracy. President Kuchma, who was elected in July 1994, and key members of the
Cabinet now are finnly committed to reforms; but resistance to change remains strong in Parliament and parts
of the Cabinet and the bureaucracy. A second constraint was the absence of an effective framework for decision-
making. Confusion about who was authorized to make decisions slowed project preparation and implementation.
A third issue was weak institudonal and technical capacity for developing and implementing reforms. Technical
assistance by the World Bank and donors has achieved improvements in this regard, but capacity building has
still a long way to go.
110. These constraints prevented the Bank from executing an assistance program suitable to the size and
inmportance of Ukraine. So far, only one loan was approved- the Institution Building Loan (IBL) in the amount
of US$27 mfillion. The IBL provides technical assistance for enterprise reform, financial sector reform, and
public financial management. After initial difficulties, now there is some improvement in the implemention
record following institutional rearrangements and the changed policy environment.
111.  The Bank responded to these unfavorable conditions by preparing a minimum "core" program of
assistance that would be viable even in an unstable macro-environment. At the same time, a larger lending



-25-
progrm was identified and some preparatory work was done in case positive developments occurred. The Bank's
economic and sector work was designed to provide up-to-date information on the economy and the underpinnings
for reforms at the macro- and sectoral levels. In 1993, the Bank produced a Country Economic Memorandum,
a social sector report, a report on the power sector, and a comprehensive energy review. In 1994, an agricultural
review and a report on the environment were finalized, as was an informal report updating the foreign trade
regime. Informal studies in the municipal water and waste water sector, the financial sector, and local
Govenmment finances are under way. Based on this work, a document called "Ukraine Policy Notes" was
prepared, which was made available to the participants of the infomal donor meeting in Paris on July 13, 1994.
The document spelled out the major reforms required for a comprehensive reform program, and has formed the
basis for the design of the structural reform program that is supported by the proposed Rehabilitation Loan. The
document was also usefiul for the reformers within the Government in their internal deliberations.
112.  The Bank has provided support for the dialogue between the G7 and the Ukrainian Government in the
nuclear area, relating to improvement in nuclear safety, including the future of Chornobyl. In close collaboration
with the EBRD, the Bank has helped develop a strategy which could provide the basis for international assistance
to Ukraine's power sector taking account of nuclear safety. Although the Bank would not provide finncing for
nuclear energy, lending support for enegy development, through promoting conventional power generation and
policy reforms, would be a key component of the strategy. The Bank is participating in the establishment of an
international Task Force to work on the implementation of an Energy Action Plan recently agreed between the
Ukrainian Government and the G7. hnplementaion of the Plan would include energy policy reform, energy
efficiency, investments in conventional and nuclear power (including safety upgrades) and the phased closure of
capacity at Chornobyl. The financing of the Plan would need to be addressed, as well as the support of the
international financial institutions.
113. Important assistance has been provided by the Bank's Resident Mission in Kiev, established in the fall
of 1992. The mission has helped in the preparation and implementation of World Bank operations, monitored
Ukraine's economic and financial situation and developments and helped build up the policy dialogue. A key
responsibility has been to assist in aid coordination efforts of the Government, including help in the identification
of external assistance and borrowing priorities. The mission also has undertaken a program of economic
education in Ukraine, carrying out seminars, conferences, courses and weekly economic roundtable with
Government officials, Pariamentians, academicians, and jouralists.
C.    A New Relationship
114. The reform commitment of the new Government led by President Kuchma, and the bold stabilization
measures recently implemented with support from the IMP's Systemic Transformation Facility allow the Bank
to expand lending to Ukaaine. The Government also has entered into discussions with the IMP about a Standby
Arrangement in early 1995.
115.  The proposed Rehabilitadon Loan is designed to support the most urgent reforms and prepare the ground
for additional reforms in the next 12 months. The policy conditionality of the proposed loan seeks to ensure that
expenditure adjustment, credit constaint, price and trade liberalization, and privatization and financial sector
reform extend to the critical sectors of the economy, in particular energy and agriculture. This also will provide
a stronger basis for expanding our lending program in these areas. Furthermore, the proposed loan seeks to
ensure that key stuctual reforms that inevitably require time to be fully implemented (such as privatization) are
initiated sufficiendy boldly and unambiguously to make later reversal difficult. The loan was prepared quickly
in the belief that firm and timely support is vital for the success of the reform program.



-26-
D.    The Lending Program
116.  The Bank's lending strategy has been calibrated to Ukraine's development priorities, and the constraints
and risks sumarized elsewhere in this report. Three scenarios are envisaged. The High case is characterized
by a continuing commitment of the Government to stabilization and structural reform policies, and good
implementation. In this scenario, and in the context of a broader international effort, lending from the World
Bank would amount to around $800 million per year. In FY95,  ee loans are envisaged in addition to the
Rehabilitation loan: respectively, for seeds development ($31 million), health ($50 million) and rehabilitation of
hydropower plants ($100 million). If progress in implementation of reforms remains satisfactory, subsequent
operations in the High case will include a mix of balance of payments loans (possibly including a SAL, and an
Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan in FY96), other sector adjustment loans (possibly in energy, financial sector
and the social sectors), and investment loans that fmance a time-slice of the investment program in critical
infrastrure sectors such as energy, transport, telecommunications and municipal services.  Given the
prospective financing gap of Ukaine in the coming years, and the need for deepening the reforms, lending for
balance of payment support will constitute the greater share of total Bank lending in early years. As reforms take
hold, the share of investment lending will increase.
117.  The base case corresponds to a scenario where there is satisfactory implemention of a stabilization
program, but strucural reforms are not implemented vigorously across sectors. In this case, lending from the
Bank would be of the order of $400-500 million a year. The adjustment operations that are to be included of
course depend on which sectoral authorities are moving ahead with reform programs. Based on current trends,
relatively rapid reforms in privatization, energy and the social sectors may be expected, with the greatest
difficulties likely to be encountered in agriculture. The base case also assumes two investment operations a year,
with the major focus being on insuring that public infrastructure is maintained in areas such as energy, urban
transport, telecomuications, health and education. Other investment opeions will be designed to further
reform efforts in sectors where the policy enviment enables the Bank to proceed with adjustment lending as
well.
118.  The low case would be cbaracteized by a retum to the policy drift of the last years. Lending from the
Bank would then be on the order of US$100-200 million per year. No adjustment lending would be considered,
but investment lending for infrastructure would go ahead, so that the Bank can maintain its dialogue with the
Government, provided that institutonal and policy conditions exist for successful project completion.
119.   The triggers which would lead the Bank to move to the low case are evident: a failure to sustain
budgetary discipline leading to the resumption of hyperinflation; the resurrection of administraive controls on
allocation of foreign exchange, prices of key commodities and domestic credit; the slowing down of the
privatiaion program and the resructurig of the energy sector; and the failure to target social transfers to the
neediest sectors of the population. It is equally evident that the Goverrment's success in building on the current
set of intentions will move the Bank program to the high case.
120. The assumptions underlying the base case are more difficult to spell out. The opposition to stabilization
and reform policies comes of course from groups likely to lose influence as a result of the implementation of these
policies. An important group in this regard consists of enterprise directors (both in industry and agriculture).
This group, which is substantially over-represented in Parliament contnes to oppose reforms that dilute the
power of current management: that is, controlling the flows of credit to financially-troubled enterprises, sovkhozes
and kolkhozes; and genunely privatizing such units. The base case assumes that the visible disarray caused by



-27-
high inflation enables the Government to win the stabilization battle with the Parliament, but at some cost to the
Govenmment's ability to pursue privatization across all fronts including agriculture. As indicated above, in such
a case the Bank would limit its overall support, but focus selected adjusted operations to those sectors where
progress was taking place with follow-up investment activities in those sectors as well.
E.    Implications for World Bank Exposure
121.  As discussed before, Ukraine will need substantial external capital inflow during the next several years
to finance its growing import needs, replenish reserves and meet its debt service obligations on time.
Consequently, in the High case it is estimated that Ukraine's total debt outstanding will increase to close to $21
billion (21 percent of GDP) by the year 2003, which is well below the average for middle-income countries (see
table). Ukraine's debt service ratio is projected to increase to 14 percent by year 2003, which is also lower than
average for middle-income countries. Starting from virtually zero, the World Bank's share in total debt will
increase to about 14 percent by 1996 and to-22 percent by the year 2003. The share of debt owed to the World
Bank in total debt owed to official creditors (multilateral and bilateral) will reach 27.5 percent in 2003. The debt
service on World Bank loans is projected at only 1.8 percent of total exports by year 2003. This value is well
within the Bank's exposure guidelines. Bank exposure will be monitored closely and cofinancing with other
donors will be incorporated into design of the loans.
Projected Creditworthiness Indicators- high case lending (perentage)
Middle Income
1993    1994    1995    1996    2003 Counties (1992)
Total DOD/GDP                  4.9      7.3    11.3    14.8    21.1        34.2
Toal DOD/Expors of GNFS        27.3    32.2    46.3    59.6    71.9       148.2
11RD DOD/Exports of GNFS        ...    0.2      3A       8.0    15.6
IBRD DOD/Total DOD             0.0      0.7     7.4    13.5    21.7
Debt Service/Exports of GNFS    1.0     8.6     9.0      7.8    13.7       18A
of which: IBRD               ...     ...    0.1       0.3      1.8
1BRD Debt Service/Debt Services
on public Guaranteed Debt             ...     ...    0.2       3.2
Souce: Table pp. 23 and Annex 1.
F.    Resource Mobilizaon ad Aid Coordination
122.  In July 1994, the Bank hosted the first international donor meeting on Ukraine to establish a clearer
understanding on the part of the international community of Ukaine's financing needs, and on the part of the
Ukrainian authorities of the key indicators of progress which donors would be watching. The meeting was
supplemented by in-country coordination activities organized by the Bank's Resident Mission. This provided a
good basis for subsequent aid coordination efforts. Given the size of Ukraine and the scale of these efforts, we
have proposed that the IMF take charge of working with donors to fill the immediate balance of payments
financing gap, while the Bank will focus the CG process on mobilizing the required financing to meet the
investment needs of the country.



G.    Economic and Sector Work Program
123.  The ESW program is designed to strengthen the intellectual basis for the Bank's policy dialogue, assist
aid coordination and underpin future lending. Four broad areas are: macroeconomic stability and growth; public
sector efficiency; private sector development; and the social safety net and human resource development. In the
macro area, the Bank will be relying more than in the past on IMP analysis of the current situation, while
preparing brief policy notes on an annual basis to update the structural reform needs and to put them into a
medium-term framework. Or' public sector efficiency, a review of public expenditure is planned in FY96 which
is intended to provide the documentation for a donor coordination meeting and also provide key inputs into the
lending program in the infrastructure area. A poverty assessment will also be undertaken in FY96 which will
be used to try to mobilize and coordinate international support. As far as the private sector is concerned, the
Bank will carry out an assessment in FY97 which will in turn provide the basis for coordination of international
efforts in this area. The above reviews and assessments are intended to contribute to the adjustment operations
in the areas of privatization and financial sector development; agriculture; energy; the social safety net; and the
investment operations for the environment. In addition, sector policies, including investment programs, and the
institutional investment framework for the sector will be analyzed as part of the project preparation process.
H.    IFC and MIGA Activities
124. Ukraine joined IFC in October 1993. Since then, IFC has been active in the areas of small-scale
privatzation and selected infrastructure, such as telecomunications. IFC is currently operating in twelve cities.
Its first investment, a US$2 million equity financing for the Ukraine Fund, is a venture capital fund targeted at
emerging private companies in Ukraine. The Foreign Investment Advisory Semce (FIAS) has prepared a report
on the climate for foreign direct investment in Ukraine.
125.  Ukraine became a member of MIGA in July 1994. To date, there have been no investment guarantees
issued.



-29-
PART 11. THE PROPOSED LOAN
I. Background and Rationale for IBRD Involvement
126.  As described above, Ukraine is making the transition to a market economy while experiencing a
substantial trade shock and disruptions in supplies, not only of energy and raw materials, but also of equipment
and capital goods. The market for Ukraine's products will remain constrained in the short term given the close
economic ties between Ukraine and FSU countries and the economic decline that the FSU is suffering. Moreover,
the increase in the competitiveness of Ukrainian products necessary to allow rapid export growth to the rest of
the world will occur gradually. In addition, considerable time will be required for the conversion of the large
nilitary industrial complex, which must deal with the almost total collapse of its traditional market for military
goods. The proposed loan of US$500 million would support the initial stages of Ukraine's transitior to a market-
based economy. The proceeds from this loan would assist Ukraine in financing critical imports needed to stem
the decline in output and inprove living standards of the population.
127.  The Goverunent's program of stucal reform to be supported by this Rehabilitation Loan is outlined
in Part I and in the attached Memorandum of Economic Reform Policies (see Annex 3). This program
complements the macroeconomic stabilization program as supported by the IMF's Systemic Transformation
Facility.
II. Project Objectives and Description
128.  The loan supports the implementation of the Govemments' economic reform program that is outlined in
the Memorandum of Economic Reform Policies. The Memorandum defines policy actions which will be
undertaken over the coming 12 months. If implemented successfully, these reforms will serve as the basis for
the World Bank's future lending program to Ukraine. Other objectives of the proposed loan are to finance
critically needed imported inputs, provide budgetary support for the strengthening of the social safety net for the
neediest, provide a framework for financial assistance from other donor agencies, and support the development
of a market based foreign exchange allocation system. In view of the urgent need for foreign exchange, it is
expected that the proceeds of the loan will be disbirsed within a short period of time. The closing date of the
loan will therefore be June 30, 1996.
129.  The interbank auction market for foreign exchange was reopened on October 5, 1994, and a single,
unified exchange rate determined in the inter-bank market applies to all official and commercial foreign exchange
transactions. The Govermment intends to expand the volume of transactions taking place througn the inter-bank
auction market so as to firther strenghen the role of market forces in allocating foreign exchange. The inter-
bank foreign exchange market has been opened to 50 of the registered banks, and will progressively be opened
to all licensed banks (currently an additional 20). Dollar auctions are currently held once a week.
130.  The proposed loan will contribute to the Government's objective of developing the private sector. Public
and private commercial production enterprises will have equal access to the foreign exchange market through their
commercial banks. As discussed in Part I of this report, the policy program supported by the proposed
Rehabilitation Loan will reduce the ability of existing public enterprises to gain preferential access to credit.
Measures agreed under the stabilization and structural reform programs will widen market-based credit allocation



-30-
through credit auctions, reduce over time the availability of preferential credit, and subject state enterprises to
greater financial discipline.
131.  On this basis, the proceeds of this loan will be disbursed upon evidence that imports of eligible goods
have taken place during the period. Non-eligible imports would comprise only those goods on the World Bank's
standard negative list. As agreed with the Government, disbursements will be made through the NBU and an
account of the Ministry of Finance at the NBU will be credited with the karbovanets equivalent at the market
exchange rate as determined on the interbank exchange market; the Government will thereby receive non-
inflationary budget support. The foreign exchange receipts of the loan will be sold by the NBU in the interbank
exchange market or will be held in reserve in accordance with the objectives of monetary policy.
HI. Environental Safety
132.  As an adjustment operation, this project has been assigned to Category U (unrated) for the purposes of
Operational Directive 4.01, which does not require an environmental assessment.
IV. Project Implementation and Key Measures for Disbursement
133.  The Rehabilitation Loan supports a substantial program of structural reform measures. Some significant
steps have already been taken in the past weeks, particularly those addressing price liberalization and the
establishment of the social safety net. Other important measures are due to the taken in the months ahead
imcluding some of the key steps to implement the privatization program and liberalize foreign trade. The
macroeconomic stabilization program is also at a very early stage of implementation and it will be crucial that
the bold initial measures are sustained in the months ahead.
134.  To support the implementation of some of the key measures according to a realistic timetable, the
proceeds of the proposed loan will be disbursed in the following manner: US$250 million will be available on
effectiveness. US$100 million (20 percent of the loan amount) can be disbursed for imports procured in the four
months preceding effectiveness. A further US$250 million will be made available after April 1, 1995 on the basis
of a satisfactory review of progress in the overall program.
135.  The following measures were implemented prior to the presentation of the proposed loan to the Board:
*     Presidential decree was issued outlining simplified procedures for mass
privatization program, including the merging of corporatization and privatization
processes.
*     Chairman of the State Property Fund announced the list of sectors to be included
in the nass privatization program for 1995, including trucking, warehouses,
storage and distribution. The statement confirmed that the MPP for 1995 would
include at least 8000 medium and large enterprises.
*     Presidential decree was issued repealing ceiling on trade mark-ups as of January
1, 1995.



-31-
*     Electricity pnces were raised to fully reflect recent increases in fuel costs. A
system of periodic price adjutmet to compensate for additional changes in fuel
and other basic input costs was established.
e     in accordance with the Government's action plan for restructring the electricity
sector, an Electricity Reguatory Commission was established.
* IIn the context of the Government's overall reform of corporate income tax,
proposals were submitted to Parliament to reduce the tax on profits of banks to
40 percent and intermediaries to 30 percent.
*     A national campaign to publicize the Government's plans for mass privatization,
including the use of streamlined procedures, and the distribution of paper
certificates to the popuation was launched.
*     Insuctions were issued to 20 large enterprises to prepare reruci g plans by
mid-March 1995.
*     The extension of credit from the Employment Fund to finance job creation in
enterprises was abolished.
-     Preparation was initiated of strategic policy papers on (i) social assistance and (ii)
pensions and unemployment campensation, to be completed by March 15, 1995.
136.  It is emnisaged that the second part of the disbursemens under the loan will be made available after April
1, 1995 depending on satisfactory review of the implementation of the reform program outlined in the
Memorandum. Some of the key meaes that will be reviewed include the following:
-     Satisfactory implementation of macro-economic stabilization policies.
-     Disconinue exist  system of state orders as of January 1, 1995. Introduce
competitve methods (bids, tenders) for state procurement, including for grain,
to meet the rqiements of budgetary orgaizaions, within the resources
allocated in the budget for this purpose.
*     As of January 1, 1995, abolish aU export quotas and licenses, with the exception
of goods subject to voluntary export restnctions and other contigent
inrnationa agreenme.
*     Lower the maximum import tariff to 30 percent by Jamuary 1, 1995, allowing for
some temporary exceptions limited to no more than 1% of total imports
(measured on the basis of 1993 import shares).
*     implement auctions in 5 oblasts for at least 200 medium and large enteaprises,
including freight trucking enterprises and wholesale storage bases, according to
new simplified proceres. Privatize some grain silos.



-32-
*     By Jamnary 1, 1995. present to ParHament (i) amedmen  to the Land Code to
(a) ensure right of state and collective farm members to identifiable agricultural
land and assets; (b) reduce the moratoriun on land sales to two years after
receiving possession, or January 1, 1996, whichever occurs first; and (c) enforce
lease payments by private farmers for land received above their entitlement of the
average land share, or transform the leases into sales from the land reserves; and
(ii) draft Law on Land and Other Real Estate Registration specifying the
procedures for registering urban and rural land and other real estate.
*     Close down selected large state enterprises identified as chronic loss-makers.
*     Complete the study defining, evaluating and costing alternative restmcturing
plans for the former state banks.
*     Complete reviews of social assistance programs and the study on pensions and
unemployment compensation that will provide the basis for reforms in these areas
starting later in 1995.
*     Implementation of appropriate social safety net measures, including indexation
of means tested child allowances and supplementary pension payments for low
income pensioners.
137.  The Government has set up a Council on Economic Reform under the chairmanship of the First Deputy
Prime Minister to oversee, coordinate and monitor the implementation of the Government's reform program.
Within the Council, a committee chaired by the Deputy Prime Minister for Finance and Banking and consisting
of all the ministries and agencies concerned, including those of Finance, Economy, Energy, Agricultre, Labor,
Social Protetion, the State Property Fund and the NBU will monitor and coordinate the implementation of
policies under the proposed loan.
138.  Overall coordination of project activities and general loan administation will be the responsibility of a
project manager, located m the office of the Deputy Prime Minister for Finance and Banking. The candidate's
qualifications and terms of reference have been agreed upon with the Bank. The project manager will work solely
on the implementation of this project, and be responsible for preparing applications for disbursement of World
Bank funds, mantig project accounts and arraging for their timely audit, monitoring overall loan
implemeion, and preparng monthly progress reports. On the basis of the information from the various
agencies involved in the implementation of this loan, the project manager will prepare Ukaine's contribution to
the Project Completion Report within six months of the closing date.
139.  Training of the staff, responsible for procrement and disbursement matters has been initiated with the
assistance of World Bank staff and will continue during project implenation. Although Goverment officials
have had relatively little experience and need time to develop expertise in project implementation (including
competitive procurement and disbursement procedures), it is not deemed necessary to recruit an international
procurme  expert or firm. The design of this project, with all proceeds being provided based on evidence that
imports of eligible goods have taken place, will simplify prcement procedures significantly. However, external
financing will be sought if expert assistance is to be provided to assist the project manager in seting up an
appropriate project account system for loan management.



-33-
V. Procurement
140.  Procurement under the project will follow standard procedures as spelled out in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under the IBRI) Loans and IDA Credits". Given the size of Ukraine and the size of the loan, the
threshold for simplified International Competitive Bidding (ICB) has been set at US$3 million. As it is expected
that the proceeds of this loan will be used exclusively for the import of goods procured by enterprises in the
commercial sector, all contracts under this ceiling will be carried out directly by the importers, following
established business practices. The Bank's experience of commercial and public procurement practices in Ukraine
revealed that these practices are generally in line with the requirement that erterprises, in both public and private
sectors, obtain multiple quotations from multiple countries. Contracts larger than US$3 million will be subject
to- the procedures for simplified ICB processes, and prior review requirements will be followed. Subject to prior
approval of the Bank, commonly traded commodities may be procured through organized interational
commodities markets or other channels of competitive procurement. The standard negative list has been agreed
with the Government. In an effort to improve institutional building capacity with respect to procurement,
technical assistance is being provided by UNCTADIGATT, to prepare an operational program for internationa
competitive bidding in the practice of foreign economic relations of Ukraine. Preparation of a public procurement
law constitutes part of this program. The Bank plans a strategy paper on procurement to be followed by a CPAR
in FY96.
VI. Disbursement
141.  The Bank will finance 100 percent of foreign expenditures for directly imported goods. Imports eligible
for reimbursement wi1l be subject to the World Bank's standard negative list. The funds will be provided on the
basis of (a) statements of expenditures (SOB) prepared by the project manager in accordance with the Bank's
simplified documentation requirements for adjustment operations (i.e., based on customs certificates) showing
that eligible goods at least equal in value to the amount requested from the Bank have been imported into the
country during the period of consideration for contracts each valued at less than US$3 million, or full
documentation (i.e., contract supplier's invoice, evidence of shipment, customs certificate, and evidence of
payment) for contracts each valued at US$3 million or above, respectively; and (b) a statement by the
Govermment that the imports presented for World Bank financiag have not been financed by another loan or grant,
or imported under barter arrangements. Contacts valued at less than US$5,000 wiU not be eligible for financing.
Pre-shipment inspection will not be required: the low level of import tariffs for the bulk of imports will limit the
probability of tax evasion through under-invoicing, while macroeconomic stabilization has diminished the
incentives for capital flight through over-invoicing. The project manager will prepare the withdrawal applications
and will keep photocopies of the customs documents on which the applications are based. The original customs
documents will be retained by the Customs Departnent until three years after the closing of the project, and will
be made available to Bank supervision missions and to the auditors, as requested.
142. Goods imported within four months before the expected date of loan signing are eligible for retroactive
financing under the loan up to a maxinm of US$100 million, equivalent to 20 percent of the loan amount, in
view of the policy reform actions already undertaken to date and the substanial balance of payments needs of the
country.



-34-
VII. Reporbng, Accounting, and Audit
143. The project manager will maintain all project accounts, which will be audited annually by independent
auditors acceptable to the World Bank in accordance with the World Bank's guidelines on auditing and financing
reporting. Audit reports will be submitted to the World Bank not later than six months after the close of each
fiscal year, or the date of final disbursement. The project manager wfll also prepare monthly progress reports
detailing the status of all procurement transactions, commitments, and disbursement request.
VIII. Agreements Reached
144.  At negotiations, ustain  acceptable to the World Bank were reached on: (a) the attached
Memorandun of Economic Reform Policies, oudining the Government's reform program and the timing of
implementation; (b) te functions of the Committee established to oversee, coordinate and monitor the
implemenmion of the reform program; (c) the standard negative list of goods precluded from financing under
the proposed loan; (d) details of the terms of reference for the project managr; and (e) accounting and auditng
arrangements and technical assistance requirements.
IX. Prtogram Beft and Risks
145.  The potential benefits to be derived from a successl reform program are enormous. With its highly
educated labor force, fertile agricultural land, and significant mineal deposits, Ukraine has the potenfial to join
the world's rich societies. Provided that the Government maintains its recent approach to reforms, and
implements these vigorously, Urmine will be able to reverse the declining trend in production and begin its long
delayed economic recovery. The proposed loan would contribute to economic recovery by increasig efficiency
in resource use through market-oriened policy reform. The balance of payment support would finance imports
critical to economic recovery, and the local countpan funds will strengthm the capacity of the Goverment to
provide an adequate safety net for the poor. The disbursement mechansm of the loan will also support
development of the foreign exchange market.
146.  The main risk to the proposed loan is of policy revesal due to lack of political or social consensus.
Though the Government has taken important actions to demonstrat commiment to market-oriented reform, there
exists considerable opposition to change within the cabinet of ministers, among the bureaucracy, in Parliament,
and among large sections of the population. This opposition is based as much on ideological grounds as it is on
myths and misapprehensions. The opposition can be effective, as was demonsaed in recent months by
Parliament.'s repeated efforts to block the Govermment's privatization program and its reluctance to endorse any
significant proposals for reform in the agriculture sector. While the Government has largely succeeded so far
in obtaining Parliamentary support for its Eonomic program, the relationship between Parliament and
Government in the development and implementation of radical economic rinrms is not yet established. Until
this is done, the risk that Parliament would stop or delay important parts of mne Government's stucnral reform
program cannot be ruled out. The fact that there remain conservative forces within the Government funther
aggravates this risk. To some extent this risk can be reduced through the judicious interventions of the
international community in general and the World Bank in particular. Timely assistance to the reforms, in the



-35-
form of technical support and generous financial assistance would lessen the pain of adjustment and alleviate some
of the fears of the population. It woutd also demonstrate directly the benefits from reforms and thus strengthen
the position of the reformers in the Government and in society. Opposition could also be diluted by explaining
the rationale behind the design of the reform progm. In this regard, the emphasis on the social safety net,
privatization as a means of asset redistribution in favor of the entire population, the development of the private
sector, etc. directly address some of the concerns of those opposing reforms. The efforts of the Bank in engaging
Parliamentarians, conservative and radical, in the policy debate should pave the way for later stages of reform.
147.  The second risk is that policy implementation will slip because of inadequate inplementation capacity
within the Government and other executing agencies. This is particularly so in the early stages, when refornm
need to encompass a very broad range of areas in order to be successful. While the situation is much better than
it was even a few months ago, and is improving very rapidly, in part through the IBL, the design of policies
should recognize the need for simplicity and easy implementation. Given the enormous policy agenda that the
Government is committed to, there is little doubt that there will be slippage. However, if some of the key
measures are implemented during the period of the loan, they are likely to become difficult to stop, and the
benefits of the program would materialize. In this regard, the progress in the mass privatization program and
the reforms in energy and agriculture are particularly important.
148.  A third risk is the deterioration of relations between Ukraine and its neighboring countries, leading to
further disruption in economic ties, especially with Russia. Given Ukraine's hteavy dependence on imported
energy, this could lead to interruptions and cut-off in energy supplies, which would have an adverse impact on
production and delay economic recovery. A severe disruption in energy supplies could force increased state
intervention in the allocation of energy, and slow down the liberalization of the economy supported by the loan.
Moreover, the slowdown in economic recovery could be (wrongly) attributed to reforms themselves, and
undermine future reform effort. This risk is being addressed, first by efforts mediated by the IMF to regularize
payment of existing inter-state arrears and securing the Goverment's commitment to prevent any new arrears.
The adjustment of domestic energy prices to fully reflect costs, and the unification of the exchange rate witl
improve the utilization of energy and reduce the country's dependence on imported energy. It will also strengthen
the capacity of the energy supplier to meet its foreign payment obligations. Other reforms to strengthen domestic
payment discipline, including for payment of energy, will also alleviate the problem. More broadly, economic
reforms will improve the country's export prospects and creditworthiness and thus mitigate the risk of non-
payment to neighboring countries and other creditors/suppliers.
149.  Finally, there is the risk that timely external financial assistance of the magnitude required will not be
forthcoming. As discussed, even if the program is fuly fumded and policy implementation is good, the economic
recovery is likely to be gradual and per-capita consumption would recover to the ievel it achieved in 1992 only
by the end of the decade. A shortfall in external financial assistance would force a much faster face oV domestic
adjustment, which may threaten the fragility of the social consensus in favor of reforms. To address this
problem, the Bank will not only be prepared to provide solid financial support, but it will also assist Ukraine
in mobilizing other resources through the Consultative Group process and other donor coordination efforts.



-36-
PART m. R5COMMENDATION
150.  1 am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of Agremet of the World Bank
and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Washingon, D.C.
November 30, 1994
Attcbments



Ukraie                                            Annmex I
KUT  ACUECOUONIC INDICATOS
(in percent unless otherwsle stated)
.......................................................................................... .........................................................................................................................................................
19W          1994        1995      1996     199?      1996     199      2000    2001     2002    200
Actuat   Estimated    ..........-...                         Projecteds --------------------------
Growls Sates
MP at fator Cost                     (14.0)       (23.0)       (5.0)      1.5      3.0       4.0      S.0      6.0      7.0      7.0      7.0
Private Cmnsuwpton                   (10.0)       (22.4)       (4.5)      1.7      2.1       3.0      4.0      4.2      4.6      4.?      4.9
Debt Sorwlco=S                           1.0          6.6         0.9       7.0      7.0       6.1      .S       T.$      6.3      0.6      9.1
Debt ServicelUP                          0.2          1.9         2.2       1.J      1.9       2.3      2.4      2.3      2.4      2.6      2.7
ross aInveatentlGIP                      8.0          S.0         ?.s      16.0     11.0      12.0     13.0    1S.0    11.0    19.0    20.0
Dkietic Sevings/GP                       7.0          2.7         4.9       7.3      6.4       9.9     11.2    13.S      16.0     16.4    19.6
Governunt Reve.ueIGSP                   42.4         41.5        41.5      41.2    40.5       39.4     37.9    36.S    35.2    34.6    34.1
Genvermnt E      _nitured6P             52.1         51.5         6 .4     42.9    41.6       40.4    39.4      36.3    36.3    3S.2    34.1
Deficit C-) or Surplus (+)/69           (9.?)       (10.0)       (4.9)     (1.7)    (1.4)     (1.2)    (1.S)    (1.6)    (1.1)    (0.7)   (o.7)
Export Growth Note                     (16.0)       (16.O)        0.3       S5.3     5.0       5.       5.0      5.0      S.6      S.3      S.6
Exp_rtosIP                              17.9         22.5        24.3      24.8    26.4       21.4     20.2    26.5    26.9    26.9    29.1
I _ t Growth late                      (23.4)       (17.4)        2.?       4.3      5.2       5.?      S.6      5.6      5.S      5.S      S.6
loportsrIP                              18.9         24.6        26.9      2.6    29.0        29.5     30.0    30.1      29.9    29.4    29.3
current Account (in USS milion)         (970)      (1.306)     (2.220)  (2.220)  a2s169)   (2,101)  (2.066)  (2,069)  (1.669)  M1 ) (1.402)
Current Account/6DP                     (1.1         (2.7)       (3.4)    (3.2)    (3.2)      (2.9    (2.71   (2.6)    (2.2)    (1.3)    (1.4)
Arlva  Average Infletion Sate        4.735.0        662.0       210.0      19.6    16.1       12.7      6.2      5.0      S.0      S.0      S.O
......  ,  ..,._ _
teurwes Ukrainien authwrities ad stff estimIte.



Annex I
UKRAINE - Bleance of P"amonts
(USS .ILtions at current prfces)
1993       1994        1995     1996     199?     1998      1999     2000     2001     2002     2003
Actual   Estimated                     ................ Pojected                     .
.. ,..................................................................... .. ..... .... ....................... .............................................. ........................ ...................................  
Exports of URFS                            15,850     15,090      16,010   16,784   18,268   19,850   21,445   23.170   25,027   27,039  29,203
Isports of UPS                             16,760     16,640      17.710   18.630   20.033   21.398   22,851   24.427  25,932   27.502   29,373
Resource batnce                              (910)    (1,550)     (1,700)  (1,846)  (1,765)  (1,548)  (1,405)  01.257)    (905)    (550)    (171)
Net factor Income                             (60)      (250)       (S20)    (382)    (424)    (553)    (682)    (832)    (984)  (1.119)  (1,231)
Curr. A/C Bal before Off. Grants             (970)    (1,600)     (2.220)  (2,226)  (2,189)  (2,101)  (2.088)  (2.0B9)  (1,689)  (1.669)  (1,402)
official transfers                            120        200         200      2S0       350      300      200        0        0       ())      (0)
Long-term Capital Inflows                     947      1.265      (3.655)     166    1.289    1.287    1.366    1,893    2,14S    2.36S    2,S54
Dfrect investment                             0         90         120      200      300       400      500      750    1,000    1.250    1,500
Ret LT lorrowing (DRS)                      644      1.085)       (475)     (34)    989        881     86      1.143    1,145    1,115    1.054
Other LT Inftow  (net)                      253      2,260      (3,300)       0         0        0        0        0        0        0        0
Total Other Items (Net)                         0        600       4,850    1,662      907       848      777      699      630      643      544
net credit from  NF                             0        365       1,575    1,000       558      384     (314)    (830)    (768)   (524)   (1S)
Reserve chwnges n.e.i.                        (97)      (630)       (750)    (850)    (916)    (718)       58      335     (116)    (816) (1.121)
Reference Items
S0P (billion of current USS)                 88.5       67.0        65.8     67.6     69.2      72.5    76.2      81.2    86.6    95.7    100.3
foreign Exchange Reserves:
International Rtoerves (USS million)      193        82        1,573    2,423    3,339    4.057    3,9      3,664    3,782    4,598   6,1t9
In months of lsports                     0.1         0.3         1.0      1.5      2.0      2.3       2.1      1.8      1.8      2.0      2.S
Exchange Rates
Mom. Off. Ex. l ate (Am. AV)            7,629     63.224     170,803  186,41t 196,842  216,186  22,703  228.196 234,290  239771 24S,379
Atl   conversion factor                 1.734     15,600      42.693   51,044   59.250   6.764   70.62   74.426   76.147  82.055   86,157
.................................................................................................................................................
Sourcest Ukrainian authorities ad staff estimtes.



ANNEX 2
UKRAINE - REHABIUTATION LOAN
Timetable of Key Events
1.    Time taken to prepare:              4 months
2.    Project prepared by:                Government of Ukraine, with assistance of IBRD
staff'.
3.     Preparation mission:               September 15-30, 1994
4.     Negotiations:                      November 16-22, 1994
S.    Planned Board presentation:         December 22, 1994
6.     Planned effectiveness:             December 22, 1994
7.     Expected program completion:       June 30, 1996
8.     Apprisa Report:                    Not applicable
I/ lbe man mion compsed                Pant and Sana BloImekmp (EC4C2), Bernard Dmm and
Ana Godtko (EC4PE), Tom H     _    r (EC4HR), L o Lovei (EC4IN), Mak Lndel(EC4NR), Andems
Zeijlon andAlknder Kaliberda (BC4KI). Waf Grais is e        Divis  Chief and Basil KavaW  the
Depaqtmnt Dictor for the opadon



ANPX 3
HABIHET - MIHIOTPIB YKPATHM
U. Ku!
<  30, nc    s JC4 i           .   NI 27-2083/9
nlay flbwcy npecToHy
rp.KaEfU  Mbesa.uo@Gi 
To woaaTo.
mu~.PAhioiT Wi o lmEsAnot  poi
anlpats.o Sam  MeMOPmAYM  tlpO noi@rnky o.K@NOMiwmX poeopm, ma
Onicyg rMporpaMy CTpyKTypvsa Po*opM4 a Yaparmi.
YxpaVHa npwanposaANTH a * YTx scoOxz@uO.4y fpOrpamy CTpyKTypHx
flop*T*OPtNb    a     nPOAOAKemewM  nporpamm m&KRp@KHoMio4He  cTa&W3a6. I
cnpsMosma  ue AOCRrUwH  cTa6iiboro mOKpOeKOmimNOXrO CTamstua, CrlPk 11
S@OHOWM604MY 3p@CT&W0 bE 3;ii"XTOCTI.
3AI cimsu  uoo#omlwWl nouiTmu   nop^A6a%as  3OKpOMa: 3anPOSMKuil
@iawcwIx  *a Ms mTaPIX 06M)KOIb, flATPmMYSU*X *iAnoiA40o  noAaTKa5olo
nOfiTHKOIO; ni6epanAaagha L(M "a SHYTPW4boMY piwy, a TaKOK  P-WHMy 30*Wu'mfOT
ropri&U  TS sI@TNX   onspa4iii; SiADA@Y dA  c"CTOM$ ASPxKOshX  ssMOcmIw;
pO2biTOK  npsaTH"O  COuOpa  TaO 466pan3Ato   HyTpkUHbtol toprimi; OMTlub
sano'.avKyxaya     npoIecy npaaTHa40, a3atTcy*am  nbWAiAtWX  nPOL4oAYP Ta
nonoxce.. 3.KOuOA8scl" riO 6alKpyTCTsQ; sanpo)aeA   pOammx no3oTN*ix
nipolLeOTHHX cTaseOI i 3AiCt46*HX 3a4ioSA  3 Me*TOO 3MikW*mqn nnaTirfario A&cUnnK.
AnA 2aX%cTy  rpyn  Hacenewn, Kag6iIIbU  sp&34nskX  A 3mik, noo"*3aNHx  i3
cTpyKTypHoio nope6yOGosto iO KomiKM. 6yAe CTBOp.NO MpSpOxy LWnboSOFO
cuo4 ro 3OabCTy.
M" npocio ripo nlAlpsMKy 4id? nporpr MM 3 60oy Caltosoro 6owy  a,
Aonomorobo Pea6initas4iAHu  flno9KH y CyMi. exWsianeMn  SOO mm. Aon. CIIA.
P530M 3 Bau.*s4 caximm4xmk MIt nnafYiMo CwCr@MaOTwmo n.pernkamT" CTaH
s.KouiaHa yYoaA oSu0a'4*"x a MemopaOAymi npo norJiTy *KOHOMi4NMX PeCopM TO
npoTOKoni neperosopi. mi3( YpxA*m YxpaiWU i MbwciapoAtmm 6aHuoM pOKOFICTpyu4
Ta pO3swicy. nfpwku nopern*A yMoS slA6yAeTbcie NO M3H"   31 6epo3w 199S poKy.
PO3p*XosycMo. IMO  yCnfLuHm  aOCsyHHm yois npOrpaMti Ao3sonRTb Itam oTpuMaT
Apyry 4aCTMHy Pea6UnTaL4jiboi no3
3 nosaroie
fnlpuA Wo-np*m"gp-Miliicp



AN=I1  3
3ONovenbr, 1994
# 27-298319
Mr.Lewis TPreto
Prekide  othe Jatratlol
WwaiUw6 D.C
RIk
DeowMr. P _stn
I am seaig herewith  e         um on Bccnomlc ledrm Poicies, which d&scihe
tim prgm of swuwa reftbm in Ukrane
Ukrain is determined to impmat               Vsomrmml  prow=a  of itudwera reforms,
whic is contIuatio of tho Progu  of                  ilzio,adis uliud at
acevg of sbl -A,l-oa-i conditions prmotion of th  conomic grwth and
Economi polc eni ws iew aw isuadution of theS  uda ad m4ey resaint,
suppod by apri  uxtlo  pollc  l             o of tim domestic prie as wen a
*    trade ad  can   _;                 O of e Stat oder  stm; deveiopmeaa of
the pive stdr ad lealion of domestc tradie rein  active hnitatio  oft
privatization proces   Jiomimat of the liquiatn procedre an  provisioas of ts
bankutc    ws iroducdon of real posie ntet rt  and messules to enoree
paymat discle In ordor to potec th popuation groups mo  vulamble to the
a4justmaen assocaed Wmt doe satmoute tau afo don, of the economy. the system of
t  sgtd sane u woud be set up
We ask for the mappos of the menioaned. prorm  ftor th World Bank by mearns of the
Roliabtatio Looen in do amout euvaln to the S0 "Ilion US dolar
Topdiw with your ap     we m  pmn_g to pioday   er  the tatu  of
of the ci ttinte MelmOsd   onEconomic Refom Pofidie
and in the Mmue  of umoom betwe   the ovummat of Uraine and the
ItrtIo'a IDank for   --ouaudo  ndSW eomut The first review is to take plac
no lat dt   Mar  31t 1995. We hope. ta the ae                   ofsthe p
*menre  outlnd in th pogram, wold allow us to rciv the second part of the
itbI t M  tionLoaw
rVIee
IrKe VMI*-Pd= vnisw~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



November 22. 1994
Memorandum on Economic Reform Policies
1.    Ukraine is striving to overcome the decline in economic activity and high inflation which were
characteristic for its economic simation in the last two years. To this end the Government is determied
to implement a comprehensive program of macroeconomic stabilizaton and stctura reforms aimed at
creating a market-based economy. The objective of these policies is to establish stable macroeconomic
conditions and promote economic growth and employment.
2.    The program for radical economic reform in Ukraine focuses on four key interdependent
elements. First,  oeomic stabilization will be based on fiscal and monetary restraint supported
by appropriate taxation policy. Second, efforts to promote competition will envisage actions in several
strategic areas. namely the liberalization of domestic prices as weil as the foreign exchange and trade
regime. the dismantling of the state order system. development of -he private sector and liberalization of
domestic trade regime. Third. the hardening of enterprise budg  constaints is expected to come about
through privatzation. the enforcemen of liquidation procedures and bankrptcy laws. and an overhaul
in enteprise management. A strict financial polcy (including the elimintion of directed credit. real
positve interest rates and measures to enforce payment discipline), as well as reform of the financial
sector will serve to support the changes at the enterprise level that are envisaged under the program. And
fimally, a targeted social safety net must be set up in order to protect the population groups most
vulnerable to the adjustme   associated with the stuctral transformation of the economy. The key
elemens of the    ehensive program including the timetable of actions. are described below and also
summarized in the atached policy mamx.
T.                Program
3.    To bring about a lasting reduction in inflation rates, tight fiscal and monetary policies will be
implemented. The deficit of the consolidated state budget, including directed credits and the Pension
Fund, will be limited tO lO%of the expected GDP in 1994 and the ratio of the deficit to GDP will be
reduced by at least half in 1995: This is consistent with the objective of reducing the monthly rate of
inflation to less than 5% by the end of 1995. These targets wil be achieved through large cuts in
Govermment expenditres, including subsidies for coal and bread, housing and communal services, as well
as subsidies to the agricultural sector. A program of targeted assistance to the most vulnerable strata of
the population will be implemented in the short term (See pam. 38). However. the best guarantee for
improving the living condidons of the population and protection of the poor is the resolute implemenation
Of radical economic reforms, which will promote a stabe increase of budget revenues, economic growd
and creation of new jobs.
4.    The National Bank of Ukaine and the Goverment will continue to conduct a tight monetary
policy. This is considered necessary to preven a price jump associated with the liberalization of domestic
prices and unification of the exchange rate from developing into an inflatonary spiral, as well as to
ahieve the desired goal of lesseing moetry finaneing of the budget deficit to a level consisten with
lowermg inflation. Taking into account the large credit needs of the Government in the fourth quarter
or 1994, no increase of credit to non-Governeznt establshments is likely to be possible in this quarter.
As a temporay masure, in the last quarter of 1994 the outndig stock of credits of the commercial



November 22. 1994
banks has been frozen. Direct credit control will be relaxed from January 1, 1995, and increased reliance
placed on indirect monetary policy instuuments, An increasing share of NBU credits to commercial banks
will be allocated through credit auctions; besides this, the NBU has ceased issuing directed credit. The
NBU retinance rate was raised to 25 percent per month at the end of October. and will be regulated with
respect to expected inflation to ensure that it remains positive in real terms. All lending by the NBU,
including to the Government. will take place at a rate no lower than the refinance rate. All ceilings on
interest rates of commercial banks were removed at the end of October 1994.
5.    At the initial stage, until financial discipline has been strengthened. the Government intends to
restrain the growth of wages by setting a ceiling on wages paid by state enterprises. The increase in the
wage bill will not be more than 80% of the programmed rate of inflation in the fourth quarter of 1994.
6.    The Government will closely monitor the impact of the stabilization policy on key economic
variables (inflation, commodity output, balance of paymeMS. exports) and if necessary take corrective
actions to restore the macroeconomic balance.
{I.    The Structrl Reform Program
7.    The leadership of the counwy is fully aware that sustined stabilization and econonic growdt
require fimdamental structnl reforms of production designd to transform the economic system that
incorporates element of adminisative planning to a market-oriented one based on a vibrant private
sector. Some measures have already been undetken to promote competitve markets, but this process
has not gone far enough. Moreover, in the absence of hard budget constints, there camot be a positive
supply response on the part of the producers. Economic resructurg   has also been hampered by the lack
of an adequate social safety net. The program of radical economic reforms of the President contins
measures for solving all the addressed ises.
A. Creating a Competitive Envirnmet
Liberalization of Prices
8.    The overall goal in the area of pricing is to significantly reduce Government intervention (both
at the level of central government, and local bodies of power) in setting and regulaing prices. This will
not only promote efficient resource allocation, including in particula scarce energy imports, but will also
strengthen the state budget. At the end of October 1994 the Government abolished the majority of state
imventions in price seting, including direct price comrol, most ceilings on profit margins, and required
advance declaration of price changes, icuding for commodities produced by monopolists.
9.    At the producer level the state control remains for natural monopolies (electricity, gas, cemtal
heating, water supply and sewage), public trnpo, rents, as well as for a smal and declining number
of artificial monopolies. In two steps, on October 25, 1994 and November 5, 1994, domestic prices of
imported natural gas for idstry and agiculuWal consumers and govemment orgations were raised
by factors of 3 and 1.5, respectively. In 1995 naural gas prices for these conumers will be periodically
adjusted to maintain a level that fully cover import, domesdc distrbion, and transportation costs at the
unified exchange mte. The pnce of domestc coal was raised by 90% stang November 5, 1994, to
reduce stue subsidies to no more than 20 perce, and we intend to liealize coal prices by Janur 1,



November 22. 1994
1995. except for coal for household use. Electricity prices were also raised to retlect fully the recent
increases in fuel costs. and a system of periodic price adjustmemt was introduced to compensate for
additional changes in the cost of fuel and other basic input costs. It is planned to liberalize electricity
prices for the industrial sector by the end of 1995, when a competitive wholesale electricity market will
be established (See para. 32). Limits on profit margins for crude oil and oil products will be eliminted
and the number of artificial monopolies subject to price controls will be significantly reduced effective
January 1, 1995.
10.   Retail prices of most foodstuffs and other commodides were liberalized as of October 21, 1994
by decree of the Cabinet of Mnisters. Retail price controls remain only on bread, municipal services,
public transportation, household fuel and housing rent. Bread prices were increased 4 to 5 times in
October, in order to achieve full cost recovery at the new harvest price for grain. However, as a
temporary measure, ceilings were also maintained on profit margins for bread products, baby food and
flour. The control of bread prices and the profit margin ceilings on bread products. baby foods, and flour
will be abolished as of January 1, 1995.
11.   Municipal service triffs, public transporaion fares and housing rents were also raised in October
1994 to icea  recovery of expenses from 5% to 20% for housing and municipal serices and from 3-
4% to 20% for public t   on.  The cost recovery ratio for household electricity will be increased
to 40% in January 1995 and 60% in June 1995, and will be substandally increased for housing and other
municipal services. To protect the most vulnerable strata of the population from the full impact of these
large price increases, the Goverment is implementing a program of targeted assisnce (See para. 38).
Private Sector DevLfit
12. The rapid development of the private sector provides not only the main source of growth of the
economy and increase in the dnber of jobs. but also a source of competition for the existing state
enterprises. However, the growth of new private ventures has remained below potential; and most new
enterprises operate in the informal sector, avoiding tax and other obligations. such as health and safety
standards. The Government will encourage more rapid development of the private sector and its
intgrtion into normal economic processes by addressing the main obstacles.  Frst, registration
procedures have been simplified for the seting up of new enterprises and shorter deadlines have been
imposed on regision bodies. Entry has been allowed in all branches of economic acdvity, including
transport and distribution of goods. Second, with the acclderation of privatization access to the means
of production will be made asier. The hard budget constraint for state enterprises will also force the
latter to sell or lease real estate or other property. State enteprises are free to sell their assets up to a
value of 2000 times the minimum wage provided the sale is done through open competitive medtods.
Third, a thorough review of the taxation system is being undaken to reduce the overall tax burden on
economic activity and uproot discriinaon against the private sector where it exists. Finally, a high
level task force has been established to develop a comprehnsive plan to create a legal framework
conducive to priva sector development.
13.   The Government recognizes the importance of direct foreign investment for aciling and
speeding up the process of creating an efficient and competitive private sector. Foreign inm  wil
not only brmg Ukrie capital, but teclnol6gy, management skills and access to foreign markets as weL
The prgrm of radical econic r       wi dsgdcanty improve the prospects for attactng seriou



November 22. 1994
long term foreign investors.  Insofar as the main condition of their confidence is stability and
predictability of laws and other regulations. the Governmen is aware that changes to them should be
introduced cautiously and never retroactively.
14.   Taking into account the planned improvement of the overall framework of foreign investmems,
the Govemment considers it is no longer a priority to create special incentives for forei  investors, nor
will efforts be condnued to guide foreign investors tO priority sectors. It is planned to abolish tax
holidays and other tax exemptions. as well as other special incentives. The leading principle will be to
ensure equal conditions for local and foreign investors.
Liberalization of DomestIgrade
1S. In line with the Government policy for the liberalization of trade and to promote the development
of the private sector, the system of state orders will be eliminated as of January 1. 1995 and replaced by
ordinary conracual obligations. The Decree of the President of Ukraine "On State Contract for 1995"
and a Draft Regulation of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine "On the Procedure of Formulation,
Placemen and Fulfillment of State Conract for 1995" are currently under elaboration. They envisage
limiting state purchases as of January 1. 1995 to goods and services necessary for the activity of budget
organizations (including the armed forces, schools. hospitals. ministries and departments, and other
organizations which are wholly financed from the budget). These goods and services will be procured
through competitive tenders, within the resources allocated in the budget for these purposes. With the
removal of formal and informal obsacles to wholesale and retail marketing (see below), intra-regional
an inter-regional trade will be allowed to develop along commercial lines.
16.   Also as of January 1, 1995, the Presidential decree (of November 3, 1993) imposing aa
ceiling of 55 % on marketing mark-ups Will be repealed and all central and local government ceilings on
marketing mark-ups will be eliminated. The tax on profits frmn intermediary activities will be brought
down to 30 percent by the end of 1994, which is more in line with profits tax in other sectors. This will
serve to reduce the discriminaton against intermediary activity and gready increase the incentive to
develop commodity markets and private wholesaling activies.
17.   The above measures will be most effective in generating dynamic pnvate sector trade only if a
supporing infrasrucm   is available. Wholesale storage bases and trucking enterprises will be included
in the mass privadzation program for 1995 and privatized rapidly. The auctions beginnig in the first
quarter of 1995 will include these facilities. Besides this, grain elevators and silos will be included in
the privatizadon program for 1995. Retail stores, including food stores, will be privatized quickly under
the small scale privatization program (See param 22).
Reform of the Externl Trade Regime
18.   To promote export and open up the Ukainian economy to internaional trade and compedtion,
the Government has taken decisive steps to reform the extemal regime. Re-opened on October 5, 1994
was the interbank currency auctions. The offilcia rate for the surrnder of foreign exchange to the Stae
was abolished on October 26, and the exchange rate is now unified and is being demined in the
inrbank aucton. AU licensed bans will be gradually allowed to take part in the curency aucdons, and
their bids will be processed without administtive itrferen. The allocation of foreign exchange



November 22. 1994
through the Tender Committee has been abolished. A high degree of current account convertibility of
the karbovanets was re-established. with full convertibility for trade and related activities.
19.   The Govermnent has also taken action to liberalize foreign trade. All export quotas and licenses.
with the exception of non-ferrous and ferrous scrap metals. cast iron. coal. grain and goods subject to
voluntary export restrains (VER) and other contingent international agreements were abolished on
November 1, 1994. All export quotas and licenses wiUl be removed by January 1, 1995 except for goods
subject to VER and other international coningent agreme. Under these conditons. indiave prices
will be published to provide information to exporters.
20.   As for imports. the Goverment will not impose any quantitative restrictions, except for licenses
curremly in place for health and safety means. envisaged by GATT/WTO norms and principles. The
Goverment is to introduce an economically subtntated system of the tariff regulation of imporm. Ths
will be achieved by reducing the maximm tariff rate to 30 percent by January 1, 1995, and by furhr
reducing the maximum rate later in 1995. The possibility remains to temporarily raise custom duties on
separate types of goods in strict confonnity with GATT/WTO norms. However. the share of import
goods whose tariff rates can exceed the established maximum arte Wll be lmited to 1% of total impor
(measured on the basis of 1993 import shares). The excise duties on imported and domesdcally produced
goods will be unified by March 1995. The Government will avoid fiequent revisions to the tff
structre.
B. Hardeing of Entrprise Budget Constants
21.   Economic liberaliation is the most effective meaus for transforming the econoty, if it is
accompanied by other reforms which force households, entiss and commercial banik to respond to
market signals. Of special attention will be the fulfllmen of the following three tasks: privatization,
iroduction of strict finanial discipline and improvme  of corporate goverance, and reform of the
financial sector.
22.   The Government is committed to accelerating priv7ation. Though the process has been
disappointngly slow so far, the basic legal and insdtutional famework has largdy bee established.
With respect to small scale privatzation, the Governm   intends to privatze 6,000 small (Group A)
enterprises by end 1994 and 90 perce of such enterprises by end-1995. To meet this objective, the State
Property Fund (SPF) has instructed its rWonal departments and offices to implemem the program, ad
mounted an extensive public inormation campaign to promote small-scale entepise auctions and buy-
outs. These instrcdons will be backed up by the system of appropriae incnives and pealties for
enterprise directors and officials of local government bodies. Beides, it is plamned to set up a sym
of incentivesldisincentives for the rapid prvaizaon of leasd  terprises.
23.   Wh respect to medium and lag  enterpri  the Govermem  will implement the m
privatization program. ITe process is tobe lauched in 1995 with stock auctions of at least 200
entepises by March 15, 1995 and apdly expanded to include 8,000 enaprises by the end of 1995.
To achieve these targets, the decree and other regulaions necesary bave been issued to stramUl  and
siplify the mass pdvatzm   process. The measures covered by dtes deces and regulato   nclude



November 22. 1994
the following ka) merging of the privatization and corporatization processes with SPF as sole founder of
all corporatized enterprises to be included in the State Privatization Program: (b) preparation of simplified
standard documentation packages to participate in the privatizatiomcorporatization process (by chairmen
of commissions on preparation of enQerprises for privatization and/or heads of enterprises): (c) submission
of these documents to state privatization bodies for approval according to tight deadlines: (d) book value
and most recent invemory to be automatically taken as the valuation of the enterprise; (e) standard
allocation of blocks of shares to the auction process; and (f) a simplified bidding system in the auctions
that will allow proportional allocation of shares to all bidders.
24.   The Govenmment has set forth a list of all sectors to be included in the State Privatization Program
in 1995. The list includes freight trucking enteprises. warehousing, and storage and distribution facilities
and is accompanied by an official statement by the Chairman of the SPF confrming that stocks of at least
8,000 enterprises are to be offered to the nationals of Tkraine at certificate auctions in 1995.
"5.   A comprehensive large scale public information campaign on the initiation of state enterprises
privatization for paper privaizaton certificates was launched in November 1994. This campaign
publicizes the deails of the streamlined mass privatization methodology and the distribution of certificates
to the population. Privauzaon cerdficates will be pinted and distributed to the population in five pilot
oblasts through the Savings Bank by mid-December 1994. In January 1995. regional bidding networks
in five pilot oblasts will be created and the first pilot certificate auctions will be carried out in February
1995. These auctions will be extended to the entire country by April, 1995, and betveen January 1 and
June 15, 1995 at least 1.000 medium and lue enterprises will have been auctioned through the ma
privatization program. The creation of investment fimds and other financial intermediaries wil be
encouraged by the government as a means of concentratng share ownership. Shares of all privatized
enterprises wil be mmedily trdable and secondary secuities markets will be created for this purpose.
26.   In agriculture. the Land Code specifically allows for private and state and collective ownership
of land. It also stipulates that collective and state farm members and those providing social services in
villages as well as pensioners who previously worked in agrculmre are entiled to receive an average land
share free of charge. However. land can be sold only after six years of possession. To promote the
development of a land market. the-Govemment will seek to amend the Land Code to achieve three main
goals: 1) the provision of physically identified average land shares to eligible beneficiaries through clear
and implementable procedures; 2) the reduction of the of the moratorium of land sale to two years after
receiving possession. or Jamnary 1, 1996, whichever occurs first; and 3) enforcement of lease payments
by farmers for lands received above the local average land share or the transformation of these leases into
purhses from the land reserves. Land in the reserves will be made available to all buyers, and its resale
tbeafter will be subject to the same reduced moratorhm  The procedures for land mortpge (and other
encmbrances) will be clarified in the amendments to the Land Code as well. The amendments to the
Land Code and a drft Law on Registration of Land and Other Real Estate will be submitted to the
Pariament by Janmury 1, 1995. The draft Law on Regisrai on of Land and Other Real Estate wfll
explicitly specify the procees for registering both urban and rural land and other real estate.
EneMlme and Rine
27.   Notwithslg privatization and growth of the pvate sector, state entaprses will conte to
occupy a larg pan of the economy in the near termL Sng    their economic performance will be



November 22. 1994
critical to the improvement in the Governmem's fiscal position. to the recovery of output. the
development of the private sector. and the viability of the banking system.
28.   Financial discipline in enterprises will be strengthened by measures outlined above that increase
competition and promote macro-economic stability, including in particular the liberalization of prices and
trade, and the elimination of directed credits and subsidized loans from NBU and commercial banlk. The
NBU will continue not to provide credits to setde inter-enterprise arrears.
29.   In order to reduce payment arrears for gas, electricity and central heating, an interdepartmental
commission has been created by the government to deal with anrears of enTerprises and budgetary
organizations. The utilites report non-payment to the commission which reviews the cause of non-
payment and proposes measures. If the problem is not solved, the commission authorizes the utility to
reduce or discotminue the supply of energy.
30.   Additional measures will be taken to enforce financial discipline and demonstrate that the state
will not bail out uneconomic activities. In this regard the enterprise sector will be exposed to the
provisions of the Bankruptcy Law and the Government will not block the implemenation of bankruptcy
proceedings by the courts. It is expected that a number of large non-viable state enterprises will be closed
down in 1995.
31.   The Government has insucted 20 large state enterprises that have either huge losses, or arrears,
or receive large budgetary support to develop acton plans for restrucurg by mid-March 1995. These
plns will include partial or complete privaization, partial or complete closure. splitting up of large
monopolies, divestment of social asse, etc. The Govermnent will establish a mechanim  by which it
can control the flow of subsidies to these and other large enterprises, making transfers conditional on
meeting restructrng targets. As a meas of improving the corporate governance, the Government will
also begin corporatizing state enterprises that will not be subject to privatization.
32.   Radical reform of the electricity industry has been approved with the aim of establishing a
competitive market for electricitv. According to the Government Action Plan for implementng
Presidential decree #244/94 'On Market Transformation Measures in the Electricity Industry of Ukraine',
a competitive electricity market will be established in 1995. On December 1, 1994, an electricity
regulating commission wiU be created, and the corporatization of hydro-power plants initiated.
Financial Sector Reform
33.   The NBU recognizes that fnancial sector reforms are critical for enforcing financial discipline,
increasing domestic financal saving and ensurmg that credit is allocated to the most efficiem users. The
elimination of direced credits from the NBU, the maintenance of real positive interest rates on refinance
credits, and the removal of ceilings on interest rates of banks should prmote both grater financial saving
and more efficient allocation of credit based on market reatons. Govement has already submitted to
the Parliamem a proposal to reduce the tax on profits of banks to 40 percent effective Jamnary 1,1 995
to bring this rate more into line with the profit tax rates of other sectors.
34.   Progrs has also been made in uptading the accounting systems and opeting standards of the
baking system in geneal and a limbed sub-set of new commercial banks in partcular. Th NBU is



November 22. 1994
committed to maintaining and extending efforts in order to create new banding structures which can
conform to international standards in all major banking iunctions.
35.   Progress has also been made in establishing and imnplementing an improved system of commercial
bank regulation and supervision. In the first quarter of 1995. the organizational arrangements for
reguatin non-bank financial institutions (eg. insurance companies and the new portfolio investme fuids
for privatized shares) will be reviewed to ensure consistency of approach, information sharing, etc.
36.   In the context of the on-going reform program and the restructuring of the economy, the
GovermenvNU will undertake a study of the former state banks to assess the magnitude of their bad
loans and possible options for limiting the adverse consequec  for the viability of the banking system,
The study will be completed by March 15. 1995 and concrete proposals for resuctring developed by
mid-June 1995.
C. Social Safety Net and Labor Markets
37.   Resolute imlementaton of the reform progrm  described above will generate sustainable
economic growth in the medium-term and allow living stadards in Ukaine to improve. Speedy and
decisive acton on the adjustment program is the best possible means for avoiding and alleviating poverty
n Ukraine - social protection measures in the absence of a vigorous adjustmemt program can only
redistribute poverty. EspeciaUy in the short run, however, the Governmem is aware that its program of
economic stabilizion and structral adjustment requires strengthening social security to protect the most
vulnerable segments of the society. Yet this strengtdening cannot be brought about with an increase in
taes. Competing successflly inionally, brmgig new pivate enterpnses into the official economy,
and creating new jobs will partly depend on lowermg the 53 percent payroll tax.
-Social Asstac
38.   The Government inends increasingly to focus social benefits on the truly needy. To protect the
living conditions of needy families with children and pensioners. the Government has increased eligibility
tbresholds and benefit levels to retlect inflation since the last increase in December 1993. It will adjust
benefits monthly to reflect furtier price increases. In addition. the Government has introduced targeted
paymens for housing mainenance for all households in which the per capita income falls below a poverty
threshold.
39.   In order to provide a sound basis for further targeting social benefits, the Govenmment intens
to initate an integrated household survey of the typc already being implemented in Russia, Belaus,
Kazkhstan, and many other countries. The survey will be conducted by the Miistry of Statistics, or
by Ukainian insutes under the general supervmsion of the Ministry of Statistic, or by Ukrainian
instutes working i   ny. The survey will make it possible to identify social groups in the
greatest need of social assistmce, as weU as provide detailed infonnation to be used for the development
of a broad range of economic policies and programs.
40.   Some programs are poorly targeted ahd not cost-effective in providing benefits. The Governnt
wil conider the issues of expent      by the Soc  Insurance Fund that are not trged  and will
propose cuing the expenditur  of the Fund.



November 22. 1994
41.   The Govermnent recognizes that social assistance is vulnerable to abuse as families and pensioners
may apply for the benefits without declaring their additonal incomes. During 1995, the Governmenu
intends to improve the methods for the assessment of individuals' financial position by random "spot
checks" to fight fraud and abuse. Further measures for strengthening the methods for the assessment of
financial position will be recommended in the Social Assistance Strategic Policy Paper given below.
42.   While the measures described above will help to improve a difficult sitaotion, the Government
recognizes that a thorough reform of social assistance and social insurance is desirable. Accordingly,
Orders of the Cabinet of Ministers have been issued to the Ministries of Social Protection, Labor,
Finance, Economy and Statistics and the Employment. Chornobyl, Pension and Social Insurance Funds
to prepare two strategic poficy papers. A Social Assistance Strategic Policy Paper to be completed u.-
the direction of the Ministry of Social Protection, wili (a) describe the present system of benefits and its
beneficiaries, (b) identify the system's objectives and critically assess its ability to meet them, and (c)
recommend a program of action for the next few years. It is the Govenmment's intention to complete the
paper bv March 15. 1995 and to begin implemenutig a comprehensive program of social assistance
reform during 1995. The second paper, on social insurance. is described in paragraph 44 below.
Emnlovment scheme
43.   The Government believes that the primary goal of the Employment Fund should be providing cash
assistance to the unemployed, not extending credit to state-owned enterprises that promise job creation.
Credits from the Employmet Fund for job creation have been discondnued. The Government intends
to explore mechanisms for strengthening benefits for the unemployed, inchlding replacing severance pay
in part with unemployment compensaton.
44.   The Government has initated an in-depth, comprehensive Social Insurance Strategic Policy Paper
in parallel with the paper on social assistance (paragraph 42). The paper wiU (a) include a comprehensive
description of Ukraine's Pension and Employment Schemes. including the legal and institutional
framework. the stmcture of benefits, and a picture of present beneficiaries. (b) identify the objectives of
the Pension and Employment.Schemes and critically assess their ability to meet them. and (c) recommend
a program of action for the nex-t few years. including increasing gradually the retirme  age. As with
social assistance. it is the Government's intention to complete the paper by March 15, 1995, and to
initiate a comprehensive pmgram of social insurance reform during 1995.
Iabor mobilit
45.   Under market economy conditions, workers should be free to improve their wages by seeking
employment in all regions and occupations. In this regard, steps will be taken in 1995 to eliminate the
use of propyshm as a requirement for applying for a job. This means that propyska will no longer be an
obsacle to labor mobility. The Government is also reviewing the role of propyska apart from its impact
on labor markets. The lack of housing resulting to a gre extent from the absence of a private housing
market is the main obstacle to labor mobility. ITh Government intends to promote the housing market
dewlopment by stimulating privation of the housing stock. including by increasing housing rems.
/



UKRAINE REIHABILTATION WAN POLICY MATRIX
Page 1 of lb
I                    'O|ic E              CURR rENT STATUS                   -MASURES TO BE TAKEN
...  .I                                              Defore                        1D1wt Nov 29, 1994
;;_______________ .___                        (au of Oct 1, MO)                       Nori 28, 1                            -ud199.
L MACRORCONI4C UFA3ILIATION
To cea  stle macrocoomIc             Monh    rme of Inflaon was brugh     Agroemn   ed wth die IMF on a    Agreemen on St     Arragemet
eewlomnm  conducve to economi        dow f(m 65% i ehe kst qartr of   stbilogn prgrm. First purchs              whb IMP In      199-. Stabilization
gmwth.                               1993 to abuot 2% in July-September    undr  STP approved *on October 26,   policis to b  fined in the conext of
1994. 1In      this hupovemen was    1994.                                the Stadb Aangeament.
Reduce de monhly rae of bnaion lo   aftlable to veryroitrlive
mse me  d     % by and 1995.         monetry policy.  nfianasq            Preseta    to PmarA   of revised
presres have emained sbdued due    Q4 buget by which die derick of Us
I     otductin of nw s te  ntional   to contiuing posie rea item          conodated tte budget inbcding
crsuney.                             rates, increased demand9w for ney,   dirkeed cedits and Penion Pund wUI
ad he _accmltio of ces casb         be Umid to 10% of expected GDP in
mreseves by baks.                    1994. ltis kso be achieved through
Ap cus In gvrame  expdiures,
caig coal an brad subsis.
subsi w hhomg an couinal
sies nd suies  to agriltre
(see itn  neessay pric adoJn t_).
Despi       cub s a n exapedte.     Consiten wh  e targetd inflation      SaMple a                     of de
tee monild eD be a s      _gnia      pah, brase In nt doesic asts of   Stdy Annme,
need fr mony fmancing of te         NMU a  th growh   of money sWpp
deficit. On a cash basi, i  n       restricted. Nv Incease in creit to
ditced credts, the bud  defic fr        -oven*m t sectr in Q4, 1994.
th fit half of 1994 wa 9% of GD?   Outst     ock of cedit of each
(mared wit  I1% in whole of         hun so no-ovement  se        o be
1993). Wit    corectie pocies,      *e duig Q4.
fth budget defici coul increnase
A       U2S% of GDP in te secnd hN
of 1994.
.   .   . . . . .   .   .                                                                    .~~~~~~~~~~



UKRAINE REIAIILIJTATION LOAN POIJCY MATRIX
Ilage 2 of 16
OBIIIVIs                         CURRENT STATUS                                      MEASURES TO BE TAKEN
.0~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Beoe                                                                                eween Nov 39, 1994
j.  : . . .   (as of Oct 1, 1994)                  o      1                             -end 1 994
1. MACROCONOMJC STABILIZATION (contd)
As of October 25, NBU refinance rate
increased to 2S% per moh frotm
11.5%. Rate is to be adjusted to
maintain real positive level wih respect
to expected inflation. All NBU credi
allocated pardy in proponion to the
banks' caphal and partly by auction
where the interest rate is determined by
supply and demand. Ceilings on
interest rates of banks removed as of
October 25.
Directed credits from NUIJ eliminiated
as of October 25. and no conditions set
for use of NBU resources by banks.
Continued tax-based incomws policy
resicding the grpwth of the
enterprises' wage bill to 80 percent of
the targeted rate of inflation.
Moderate tOe decline In econoic      Real GDP is estimated to have fallen    Implement structural refiorms isn 11 adi   Acceerate implementation of structural
acdvb, and pmoe toe grw  of         by 27% in the fir half of 1994       III to prmote output recovery,       refom.
te private sector.                  compared to one year earlier, and
industrial production [by 36%.
However, a growing underground
economy toderates the overall
decline In economic activity. Open
unemploymcnt is negligible but about
16% of the labor force is estimated to
be underemployed in some form or
other.



UKRAINE REIIABILATION LOAN POIACY NIATRIX
alge 3 *f 16
OusciRClVH                        CURRENT STATUS              JMEASURES TO BE TAIKEN
.  .  ........e...........       .                                                         wore  Belwemt Mav 29, 199S
'.     fi    (as of! Jc  , 19)       jNov8, 1"4                                               -end 199.
IL COMPBITI'IC ENVIRONMENT___
TO promote coetitn by reduciag       Exensive swte interferenoc in price   Significant liberalization of prices.  Further liberalization of prices, foreign trade
goverp ment nterentin In economic    fonmatin and domestic and foreign     domestic and fbreign trade and foreign    and domeic trade (see below).
actviy and fo5eting mark*-based      trade. Competition fon imports        exchange (see below).
alocadon of esources.                bnhibited by high cost of imports and
price regulbaions. Lack of paymen
discipline and absenmc of a hard builget
consaimn for state entrprises rmhr
wakens compettion.
A. P . . 
To Iberalze all prices, except for a  Extensive state (central and local)  A majority of state controls on prices,    Furdter price liberalization (as below).
few natr  monopolkes. Reglaed        nervemnt  in domestic price           abolished including direct controls and
prIces to be set so as to fully recover    fonmation at the producer and retail  required advance declaration of price  The number of artiticial nionopolies suijecst to
the cost of ptoviding the good.      lel. Thlse interventions include      changes, Including for c ommodiies    price regulation to be sharply reduced by
direct price controls (at central and/or    produced by monopolists. At the  January 1, 1995.
loal governent level) for some goods   producer level, price controls
and services, limits on ptofit nargins,    maintained only fir electricity, gas,  At Ite rtail level, by year eud. pnice coutrut
ceilings on trade mark-ups, advance  district heating, wawer and sewage,   to be maintained only for publif utilities, public
notifcation requirements for price   municipal transport, and rents, and a  transportation, fuel for househohis. and renlts.
Ieaes, etc.                          few ad dectining number of artiftcial
monopolies. At tie retail level, price    Limnits on profit nmargins for crkod oil asiut ol
controls remain only for bread, public    products to be liminated as of January I, 1995.
utiity charges, fares for public
transport, fel for bousehiolds, and
rents.



UKRAINE REIIABILITATION LOAN POLICY MAI'RIX
-'agc 4 WA 16
ODIDC'lVHII                       CURRINI STATU                                            MEASURES TO BE TAKEN
vg>-, :......                                                                        - .efe                               Between Nov 29, 1994
;    1  |sofct1,99(a                               No2, 1994                                   end 99S
A. Pric    (cond)                                                                                                _   _   _   _   _  _   _   _   _   _   _
Administered prices have been        (i) In two steps, on October 25, and  In 199S. natural gas prices for inidustrial,
maintaIned at levels that are well below   November 5. 1994, domestic prices of   agricultural and governmental organizatbons will
the teal cost of supplying the goo  d  imported namral gas for industrial and    be periodicaly adjusted to maintain a level that
services. lbe use IDf a highly       agriculural prducers and              fully covers import. domestic distribution, and
appreciated exchange rate is convening   govemmental organizaions were raised  transportalion costs at the unificd exchangc rate.
dollar prices to iarbovanets has     by factors of 3 and 1.5, respectively.
resultd bi a large subsiy on imported
gas. The average wholesale price of
aural gas was 25%S of border price at
the narket exchange rate in the first
half of 1994.
Electricity prices for producers were  (ii) Average electricity prices were  Wbolesak electricity prices to be liberahietl by
raised by 45% in Sepqeber.            aised from Kib 500/kwh to Krb        die end of 199S, when competitive market will
1950/kwh In October and November to   be established.
fully rflect recent increases in fael
costs. A system of periodic price
adjustments put in place to compensate
for addtional changes in fuel and oher
basic import costs until tie competitive
wholesale market is estabihhed.



UKRAINI. REIIABILITATION LOAN POIACY MIAXThtIX
PAge 5 o 16
OBECTIFISN                        CUREtENT STATUS                                         MEASURES TO BE TAKEN
Before                            Between Nor 29, 1994
(as of Oct 1, 1994)                    Nor 28, 1994                               - end 199S
A.   ?tke    W Watd)__                                                          _   _   _  _   _   _   _   _   _   _   _     _   _  _   _   _   _   _   _
(iii) Implementatbon of an Acuion Plan   Competitive whoksale nwaret for electricity to
was inikiated to establisb a compitve    be established in late 199S
wholesale market for electricity in
1995. As part of the Plan the
Govertment announced tht
establishuent of an Electricity
Regulaeory Commission as of
December 1, 1994, and til
corporatization of hydropower plants
will also be Initiated by that date.
The price of coal covered only 60-65  (iv) On November 5. doimestic coal  Coal prices to be liberalized ont January 1, 1995
percent of the cost of prodution,    prices for producers were raised by  except for household se.
90% to Kib 1,967,000/otoi to reduce
subsidies to no more than 20% of
price.
(v) Price of ftel oil under state orders
raised on Oct I by 2. thmes to Krb
4.9 milionhon.
I



UKRAINK REgIABILITATION LOAN POIICY MATRIX
OuJge 6 *r 16
o.TwES                            CURRENT STATW S                                         MEASURES TO DR TAKEN
.  ef.               I            Beetwen  Nov 29, 1994
-j:',-',..^   (as of Oct l, 1994)                 No1 2819941                                -end I99S
A. Po   (eated)                              ._.___-____.                                                                                        .
Ptblic udlity tariffs and rents cover no   (vi)  or cousholds, public utiliy  Elcticity prices for households to be inre;ased
nore "an 5% of costs whie fares for   tariffs and housing rents were increased  to achieve 40% cost recovery ratio in January
public transport cover only 3-4% of  in end October to recover at least 20%    199S and 60% in June 1995.
Cost.                                of costs of providing such services.
This implied an increase of 8 tines for   Oilier household public utdity pi wes andI
natural gas. 6 Otmes for coal, S times  bouing et  will also be rased subsgmially in
for LPG. 7 tim  for district beating  Janua  and June 199S.
and S times for electricity. Overall.
the cost of housing, incluhkig
communal servics increased 7 times in
October. Transportation fares were
raised 6 timaes to cover 20% of cost.
Furdher adjusttnents in these prices in
November and Decamber to maintain
cost recover rates.
(vii) Bread prices were raised 4-S   Bdre  prices to be liberalized as of Janoary 1.
dmes in late Ocober to achieve full  199S. Profit margin celings on bread produects.
cst recovery at de 1994 harvest price   baby food and flour to be elihinated as of
of grain. As a temporary measure     January 1. 1995.
profit margin ceilings were imposed on
bread products, baby food and flour.



UKRAINE ItEIIABILITATION LOAN POILICY NIAT'l'IX
Plige 7 ot 16
OIIBCFIVES              [         CURRENT STATUS                                           MEASURES TO BE TAKEN
.               Before                           lBetween Nov 29, 1994
(as of Oct 1, 1994)                     Nov 28, 1994                                  end 1995
S. Prvate Setor D eopment            _
To promote domestic competition.     The growth of the private sector is   The scope of government regulations   Government regulation of prices largely
fister dte growdt of Ihe private sector.   hampered by government interfence    on prices, mark-up on trade and profit   eliminated except for natural moniopolies (set:
in selting prices, controls on trade  margins significandy narrowed (see NA   IIA above).
(domestic and freign), the segmented    above).
market for foreign exchange, the heavy                                     EMxp01 (11u3taS anud tieSlCb! to be clltamUts1llJ
tax burden, the inwtable macro- and   I)ual exchange rate sybsten stisinantled    (witb few exemptions) and import taxes rcduted
institutional environment, and the lack    in late October wih die re-opening of    by January 1, 1995 (see lIt) bcelw).
of necessary intrastructure (such as  the interbank market for foreign
transport, marketing outlets, etc.) and    exchange and the abolition of the
productive assets. Despite these      offical exchange rate (see ND below).
obstacles, there is a growing
underground private economy.          Export quotas and liceinses eliminiated
for many products as of Nov I (see [ID
below).
Tax reformn proposals but,mitted to
Parldiment to reduce the overall burden
of taxation.
Small-scale psvatizaliann aeceleraled  90% of small-scale privatazatiotl to he
(see IlI below).                     completed by end 1995 (see N1 below).
Preparatory steps initiated for rapid  Mass privatization piogram tfir niediktik atd
privatation of medium and large      large enterprises to be accelerated (see III
enterprises (see 111 below) and asset  below).
sales.
Measures illpletinented its har&n     liuages constrainl on Sll's to be lIardtlend
budget constraint on SIi's through   through elimination of state support, forcile
elimination of stale support and     them to divest assets (see IV bekow).
subsidized credit, forcing them to
divest assets (see [i below).



UKRAIN1E REIIABILITATION LOAN POLICY MlAT'IIX
tI'g: 8 ft 16
ODIRCTIVES                          CURRENT STATUS                                             MEASURES TO BE TAKIEN
Before                              Between Nov 29, 1994
._________________________ _                     0 .(as of Oct 1,1994)                     Nov 28, 1994                                - end 199S
C. LeraluMim o Domedc Trade            _
To eliminate diserWimmalon aapinst     Domesic private trade is constrained   Decreed thai as of January 1, 1995,     As of January 1, 1995, exisliug systemi ot* state
domesdic tding aciviy whtich is        by ceilings on trade mark-up at central   Predential decree (of November 3,    orders. including for grains. to le abuxlislid.
hinern the develpment of mnarkets    and lcal levels, by the dominance of     1993) imposing a nmaximum ceiling of    State procurement as of Janiary I. 1995. will
and pepetuing mte interference h       d the state order sys:m. by            35% on marketing mark-ups will be       be limited to gotuds aned servace: necessa.y iVI
commercbil activities.                 discrimiaiadng taxation, and by lack of    repaled and all central and local   activny ot the lundges utganizatinn ani will fie
access to necessary infrastructure, such   government ceilings -oe marketing   done on competitive prntsiples, thiougli tolgkt
as transport. storage, and retail space.   mnark-ups will be elininated.       bids and tenders, within die resources allitcaite*
hi she budget fo tr his purpobe.
Proposals submited it) Parliameilt to
lower profit tax on intermediaries to
30% by end of 1994.
Smiall scale prlvatizasi is act-ch:ratt d  Privatizaton of 90% of smtall-scale enterptises
(see DI below).                        to be compledte by end-1995 (see un-).
Mass privatizaion programit initiated  Privastize sonme tiucking anti waslt'iubse
for medium and large enterris (soe    facilities, through the mass privattCaiIOli
m below), including in trucking and    program, by mid-Match 1995 (see Ill).
wareouses, eIc.
Privatikc sune grai sitts.



IlUlKAINE: REIIABILITATION LOAN POI,ICY MATRIX
l'.ige 9 (if 16
OECTIVES                           CURlENT STATUS                                           MEASURES TO BE TAKEN
Before                            Between Nov 29, 1994
.   .      (as of Oct 1, 194)                      Nov 28, 1994                                -end 1995
D. Retoom of ld.e Rxteml Ree          _
To cre  a poliy environment that      Currenfly, exporters are disadvantaged   lnwer-bank foreign exchalige market  The interbank market will be progressively
does no discriminate apinst exporters   by the implicit tax resulting from the  reopened on Oct S. The official rate of  opened to all licensed banks.
and does not inhibit competition from  compulsory surrender of part of their    exchange was abolishled on Oct 26 and
imports.                              eamnins (30% sinqe Aug 23, 1994) at    die exchange rate was unified at the
a highly overvalued official exchange  natkel determined rate.
rate. Exporters ire also htampered by
the system of expott quolas and       As of Nov 1, 1994. export quotas and    By January 1. 1995. all export quotas aid
licenss that covers approximately 40%    licenses eliminated, with the exception    licenses, to be elimninated except for goods
of exports. The system of indicative  of coal, grain, ferrous ansd non-ferrous   subject to VER and other intematiolial
prices is also a potential source of  scrap, cast iron and some other goods    contingent agreements.
export control. On the import side,.    subject to voluntary export restraints
here are no qtsantilative restrictions  (VER) and olher international       Thte naxinimkii ismpott taritt rate willt ie lowered
(except for licenses for a few        contingent agreements.                to 30(% by January 1. 1995 and futhier towered
commodities for health atnd safety                                          by end 19'5. Iniptrt tariffb may be rai6e
reasons). 'he average tariff re in    No quantitative restrictions will be  temporarily above the nuxiltunia tate.
1993 was approximately 11%, but rates  applied on mports.                   However, tbe ctimulative share ot good, AIiowc
varied significantly, with the maxinmm                                      tariffs exceed the maxirmim lrat ib total impons
rates in excess of 300%. Excise duties                                      in 1993 must not exceed 1 percent
on imported goods significantly higher
than for domestically prodtuced goods.                                      Excise duties ou imported alnd thoinestic.iily
produce4 goods will be unified by March 1995.
No quantitativc restrictionls will he pplihed tz
imports.



UKRAINE REtAWILITATION LOAN POLICY MATRIX
Page l0 of 16
OIJCIlVES                         CURRENT STATUS                                       MEASIRES TO BE TAKEN
B -,   -  -  erre   I        lletween Nov 29, 1994
*______* ______e_____-______. __          (as of Oct 1, 1994)                     Nov .2, 1994             |              end 199S
m. HARDING ENTEMRPRIS BUDGET CONSTRAINT                                                                                                              I
To cestie that economic agents       Continuing government interference in    Significant narrowing in scope of  Further libetalization, privatization.
incluig enterprises, farms. banks,    business decisions (picing, trade, etc.).  government interftrence in pricing,  and private sector development.
ihousebolds) respond appropriately to  Dominance of state-owned enterprises    domestk trade and foreign trade (see 11
maukte signals, and do not escape from   with unclear distinction between rights   above). Acceleration of privatization
die discipline imposed by market     of owners, managers, and workers.     and development of private sector.
rces ad competition.                 Continuing subsidization anxd bail-out of  Limitation of state supppwl to loss-
state enterprises through tbe budget and   making enterprises.
the baniing system.
A| ft:af ls     .                     ._.._.._.__.
To accelerate the t fanser of owship   Though the basic egal and institutional   1. Privatized about 6.000 small  Complete privatization of 90% of
of producive asse  from the stte to.   framework has been largely          enterprises.                          small enterprises by end 1995.
privte owners who wI be more         established, there has been very slow
responsive to market signals. This   progress in privatization. By end June   2. Initiated Mass Privatizatiot   D)istribuite paper tcnificates in 5
tansfet wil also eliminate the       1994, only about 5,000 smal           Program (MPP) for brge enterprises.    obasts by Dec 15, 1994.
presre on die government from        enterprises had been privatized out of a   using simplified procedures and
branch ministie to bail out los      total of more than 100,000. And only    methodology. mbis included die      By March 15, 1995. complete stock
makit  enterprises in their          about 1,000 medium and large         fbllowing steps:                       auctions (including trucking and
Jurbsdiction,                        enterprises (out of 20,000) had been                                        warehousing) in S oblasts rir at least
privatized, mostly by transfer of    a. Issued decree outlining simplified  200 medium to large enterprises usuig
ownership to workers' collective.    procedures including the mterger of   simplified procures.
corporatization and privatization
processes                            Some grain silos to be privatizcd.



UKRAINE REIIABILITATION LOAN POI,ICY MIATRIX
I'Agc II otf lo
OBJECTIVES                         CURRENT STATUS                                       MEASURES TO BE TAKEN
Before                        Belween Nov 29, 1994
________________________ ,    -(as of Oct 1, 1994)                                      Nov 28, 194              j             -end 199I
A. Ivttzatlon (cont'd)                                                                                                __-_j
b. Announced the list of sectors to be    Auctions to be extended to the entire
included in the MPP for 1995,         country by April 1995.
including trucking, warehouses, storage
and distribution. The statement       Auctioin at least llOl) lediumi and
confirmed that the MPP for 1995 will   large enterprises between Jan-June 15,
include at least 8,000 medium and     1995.
large enterpriscs.
Sale of shares by public auclisus of at
c. Launched national camilpaign to    least 8,000 medium and large
publicike te govenment's plan for     enterprises to be comipleted by end
mass privatlzation, including use of  1995.
streamlined mass privatization
procedures and die distributiont ot
certificates to dte population.
In agricukure, though the 1992 Land                                         By Jan 1, 1995. presentl to Parliauiwnt
Code allows fto private ownership,                                          amendments to Lau  Code to (a)
privately owned and cultivated land is                                      ensure right of state and collective
.only I% of totat agrkultural land.                                         farm nitembrs to receive physically
The Land Code also entitles fann                                            identified average land slhares; (b)
members in collective and slate farms                                       reduce the roruaoriwun on iand sates to
to receive a certain fraction of the                                        2 years aficr possession or Jan 1. 1996
available land at the local level, but by                                   whichever is sooner and (c) enlbrce
and large the entitlement has not                                           lease payments by private farmers for
resulted in property rights on                                              land received above their entitlement
identifiable pots of land. At most,                                         of the average land share, or
identifrab  land plots have been                                            transform these leases into sales Irwoll
allcated only to those farm metnbers                                        the land reserves.
who wish to leave the state or
collective farm. 1Tbe developeont mr                                        By January I. 1995, present to
the land markets has been constrained                                       Parliament a draft Law on Registration
by the failure to distribute identifiable                                   of Land and Other Real Estate
land plots to membets of state and                                          specifyuig the procedures for
collective farms, as well as by a six                                       registering urban and mral lamd and
year moratorium on land sales.                                              other real estate.



UKRAINE REHABILITATION LOAN POLICY MATiIIX
l'igc 12 ob1 1
OBJECIVES                          CURRENT STATUS                                       MEASllRES TO BE TAKEN
Before                       SBetween Nov 29, 1994
(as of Oct 1, 1994)                     Nov 28, 1994                            - end 1995
D. Fnncial diseipline and corporate governance                                                                   _
To improve corporate governance and    The government continues to provide  Instructions issued to 20 large state  Implementation of restructuring plaus
lighten fnawncial discipline in      suppon directly (through budgeting     enterprises that either have huge losses,  in 20 large enterprises. These plans t)
enterprises *tat are not privatized.  transfers, or tax exemptions) 3r      or receive large budgetary support to    include partial or hill privatizalion.
indirectly throtigh the banking system  develop action plans for ilhei      partial or complete clhsure, partial
(in the form of subsidized directed   restructuring by mid-March. 1995.     divestment of assets, etc.
credits) to non-perforning state-owned
enterprises. Thve organizational      Begun corporatization of SE;b thia will    Govirnmienat will not lske IoCnJs1Ics tg
sirucure of SPzs that are not         not be privatized.                    block the implementation of
corporatized also promotes diffusion of                                     bankruptcy proceedings by vturis.
accountability and a lact of clarity  Approved restructuring plan of
regarding the role ot owiner and      electricity industry (see HA).        Cltoc dtlwit hannC L ge n1mn-vdlalh
manager. Payment discipline is                                              state enteaprises.
weakened by government directives     Established inter-ministerial
preventing punitive measures, such as    conmmission to initiate actions it reduce
the implementation of bankruptcy      payment arrears to energy suppliers
proceedings.                          from enteprises and budgetary
orgatiizatioms.



UKRAINE REIIABIUTATION LOAN POLICY MATRIX
Page 13 of 16
OUJICIWS                         CURMRENT STATUS                                    MEASURES TO BE TAKEN
R e e: !:.  -   aefore       Between Nov 29, 194
+1;  ;                     {~~~~~~~~~as Of Oct 1, 1994)            Nov: *,91                               nd 19bS
C. Ri"Mcll Smctor Retorm
To strengthn the capaciy of the     The financil sector is unable to     Directed credits from NBU eliminated    Etiminate credit ceilings on banks and
baing system to enlbrce financial   enforce financial discipline and     as of lte Oct. Cedings on interest   shift towads market-orented mcasures
dibcipie and to mobilizc fnancial   efficiently mobilize and allocate    rates of banks eliminated            to conduct monetary policy by eaFly
savings a  allocate credit to efficient   resources. The govermnent contiues                                  1995.
users.                             to influence lending decisions,       Interest rates on refinanice credits frogn
including through directed credits and    the NBU raised to a monthlY rate of  By Marcil IS. 1995. complete study
ceilings on interest rates. Banks are  25% and regulated with respect to  debtting. evaluating and costing
also burdeaed by bid loans that farther   expected inflation to renain postive in   alternative restructuring plaits for tlte
undermine their capacity to make    real terns as of Oct 25, 1994.       former state banks and develop
prudent ending decisions. The                                            concrete restructuring proposals by
framework for bank supervision also  No credits issued by the NIUJ to clear   mid-Jun: 1995 for implementation
needs to be strengthened.           inreretprise arrears as of October    starting later in the year.
25, 1994.
Proposals submitted to Parliament to
reduce profits tax on financial
nermediaries to 40% by end of the
year.
e I 



PaIge 14 of 16
OBJECTIVES                         CURRENT STrATUS                                       MEASURES TO BE TAKEN
Before                         Between Nov 29, 1994
(as of  c R 1. 1994)                     Noi 28, 1994             j               end 1995
IV. SOCIAL SAFlITY NET
To protect the neediest members of    Ukraine has an extensive and expensive   Initiated two strategic policy papers,  Completion of policy papers by March
society against hardship durtng the   system of social protection. In 1993,    one on social assistance and the other  15, 1995.
adjustment and reform process.        expenditures on social programs        on pensions and unemployment
accounled for 25.4% of GDP, with 2/3   compensation, whicih will recomrneed a
To reform the existing programs of    of the populaiion receiving beneftis of    program of actions, to be implemented   Implementation of comprehensive
social assistance and social insurance  one kind or anotheV. This extensive  starting in 1993. to meet the reform   reform to be initiated by end 1995.
to make them rnancially sustainable,    system of socialprograms is largely  objectives.
betr targeted to those who need       financed by very high levels of payroll
assistance most. and compatible with    taxes, with the total lax on labor about
reforms to pronote labor mobility and    53% of the taxable wage bill.
efficient rekource use.
To promote economic growth and
empkWmpens by reducing payrof taxes
ta financed untargeted and wastefll
programs.                                                         .                                                                                     ||
A. Targeted Asitance
To protect the living standards of the  Targeted assistance is provided to low  The income threshold for child benefits   Continue implementation of targeted
neediest members of the population, in  inwome fanilies with children and low  for low income families, and tie level    assistance programs including indexing
particular low incomne families with  incomne pensioners, but the overall    of such benefits indexed io price      income threshold and level of Clkiltd
children and low income pensioners.   benefit structure is not well targeted.  increases. Similarly, means-testcd   bencfits for low inconme fanuiles io
However, the targeted progrants       supplementary pensioni benefits also   intlation|
provide a base on which a strengthened   indexed to protect low-income
means-tested program can be built.    pensioners against price increascN.    7o iumprove targeting, die gSovermiet|
Approximately 162,000 children in                                            will initiate integrated household
105.000 families (slightly more than  'houIsing voLichers issuied 1i) tantilies    survey to i lentify grotips of porinmlJmio l
I % of all children tntler 18) and    with per capita incomne below Krb      in the greatest nteed of social
approximately 1.2 million pensioners  780,000. The voucher covcrs up to      assistance, and to provide inftoitiation
(9% of total) collected thiese benefits in   70% of tbe housing and utility cost, but  needed for designing a broad range of
1993.                                 no more than Krb 250,000 per family.    social policies/programs.
The government will implement
inproved targeting tchemes based on
survey. Random *spct dkecks will
be implemented to prevent abuse of
I _______________________________                                                                                   tn______________________________  ________________________________   means-tested  targeting.



UKRAINE REIIABILITATION LOAN POLICY MIATRIX
Pltge 15 of lb
OBJECrIVES                       CURRENT STATUS                                     MEASURES TO BE TAKEN
oefore                       Between Nov 29, 1994
l________________                                                        __(as of Oct 1, 1994  "oy 2S, 1994                end 199S
B. Penion Fund
To strengthen the capacity of the   Approximately 27% of the population    Pension expenditures adjusted so as to    Continue to protect pensions of low
pension system to povide adequate   receive one kind of pension or other.    maintain Pension Fund in balance in  income pensioners.
pensions to needy pensioners by     In 1993. the expenditures of the     1994. Pension stipplenments to low
tightening eligibility criteria, and, if  Pension Fund far exceeded the  income pensioners indexed to inflation.   Based on study on pensions and
necessary, reducing die real level of  revenues of the fund, and die shiortfall   Otler pension benefits will be  unemployment compensation (above),
benefis to pensioners that are not  of 3% of GDP was iiade up from the    correspondingly reduced in real terms    initiate measures to strengthen the
needy.                              state budget, undennining            to ensure the Fund is in balance.    pension systein over the long lerm, for
macroeconomilistability.                                                 example by gradually raising the
normal retirement age for both
genders and by discouraging granting
of pensions io active workers.
C. 15mpoyaens Fnmd
To improve the fmncioning of the    The Employment Fund, financed by a    Extension of credits from Employment   Based on study of Social Insurance
Employment Fund so as 1o tespond    3% payroll tax, allocates a          Fund to enterprises tor job creation  (above), iniiate iniplemention of
more elfftdively to rising          disproportionately large share of its  discontinued.                     comprehensive reforms of the
unemployment. This wil require      resources to creation of Employment                                      unemployment compensation sthlsnmc.
reducing outlays on administration  Centres and on providing credit to   Explore mechanism for strengthening
effrctive progams, such as          enterpises prnising to create jobs.  benefits for the unemployed, including
governmeat-dicaed training and      Only a minute fraction of current   replacing severance pay in part with
credits to state enterptises ftr Job  expenditures are used to provide   unemployment compensation.
creation.' The savings so generated  unemployment benfits, training of
may be deposted in banks to earn a  jobless workers, and 'social works."
ral posve return, to be utilized
when uetbyment incre , for
deaneddriven taining programs, or
on welldesigSed 'social works
prgrams. They could also be used to
redue the payro tax and threby help
to create more jobs.              I



UKRAINE REIIABItITATION LOAN POLICY MATRIX
Page 16 of 16
OJECTIVEf                         CEURRENT STATUS                                      MEAStRES TO BI  TAKElN
<                                         s o.  .ct .....j               .        . Before                        Between Nov 29. 1994
> A. .; .e  .....   .             ~~~(as of Oct 1, 941No2i^9t                                                       d   9S
D. Sca Asisance Preuams
To srengthen social asis e to those   The Social Insurance fund, financed by                                     Review expeditues of the Social
ho truly need It. financi increa     4.4% payroll tax, finances some                                             Insurance Fund with a view to re-
in rged beneft wh reductios in   benefits for dt  poor, such as sick and                                         directing those poorly targeted and not
narged bnfit. To rduce the           disability pay (40%) and child and                                          cost-effective to other putposes.
burden of paymU laes by elminating   mnfateity allowances for workers and
progams  at have litle social mart   families (20%). Hbwever, odter
benefits k finances, such as visits to
sanatria and vacation camps (40%)
have lilde social merit.
.IL I_Mbwbty
To remove obstacles lo  bor mobilit.   The main constraint i the shotage of    Implmented measures including     Accelrate privatitation of housing.
housing and the absence of an acdve  raising rents on public apartments, to
private market for housing. Though   accelerate privatization of housing.  Indate measures to elinminate use of
the Privdation Law of 1992 allws                                           propyska as a requiremet for
teansm in apartments owned by                                              applying for jobs.
enptrises ajad muicilies to be
privatized almost free of charge, very
little ptivadation has occurred.
Mobilit may also be restricted by the
propyska, the system of regubtions
govornin movement of works across
rions.



,  RD24253
20                               2?                                3_r                                3                                Ar
BELARUS
TOUBre aA   Nren'enchuk
=   :   l  |  0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RSSIA   FEDERATION 
PS(UOLArKND                                                                                      M mc Tof 
--q,  ^Uhoo         F0ES  ran.k                       ,rememlu                                            - 
-) Wa                                                                                                       s    o
SL K                                            KrBLACK   SEA m echu
lR.eseWL G A R I A s'-   3ab  35       -   50   MEES r   i50
REPUBLIC ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                0       0       8
Wno-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M
Frun6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M19



