Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16334
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
UKRAINE
REHABILITATION LOAN
3831-UA
February 27, 1997
Country Operations Division II
Country Department IV
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(as of February 28, 1997)
Currency Unit        Hrivnya
US$1          Hrivnya 1.765
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
IBRD - International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA   -  International Development Association
PIU   -  Project Implementation Unit
SOE  -  Statement of Expenditures
MOF  -  Ministry of Finance
AGSECAL  -  Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan
CG   -  Consultative Group
EDAL  -  Enterprise Development Adjustment Loan
FSU   -  Former Soviet Union
GDP  -  Gross Domestic Product
ICR   -  Implementation Completion Report
IMF  -  International Monetary Fund
NBU   -  National Bank of Ukraine
STF  -  Systemic Transformation Facility
VER   -  Voluntary Export Restraint
UKRAINE'S FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
Vice President: Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Director: Basil Kavalsky, EC4DR
Division Chief: Wafik Grais, EC4C2
Responsible Staff: Chandrashekar Pant, Consultant, Ritu Anand, Senior Economist, EC4C2



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
UKRAINE
REHABILITATION LOAN 3831-UA
Contents
Preface .......................................................................i
Evaluation Summary ......................................................................                                                                          ii
Part I.  Project Implementation  Assessment .......................................................................1
Part II. Statistical Tables ......................................................................                                                                12
TABLE  1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS ...............................................................................13 -14
TAbLE 2: RELATED BANK  LOANS/CREDITS ..............................................................................                                      15
TABLE 3:  PROJECT TIMETABLE ..............................................................................                                               16
TABLE 4: LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL ....................................... 17
TABLE 5: KEY  INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ...................................................................... 18-21
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION ..............................................................................                              22
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT ..............................................................................                                      23
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS ..............................................................................                                                   24
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING ..............................................................................                                               25
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC  COSTS AND BENEFITS ..............................................................................                                     26
TABLE  10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS ..............................................................................                                      27
TABLE  I 1:  COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS ............................................................. 28
TABLE  12: BANK RESOURCES:  STAFF INPUTS ..............................................................................                                  29
TABLE  13: BANK  RESOURCES: MISSIONS ..............................................................................                                      30
Appendixes:
A.  Borrower contribution  to the ICR ...................................................................... 31-33
B. Map
Vice President: Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Director: Basil Kavalsky, EC4DR
Division Chief:  Wafik Grais, EC4C2
Responsible Staff:  Chandrashekar Pant, Consultant, Ritu Anand, Senior Economist, EC4C2
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
UKRAINE
REHABILITATION LOAN 3831-UA
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Rehabilitation Loan in Ukraine, for
which Loan No. 3831-UA in the amount of US$500 million equivalent was approved on December 22,
1994 and made effective on December 27, 1994.
The loan closed on June 30, 1996, the original closing date. The first part of the disbursements,
which was made available upon effectiveness was fully disbursed by April, 1996. The second part ($250
million) was released on May 15, 1996. The loan was fully disbursed on May 31, 1996. Co-financing
for the project was provided by the Canadian Government for US$10 million and the Export-Import
Bank of Japan for US$150 million.
The ICR was prepared by Chandrashekar Pant, Consultant for the Country Operations Division
II of the Europe and Central Asia Region, and reviewed by Wafik Grais, Division Chief, EC4C2, and
Ms. Judy O'Connor, Principal Operations Officer, EC4DR. The borrower provided comments that are
included as appendixes to the ICR.
The ICR was prepared as a desk task in the second half of 1996. It is based on material in the
project file. The borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by preparing its own evaluation of
the project's execution.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
UKRAINE
REHABILITATION LOAN 3831-UA
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    The Rehabilitation Loan was preceded by the Institutional Building Loan ($27 million) approved
by the Board in June 1993. Following years of macro-economic instability and economic mis-
management, in mid-1994 newly elected President Kuchma indicated his firm commitment to
macroeconomic stability and systemic reforms. The Rehabilitation Loan supported his efforts. Since
then, the Bank has approved 10 projects, including the Hydropower Rehabilitation and System Control
Project ($114 million) approved in April 1995, the Agricultural Seed Development Project ($32 million)
approved in May 1995, a Pilot Project in the Coal Sector ($15.8 million) and a Housing Project ($17
million) approved in May 1996, the Enterprise Development Adjustment Loan (EDAL, $310 million)
approved in June 1996, a small Social Protection Support Project ($2.6 million), approved in September
1996, an Electricity Market Development Loan ($317 million) and an Agriculture Sector Adjustment
Loan (AGSECAL, $300 million) approved in October 1996, an Export Development Loan ($70 million)
approved in November 1996, and a Coal Sector Adjustment Loan ($300 million) approved in December
1996. The Bank's economic and sector work has included a Country Economic Memorandum (1993),
and sector reviews in Agriculture, Transport, Energy, Environment, Finance, Housing, and the social
sectors. A poverty assessment was completed in June 1996.
Project Objectives
2.    The main goals were to significantly lower the rate of inflation, to stop the decline in economic
activity and to create a market-oriented, private sector-led economy. Funds from the Loan were also
meant to alleviate the severe shortage of energy in the winter of 1994-95 and to strengthen the social
safety net. The Bank's loan also provided a framework for financial assistance from other donor
agencies. The goals were appropriate, but too ambitious.
Implementation Experience and Results
3.    The results of the project were mixed. On the positive side, the loan financed critically needed
energy imports, alleviating the harsh winter conditions. The budget had more resources to strengthen the
social safety net. The Rehabilitation Loan also provided a framework for mobilizing the international
financial community in support of Ukraine's efforts. Through the CG process which the Bank chaired,
the Loan prompted the international community to pledge $ 5.5 billion in economic assistance, debt
rescheduling, and arrears consolidation to meet Ukraine's 1995 balance of payments financing
requirements. By its timely support to Ukraine's reform efforts, and the additional resources mobilized
through the CG process, the Rehabilitation Loan strengthened the position of the reformers within the
government, and enhanced their ability to carry them forward. Two years down the road, this may be
one of its biggest achievements.



- iii -
4.     The project was less successful in other respects. First, macro-economic performance was
erratic. Though the rate of inflation came down from an average of 16 percent per month in 1994 to
about 5 percent in December 1995, this was much more than the targeted rate of 1-2 percent per month.
Economic activity fell 13 percent in 1995, considerably more than the 5 percent projected by the Bank.
And Ukraine could not prevent a further accumulation of external payment arrears. Partial success was
achieved in liberalizing the economy and reducing the role of the state. Compared to the past, the
domestic pricing and foreign trade regimes are considerably liberal today, though the state continues to
intervene more than it should. After many false starts, privatization was finally initiated but the pace was
very slow for most of 1995 (paras. 12-21).
5.    Deep divisions continued to exist within the government and outside (notably in Parliament) on
the need for reforms and their pace, which constrained their implementation. Reforms were also slowed
down by institutional constraints and unfamiliarity with the way markets function. Poor weather and less
than expected external financing also contributed to slower than projected economic recovery (paras.22-
25).
6.     While the Rehabilitation Loan addressed key issues and policies, there were some aspects in the
design that were not fully thought through. For example, closing down a few large enterprises and
requiring restructuring plans to be drawn up were insufficient to improve financial discipline.  More
attention should have been devoted to addressing the issue of arrears in the energy sector.
7.     Objectives and indicative targets of the reform program supported by the Loan were often too
optimistic. To some extent, targets were deliberately ambitious to exhort greater effort. But it also
reflected an inadequate appreciation of the continuing opposition to reforms. Institutional constraints
which slowed down implementation were not adequately recognized.
8.     The reform process remains uncomfortably fragile, and can be reversed. To prevent this, the
government must attempt, even more determinedly than before, to continue the course of reforms it has
initiated. Rapid privatization of industry and agriculture, and strict enforcement of financial discipline
and accountability in state enterprises are essential. And payment issues in the energy sector need to be
addressed urgently as they could quickly undermine Ukraine's external creditworthiness.  The
international community must continue to actively support these efforts of the government.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
9.     The results were more than satisfactory when compared to the economic situation existing at the
time the loan was approved. The rate of inflation was lowered, and the rate of decline in GDP was
slowed down. The economy was considerably liberalized and privatization was initiated. However, by
and large, the outcomes fell short of expectations, and the reform process remains fragile and by no
means irreversible.
10.    Follow-up operations carry forward the reforms initiated under the Rehabilitation Loan. In June
1996, the EDAL was approved which accelerates privatization of small and large enterprises, and
supports the growth of the capital market and post-privatization restructuring of enterprises.  An



- Iv -
Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan was approved in October 1996 that seeks to accelerate land reforms
and private sector development. The Electricity Market Development Loan aims to hasten the
development of a competitive wholesale market for electricity. And the Coal Sector Adjustment Loan
facilitates efficient restructuring in the coal sector. Other operations planned for the near future include
a Pre-Export Guarantee Facility, Urban Transport Project, and a Legal Reform Loan. Follow up
adjustment operations are proposed to support reforms in the public sector and in the financial sector.
11.    The main lessons from the project are as follows:
(i)    There is a strong tendency in the Bank to be over-optimistic about the outcomes of
adjustment operations, both in terms of macroeconomic objectives (reduction in inflation, growth of
GDP and exports) as well as structural changes (extent of privatization, demonopolization).
(ii)    The opposition to market reforms is deeply entrenched.  The Bank needs to decide
whether there is sufficient commitment within the country to warrant its continued involvement in
reform efforts and then to stay engaged despite slippage and temporary reversals, which are inevitable.
In practical terms, this requires identifying some key signposts that indicate the government's
commitment to reforms (such as macroeconomic stability and privatization) and to continue to support
the government as long as these signs point in the right direction.
(iii)   To the extent possible, the Bank should seek to involve in policy discussions those in
government who are skeptical about the reforms, especially when they pertain to agriculture and the
social sectors. This may be time-consuming and difficult, but ultimately beneficial.
(iv)   Institutional capacity is limited, and very little can be done in the short time frame of an
adjustment loan to change this. The Rehabilitation Loan had to be comprehensive in coverage because
major distortions were everywhere and addressing one of them without the other would have failed. But
subsequent operations should as far as possible be more narrowly focused. In this context the emphasis
on sector adjustment loans is appropriate. The Bank should continue to assist the government in
developing its capacity to design and manage reforms, recognizing there is no quick and easy fix.
(v)    The most difficult reforms to implement, and the most important, are those that seek to
enforce financial discipline in enterprises and farms, and make them more responsive to market forces.
Apart from privatization in industry and agriculture, phasing out of budget transfers and credit subsidies
to specific sectors and enterprises, prevention of accumulation of payment and tax arrears, and measures
to facilitate new entrants and the closure of unviable firms are especially important. Adjustment in the
energy sector is especially urgent as payment arrears threaten Ukraine's external creditworthiness.
(vi)   There is often a tendency to do something more about enterprises that will not
immediately be privatized. Typically, this takes the form of closing down a few large unviable
enterprises and requiring restructuring plans to be developed for selected enterprises. However, there is
little evidence suggesting these measures have contributed to any lasting solution. Unless there is a very
clear concept behind these kinds of interventions, and a long term commitment from the Bank to remain
closely involved in these efforts, they should be avoided.
(vii)   Policy conditionality should be designed to be as 'close' as possible to the specific
objective that is to be achieved. Thus for example, conditions such as "presentation of draft law to
Parliament .." should be avoided because (a) legislation may not be really required (as in the case of



v -
procedures for land registration in Ukraine) and (b) there is a big gap between presentation of law and its
approval by Parliament, let alone the implementation of the policy.
(viii) Given the uncertain political support for reforms, the limited institutional capacity and
the uncertainties of predicting the nature and size of supply response, it would be prudent to maintain
realistic expectations and to be flexible in our response to slippages in policy and projected outcomes.
The phased disbursement design of the Ukraine Rehabilitation Loan was a useful innovation in this
regard.
(ix)   Intensive monitoring and supervision by the Government and the Bank is essential
during the early years of reform when slippages may occur not just because there is active opposition but
merely because of misunderstanding about what needed to be done or insufficient manpower. An
adequately staffed Bank Resident Mission can play an invaluable role in this respect.
(x)    A suitably empowered authority in the Government to coordinate and oversee progress
in reforms is vital not only for the internalization of the reform program, but also to prevent
implementation of sectoral policies that go against the spirit of the economy-wide reforms.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
UKRAINE
REHABILITATION LOAN 3831-UA
Part I. Project Implementation Assessment
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1.    Economic conditions in Ukraine were worsening when the government initiated economic
reforms which were supported by the Rehabilitation Loan.  The rate of inflation had touched
hyperinflationary levels by the last quarter of 1993. Real GDP was estimated to have declined by 27
percent in the first half of 1994, following a cumulative decline of 38 percent during 1990-93. Real
wages had fallen by more than 60 percent in 1993 and had not recovered. And with the accumulation of
huge payment arrears with Russia and Turkmenistan, Ukraine was finding it increasingly difficult to pay
for critically needed energy imports.
2.    In late 1994, under the leadership of the newly elected President Mr. Kuchma, Ukraine embarked
on a comprehensive program of macroeconomic stabilization and market-oriented economic reforms.
The main objectives were to reduce the rate of inflation, to stop the decline in economic activity and to
create a market- oriented, private sector- led economy. The World Bank's Rehabilitation Loan (for $500
million) supported these objectives. Funds from the Loan were also meant to alleviate the severe
shortage of energy in the winter months, and to help pay for strengthening the social safety net. Together
with the IMF's Systemic Transformation Facility (STF), the Bank's loan sought to provide a framework
for financial assistance from other donors.
3.    Given the sorry state of Ukraine's economy, there was no question about the objectives. Nor
was there much doubt about what needed to be done. Loose financial policies had played havoc with
macro-economic balances, and there was general agreement that a tightening of financial policies was
necessary to reduce the rate of inflation and improve the balance of payments. State interventions were
pervasive and were stifling entrepreneurship, forcing an increasing share of the economy underground
and capital abroad. Freeing the shackles from the private sector and progressively increasing the role of
markets was necessary in order to stem the economic decline and improve productivity. Thus the loan
supported the de-regulation of prices and the foreign exchange and trade regimes; privatization and
demonopolization in agriculture and industry; and measures to strengthen the social safety net. In the
short term, the loan financed the most critical and obvious needs; energy imports were badly required to
alleviate the harsh winter conditions, and budgetary support for strengthening the safety net was essential
not only on humanitarian grounds but also to maintain public support for structural reforms.
4.    While the objectives and the direction of reforms were clear, there is no doubt that they were
ambitious, maybe unrealistically so. Partly, this reflects a basic dilemma faced by the Bank in other
countries of the region as well. On the one hand, the depth of the economic crisis and the magnitude and
pervasiveness of the distortions in the economy necessitates a wide-ranging program of macro-economic
stabilization and structural reforms. Piece-meal measures are not likely to work. On the other hand, the
inadequate institutional capacity makes it very difficult to implement market reforms across a wide front.



-2 -
The Bank has typically favored going for the comprehensive approach, knowing well that some of the
targets may not be achieved and that further adjustments in the objectives and program may be required
as capacity or other constraints are faced. This was also the approach in this project (See section C).
The reforms were ambitious in another important respect. It was clear that the consensus in favor of
reforms was at best fragile. While the main counterparts in government were committed to the reform
program, a large section of government and population did not understand it, nor were in favor. The risk
this posed to implementation was recognized, but it was felt that opposition could only be overcome
gradually by the demonstrable results of the reforms (lowering of inflation, stopping the decline in
economic activity).
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROGRAM OBJECTIVES
5.     The results of the reform program thus far and the loan are mixed. On the positive side, the
proceeds of the loan helped finance critically needed energy imports and alleviated the harsh winter
conditions. In addition to the funds directly made available by the Bank through this loan, the Japanese
Government cofinanced the loan for $150 million and the Canadian Government provided an additional
$10 million. The support lent to the reform program by the Bank and the IMF was also instrumental in
attracting other external donors to Ukraine's cause. Overall, through the CG process which the Bank
chaired, the international community pledged $5.5 billion in economic assistance, debt rescheduling, and
arrears consolidation to meet Ukraine's 1995 balance of payments financing requirements.
6.     The reform program was less successful in other respects. First, macro-economic performance
was erratic through 1995 and early 1996. Though the rate of inflation came down considerably
compared to the pre-reform days, (from an average of 16 percent per month in 1994 to about 5 percent
in December 1995), this was much more than the targeted rate of 1-2 percent per month. Moreover,
progress was uneven. Inflation remained stubbornly high in late 1994-early 1995, then slowed down to
monthly rates of about 5 percent by the middle of 1995, before rising to almost 14 percent in September
1995. Monthly inflation fell to about 5 percent in November and December before rising to more than 9
percent in January 1996. While some of these increases were attributable to increases in administered
prices, nevertheless the underlying rate of inflation exceeded program targets. It is only since the spring
of 1996 that the rate has been down consistently to around 2 percent monthly.
7.     Economic activity also fell more than projected in 1995. Real GDP is estimated to have fallen
by 13 percent in 1995 compared to the Bank's estimate of 5 percentl This may have been due to a
number of factors, including partial and inconsistent implementation of reforms (see Section C and
Appendix 1), less than anticipated foreign financing, and exogenous factors (such as the drought
affecting agricultural output in 1995). Thus while industrial production was hurt by the break-down of
the state order system, the slow pace of privatization, weak financial discipline and continuing
restrictions on trade hampered a market-based positive supply response. Price volatility and other
uncertainties in the policy environment also contributed to dampening producer and investor confidence
throughout 1995.
8.     The strong growth of exports to Western countries in 1995 (20 percent in volume) was a
remarkable achievement. However, the balance of payments remained severely strained and Ukraine
The real decline in economic activity may have been less than what these numbers indicate due to the growth of the
underground economy.



- 3 -
continued to accumulate external payment arrears (mainly on account of gas payments to Russia and
Turkmenistan) in 1995. These arrears reflected weak payment discipline by the government, households
and enterprises within Ukraine, and insufficient real adjustment in the energy sector in particular.
9.    An important objective of the reform program supported by the Loan was to increase the role of
markets and the private sector and reduce the interventionist role of the state in resource mobilization
and allocation. In this respect, important gains were made, though once again progress was much slower
than expected (for a summary evaluation see section below; for more details about specific
commitments, see Appendix 1). Compared to the past, the domestic pricing and foreign trade regimes
are considerably more liberal, though the state continues to intervene more than it should. After many
false starts, privatization was finally initiated but the pace was slow for most of 1995. It has picked up
since.
10.   The Loan was a rapid response from the Bank to Ukraine's financial crisis. By providing timely
financial assistance, and mobilizing the international community to support Ukraine's reform program, it
helped shore-up the credibility of the few reformers in government at the time, and strengthened their
capacity to carry the reforms forward. Their task would certainly have been more difficult had this
support not been forthcoming as quickly as it did. This is arguably the Loan's most important
achievement.
11.   Another achievement was that the Loan opened up a sweeping agenda for reforms, including in
particular in crucial sectors, such as energy and agriculture. Important issues were identified and first
steps in reforms were taken. Subsequent operations (such as the EDAL, sector operations in power and
coal, and the AGSECAL) seek to deepen these reforms and carry them forward.
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD
12.   As mentioned above, the record of implementation of macro-economic policies and structural
reforms was mixed. Notable successes were achieved, and a definitive break was made from past
policies towards establishing a market-based economy. However, reforms have been slower and
shallower than expected.
13.   Macroeconomic stabilization:   A critical component of the stabilization effort was the
containment of the budget deficit. Despite the revenue losses stemming from major tax reforms, as well
as the general weakening of economic activity, the overall fiscal adjustment during 1995 was good. The
cash deficit for 1995 was around 4 percent of GDP, less than half of the 8.6 percent recorded in 1994, but
more than the 3.3 percent targeted at the beginning of the year. The slippage was largely due to over-
runs in expenditures, reflecting larger than planned wage increases to government employees, subsidies
to the coal mining sector, and the payment of arrears on gas imports. The larger budget deficit and the
less than expected financing from external sources resulted in a larger than targeted volume of banking
system credit to the budget.
14.   Monetary policy was tuned to reduce the inflation rate to 1-2 percent per month by the end of
1995 and to replenish international reserves. However, broad money expanded more rapidly than
programmed, mostly due to larger than expected capital inflows in the second and third quarters of 1995.
The National Bank of Ukraine's (NBU) intervention to prevent an appreciation of the currency resulted
in an over-run in its international reserves. The absence of measures to sterilize this increase in reserves



-4 -
led to the over-expansion of base money, fueling inflationary pressures. There was also an over-run in
banking system credit to non-government sector, which was partly due to efforts by the NBU through the
banking system to assist specific enterprises. Thus, to summarize, while there was a significant
tightening of both fiscal and monetary policy in 1995 compared to the pre-reform period, there were
significant slippages in both fiscal and monetary targets. Some of these slippages were the direct result
of attempts to bail out specific enterprises or specific sectors (e.g., coal industry) and contributed to lax
financial discipline. These slippages not only jeopardized some of the macro-economic objectives, but
by contributing to loose financial discipline they also undermined structural reforms and weakened the
supply response of the real economy. In early 1996, the government undertook corrective measures and
tightened financial policies. The rate of inflation has come down markedly since, to 0.1 percent in June
1996. Emboldened by this achievement, in September 1996 a new currency, the hrivnya was introduced.
15.    Structural Reforms: The loan supported wide ranging reforms aimed at liberalizing the economy
and promoting the private sector. Domestic trade and prices were to be liberalized, the foreign exchange
and trade regimes were to be opened up to market forces, and privatization of agriculture and industry
was to be accelerated. In these efforts too, the record was mixed. While major changes have been made,
in many cases these fell far short of expectations.
16.    Most prices were liberalized and limits on trade and profit margins lifted. Administered prices
for utilities and communal services were significantly increased to recover costs. The multiple exchange
rate system was abolished. Export quotas were eliminated, except for exports subject to VER and other
international agreements and for exports of grain. Imports remained free from quantitative restrictions,
and the average import tariff remained low. These were major achievements for an economy mired in
pervasive controls for decades, and in the midst of continuing economic decline.
17.   However, various controls continue to operate. Indeed, in some cases, new interventions have
replaced controls that existed previously. Prior notification of price changes continued to be required
from more than 16 categories of artificial monopolies, and local governments can regulate prices of
additional "monopolies"2 Limits on profit and marketing margins for bread products remained in place
for most of 1995. While export quotas were eliminated for most commodities, other interventions were
maintained to control exports, such as the pre-export registration requirement and the system of
"indicative" prices. Quotas were re-introduced in early 1995 on exports of ferrous and non-ferrous scrap,
and grain producers suffered from quotas on their exports for most of 1995. In May 1996, export duties
on certain commodities were introduced. Exports under barter trade continued to be heavily taxed. These
policy irregularities not only hurt economic recovery directly; they also undermined the confidence of
producers and investors in the government's commitment to market reforms.
18.   The most notable disappointment was in privatization, where the pace was much slower than
envisaged under the loan. Only about a third of small enterprises had been privatized by the end of 1995
compared to the expectation of 90 percent. Slippage was significant in the case of medium and large
enterprises also: compared to the goal of privatizing about 8000 enterprises by end of 1995 (out of a total
of 18,000), a majority of shares were sold to the private sector in only 1015 of these enterprises. By
March 1996, the number had risen to 1233. In agriculture, the amendments to the Land Code and the
draft Land Law that would have facilitated the development of a land market have yet to be passed by
Parliament, more than a year later than expected.
2   This was reduced to 9 categories in mid-1996.



19.    There was also little progress in enforcing stricter financial discipline in enterprises. The budget
renewed its subsidies to ailing industries, particularly to the coal sector. Commercial banks were also
encouraged by the government to extend credits to the enterprise sector. And the government decided
that the budget would continue to assume responsibility for. the gas debts accumulated by enterprises.
Inter-enterprise arrears, including payment arrears, continued to grow strongly in real terms during the
year.3'
20.    No comprehensive reforms were introduced to strengthen the social safety net, including old age
pensions. The statistical and informational foundation for poverty analyses remains inadequate and the
ability to formulate social programs is limited.
21.    To summarize, important gains were made during 1995-early 1996 in achieving macro-economic
stabilization and in moving Ukraine toward a market-based economy. Most notably, the rate of inflation
was brought down and Ukraine was able to mobilize significant external financial assistance (including
rescheduling of its debts) from external creditors. The economy was considerably liberalized and first
steps were taken in privatization. However, implementation fell short of expectations, and in some
cases, measures were taken that conflicted with the market-orientation of reforms. Moreover, the impact
of these reforms, and their sustainability, are threatened by the slow progress in implementing reforms at
the enterprise and farm level. Privatization was much slower than projected in agriculture and industry,
and financial discipline in enterprises remains weak. The social safety net is fragile.
D. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
22.    An overwhelming factor that affected economic decision-making  in all spheres was the
continuing political struggle between those that favored reforms that those that opposed it. Deep
divisions continued to exist within the government and outside. For example, within the government,
there was strong opposition from the Ministry of Trade to the liberalization of exports, and sectoral
ministries remained skeptical about reforms in agriculture and privatization in general. Opposition to
reforms was also reflected in the continuing Parliamentary resistance to privatization and tax reforms4
and in constant pressure on the government to provide financial assistance to specific branches of the
economy even if this jeopardized macroeconomic stability. The protracted confrontation between the
President and Parliament regarding the division of powers between the executive and legislative
branches further delayed the implementation of key measures. Even when reforms were not completely
blocked, the constant opposition from large sections of the Parliament and vested interests (e.g., the
agriculturists, coal miners) made the government unduly cautious and vulnerable to pressure. This
fundamental problem also explains the constant irregularities in policy-making during the year. In this
context, it is all the more remarkable that some significant reforms were implemented, though it could be
argued that this was possible largely due to external support (or pressure as some would call it),
3   Inter-enterprise arrears grew 240 percent in 1994 and another 128 percent in the first half of 1995.
4   For example, in October 1995 Parliament approved a law that required agro-industrial enterprises to be privatized
according to complicated, protracted procedures including a 12-month closed subscription period. The law also effectively
guaranteed 51 percent of the shares of agro-industrial enterprises free of charge to agricultural suppliers, including state
and collective farms. With agroindustrial enterprises accounting for more than half of the enterprises targeted for
privatization in the first year of the project, the law would have been very damaging to the privatization efforts were it not
vetoed by the President in December 1995. With respect to agricultural land, after much delay, amendments to the Land
code were accepted by the appropriate Parliamentary Commission, but they have not yet been passed by Parliament.



-6 -
including from the IMF and the Bank. Hopefully, the new Constitution, giving more powers to the
President, will allow the government to implement reforms more aggressively.
23.    Opposition to reforms was not always due to pressure from vested interests. Often it reflected
legitimate concerns, and inadequate appreciation of the way markets work. Thus various restrictions on
exports and on barter trade were imposed in part to prevent capital flight. Here the concern was
legitimate, the policy instrument inappropriate. Similarly quotas on grain exports partly reflected a lack
of confidence in the ability of the private sector and market to allocate grain to shortage areas.
Opposition to privatization partly reflected concerns that the process may be open to corruption.
Practical problems also delayed implementation of some reforms.
24.    A combination of these reasons affected the implementation of the privatization program which
was far slower than envisaged during most of 1995. First, there was serious political opposition to
privatization, both for medium and large enterprises at the central level, and for small privatization in
some local governments. Second, public awareness and interest in privatization grew only slowly, which
delayed the sale of shares. Third, there were design flaws that were rectified during the course of
privatization. For example, the minimum reservation price intended to prevent accusations of selling
enterprises too cheaply often turned out to be too high. Managers and workers did not have sufficient
incentive to offer their enterprises for privatization. And finally there were institutional limitations such
as insufficient number of auctions centers. Some of these issues have since been addressed during the
course of 1996.
25.    Finally, there were factors that were beyond the government's control. Poor weather resulted in
lower than projected levels of agricultural output in 1995. Output levels may also have been reduced by
the lower than expected level of disbursements from external donors (with the exception of the Bank and
the IMF). This shortfall in external financing also increased the reliance of the government on domestic
borrowing and jeopardized the stabilization and liberalization objectives.
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
26.    There is little doubt that significant reforms were implemented during 1995-96 that moved
Ukraine toward a market-based economy. There should be no doubt however that the entire reform
process is still uncomfortably fragile, and can be reversed. The tightening of financial policies is putting
the pressure on some important sectors (such as coal miners, the agrarian lobby) that has strong and
vocal representation in Parliament, and opposition to reforms remains robust. On the other hand, there is
as yet no visible or organized groundswell of support for reforms, and the safety net remains fragile.5
Unless there are tangible and visible benefits and sufficient number of clear winners, the risks of reversal
are significant.
27.    To prevent this, three things are important. First, the government must attempt, even more
determinedly than before, to continue the course of reforms it has initiated. In particular, it needs to
move more quickly to complete the privatization of industry and agriculture, and to enforce financial
One reason for this could be that the very fact that existing controls were largely ineffective (as indicated by the growing
underground economy) meant that the immediate gains from liberalization were less manifest. Real benefits would only
be evident when investment begins to recover and efficiency gains accrue. Both require a good track record of
macroeconomic stabilization and private sector supporting policies.



discipline and commercial concerns in those enterprises that remain in state control. The energy sector is
of special importance. No amount of market liberalization can generate a positive supply response
unless producers and investors have an incentive to react appropriately to market forces. At the same
time, the social safety net has to be strengthened to mitigate the effects of restructuring on the really
poor. There can be no resumption of sustainable economic growth unless these reforms are accelerated.
28.    Second, the international community must continue to actively support the government's efforts,
at least until a strong domestic constituency in favor of reform emerges. This support must comprise not
only a large commitment of financial resources, but also technical assistance in providing short term
advice and in building long term institutional capacities in various areas of policy-design and
implementation. Careful and frequent monitoring of progress in all areas will also be necessary in order
to identify reversals and slippage and new approaches to solving emerging problems in implementation.
Any setback to market reforms there is likely to have an adverse impact on Ukraine's transformation as
well.
F. BANK PERFORMANCE
29.   In a sense, preparations for the Rehabilitation Loan began soon after Ukraine became
independent. At that time, it was clear that significant policy-reforms would be required if Ukraine was
to overcome the crises caused by the break-up of the Soviet Union. Precious time was lost as the
government seemed unable to take the necessary steps to reverse the economic decline and it was only
after Mr. Kuchma's election as President in mid-1994 that the government finally indicated its resolve to
deal with the deepening economic crisis. Throughout this period, the Bank and the IMF continued to
engage in policy dialogue with the government both at the macro-economic level as well as in key
sectors such as agriculture, energy, the enterprise sector, banking and the social sectors. Consequently,
when the government indicated its resolve to tackle the crisis boldly, the Bank was well prepared to
respond. A comprehensive policy package was developed and the loan was approved within 3 months
from the time discussions were initiated. This quick response from the Bank, and the mobilization of
other external resources that followed the implementation of reforms the loan supported, not only helped
pay for critically needed energy supplies during the winter months, but also strengthened the hands of
reformers with the government and encouraged them to stay the course. In addition, the Bank's timely
response considerably enhanced its credibility within Ukraine.
30.    The broad contours of the policy package seemed appropriate, even if there were weaknesses in
some components. Its strength was that it tried to link the macro- or economy-wide aspects of reforms to
the micro- or sectoral reforms in an organic way. The idea was that without sectoral reforms, macro-
economic stabilization policies would not be sustainable.  Nor would any supply response be
forthcoming unless structural reforms affected producers directly.  Agriculture and energy were
especially important. Thus, trade policy reforms emphasized the need to eliminate the quota on grain
exports. Privatization of large enterprises included explicit targets for grain silos and warehouses
necessary for the development of markets in agriculture. The program to liberalize domestic trade
focused on reducing the scope of state trading in agricultural commodities, and in introducing
competitive practices. And agricultural land privatization was a key consideration in the loan. Similarly,
the loan focused on several of the most important issues in the energy sector, including pricing, arrears,
and the development of a competitive wholesale market for electricity. Some of these issues had a direct
bearing on macroeconomic stabilization, apart from their financial and efficiency impact on the sector
itself. Reforms in these sectors, combined with measures to promote privatization and hard budget



-8 -
constraints in state enterprises, provided a good balance to the pure stabilization and liberalization
policies in the loan.
31.    While the package may have been appropriate, it was flawed in some respects. First, the targets
and expectations were often too optimistic, both in relation to the past record as well as what was known
about the government's implementation capacity. Despite skepticism, a judgment was made that in view
of the time already lost by Ukraine it was necessary to aim high, and that as implementation and other
constraints emerged, targets would be suitably revised. This was factored in the design of the loan.6
32.    While this flexibility was necessary, sometimes the large gap between targets and outcomes was
embarrassing and undermined the Bank's credibility. For example, under the Rehabilitation Loan all
export restrictions, except a specified few, were to be eliminated. Yet restrictions still remain. The same
is true for privatization in industry and agriculture.
33.    Second, some of the proposed policy measures in the area of enterprise financial discipline were
not fully thought through. At one level, financial discipline was to be strengthened by maintaining tight
control on budgetary transfers and subsidized credits from the banking system. At another level, rapid
privatization was expected to take care of the problem. Yet there remained an anxiety that something
more direct had to be done, without quite knowing what. To satisfy the need for "something", it was
decided that financial discipline would be enforced by: (i) picking a few large enterprises for closure,
presumably to indicate the government's firmness; and (ii) identifying some large enterprises for which
restructuring proposals would be developed and subsequently implemented. This "solution" was by no
means unique to Ukraine; it had been tried elsewhere and there is no evidence that it had worked. It did
not work in Ukraine either.
34.    The energy  sector is especially  vulnerable to payment indiscipline, which  has serious
ramifications for Ukraine's external creditworthiness. The Rehabilitation Loan required the government
to establish a mechanism to ensure prompt payment to energy suppliers from budgetary organizations
and enterprises. However, no mechanism was developed, and the government continues to take periodic
recourse to ad-hoc decrees to force payments from defaulters. Given the important macro- and micro-
impact of these problems, more thought is warranted to address this issue.
35.    Supervision of the loan was adequate.  A comprehensive review  in March 1995 identified
shortfalls in implementation, and after some corrective measures were taken, the second disbursement
was released in mid-May 1995. In addition to another supervision mission in June 1995, continuous
monitoring was done in the context of IMF missions and during the preparation of the Bank's EDAL and
the proposed AGSECAL. The Resident Missions of the Bank and the IMF were also very useful in
keeping a close eye on the status of implementation of the loan. Important slippages were identified and
continuous pressure has been maintained to stay the course. However, it would be fair to say that it was
6   The Rehabilitation Loan to Ukraine was designed somewhat differently from the first Rehabilitation Loans in other
countries of the region. On the one hand, the government urgently needed foreign financing to purchase its energy imports
during late 1994 and early 1995. Yet, for practical reasons significant policy measures could not be implemented until the
spring of 1995. To help the government pay for energy imports, and still maintain pressure on the government to
implement important policy reforms, the Rehabilitation Loan was disbursed in two parts. US$250 million were disbursed
when the loan was approved (December 27, 1995) and the rest was disbursed in May 1996 after the Bank had satisfied
itself that adequate progress continued to be made in implementing reforms. Unlike other adjustment loans, judgments on
performance were not tied to specific conditions.



- 9 -
largely the anticipation of new loans, or the threat of suspended disbursements, that led to corrective
measures or a new round of reforms.
36.   In retrospect it could be argued that the disbursements from the loan should have been stretched
out, at least till the third quarter of 1995, to maintain the pressure for reforms. This option was seriously
considered, but rejected on the grounds that (a) it would not address Ukraine's immediate financing
needs and (b) subsequent fast disbursing operations would continue to provide ample leverage to the
Bank. The main issue is to what extent the Bank is prepared to go to enforce compliance with policy
commitments.
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
37.    Ukraine was a late starter in economic reforms. But it moved fast once Mr. Kuchma was elected
President. Within a couple of months, a stabilization program had been agreed upon with the IMF,
followed soon after with the comprehensive program of structural reforms supported by the
Rehabilitation Loan. A small but dedicated team of reformers spearheaded the Ukrainian effort, which
was remarkable given the opposition of so many both within the government and outside. Tough
measures were adopted, and the direction was set for the future. These efforts bore fruit and Ukraine
received substantial external financial support.
38.    However, there was and still is a sense that the reforms are not yet sufficiently internalized.
Ukraine's financial position was critical and it badly needed external financing which was unlikely to
materialize unless it had the support of the IMF and the Bank. Under this compulsion, policy
commitments were made that were not sufficiently understood nor agreed upon by key members of the
government. This was true in several areas, but particularly true in foreign trade, agriculture, and social
sectors. In privatization too, there was serious disagreement within the government and it was by no
means clear that agreement with the Bank had settled these issues. It was not surprising that serious
problems arose when the measures had to be implemented. Either reforms were delayed, or in some
cases steps were taken that violated the spirit of earlier reforms. Only the promise of new loans or the
threat of stopping disbursements triggered a fresh round of reforms. While the situation may be
improving, domestic support for reforms remains fragile, and continuing external financial and other
support is necessary if the reform process is to be carried forward.
39.    The institutional and technical capacity to implement reforms remains weak but is improving.
There is no doubt that at least some of the delays in critical reforms could have been reduced if
implementation capacity was better. This is as true of macroeconomics management as it is of sectoral
reforms. There is also a need to improve policy coordination, not only to orchestrate the sequencing of
reforms in different areas, but also to avoid the issuance of government regulations and decrees that are
inconsistent with the reform program. During 1995, this kind of coordination was only done prior to
Bank or Fund supervision missions; it needs to be institutionalized and adequately empowered.
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOMES
40.    The outcomes were more than satisfactory when compared to the economic situation existing at
the time the loan was approved. Inflation is down to low monthly rates, and the rate of decline in GDP
has been slowed down. Ukraine was also able to attract more than expected external capital flows and



- 10-
the pace at which external arrears was mounting has been reduced. The economy has been considerably
liberalized and the pace of privatization has picked up.
41.    The outcomes are less satisfactory in two respects. First, by and large, results fell short of
expectations. In some cases there were policy reversals. Second, and more important, the reform
process remains fragile. Unless there is a long term but hard headed commitment from the Bank and
IMF to continue to support reforms, it is still too early to rule out risks of reversal.
I. Future Operations
42.    Recognizing the need for continuing balance of payment support to Ukraine and the importance
of deepening reforms in the real sectors of the economy, in particular in industry, agriculture and energy,
the Bank moved quickly to design specific operations in these areas. Follow-up operations carried
forward the reforms initiated under the Rehabilitation Loan. In June 1996, the EDAL was approved
which accelerates privatization of small and large enterprises, and supports the growth of the capital
market and post-privatization restructuring of enterprises. An Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan was
approved in October 1996 that seeks to accelerate land reforms and private sector development. The
Electricity Market Development Loan aims to hasten the development of a competitive wholesale market
for electricity. And the Coal Sector Adjustment Loan facilitates efficient restructuring in the coal sector.
Other operations planned for the near future include a Pre-Export Guarantee Facility, an Urban Transport
Project, and a Legal Reform Loan. Follow-up adjustment operations are proposed to support reforms in
the public sector and in the financial sector. The Bank will continue to chair the Consultative Group
meetings.
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
43.    The main lessons from the project are as follows:
(i) There is a strong tendency in the Bank to be over-optimistic about the outcomes of
adjustment operations, both in terms of macroeconomic objectives (reduction in inflation, growth of
GDP and exports) as well as structural changes (extent of privatization, demonopolization).
(ii)    The opposition to market reforms is deeply entrenched. The Bank needs to decide
whether there is sufficient commitment within the country to warrant its continued involvement in
reform efforts and then to stay engaged despite slippage and temporary reversals, which are inevitable.
In practical terms, this requires identifying some key signposts that indicate the government's
commitment to reforms (such as macroeconomic stability and privatization) and to continue to support
the government as long as these signs point in the right direction.
(iii)   To the extent possible, the Bank should seek to involve in policy discussions those in
government who are skeptical about reforms, especially when they pertain to agriculture and the social
sectors. This may be time consuming and difficult, but ultimately beneficial.
(iv)   Institutional capacity is limited, and very little can be done in the short time frame of an
adjustment operation to change this. The Rehabilitation Loan had to be comprehensive in coverage
because major distortions were everywhere and addressing one of them without the other would have



- Il -
failed. But subsequent operations should as far as possible be more narrowly focused. In this context,
the shift towards sector adjustment operations is appropriate. The Bank should continue to assist the
government in developing its capacity to design and manage reforms, recognizing there is no quick and
easy fix.
(v)    As in other parts of the region, the most difficult reforms to implement are those that
seek to enforce financial discipline in enterprises and farms, and make them more responsive to market
forces. Yet these are the most critical areas, especially when markets have been significantly liberalized.
Apart from privatization in industry and agriculture, some of the other measures in this area include the
continued brake on budget transfers and credit subsidies to specific sectors and enterprises, prevention of
accumulation of payment and tax arrears, and measures to facilitate new entrants and the closure of
unviable firms.
(vi)   There is often a tendency to do something more about enterprises that will not
immediately be privatized. Typically, this takes the form of closing down a few large unviable
enterprises, and requiring restructuring plans to be developed for some other enterprises. Quite apart
from the fact that it is often hard to assess what are viable activities and what are not given all the
different distortions and accounting issues, there is little evidence that these measures have contributed to
any lasting solution. Yet they persist in the Bank's 'conditionality' repertoire, to the aggravation of the
government prior to implementation and to Bank's staff thereafter. Unless there is a very clear concept
behind these kinds of solutions, and a long term commitment from the Bank to remain closely involved
at all stages of the effort, these interventions should be avoided.
(vii)  Policy conditionality should be designed to be as 'close' as possible to the specific
objective that is to be achieved. Thus for example, conditions such as "presentation of draft law to
Parliament .." should be avoided because (a) legislation may not be really required (as in the case of
procedures for land registration in Ukraine) and (b) there is a big gap between presentation of law and its
approval by Parliament, let alone the implementation of the policy.
(viii)  Given the uncertain political support for reforms, the limited institutional capacity and
the uncertainties of predicting the nature and size of supply response, it would be prudent to maintain
realistic expectations and to be flexible in response to slippages in policy and projected outcomes. The
phased disbursement design of the Ukraine Rehabilitation Loan was a useful innovation in this regard.
(ix)   Intensive monitoring and supervision by the Government and the Bank is essential
during the early years of reform when slippages may occur not just because there is active opposition but
merely because of misunderstanding about what needed to be done or insufficient manpower. An
adequately staffed Resident Mission can play an invaluable role in this respect.
(x)    A suitably empowered authority within the Government to coordinate and oversee
progress in reforms is vital not only for the indigenous development of the reform program, but also to
prevent implementation of sectoral policies that go against the spirit of the economy-wide reforms.



- 12 -
Part II. Statistical Tables
Table 1:   Summary of Assessment
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:   Project Timetable
Table 4:   Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:   Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:   Studies Included in Project
Table 8A:  Project Costs
Table 8B:  Project Financing
Table 9:   Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions



13
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives         Substantial       Partial         Naligib          Not applicable
Macro Policies                                                              C0
Sector Policies                      C                                 C                 C
Financial Objectives                 a               [                 C                  C
Institutional Development           [                (0C
Physical Objectives                  C                C                C                  E
Poverty Reduction                    a                C               [                  0
Gender Issues                                          lEl                              [El
Other Social Objectives              C                C                C                [l
Environmental Objectives             C                C                     0 
Public Sector Management             C               [El              El                  C
Private Sector Development           C               I.                C                 Cl
Other (specify)                                                       E C  C              C
(Continued)



14
B. Project Sustainability             Likely                   Unlikely                  Uncrtain
C. Bank Performance                  satisfacto               Satisfactory                Deficient
Identification                      [i E                                                 1
Preparation Assistance                                        l a                         l
Appraisal                                                    El                         E 
Supervision                         i:i
D. Borrower Perfonnance              satsfa=                  Satisfactorv                Deficient
Preparation                         n                        I3                         o
Implementation                      a                                                   E 3o
Covenant Compliance                                             ]                       El
Operation (if applicable)           E                          l                        E
HigIh&                                             kLl
E. Assessment of Outcome            satisfaty       Satisfactor     Unsatis by         unsatisfactory
)                                  )               (/)
El                                 l               E



15
Table 2: IBRD Loans
Loan/Credit Title               Purpose            Year of Approval        Status
Preceding Operations
1. Institution Building Loan  Institution Building             FY93         Under implementation
Following Operations
1. Hydropower Rehab           Energy rehabilitation            FY95        Under implementation
2. Agricultural Seed Develop  Specific investment loan         FY95        Under implementation
3. Housing                    Foster growth of the             FY96        Signed 12/19/96
housing market                              Not yet effective
4. Coal Pilot                 Restructuring of the coal         FY96       Under implementation
industry
5. Enterprise Develop Adjust  Support acceleration of          FY96        Under implementation
enterprise privatization
6. Social Protection Support  Support the move toward           FY97       Signed 12/19/96
targeting of social assistance               Not yet efffective
7. Electricity Market Develop  Support the development         FY97        Under implementation
of a competitive electricity
market
8. Agriculture Sector Adjust  Support acceleration of          FY97        Under implementation
land reforms and private
sector development
9. Export Development         Specific investment loan          FY97       Approved 11/21/96
Not yet signed
10. Coal Sector Adjust        Facilitates efficient            FY97        Under implementation
restructuring in the coal
sector



16
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                            Date planned      Date actual/latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)
Preparation                                           N/A                    9/94
Appraisal                                             N/A                     N/A
Post appraisal                                        N/A                     N/A
Negotiations                                          9/93                   11/94
Letter of development policy/MERP                     9/93                   11/94
Board presentation                                   12/94                   12/94
Signing                                              12/94                   12/94
Effectiveness                                        12/94                   12/94
First tranche release                                 N/A                     N/A
Midterm review                                        N/A                     N/A
Second (and third) tranche release                    N/A                     N/A
Project completion                                    6/96                    6/96
Loan closing                                          6/96                   6/96



17
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY95                FY96
Appraisal estimate                    362.4                137.6
Actual                               364.16               135.84
Actual as % of estimate               101%                 99%
Date of final disbursement             N/A                5/31/96



0-
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
UKRAINE
REHABILITATION LOAN
STATUS OF MEASURES UNDERTAKEN
IMPLEMENTATION RECORD
I. MACROECONOMIC STABILIZATION
1. Agreement with IMF on standby arrangement.                     A standby arrangement was agreed upon in April 1995. Initial results of the program were encouraging; inflation
2. Satisfactory implementation of macroeconomic stabilization policies.    fell to monthly rates of around 5% in April-August 1995, from 28% in December 1994. However, the second half
of 1995 witnessed delays and slippages, and the targets of the Standby Arrangement were not achieved. Corrective
measures were adopted in early 1996 and a rephasing of the Standby Arrangement was agreed upon between the
Government and the IMF. Performance criteria and indicative targets are currently being met. Inflation has
dropped to 0.1 % in June 1996.
1.  Sharply reduce numbers of artificial monopolies subject to price  "Artificial monopolies" subject to price regulation were not reduced, merely rearranged into 16 broadly defined
regulation (by January 1, 1995).                                   categories. In addition, oblasts have the authority to regulate additional items of "monopolies". There exists a large
Price Inspection Unit to enforce price controls.
2. At retail level, maintain price controls only for public utilities, public
transportation, fuel for households, and rents.
3. Eliminate limits on profit margins for crude oil and oil products (as of  Eliminated as of December 1994.
January 1, 1995).
4. Periodically adjust natural gas prices for industrial, agricultural and  As of December 1994, industrial and agricultural users pay the full cost of imported gas.
governmental organizations to cover import, domestic contribution.
5. Liberalize wholesale electricity prices by end of 1995 when competitive
market is established.
6. Establish competitive wholesale market for electricity by end of 1995.



7. Liberalize coal prices, except for household use by January 1, 1995.  Price raised to world equivalent levels in January 1995, but not liberalized by end of 1995.
8. Increase electricity prices for households to achieve 40% cost recovery  Electricity charges for households was increased in March 1995 to achieve 8O0/. of cost recovery. However, certain
by January It, 1995 and 60% by June 1995.                           groups of households remain entitled to substantial discounts. As of mid-1995, the average household electricity
price recovers about 50% of cost.
9. Increase prices of other household public utilities and rents substantially  Prices of transportation, coal and gas to households were raised in February 1995 to achieve cost recovery of at
in January and June 1995.                                           least 400/o. Housing rents and charges for communal services were raised to achieve 30%i/o cost recovery on June 1,
1995 (from 20% in February 1995).
10. Liberalize bread prices by January 1, 1995. Eliminate profit margin  Not done. Bread prices were raised in October 1994 but subsequent increases were less than the rate of inflation.
ceilings on bread and bread products, baby food and flour as of January 1,  Bread and most bread products remained subject to maximum profit and marketing margins.
1995.
1. Abolish existing trade system of state orders, including grains, by  System of state orders was abolished. However, procurement of grain was significantly larger than necessary for
January 1, 1995. Limit state procurement to goods necessary for budgeting  budgetary organizations. Significant part of government procurement still not done on basis of competitive
organizations and adopt open bids and tenders for this process.     mechanisms (e.g., more than half of procurement of agricultural commodities is not done through commodity
exchange or other competitive tender mechanisms.
I.  Progressively open inter-bank market for foreign exchange to all  The participation of licensed banks has increased and rules goveming membership in the inter-bank market allow
licensed banks.                                                     for new participants.
2. Eliminate all export quotas and licenses by January 1, 1995 except the  All export quotas for (1) goods subject to VER and other international agreements, and (2) grain were eliminated in
goods subject to VER and other international contingent agreements.  early 1995. All export quotas except for (1) goods subject to VER and other international agreements and (2) grain
were eliminated in early 1995. Export registration requirements were also abolished except for exports under
international agreement and to prevent anti-dumping action. However, a system of "indicative export prices" was
introduced to control exports. Quotas on the export of grain were eliminated in February 1996.
3. Lower maximum import tariffs to 30% by January 1, 1995 and further by  Imports with tariffs above 30%/o estimated to be 0.7% of total imports in 1994. No further reductions in tariffs in
end of 1996. If tariffs were raised above the maximum rate temporarily, the  1995.
cumulative share of goods with such tariffs in total imports in 1993 could
not exceed 1%.
4. Unify excise duties on imported and domestically priced goods by March
1995.
5. No QRs to be imposed on imports.                                  Imports remain free of QRs.
I-



1 Complete privatization of 900/o of small enterprises by end of 1995.  Only 290/ of 45000 small enterprises privatized by end of third quarter of 1995.
2. Distribute paper certificates in 5 oblasts by December 15, 1994.  Implemented. Paper certificates were made available in all oblasts in February 1995, though as of mid-1995, only
12% of the certificates had actually been collected by citizens. By mid-April 1996, over 2/3 of the population had
either collected their certificates or opened privatization accounts with the Savings Bank.
3. Complete stock auctions (including tirucking and warehousing) in 5
oblasts for at least 200 medium to large enterprises using simplified
procedures by March 15, 1995.
4. Privatize some grain silos.
5. Extend stock auctions to the entire country by April 1995.
6. Auction at least 1000 medium and large enterprises between January-  Since the first pilot auctions in February 1995, about 400 medium and large enterprises were privatized using
June 15, 1995.                                                     vouchers by end of 1995.
7. Complete sale of shares by public auction of at least 8000 medium and  In 1995, majority of shares sold in the private sector in only 1015 of the 8000 enterprises. By March 1996, this
large enterprises by end of 1995.                                 number had increased to 1233.
8. Present to Parliament appropriate amendments to the Land Code by  Not done. Expected to be done prior to release of second tranche of AGSECAL, expected before December 31,
January 1, 1995.                                                   1997.
9. Present to Parliament a draft law on registration of land and other real  Not done. Expected to be done prior to release of second tranche of AGSECAL, expected before December 31,
estate specifying procedures for registering land and real estate by January  1997.
1, 1995.
1. Implement restructuring plans in 20 large enterprises, including partial or
full privatization, partial or full closure, divestment of assets, etc.
2. Close down some large non-viable state enterprises.            Ministerial orders were issued for the closure of 24 coal mines in 1995. As of mid-1995, coal production had
already been stopped in 8 mines, and labor force reduced by 6000.
1. Eliminate credit ceilings on banks and shift to market oriented measures  Individual credit ceilings on banks were eliminated and refnance credit of the NBU is allocated by credit auctions
of monetary policy by early 1995.                                 at market interest rates. However, new programs of directed credit, aimed at selected enterprises were implemented
in 1995 and refinance credits were targeted to specific enterprises.



2. Complete study defining, evaluating and costing alternative restructuring
plans for former state bonds by March 15, 1995.
3. Develop concrete restructuring proposals by mid-June 1995 for
implementation later in the year.
1. Complete policy papers on social assistance and on pensions and
unemployment compensation by mid-March 1995.
2. Begin implementation of comprehensive reforms by end of 1995.
3.  Initiate integrated household survey to most needy families, and  A scheme of income based targeted subsidy was implemented effective May 1, 1995. This scheme provided
implement improved targeting scheme based on survey results.      income support to households in which the housing and energy bill exceeded 15% of its total income.
4. Protect pension of low income pensioners.
5. Initiate measures to strengthen the pension system over the longer term,
e.g., by raising retirement age and by discouraging pensions for active
workers.
6. Based on study, implement comprehensive reforms in unemployed
compensation scheme.
7. Review expenditures of social insurance.
8. Initiate means to eliminate propuska.



22
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Estimated             Actual
1. Key operating indicators in SAR )
11. Modified indicators (if applicable)  )                - NOT APPLICABLE -
111. Modified indicators for future     J
operation (if applicable)               )



23
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study                  Purpose as defined            Status            Impact of study
at appraisal/redefined
- NOT APPLICABLE -



24
Table BA: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate                    Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)                           (US$ million)
Item                           Local     Foreign     Total             Local     Foreign     Total
costs      costs                        costs      costs
1. Import                      0.0       660.0       660.0             0.0        660.0      660.0
Total                       660.0      660.0              0.0       660.0      660.0



25
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate                  Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)                         (US$ million)
Source                         Local    Foreign     Total            Local    Foreign      Total
costs     costs                       costs      costs
1. IBRD/IDA                        0.0     500.0      500.0              0.0      500.0      500.0
2. Cofinancing institutions        0.0     160.0      160.0               0.0     160.0      160.0
3. Other external sources          0.0        0.0        0.0              0.0      00.0       00.0
4. Domestic contribution           0.0        0.0        0.0              0.0      00.0       00.0
* Canada $1Om
JEXIM $150m



26
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
- not applicable -



27
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Original       Revised
Agreement       Section      Covenant    Status        Fulfillment     Fulfillment          Description of Covenant            Comments
Type                      Date            Date
LA          3.01 (a)         9            C            ---             ---      Consultation and exchange
of views
LA         3.01(b)(c)        9                                                  Progress report to be submitted to
the Bank
LA           3.02            9            C            ---             ---       Procurement schedule
LA           3.03            3            C            ---             ---       Local currency transactions
to be made at Market
Exchange Rate
LA           3.04            5            C            ---             ---      Maintain Project Manager and staff
LA           3.05            5            C            ---             ---      Maintain staffed inter-agency
committee responsible for
monitoring and coordinating
Program implementation.
LA         3.06(a)(c)        1            C            ---             ---      Maintain records and
accounts.
Covnenat type:                                                                        Present Status
1 = Accounts/audits                        8 =  Indigenous people                     C = covenant complied with
2 = Financial performance/revenue          9 =  Monitoring                            CD = complied with after delay
generation from beneficiaries           10 = Project implementation not covered by  CP = complied with partially
3 - Flow and utilization of project funds       categories 1 - 9                      NC = not complied with
4 - Counterpart funding                    11 = Remedies
5 = Management aspects of the project or   1 2 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or
executing agency                            other resource allocation
6 = Environmental covenants                13 = Other
7 - Involuntary resettlement



28
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement Number and Title           Describe and comment on lack of compliance
- NOT APPLICABLE -
I 



29
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
(5'000)
Planned            Revised            Actual
Stage of project cycle       Weeks   USSs    Weeks   US$s    Weeks   US$s
Preparation to appraisal          10.0     35.6      42.4    164.2     76.8    239.7
Appraisal                          0.0       0.0     12.3     23.6      12.3     23.1
Negotiations through               0.0      0.0      20.2     39.9     20.2      29.8
Board approval
Supervision                       20.0     57.6      47.6    185.2     50.3    214.6
Completion                        10.0     34.0       2.8     15.0      2.8      15.0



30
Table 13: Bank Resouces: Missions
Performance Rating 2
No. of      Days in                           Implementation       Development         Types of 3
Status of project cycle     Month/Year        Persons        Field        Specialization          Status            Objectives         Problems
Preparation                         08/94         7            14            E,F,A,O
Appraisal through                   06/93        13           25             E,F,A,O
Board approval
Supervision                         12/93         3           10               E,O
04/95        7            8               E,O
08/95        7            8                0
Completion
1 - Specialization                          2 - Performance Rating                          3 - Types of Problems
A = Agriculturalist                         1 = Minor problems                              F = Financial
E = Economist                               2 = Moderate problems                           T = Technical
F = Financial Analyst                       3 = Major problems                              M = Managerial
' Other includes country officer, operations analyst, sector specialist,
procurement and disbursement specialists. Many of the specialists
visited the country in combination with other missions.



31
NATIONAL AGENCY OF UKRAINE FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT
Mr. Sergiy Kulyk
Alternate Executive Director
Conclusion on Rehabilitation
Loan Implementation
(Loan No. 383 1-UA
Rehabilitation Loan of the World Bank was aimed to support restructuring,
macroeconomic stabilization of economy, renewal of economic growth and
development. It was not possible to achieve the above mentioned goals at the expense
of own financing. This is why implementation of the Rehabilitation Loan was very
important and timely. The project has considerably facilitated implementation of most
of positive changes.
Ukraine economic program focuses on the following mutually interdependent
elements. Firstly, macroeconomic stabilization is based upon financial and monetary
restrictions, supported by the corresponding taxation policy. Secondly, measures
aimed at promoting competition at the commodity and services markets envisage
actions along several strategic lines, such as for example liberalization of prices on the
internal market as well as foreign trade regime and currency exchange, discontinuation
of the state orders system and liberalization of internal trade. Thirdly, it is envisaged
that commencing of privatization process, application of liquidation procedures and
regulations on bankruptcy and revision of methods of enterprise management will lead
to introduction of stricter budget restrictions for enterprises. Corresponding financial
policy (including discontinuation of target crediting, introduction of realistic positive
interest rates and implementation of measures to strengthen payment discipline) and
also reformation of financial sector will facilitate introduction of changes envisaged by
the program at the level of separate enterprises.
With the purpose to ensure stable reduction of inflation rate, Ukraine
introduced stringent financial and monetary policy in order to prevent transformation
of price rise, connected with liberalization of prices on the internal market and
unification of exchange rates into inflation as well as to achieve desired goal:



32
balanced budget. Public expenditures have been considerably reduced, including
subsidies for bread and coal, housing and municipal services as well as agricultural
sector subsidies.
The general aim in the sphere of pricing policy was considerable limitation of
the state interference ( at the level of central Cabinet of Ministers as well as at the level
of local power bodies) into the process of prices formation and regulation. This is
conducive not only to more effective distribution of resources, energy carriers in
particular, which are in constant shortage and which are exported from abroad and also
consolidation of the state budget. The Cabinet of Ministers has cut most ways to of
the state interference into price formation process, including direct control over prices,
income restrictions, fixed upper limit on retail trade surcharge at the state and local
levels and also informing local bodies of power and getting their approval to change
prices for particular goods and services.
At the industrial level the state control over prices remained only for those
goods and services, where monopoly position of the manufacturer has natural
character (power, gas, central heating, water supply and sewage, public transport and
premises rent) as well as for the few remaining artificial monopolies, the number of
which is reducing.
The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine made decisive steps towards acceleration
of the private sector development and its integration into normal economic processes
and have removed main obstacles on this way. Firstly, procedures of registration of
new businesses was simplified and the term of its consideration by the local bodies of
power was reduced. Access was opened to all spheres of economic activity, including
transport services and distribution of goods. Secondly, with accelerated tempo of
privatization, an access to means of production was facilitated, because stricter budget
limitations for state enterprises make the latter either to sell or to lease real estate and
other property. State enterprises are allowed to sell their property of the value below
2000 minimal wages by open competitive sale. Thirdly, the Cabinet of Ministers
developed new taxation system in order to reduce the burden of taxes on economic
activity and completely do away with discrimination of the private sector where such
discrimination exists.
In order to promote export and open Ukraine economy for international trade
and competition the Cabinet of Ministers implemented decisive steps in the sphere of
reforming foreign trade regime. On October 5, 1994 operations were resumed at
interbank currency exchanges. Official rate for forced turning in of currency was
eliminated in October 26, exchange rate was unified and at present it is determined at
interbank auctions. All licensed banks are eligible to participate in currency tenders,
exchange rate is determined and their applications are processed without interference
of administrative bodies. Distribution of hard currency through Tender Committee



33
was abolished. Current accounts in KBV high level of convertibility was resumed
with full convertibility for all trade and accompanying operations.
The Cabinet of Ministers has also implemented measures to liberalize foreign
trade. All export quotas and licenses were abolished excluding only those which are
subject to voluntary export restrictions. With unification of exchange rate and
abolition of export quotas there disappeared the need in price indices, which were used
for control and regulation of export. Price indices are issued only to ensure supply of
information to exporters; customs service received instructions to stop their usage for
regulation of export.
As far as import is concerned, the state does not implement quantitative
limitations excluding licenses, which at present are applied to norms of health care and
safety measures. The system of tariffs for import was modified towards introduction
of low and unified rates. It was achieved by means of reducing maximum tariff rate
by 20 per cent. Ukraine will try to avoid frequent revision of the system of tariffs.
During the process of preparation and implementation of the Project the
Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine efficiently collaborated with the World Bank by
maintaining constant relations and working with World Bank missions. Generally,
joint work with the World Bank has considerably facilitated and improved relations
between Ukraine and other financial donors.
Sincerely,
Deputy Chairperson of the National Agency         T. Solianyk






IBRD 27828R
20'                          \        250                                    30, <                ,o'    ;            35                                   40O
BELARUS                                              RUSSIAN                                  ROADS
-- \                                                                       o. \ j FEDERATION                        RAILROADS
-    SELECTED TOWNS AND CMES
NAllONAL CAPITAL
REPUBUC~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oMi-AUOOOSREULCO
H GARY  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OLSTBUDRE
POLAND                                                                                                INTERNATIONAL BOUNDA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ED RAION
POLAND  4            ,2                                                  Vikova_._  , 
[~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T    M ox                                                       .      'RIVER
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.A
SLOVAK~            KKRAIN
REUU                                   S                               SYW =     V  irT y r
>   LATVIA X                  t           i      ej F,         =<                                     7  X t         5              <~~~~~~~~~~~  FK
HUNGARY ' n2  eah 
\~ ~ ~~~~OAI ROANAjLDOVriAaLMEES ~
BULGARIA i -'  -     B    -,    -,_             - ,  5          |                       B L0 A0 C150E                               t     t     t
aZiiEE&')5~*~                          RGIA    BULGARIA                   3O:                                                   -    -          M  -:J   00LEso
MARCH I1997









IMAGING
Report No.:           16334
Type:      ICR



