Report No. PIC1776
Project Name              Ukraine-Rehabilitation Loan
Region                    Europe and Central Asia
Sector                    Economy-wide
Project ID                UAPA9108
Borrower                  Republic of Ukraine
Principal Responsible     Ministry of Finance
Entity 12/2 Hrushevsky St.
Kiev, Ukraine 2008
Telex: 7-044-131450
Date PID Prepared         March 21, 1995
Appraisal Date            November 1994
Board Date                December 22, 1994
Country and Macroeconomic Background
1.   Ukraine has a land mass that is the largest in Europe (with the
exception of the European part of Russia) and a population of 52 million
that ranks fifth in Europe. GNP per capita was estimated at US$ 1,910
in 1993, down from US$ 2,340 in 1991 at the time of the breakup of the
FSU. After declaring its independence in August 1991, it took Ukraine
more than three years before it launched a meaningful economic reform
program.
2.   Under the leadership of President Leonid Kuchma, Ukraine began in
October 1994 to lay the foundations for macroeconomic stabilization and
structural reforms with the objectives of reducing inflation and
promoting sustainable economic recovery and better living conditions for
the population. In support of the Government's program, the IMF
approved a first purchase of $370 million under the Systemic
Transformation Facility (STF) in October 1994. The program included
measures to reduce the budget deficit and limit credit expansion as well
as to improve international competitiveness. A Standby Arrangement (SBA)
has been submitted to the IMF Board for consideration in late March
1995. The SBA aims to reduce inflation and consolidate the
stabilization program.
3.   The economic reform program consists of two main parts -- a
stabilization program and a program of structural reforms. The
structural reform program has three main components: (i) measures to
promote competition by letting markets function and removing the
inhibiting role of the state towards the private sector; (ii) policies
to harden the budget constraint on enterprises, farms and banks through
privatization, elimination of subsidized credit and other transfers to
loss-making enterprises, and the restructuring of state enterprises into
commercial entities; and (iii) measures to strengthen the social safety
net for the most needy groups of the population through improved
targeting of benefits. All these actions are necessary to promote a
more efficient use of resources and to create the conditions for a
stable and sustainable improvement in the living standards of the



population.
Objectives and Description of the Rehabilitation Loan
4.   The main objective of the loan is to support the Government's
economic reform program to stabilize the economy and create the
conditions for a resumption of economic growth. Other objectives are to
(i) provide foreign exchange for the purchase of critical imports,
including for the private sector; (ii) provide budgetary support for the
strengthening of the social safety net for the neediest; (iii) improve
the functioning of the foreign exchange market; and (iv) provide a
framework for financial assistance from other donor agencies.
5.   The loan supports policies that: (a) promote the development of
competitive markets -- through price liberalization, liberalization of
domestic trade, reform of the external trade regime including abolition
of the system of state orders, and private sector development; (b)
result in improved financial discipline and hard budgets for
enterprises, farms and banks -- through privatization of small, medium
and large enterprises and agricultural land, enterprise management
reform and restructuring, financial sector reform, and restructuring of
the power sector; and (c) improve the targeting of benefits to the most
needy and strengthen the social safety net, especially to protect
children in poor families and poor pensioners against the impact of
price adjustments and subsidy removals.
Terms and Features of the Loan
6.   The loan was approved by the World Bank's Board of Directors on
December 22, 1994.
Amount:         US$500 million equivalent
Terms:          Seventeen years maturity with a five year grace period,
at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Disbursement:   - US$0 million was made available for disbursement when
the loan became effective (December 27, 1994). US$100
million (20 percent of the loan) was used to finance
retroactively eligible imports that were procured in the
four months preceding effectiveness.
- A further US$0 million is expected to be disbursed
after April 1, 1995 on the basis of a satisfactory review
of the progress in the overall program.
Poverty:       Poverty focussed.   The program includes measures to: (i)
protect low
Category:       low income households from the impact of
increases in prices; (ii) strengthen
mechanisms to deal with unemployment; and
(iii) monitor the impact of adjustment on the
poor and unemployed.
Environment:   As an adjustment operation, the project does not require
an environmental    assessment.
- 2 -



7.   Procurement under the project follows standard procedures as
spelled out in the "Guidelines for Procurement under the IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits". The standard negative list has been agreed with the
Government. In an effort to improve institutional capacity with respect
to procurement, technical assistance is being provided by UNCTAD/GATT to
prepare an operational program for international competitive bidding by
Ukrainian entities. Preparation of a public procurement law constitutes
part of this program.
Financing
8.   The loan is made to the Republic of Ukraine, represented by the
Ministry of Finance. The proceeds of the loan are being disbursed upon
evidence that imports of eligible goods have taken place during the
period. As agreed with the Government, disbursements are being made
through the National Bank of Ukraine (NBU) and an account of the
Ministry of Finance at the NBU is being credited with the karbovanets
equivalent at the market exchange rate as determined on the interbank
exchange market; the Government thereby receives non-inflationary budget
support. The foreign exchange receipts of the loan are being sold by
the NBU in the interbank exchange market or are held in reserve in
accordance with the objectives of monetary policy.
Implementation
9.   The Government has set up a Council on Economic Reform under the
chairmanship of the First Deputy Prime Minister to oversee, coordinate
and monitor the implementation of the Government's reform program.
Within the Council, a committee chaired by the Deputy Prime Minister for
Finance and Banking and consisting of all the ministries and agencies
concerned, including those of Finance, Economy, Energy, Agriculture,
Labor, Social Protection, the State Property Fund and the NBU will
monitor and coordinate the implementation of policies under the proposed
loan.
10. Overall coordination of project activities and general loan
administration is the responsibility of a project manager, located in
the office of the Deputy Prime Minister for Finance and Banking.
Officials in the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Finance provide
support to the project manager, who works solely on the implementation
of the project. The manager is responsible for preparing applications
for disbursement of World Bank funds, maintaining project accounts and
arranging for their timely audit, monitoring overall loan
implementation, and preparing monthly progress reports.
Implementation Progress
11. Performance under the loan has been good. In the period December
27, 1994-March 21, 1995, disbursements totalled $190 million (the
remaining $60 million of the first $0 million is expected to be
disbursed in April 1995). Release of the second $0 million is subject
to a review of economic performance in March/April 1995.
Benefits
-3-



12. The implementation of reforms will help to restore macroeconomic
stability and reverse the decline in economic activity, thus creating
new jobs and improving living standards. This objective will also be
served directly through the increased availability of foreign exchange
to alleviate critical production bottlenecks. The local counterpart
funds from the Bank loan will directly benefit the poor insofar as these
are used to augment the resources targeted for them.
Risks
13. The main risks relate to the pace of implementation of reform
measures. A slow-down could happen either because of opposition to the
structural reforms in Parliament (which has not been the case since
October 1994 as the Government has successfully pushed its legislation
through Parliament) or because of constraints in implementation capacity
within government. The first risk is being mitigated by the special
attention that the Government is devoting to its public information
campaign, which highlights the special features of the economic reform
program. For example, the mass privatization program is designed to
ensure that every citizen gets a share in state property and that the
citizens are informed of their rights. The Bank also is mounting a
public economic education program, maintaining close contacts with
Parliamentarians, and persons in the media and academia. Weaknesses in
implementation capacity will continue to be addressed through technical
assistance in various sectors, as well as by efforts to design policies
that minimize the burden on the various agencies.
Task Manager:
Ritu Anand, EC4C2
(202) 473-2962 (tel)
(202) 477-3378 (fax)
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 4 -



