Page  1
                                              April 24, 1996
Mr. Petro Hermanchuk
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Hrushevskoho, 12/2
252008  Kyiv, Ukraine
Dear Mr. Minister:
                UKRAINE:  Loan No. 3831-UA (Rehabilitation Loan)
                          Amendments to the Loan Agreement
      We refer to the Loan Agreement between Export-Import Bank of Japan (JEximBank) 
and Ukraine, dated December 28, 1995, providing for a loan in an amount in Yen (Y) 
equivalent to one hundred fifty million U.S. Dollars ($150,000,000) (the JEximBank 
Loan), to be made by the JEximBank in conjunction with the Loan Agreement between 
Ukraine and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank), 
dated December 22, 1994 (the World Bank Loan Agreement), providing for a Loan in the 
amount
of $500,000,000 equivalent, for the purposes of financing of the Program described in 
the letter of the Borrower dated November 30, 1994, as referred to in Recital (A) of 
said World Bank Loan Agreement.
      As the provision of financing under the JEximBank Loan was made expressly 
conditional upon the introduction of the corresponding amendments in the World Bank 
Loan Agreement, we proposed to introduce
the following amendments to the above-captioned Loan Agreement:
1.    Following Recital (A) of the Preamble, an additional paragraph (B), shall be 
introduced as Recital (B), reading as follows:
            "(B) by Agreement dated December 28, 1995, (the Japanese Exim Bank Loan 
Agreement), the 
Export-Import Bank of Japan (Japanese EximBank) has 
agreed to make a loan (the Japanese 
EximBank Loan) to the Borrower in 
an amount in Yen (Y) equivalent to one hundred fifty
million U.S. Dollars ($150,000,000) to assist in financing part of the 
Project on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Japanese 
EximBank Loan Agreement; and"
and paragraph (B) shall be re-lettered paragraph (C), and the semi-colon at the end of 
the paragraph shall be replaced by a period and the word "and" shall be deleted.
2.    Section 4.01 of the Loan Agreement shall be modified to read as follows:
"Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, 
the following 
additional events are specified:
 
            (a)  that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the 
Program, or a 
significant part thereof, will be carried out; and
 
            (b) (i)    Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph: (A) the right 
of the Borrower to 
withdraw the proceeds of the Japanese EximBank Loan shall have 
been suspended, canceled or 
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to 
the terms of the Japanese EximBank Loan Agreement; 
or (B) any such loan shall 
have become due and payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
  (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes to 
the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such suspension, 
cancellation, termination or prematuring
is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations 
under such 
agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are available to 
the Borrower from other
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower 
under this 
Agreement.
Page  2
3.    A new Section 4.02 of the Loan Agreement shall be included as follows:
"Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General Conditions, the 
following 
additional event is specified, namely that, any event specified in 
paragraphs (a) (i) of Section 
4.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the 
proviso of paragraph (b) (ii) of that 
Section."
 
      If the above amendments are acceptable to the Borrower, the authorized 
representative of the Borrower should sign the two copies of this letter, returning 
one of the signed original copies to the Bank. 
      The amendments will become effective upon receipt by the Bank of the 
confirmation copy of this letter.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
/s/  Wafik Grais
     Acting Director
     Country Department IV
     Europe and Central Asia Region
CONFIRMED:
UKRAINE:
/s/  Petro Hermanchuk
     Authorized Representative
This 6th day of May 1996
