Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3831 UA
                              Loan Agreement
                           (Rehabilitation Loan)
                                  between
                                  UKRAINE
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                          Dated December 22, 1994
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3831 UA
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated December 22, 1994, between UKRAINE (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Bank has received a letter dated November
30, 1994, from the Borrower describing a program of actions,
objectives and policies designed to achieve economic
stabilization and structural reforms in the Borrower's economy
(hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Borrower's
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting
assistance from the Bank in the financing of urgently needed
imports required during such execution; and
      (B)   on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank
has decided in support of the Program to provide such
assistance to the Borrower by making the Loan as hereinafter
provided;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
Page  2
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications thereof set forth below (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified to
read:
            "'Project' means the imports and other activities
      that may be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
      pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Loan
      Agreement.";
      (b)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted;
      (c)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
      under which any further withdrawals under the Loan would
      be inconsistent with the provisions of Article III,
      Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement;"; and
      (d)   Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
            "(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date
      or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose
      between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall
      prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope
      and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request,
      on the execution of the program referred to in the
      Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the performance by the
      Borrower and the Bank of their respective obligations
      under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the
      purposes of the Loan.".
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
      (a)   "Market Exchange Rate" means (1) the exchange rate
for the Ukrainian karbovanets established on the Ukrainian
Interbank Currency Exchange, as reported by the National Bank;
and (2) upon introduction of the national currency of Ukraine,
the exchange rate therefor established on the Ukrainian
Interbank Currency Exchange or any successor thereto;
      (b)   "National Bank" means the National Bank of Ukraine;
      (c)   "Project Manager" means the project manager described
in Section 3.04 of this Agreement; and
      (d)   "SITC" means the Standard International Trade
Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 343 (1986).
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate
value equivalent to the amount of five hundred million dollars
($500,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of
the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the
date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
Page  3
1 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1996, or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).
On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                  ending on the date immediately preceding each
                  date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                  Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period
                  in which this Agreement is signed.
            (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                  as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                  expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                  outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                  after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                  or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
                  to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B)
                  loans which may be made by the Bank after
                  July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined
                  otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of
                  this Section.
           (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or
                   the second six months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than
six months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
(iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
                  "(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
            outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
            Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
            determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus
            one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
            dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
            the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
            principal amount outstanding during the preceding
            Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable
            during such Interest Period."
                  "(b) As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
            respect of such Quarter."
                  "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October
Page  4
            1 in a calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
                           Particular Covenants
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from
time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views on
the progress achieved in carrying out the Program.
      (b)   Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank for its review and comment a report
on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
      (c)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph
(a) of this Section, the Borrower and the Bank shall:
            (i)   prior to the dates specified for these purposes
                  in the letter referred to in Recital (A) of the
                  Preamble to this Agreement, but in any event
                  not later than March 31, 1995, carry out a
                  systematic review of the progress achieved in
                  the Program up to such date, on the basis of
                  the actions, objectives, measures and schedule
                  described in such letter; and
            (ii)  at any time up to the completion of the review
                  period referred to in sub-paragraph (i) of this
                  Section, and thereafter, whether before or
                  after the disbursement of the Loan, exchange
                  views on any proposed action to be taken by the
                  Borrower which would have the effect of
                  materially reversing the objectives of the
                  Program, or any action taken under the Program.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall ensure that all local
currency transactions related to the use of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be made through the Ukrainian Interbank Currency
Exchange at the Market Exchange Rate.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall appoint a project manager
under the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister for Finance and
Banking, with qualifications, terms of reference and experience
satisfactory to the Bank, who shall be assisted by qualified
staff in adequate numbers and by consultants, acceptable to the
Bank, advising on such matters as disbursements and accounting.
      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall maintain an inter-agency
coordinating committee which will be responsible for monitoring
and coordinating implementation of the Program.
      Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
Page  5
                  paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal
                  year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                  auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
            (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
                  in any case not later than six months after the
                  end of each such year, a certified copy of the
                  report of such audit by said auditors, of such
                  scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
                  reasonably requested; and
           (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and
                  the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
                  time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                  accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                  records and accounts reflecting such
                  expenditures;
            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal
                  year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account was made, all records (contracts,
                  orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                  documents) evidencing such expenditures;
           (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to
                  examine such records; and
            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audits referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                  report of such audit contains a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                  statements of expenditure submitted during such
                  fiscal year, together with the procedures and
                  internal controls involved in their
                  preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.
                                ARTICLE IV
                      Additional Event of Suspension
      Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified,
namely, that a situation has arisen which shall make it
improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof,
will be carried out.
                                 ARTICLE V
                        Effective Date; Termination
      Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VI
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Page  6
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            12/2 Hrushevsky St.
            Kyiv, Ukraine 252008
                                          Telex:
                                            131450
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                        UKRAINE
                        By /s/ Yuriy Mykolayovich Shcherbak
                                                Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ Wilfried Thalwitz
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                                  Europe and Central Asia
                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
required during the execution of the Program and to be financed
out of such proceeds.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
Page  7
      (a)   expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or subgroups, or any successor groups or subgroups under
future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by
notice to the Borrower:
Group             Sub-group         Description of Items
      112            -              Alcoholic beverages
      121            -              Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
                                    refuse
      122            -              Tobacco, manufactured (whether
                                    or not containing tobacco sub-
                                    stitutes)
      525            -              Radioactive and associated
                                    materials
      667            -              Pearls, precious and semi-
                                    precious stones, unworked or
                                    worked
      718         718.7             Nuclear reactors, and parts
                                    thereof, fuel elements
                                    (cartridges), non-
                                    irradiated for nuclear
                                    reactors
      728         728.43            Tobacco processing machinery
     Group        Sub-group         Description of Items
      897         897.3             Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                    platinum group metals
                                    (except watches and watch
                                    cases) and goldsmiths' or
                                    silversmiths' wares
                                    (including set gems)
      971            -              Gold, non-monetary (excluding
                                    gold ores and concentrates)
      (b)   expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
      (c)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount
not exceeding the equivalent of $100,000,000 may be made on
account of payments made for such expenditures before that date
but after August 23, 1994;
      (d)   expenditures for goods supplied under a contract
which any national or international financing institution or
agency other than the Bank shall have financed or agreed to
finance; and
      (e)   expenditures for goods intended for a military or
paramilitary purpose or for luxury consumption.
3.    No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be
entered into to pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower
in respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan after March 31, 1995, nor once the aggregate of the
proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account and the
total amount of such commitments shall have reached the
equivalent of $250,000,000, unless the Bank shall be satisfied,
after the completion of the systematic review as described in
Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, based on evidence furnished
to the Bank, that the Borrower has undertaken by such date the
actions and measures described in the letter referred to in
Recital (A) to the Preamble to this Agreement.
Page  8
4.    If, after the exchange of views described in paragraph 3
above, the Bank shall have given notice to the Borrower that
the progress achieved and actions taken are not satisfactory
and, within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not
have achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the
Bank, then the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or any part thereof.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                           Amortization Schedule
                                           Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each January 15 and July 15
      beginning July 15, 2000
      through July 15, 2011                     20,835,000
and on January 15, 2012                         20,795,000
_____________________________
*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                          Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions,
the premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of
the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for
the applicable time of prepayment below:
    Time of Prepayment                        Premium
                                   The interest rate (expressed as a
                                   percentage per annum) applicable
                                   to the Loan on the day of
                                   prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                       0.18
    before maturity
More than three years but                       0.35
    not more than six years
Page  9
    before maturity
More than six years but                         0.65
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity
More than 11 years but not                      0.88
    more than 15 years
    before maturity
More than 15 years before                       1.00
    maturity
                                SCHEDULE 3
                                Procurement
1.  Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $3,000,000 or more each shall be awarded through
international competitive bidding procedures consistent with
those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines), subject to the following
modifications:
    (a)   Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:
    "2.8 Notification and Advertising
          The international community should be notified in a
    timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done
    by advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a
    bidder's invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or
    to bid; such advertisements should be placed in at least one
    newspaper of general circulation in the Borrower's country
    and, in addition, in at least one of the following forms:
          (i)   a notice in the United Nations publication,
                Development Forum, Business Edition; or
          (ii)  an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
                technical journal of wide international
                circulation; or
         (iii)  a notice to local representatives of
                countries and territories referred to in
                the Guidelines, that are potential
                suppliers of the goods required."
    (b)   The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
          "As a further alternative, bidding documents may
    require the bidder to state the bid price in a single
    currency widely used in international trade and specified in
    the bidding documents."
    (c)   Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
    (d)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide
that, when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid
validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will be
increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed correction
factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be applied to all
foreign currency components and the other to the local currency
component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken
into account in the bid evaluation.
    (e)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this
paragraph, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding
Page  10
documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto
as the Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes
of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents
have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding
documents based on other internationally recognized standard
forms agreed with the Bank.
2.  Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost
less than the equivalent of $3,000,000 shall be awarded:
    (a)   by purchasers required to follow the Borrower's public
procurement procedures for the importation of goods, on the
basis of such procedures, provided that such procedures shall
have been found acceptable by the Bank; and
    (b)   by other purchasers, in accordance with established
commercial practice, provided that such contracts shall be
awarded on the basis of evaluation and comparison of quotations
obtained from suppliers from at least two countries, except
that direct contracting procedures acceptable to the Bank may
be used where considered appropriate under paragraph 3.5 of the
Guidelines.
3.  Subject to the prior approval of the Bank, commonly traded
commodities may be procured through organized international
commodity markets or other channels of competitive procurement
acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank.
4.  With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank prior to
the submission to the Bank of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with
the analysis of the respective bids and recommendations for
award, a description of the advertising and tendering
procedures followed and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request.
5.  With respect to each contract referred to in paragraphs 2
and 3 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
prior to the submission to the Bank of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect
thereof, such documentation and information as the Bank may
reasonably request to support withdrawal applications in
respect of such contract.
6.  The provisions of the preceding paragraph 5 of this Schedule
shall not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals
from the Loan Account are to be made on the basis of statements
of expenditures.
