Report No. PIC2873
Project Name                   Poland-Wholesale Markets Project I (@)
Region                         Europe and Central Asia
Sector                         Other Agriculture
Project ID                     PLPA8616
Borrower                       Republic of Poland
Implementing Agency            Ministry of Agriculture and Food Economy
30 Wspolna Street
00-930 Warsaw
Poland
contact person: Mr. Romuald Wozniak
Director
Office for Wholesale Markets and Commodity
Exchanges
Phone: 48 - 22 - 623 1701
Date this PID Prepared         January 22, 1997
Date Initial PID Prepared      October 31, 1995
Actual Appraisal Date          June 1996
Projected Board Date           July 1997
Country and Sector Background
1.   Fresh fruits and vegetables will be the main products traded on the
proposed markets. Horticulture in Poland has always been dominated by
the private sector which accounted for around 90% of production
throughout the socialist period, a figure that now has risen to aost
1009. In contrast to falling overall agricultural production since the
start of the reform process, the horticultural sector has increased
production some 10% as compared with the late 1980s. Total production,
excluding potatoes, is currently running at around 8.8 million tons (MT)
of which 2.7 MT is fruit and 6.1 MT is vegetables. Potato production is
currently running at around 34 MT per annum.
2.   The mainstay of horticulture production in Poland, private farms,
is predominantly small and characterized by mixed production, i.e.
horticultural crops, grain and oilseed crops and livestock production.
The average private farm size is 6.3 hectares, mostly in multiple plots,
with only 8% of holdings larger than 15 hectares.
3.   Poland is one of the leading European producers of fruit crops. It
is the principal producer of strawberries and black and red currants and
the sixth largest apple producer. The country can grow a very wide range
of temperate vegetable crops, though in practice 90% of production is
accounted for by a limited number of products: cabbage, cauliflower,
carrots, beetroots, onions, and tomatoes.
4.   Total domestic demand for horticultural produce is about 240 kg per



person per year, of which 50- is accounted for by potatoes, 28t by
vegetables and 22t by fruit. The share of fruit and vegetable
consumption in total demand is considerably smaller than in other
European countries. The range of vegetables consumed is relatively
limited, with many being consumed in a preserved or processed form.
Fruit consumption is dominated by apples. As such, Poland+s consumption
pattern is similar to that of Western European countries up to about the
1950+s, but is changing rapidly as a response to the availability of
imported produce and changes in dietary habits.
5.   In the past, restrictions on imports, coupled with trading
opportunities with the Soviet Union, resulted in a substantial positive
balance of trade for horticultural produce. However, since the
liberalization of imports and loss of former markets there has been a
dramatic increase of imports, particularly of exotic produce such as
citrus fruits and bananas, and a loss of traditional export markets.
This loss, though, has been compensated largely by the penetration of
new markets, with the result that exports are running at record levels.
The continued growth of imports, though, could threaten this trade
balance, making it particularly important that Poland continues to
strengthen its production and marketing capabilities to meet
international competition. In this context it is of great importance
that the country has effective and transparent wholesale trading
structures to market local production efficiently, satisfy consumer
needs and offer opportunities for the concentration of produce to meet
export requirements both to Western Europe and to the former Soviet
Union. Poland occupies a unique strategic location to exploit these
international trading opportunities.
Objectives
6.   Although the project will be anchored on urban wholesale markets,
its goal is to support the development of the marketing chain for
produce and, therefore, it has 2 main objectives:
-    construction of 2 urban wholesale markets complete with
associated physical infrastructure;
-    support for the creation of rural farmers, or assembly,
markets, the entry points for the produce trade.
Description.
7.   Following its two main objectives the project will have four
components as follows:
i.   The construction of two wholesale markets: to be undertaken as
commercial ventures by limited liability companies established for
that purpose. Total combined credit needs for these markets are
estimated at the equivalent of US$32 million, 70- of which would be
financed with IBRD funds, the remainder with equity and credit from
local banks. Cost recovery of this component is expected to be
100% .
ii. The development of associated linking infrastructure: a
-2 -



financial responsibility of the municipality. Total credit needs
for this component are tentatively estimated at the equivalent of
US$3 million. Cost recovery of this investment, from user fees of
the markets alone, will be partial. The remainder of cost recovery
will be obtained from other beneficiaries of the same
infrastructure, in particular sewage collection and water supply.
Thus, ultimately, cost recovery is expected to be 1009 for this
component as well.
iii. Support for the creation of rural farmers markets, i.e. the
entry points of the wholesale marketing system, based on voluntary
associations of farmers. The financing needs of these associations
will be for their creation and for market supporting facilities
such as product assembly, grading, packaging and auctioning. It is
expected that funding for the formation of the associations,
estimated at the equivalent of US$3 million, will be found in the
form of grants.
Financing.
8.   In summary, total project funding and its sources would be as
follows, in US$ million
equivalent:
IBRD      Grant      Equity &
co-fin.    Local Banks
a. Wholesale Market Companies    24         0             10
b. Municipal Infrastructure       3         0              0
c. Assembly Markets               3         3              0
Totals     in millions of US$    30         3             10
9.   Project financing for, both, the markets proper and the related
municipal infrastructure will be used for engineering design and
construction of the complete physical facilities. Both markets will be
build on greenfield sites.
Implementation and Stakeholder Involvement.
10. The two local wholesale market companies will be responsible for
the implementation of their respective sub-projects, in close
collaboration with the public works departments of their municipality.
Producers and traders, main stakeholders in the proposed developments,
will be shareholders in the market companies and will, thus, have a
direct voice in development strategies and operational policies.
11. Farmers associations, expected owners and operators of rural
farmers markets, are by their very nature composed of the most immediate
stakeholders, fruit and vegetable producers. Although this component of
the project is the least costly, it is probably the most difficult to
implement. Technical assistance for the formation of these associations
and the creation of their marketing abilities has been obtained from
similar associations elsewhere in Europe.
Sustainability
12. The core components of the project will be built, owned and
-3 -



operated by financially independent limited liability companies where
the most important stakeholders in the project's success will be
shareholders. Most of the services to be supplied by institutions and
organizations that will either be supported or created by the project
will be rendered against user fees.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Sector
13. The Bank has had a number of operations in the agriculture and
forestry sector in Poland, notably Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan
[ASAL] $300 million, two agriculture credit projects of $100 million
each and a forestry project of $146 million. Based on this involvement
with Polish agriculture, and its institutions, for the last 6 years,
particularly in the context of the ASAL, the Bank has substantial and
in-depth knowledge of the sector and of the environment in which
marketing takes place.
14. A study on wholesale markets was completed earlier this year, as
one of the institution building activities under the ASAL. In parallel
with this, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Economy established an
office for wholesale markets and commodity exchanges. Local initiatives
with respect to agricultural marketing, with fundamental involvement by
the principal stakeholders, have now evolved to the point that they can
confidently carry a major part of the burden of project preparation and
provide a fertile ground for market development activities.
Poverty Category
15. Program for targeted interventions (see also +Program Objective
Categories+ below)
Environmental Aspects.
16. The project will create market structures on erstwhile agricultural
land, albeit in the periphery of major cities. Operation of the markets
will generate solid and liquid waste and, possibly, obnoxious odors. If
not properly planned, traffic congestion could occur on access roads.
The Project has a Category A environmental review.
Program Objective Categories.
17. Given the nature of the project and its components it is expected
that there will be a larger proportion of poor people among the
intended, rural, beneficiaries than there is among the population as a
whole. Consequently, the project would be rated in the +Poverty
Category: Program for Targeted Interventions+, in accordance with the
provisions of OD 4.15. Furthermore, the project+s exclusive targeting of
private development rates it also in the +Private Sector Development+
category.
Benefits and Risks:
18. The main economic benefits of the proposed wholesale markets will
include savings in the costs of search, transactions and
transportation; improved quality of produce and wider choice; reduction
- 4 -



of product waste and the risk of adverse selection; improved market
transparency and trader competition; and the development of
complementary services to traders and their clients that will contribute
to regional employment and economic growth. The main risks to successful
project realization and subsequent market operation are: an exchange
rate realignment that would increase zloty-denominated repayments of
foreign currency credits and delays in obtaining required permits and
connections to municipal infrastructure, leading to construction delays.
Market performance might suffer from lack of experience with such, for
Poland, novel ventures and from low market turnover due to structural
changes in the market and to misunderstandings on the part of producers,
traders and customers.
Contact Person       Richard Lacroix, Task Manager - EC2AR
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
tel.: (202) 458 5913
fax: (202) 477 0816
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending January 31, 1997.
- 5 -



