Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ReportNo.: 22183-POL
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(SCL-43770; TF-29318)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF DEM 28 MILLION (US$15.9 MILLION)
TO THE
POMORSKIE HURTOWE CENTRUM ROLNO-SPOZYWCZE S.A.
FOR
POLAND WHOLESALE MARKETS PROJECT I
June 19, 2001
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 2001)
Currency Unit = PLN
PLN 1 = US$ 0.23
US$ 1 = 4.4 PLN
FISCAL YEAR
Jan 1  December 31
ABBRFVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APA           Agriculture Property Agency
ASAL          Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
DEM           German Mark
EIA           Environmental Impact Assessment
ERR           Economic Rate of Return
EU            European Union
FAO/CP        Food and Agriculture Organization/Cooperative Program
FY            Fiscal Year
FRR           Financial Rate of Return
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
ICB           International Competitive Bidding
IRR           Internal Rate of Return
PAD           Project Appraisal Document
PHCRS         Pomorskie Hurtowe Centrum Rolno-Spozywcze (Gdansk Wholesale Market)
PHRD          Policy and Human Resources Development Grant Program (Government of Japan)
PLN           Polish Zloty
QAG           Quality Assurance Group
SCF           Standard Conversion Factor
VAT           Value Added Tax
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:    Michael F. Carter
Sector Director:    Kevin M. Cleaver
Task Team Leader:    Richard L. Lacroix



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
POLAND
WHOLESALE MARKETS PROJECT I
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                          1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                         1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry               1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                  3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                    8
6. Sustainability                                                                       10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                        11
8. Lessons Learned                                                                      14
9. Partner Comments                                                                     15
10. Additional Information                                                             20
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                   21
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                   22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                   24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                   26
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                   27
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                      28
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                   29
Annex 8. Financial Analysis                                                            30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project II): P008616                                      Project Name: WHOLESALE MARKETS
PROJECT I
Team Leader: Richard L. Lacroix                           TL Unit: ECSSD
ICR Tye: Core ICR                                         Report Date: June 19, 2001
1. Project Data
fName: WHOLESALE MARKETS PROJECT I                   L/CY/TFNumber: SCL-43770; TF-29318
Country/Department: POLAND                                               Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: AM - Agro-Industry & Marketing
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  11/01/1995                              Eftective:  10/01/1998        11/12/1998
Appraisal:  06/01/1998                               MTR:
Approval:  07/23/1998                              Closing: 07/31/2002          01/04/2001
Borrower/Implementing Agency: POMORSKIE HURTOWE CENTRUM ROLNO-SPOZYWCZ/PHCRS
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes F. Linn                          Johannes F. Linn
Country Alanager:    Michael F. Carter                         Basil G. Kavalsky
Sector Manager:      Joseph R. Goldberg                        Joseph R. Goldberg
Team Leader at ICR:   Richard L Lacroix                        Richard L. Lacroix
ICR Primary Author:  Jolanta Kryspin-Watson
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U-Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L-Likely, UN-Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainahilitv: UN
Institutional Developmenit Impact: N
Bank Perjbrnmance: S
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Enn-y: S                      S
Project at Risk at Any Timne: Yes
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project's primary objective was the construction of a conmmercially self-sustaining urban wholesale
market for the greater Gdansk area, complete with attendant physical infrastructure.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objective remained the same.



3.3 Original Components:
Development of Market Facilities and Site Infrastructure consisting of heavy earth moving, construction
of on-site roads, creation of parking lots for heavy and light vehicles, the construction of off-site roads to
the main highway and on-site infrastructure for sewage treatment and public utility connections; civil
works, including the construction of main buildings for fruit, vegetable and provisions trading, two flower
halls, covered trading bays, offices, ancillary buildings and perimeter fencing; pre-start up expenses,
working capital, interest and other fees during construction.
Public Utilities and Services Infrastructure consisting of the laying of sewage piping to the complex and
connections to water, gas, and electricity utilities and to the local telephone network, as well as completion
of access to an adjacent highway.
3.4 Revised Components:
Project components have not been revised.
Component: DEVELOPMENT OF MARKET FACILITIES AND SITE INFRASTRUCTURE; Cost:
$20,100,000.00;
Component: PUBLIC UTILITIES AND SERVICES INFRASTRUCTURE;
Cost: $2,900,000.00;
3.5 Quality at Entrv:
The preparation and design of the Gdansk Wholesale Market Project at entry should be rated as
satisfactory (though, the QAG quality at entry assessment was not done). The need for a fruit and vegetable
wholesale market stemmed from a demand for such produce, competition in both domestic and foreign
markets for quality produce, and easy access of farmers to a well-established and reliable market. In
addition, the prospects of accession to the EU presented the need for higher health and hygiene standards in
the food supply chain.
The economic development and transformation strategy of the government of Poland and the Country
Assistance Strategy of the World Bank have been geared towards a balanced development with an
increasing role of the private sector in economic affairs. Nearly 40% of Poland's population live in rural
areas with agriculture providing more than 25% of total employment but accounting for a mere 5% of
GDP. Therefore, it is not possible to achieve balanced growth with reduced poverty and inequality without
focusing more on the rural economy and, hence, on its main economic activity, agriculture. The CAS
(report no 19749, dated August 25, 1999) states, among others: "A key challenge is to improve agriculture
productivity and competitiveness, including shifting production to those agriculture products and market
niches where Poland can be competitive, especially within the EU. This requires inter alia, improvements
in the way land markets function so that farm size can be optimized, the development of private wholesale
markets and marketing cooperatives, and investments in basic infrastructure in rural areas". The Bank's
most recent poverty assessment for Poland (Poverty in Poland, September 14, 1994, report no. 13051)
noted that there is a relative concentration of poverty in the countryside, as compared with the national
average. As the project's main realization, a wholesale market for agricultural products aimed to benefit
mostly the agriculture producer, its impact was focused on the countryside and ipso facto on that part of
Poland's population where poverty is concentrated. The project, thus, was consistent with the Bank's
-2 -



emphasis on poverty alleviation. Finally, the project's environmental assessment identified a range of
measures to be taken as integral parts of the construction, that were meant to mitigate effects of the
market's operation that could be potentially harmful to the environment. These measures have all been
incorporated in the construction, at a total cost which is approximately PLN 5,017,000 or 6.3% of total
investment.
The project was an attempt to boost the agricultural sector by encouraging a vertical integration of
production and marketing as well as by providing a sustainable and reliable produce outlet. In addition, the
creation of the wholesale market aimed at reducing produce waste, providing a reliable and efficient link in
the marketing chain, and an instrument to dampen excessive temporal changes in demand, notably on the
producer. A more consistent and continuous interface between producers and traders maintains contacts
and trade, often interrupted when contacts are more sporadic in the absence of an organized market space.
As such, the project was in support of Bank and Government strategies for economic development and
transformation of Poland.
The lay-out of the market, done as part of project preparation by architecture consultants experienced in
wholesale market design has proven to be optimal for local conditions, well adapted to seasonal weather
changes and allowing for efficient market operations. The execution of the design, by a consortium of three
local contractors selected through ICB, is of superior quality as attested to by, both, company management
and users. The construction schedule, upon which the disbursement estimates were made during appraisal,
was conservative as full disbursement has been made within the period estimated. On the other hand, the
total cost of the whole investment, at US$26 million, was above PAD estimates of US$23.05 million. This
fact can be attributed to protracted delays in obtaining Bank financing which was occasioned, among
others, by deliberations within government about its sovereign guarantee for the proposed loan, that took
almost a year. In addition, the process to obtain construction permits from local authorities was longer than
foreseen at appraisal. All costs over appraisal estimates have been covered by additional equity. There has
been no cost overrun on the Bank financed contract and disbursements of the Bank loan were ahead of
PAD projections.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The principal objective of the project, see par. 3. 1, results in two expectations, the realization of the
physical environment for a wholesale market and, second, its financially independent operation. The first
part of the objective has demonstrably been achieved, a contemporary wholesale market structure has been
erected within its budget and within the contractually agreed upon construction period. This objective is
relevant with respect to current country and sectoral assistance strategies for Poland and is consistent with
the Bank's social and environmental goals. The second part of the objective, the fully commercial and
financially independent operation of the market, has as yet not been achieved. The principal reason for the
lack of throughput, and hence of revenue, of the new market is the continued operation of two primitive
markets, whose existence impedes the transfer of the regional wholesale trade in produce to the new market.
These markets remain functioning in spite of the fact that their construction and operation are illegal.
Neither central government, nor local authorities have been able, or willing, to enforce the pertinent laws.
Tentative projections of operations as foreseen in the company's current strategic plan, as shown
quantitatively in Annex 8, allow for modest optimism in this respect, provided that planned business
expansions take place (see section 4.4). Under the assumptions made, and shown in Annex 8, FRR to total
investment is estimated to be 4%, while the ERR would be 12%. A 30% reduction in expected economic
-3 -



benefits will halve the ERR to 6%. In spite of these expected returns, and given the uncertainty entailed in
the projections made, the project is not considered satisfactory with respect to attaining its Development
Objective. Since there is still a chance for the project to achieve commercial viability, or at least to be sold
at a total price greater than cost, it is recommended that Bank rural development staff working in Poland
continue to engage the project in an advisory capacity towards this end.
4.2 Outputs by components:
As a result of the project, a modem wholesale market has been constructed fully complying with
contemporary standards for food handling and with separate halls dedicated to trade in, among others,
fruits, vegetables, and flowers. Moreover, small farmers are provided with covered areas for direct sale
from their vehicles. In addition, the new market has room for facilities that could provide its customers with
a range of services on site, such as: customs, banking, sanitary inspection, and agriculture advisory.
The market has been built on a 56 ha. site on the ring road that passes around the tri-city area of Gdansk,
Sopot and Gdynia on land that used to be part of a state owned farm. The "Agriculture Property Agency of
the State Treasury", custodian of all assets of former state farms, has brought in the site as equity
contribution in kind in the investment and has, thus, become, one of the major shareholders in the wholesale
market company, a joint stock venture established under Polish corporate law. Market management is fully
independent.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The "development objective" at appraisal was : "the construction of a commercially self-sustaining
wholesale market for the greater Gdansk area". Although a commercial wholesale market has been built, it
is operating at very low capacity. About 55% of the available space is rented and, consequently, its
viability is still in serious doubt (see financial analysis in section 4.4 and Annex 8). Nevertheless, this
market could in the future spearhead the development of a sound and sustainable private business for fruits,
vegetables and flowers in the Gdansk area. The two makeshift markets now operating illegally cannot be
said to achieve this later goal since they are mainly open-air precarious constructions where even the most
basic sanitary regulations are not met.
The newly constructed wholesale market has two important assets: an advantageous location near the ring
road around the tri-city area and ample space. A number of business operators are reportedly interested in
using some of this space to set up a hub for processing and marketing products at the regional level. A
critical mass of such operators, say two or three, could then attract other types of businesses and generate
higher-value added products, e.g. from grading and retail packaging. This expansion of services offered,
beyond the traditional wholesaling, will ultimately result in the creation of the contemporary food
distribution center that was foreseen as the strategic development goal during project preparation. As such,
the market would become a growth pole for the region. In the end, much of the market's overall economic
impact will depend on the practicability and success of the business plan now being proposed by the market
company.
At appraisal, the main quantifiable project benefits identified were : "reductions in search, transaction and
transport costs" These reductions were estimated to be around PLN 85/ton with a throughput of 20 t/m2
over 12,700 m2, or an amount of PLN 1,700 (US$ 400) per M2. On this basis, the Economic Rate of
Return (ERR) was calculated at 19% over 25 years. It would be extremely difficult to re-estimate the
actual benefits (in terms of reductions) since there has been no overall monitoring of the commercial
transactions carried out in the market's halls. However, for illustrative purposes, the ERR was recalculated
- 4 -



using the amount of reductions assumed at appraisal (PLN 85/ton, converted into year 2000/01 terms) and
20t/m2 as throughput. The total surface rented to customers is now 6,971 m2, while it is assumed that it will
reach 12,000 m2 within five years. Project costs have been as derived from the company's past financial
statements and projections. It is assumed that the amount of PLN 85/ton is already net of any incremental
operating cost necessary for obtaining this benefit. As in appraisal, the overall standard conversion factor
used is 0.9. On the basis of these assumptions, the ERR is estimated at 12% over 25 years. A sensitivity
analysis, based on a reduction of expected benefits with 30%, yields an ERR of 6% Details of the economic
analysis are included in Annex 3.
The base ERR of 12% may actually be conservative since it does not include other activities in the
company's business plan such as the renting of seven hectares of land and of over 100 umbrella roofs (see
financial analysis). It also does not include other types of benefits such as: i) reductions in the
administrative costs of wholesalers consolidating operations at the market, ii) reductions in consumer prices
and improvements in terms of a greater choice and better quality for consumers, iii) increases in farmers'
incomes through a higher value-added production, and iv) the overall economic development generated in
the area, mainly in terms of jobs/incomes, by the presence and activities of the wholesale market, which
would act as a growth pole.
From a fiscal viewpoint, the main benefits envisaged at appraisal were in terms of taxes collected on the
volume of business generated and of reductions in public funds for income support in the region, following
employment in the wholesale market. It was expected that: "the project would generate annual corporate
tax revenues exceeding PLN 2.5 million in 1996 constant terms (around PLN 3.7 million in Year 2000
terms). A portion of these revenues would be remitted to the municipal government and additional fiscal
incomes would derive from VAT assessments of trader transactions". In fact, the company has indicated
that it already pays more than PLN one million in property tax per year to the municipal government. In
addition, since a total of 6,971 m2 of hall space is rented, some business is carried out in the market on
which taxes, mainly VAT, are being paid. The total of these taxes, although certainly non-negligible and
growing, could not be estimated for this report.
In terms of reductions in public income support funds, the wholesale market employs 29 people at present,
while further employment is created by the ongoing business in the halls. Due to a lack of data, it is not
possible at this point to estimate the amount of employment created and, more importantly, the part of this
employment that is in fact incremental, - i.e. that is not merely the transfer of an already existing activity
from another location. In any event, it would be premature to attempt a re-estimation of the overall fiscal
benefits, since the market opened only in 1999. As in the case of the economic impact, the magnitude of the
benefits will ultimately depend on the success of the business plan now proposed which, it may be
reiterated, is largely dependent on early closure of the two makeshift, illegal, markets in the region.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
As indicated in the tables of Annex 2, the actual investment costs of the project are estimated at US$ 26
million or 113% of appraisal. These costs were financed through the Bank's loan, fully disbursed, of US$
15.9 million, the equivalent of US$ 7.1 million of shareholder equity, and the equivalent of US$ 2.9
million in construction works financed by the municipality, mainly access roads.
At appraisal, it was assumed that 12,700 m2 of space at the wholesale market was going to be rented at full
development and the annual gross profit margin of the company (Pomorskie Hurtowe Centrurn
Rolno-Spozywcze S.A.) was estimated at 78%. The debt service coverage for the company was never
expected to fall below 1.3 during loan repayment, with debt service coverage defined as operating profit
available for debt service over total interest, fees and principal repayment on long-term debt. For various
- 5-



reasons discussed below, the company has not yet been able to generate the revenues expected. The first
and most difficult obstacle has been the earlier mentioned reluctance of the municipal authorities to close
down two rnakeshift markets operating illegally, where no building permits were issued and the existing
sanitary laws and regulations are ignored. Most traders in the region will not move to the new market
because of ingrained habits and because of the notion that extra legal rent seeking is easier at the makeshift
markets than it might be at the new markets. In addition, many traders have invested in the construction of,
often precarious, infrastructure in these markets and do r,ot want to lose the investment, or at least would
want to be compensated. Table I shows the main features of the company's cashflow from July to
December 2000.
Table 1
_   ~~~~~L
of which: loan from BIG                     1,7CO,000
loan from APA                       80,000
total of loans                     2,500,000    49%
space rental                       1,1C02,940    21%
land sale                          1,065,451    21%
others                              484,476    9%
of which: operating costs                   1,560,701    41%
interest payment                   1,9f,8,766    52%
others                              2139,073    7%
For the inflow, the two loans represent almost half of the total and the sale of some of the company's land
slightly over 20%. The only commercially sustainable activity, space rental, accounts for 21% of inflows,
of which 60% are from the flower hall, 22% from the "groceries" hall and 18% from office rental. Only
28% of the space available for rental was actually rented during that period, for a fee per m2 ranging from
17 to 56 PLN per month (around US$ 4.25/m - 14/m ). "Others" consists of various small receivables and
the interest earned on bank deposits. For the outflow, the December 2000 interest payment on the Bank
loan was slightly more than half of the total. Repayments on the two loans from shareholders BIG and
APA, totaling PLN 2.5 million, had not yet started at the time of report preparation in April of 2001. The
operating costs account for slightly more than 40%, of which 54% consist of the salaries of the 29
employees plus the remuneration of the nine members of the "supervisory" board. The "net operating
cashflow" i.e. before one-off operations such as loans contracted and land sales, - is minus PLN 2.2
million.
It is clear that the financial situation is critical. The management of the company recognizes this and has
prepared a business plan for the coming years. Essenti illy, this plan consists of selling as early as possible
a total of seven hectares of land to two business operators, an importer of bananas and citrus fruits, and a
cash and carry service. It is also envisaged that around. 2-3 hectares could be sold at a later date to other
interested parties and that another seven hectares could be leased. The company argues that the land to be
- 6 -



sold or leased is not required for its own commercial activities at present, and that the activities of the
other businesses will attract clients for rental space in the halls, in what is seen as a synergetic effect.
According to the company's own projections, and assuming near full occupancy of its halls by 2005, it
would be possible to service the three loans contracted with the Bank, BIG and APA and generate as of
2013/14 a net cashflow of around PLN four million, i.e. about US$ one million, all in terms of 2001
constant values. The latter would be about 25% of total revenues at that time. The last payment on the
Bank's loan is due on June 15, 2013.
The expected revenues consist of: i) renting 24,247 m2 at an average rental fee of PLN 35 per m2/month, ii)
renting seven hectares of marginal land (see earlier) at PLN 4.5 per m2/month, and iii) renting 100-120
umbrella roofs for a total of PLN 90,000 per month. Although ambitious (a total of only 6,971 m2 of space
is rented at present), these targets are possible providing that: i) land can be sold at an acceptable price
(building permits from the municipal authorities are necessary to make this land valuable), ii) the two
makeshift markets are closed down by the municipal authorities, and iii) the synergy effect assumed does
materialize. It should be noted that the total area of 24,247 m2 expected to be rented is almost double the
area assumed at appraisal and used for the ERR calculation, i.e. 12,700 m2. The latter is net "box" space to
be rented to wholesalers, i.e. exclusive of traffic and other service areas in the halls. The 24,247 m2 on the
other hand includes the total roofed area of halls that are intended to be leased in their entirety to large
operators, such as the banana and citrus importer who already has leased about one quarter of the total
area of one hall. Not included in the expected revenue calculations are other possible forms of income
already tested successfully in other locations. For instance, the wholesale market in Lublin, rents space for
car auctions and clothes markets on Sundays when the normal market operations are halted. In conclusion,
there is evidence that the wholesale market financed by the project in Gdansk can still be financially viable
in the long-term if and when the above-mentioned conditions are met.
At appraisal, the Intemal [Financial] Rate of Return (IRR) was estimated at 13.6%. A modeling of the
future financial statements was prepared and various financial ratios were calculated. At this point, it is not
worthwhile to reproduce these models since the company's financial situation is drastically different from
what was expected and it is still too early to see what types of business activities will be undertaken in the
coming years. However, for illustrative purposes, the past financial statements and the company's
projections, based on its proposed business plan, have been used to recalculate a possible FRR, of 4%,
see Annex 8. In conclusion, although the wholesale market is unlikely to ever constitute a financially
profitable investment from the viewpoint of the institutions that contributed the equity, it could become
financially attractive if the company's manages to realize its business plan which, it may be recalled,
depends in large part on early closure of the makeshift markets.
- 7 -



4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of the project has, so far, been negligible. Although some efforts were
made to assist with the formation of farmers cooperatives for marketing purposes, these efforts were
abandoned when government initiated a program to do the same, notably through the intermediary of newly
established agriculture chambers. Establishment of a new institution, a contemporary, financially
independent, wholesale market has, so far, equally failed.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outsid.e the control of government or implementing agency:
A major factor, outside the control of government or the implementing agency, which affected achievement
of project outcome and objectives pertaining to sustainability was rapid development of other competing
large markets. The new wholesale market is confronted by, and competes with, a new regional trading
environment of other wholesale markets, supermarket chains, and hypermarket trading. The latter's rapid
growth, largely through foreign direct investment, was not anticipated when the wholesale market was
planned, during a period when the government sought to put in place measures to cope with
transformational recession, stabilize the economy, promote structural reforms and set the country on the
path to becoming a market economy. International conditions offered bright prospects for external demand
with, both, recovery of EU markets and improvements in eastern markets expected. Poland's efforts to
strengthen its exports included microeconomic reforms, aimed at, among others, increasing deregulation
and labor market flexibility, designed to improve the competitiveness of Polish products in the medium
term. The challenge remains, however: how can the wholesale market best complete its integration in the
rapidly developing trading environment of other large scale markets? Section 4.4, on the financial
consequences of proposed additional revenue generating activities and section 6, on sustainability contain
suggestions to accelerate this integration.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The three main factors under government control that have had a direct impact on the implementation and
on the outcome of the project have been: extension of the sovereign guarantee for the borrower, and equity
contributions to the investment on the positive side, and the lack of enforcement of building, zoning and
sanitary laws vis-a-vis existing primitive markets on the negative side. Delays in extending the sovereign
guarantee required for Bank lending to the borrower have extended the project's preparatory period by well
over a year. Equity contributions from three public sector agencies have allowed the project to go forward
when lack of the necessary counterpart funding would have made Bank financing impossible. Finally, when
the market started operating, lack of enforcement of applicable laws and regulations on the part of, both,
central and local authorities has allowed for the continued operation of primitive market establishments
with which the new market cannot compete.
5.3 Factors generally suibject to implementing agency control:
Bank support with preparation of a project that would be eligible for Bank financing was made contingent
upon: the creation of a joint stock company that would own and operate the market to be established and,
second, the acquisition by that company of the site on which the proposed market was to be built. These
conditions were fulfilled when project preparation started in May, 1995. When the proposed project
- 8 -



received a category A classification for environmental purposes, the Bank obtained PHRD financing for the
development of a complete enviromnental impact assessment. Indirect Bank financing for this study, rather
than having its costs shouldered by the market company, was considered justified as the Bank norms for an
environmental impact assessment, and hence its cost, are beyond what is required under Polish law and,
hence, are beyond what might be considered a reasonable request on a Polish company.
Although the program of wholesale market development was explicitly originated by government and the
request for Bank financing of several markets was part of this policy, it took over a year for government to
agree upon the sovereign guarantee for the Bank loan that is statutorily required by the Bank. In this
respect it should be recalled that the borrower has been the limited liability market company, availing itself
of the full advantage of Bank lending conditions, without any intermediary, conditions that can be seen as
indirect governmental support for the venture, support manifested in its guarantee. The combination of
Bank requirements for preparation, including the environmental impact assessment, and the delay in
obtaining government's guarantee are the reasons for the rather lengthy "preparation period" of three years
between the date of departure of the first preparation mission and board presentation.
Although not entirely under its control, the implementing agency, i.e. the market company, has nevertheless
been responsible for: attracting a numerically and monetarily large shareholdership, for obtaining all
necessary permits, including those related with Poland's environmental regulations, for the connections to
all utilities and for obtaining other infrastructure needs such as telephone connections, at a time when such
services were not widely available as a result of supply induced restrictions. It may be noted, in this
respect, that the project's ultimate successful construction is due in large measure to the unrelenting efforts
of company management to overcome the many obstacles inherent in obtaining equity and infrastructure.
Somewhat disappointing is the fact that the company's supervisory board, in which its single largest
shareholder, the private BIG Bank is prominently represented, does not seem to have been able to help the
company overcome the problems presented by its illegal competition. With respect to management, which
in this context includes the supervisory board, and in view of the various, and varied, experiences in Poland
with wholesale markets, it may be stated that the Gdansk market once again has proven that the fortunes of
a company such as the one in question depend to a very large extent upon the quality of management. This
is probably the more so in an evolving economy as the Polish one was in the mid to late nineties when
wholesale markets were not ventures known to society at large. The Bank's insistence that these ventures
should be commercially viable, when they historically had not been elsewhere, was a tall order indeed,
shouldering management with an extra responsibility, in addition to all that was needed to realize the
enterprise physically.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The Bank loan, denominated in German Marks (DM), was disbursed within the disbursement schedule as
developed during appraisal. Roughly 2.3% (US$ 0.3 million) of the total Bank loan of US$ 15.94 million
was set-aside for loan servicing. Total project costs are presented in Annex 2 which indicates that the
actual investment costs are estimated at US$ 26 million and are 13% higher than was envisaged at
appraisal. These costs were financed through the fully disbursed Bank loan, shareholder equity of US$ 7.1
million, and local government contribution of approximately US$ 2.9 in construction works to build the
access roads. Shareholders' actual contribution was higher than expected by 69% and constituted 27% of
the total costs as opposed to 18% assumed at appraisal. Annex 2 presents project procurement
arrangements and project financing by component.
-9-



6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainabilitv rating:
Sustainability of the Gdansk wholesale market is threatened by a number of factors, which did not appear
pertinent at the time of preparation of its feasibility study. The main sources of income for the PHCRS, as
envisaged in the feasibility study, were to be derived from rental revenue of vending space in the various
halls. Although as yet not fully apparent because of the market's limited throughput, subsidized, high
quality, imports from the EU are affecting domestic produce marketing and hence the PHCRS' revenues, as
most of these imports go directly to supermarkets by-passing the wholesale markets. The development of
hyper-markets, super-markets and "discount markets" was not expected at the rapid pace that has in effect
been seen in Poland in recent years, and consequently, this type of competition was not identified as a
serious threat to the operation of the market.
The future of the Gdansk wholesale market will depend on the economic growth of Poland, on trade
relations with its neighbors, notably the EU, and on Poland's ability to find a niche in the European markets
and develop competitive agricultural produce for such markets. Sustainability at the micro level will depend
on several factors, the most immediately pertinent of which is timing and extent of enforcement of laws
pertaining to market operations, i.e. on when the illegal primitive markets will be closed. The question is
not "if' but "when" as closure will obviously occur in the near to medium term. It will further depend on the
ability of the company to encourage further addition of value on the market premises, on its ability to
attract more traders by providing complementary services and on its efforts to continue promoting fanner
cooperation in trade and production. Of course, sustainability also depends on continued sound financial
and operational management of the PHCRS.
The wholesale market has been operational for only about a year and half, and much below capacity at
that. It is, therefore, difficult, indeed premature, to definitively judge its sustainability at this stage. All
analyses, such as they are, are based on estimates of what may be results of future operations, prognoses
which may or may not be realized. Project ratings at this point have had to be made on the basis of the
very poor commercial start-up.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Economically efficient and financially successful operation of the wholesale market will depend upon its
ability to respond effectively to changing market circumstances and establish itself as a provider of
specialty services in commodity preparation, packaging, marketing logistics, etc., and so provide, at an
appropriate scale, new opportunities for cost savings for the regional economy. The financial analysis,
summarized in section 4.4, provides insights into the conditions that should be met for the market to
develop its operations as a financially sustainable entity. The PHCRS is in the process of attracting new
investors, most probably one or more public agencies. The resulting equity injection is a conditio sine qua
non for the survival of the company in the market. Moreover, further actions have been initiated or are
seriously considered by PHCRS management. These include accelerated efforts to attract large wholesalers
and importers who would also create value added operations on the market, such as banana ripening and
retail packaging, and selected sale or lease of currently unused parcels of land on the market property in
order to generate additional income.
- 10-



7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Leniding:
Bank performance during identification, preparation and appraisal of the project was satisfactory. Staff
were effective in working with the borrower, i.e. the PHCRS and the government. The project was
consistent with the government's sector strategy at the time, when restructuring of the Polish economy led
to breaking up of erstwhile mandatory cooperative marketing structures. The sector lacked organization of
producers, merchants and consumers, while the organization of trade was characterized by a lack of
transparency and by insufficient infrastructure. The project addressed these issues through the construction
of a modem market fully equipped with contemporary service facilities.
The Wholesale Market project was within the frame of the Bank Country Assistance Strategy by
supporting the objective of sustaining private sector growth and managing the transformation to a market
economy. Creation of new market institutions aided competitiveness of the agriculture sector by reducing
marketing costs and increasing market transparency.
The Bank operations preceding the Gdansk Wholesale Market project included an ASAL of $300 million,
two agriculture credit projects of $100 million each, and a forestry project of $146 million. The project
concept was derived from, both, demands by the client, and experience gained by the Bank from previous
operations. Particularly, the ASAL provided substantial knowledge of the sector and its marketing
environment. A sector-wide study conducted prior to preparation of the ASAL had identified the need to
establish and support market exchange facilities for producers, primary wholesalers and processors. It had
been recognized that such activities would require some public investment at state and local government
levels, with prospects, though, of financially independent operation.
At the identification and preparation stage the Bank provided the client with adequate expertise in the field
of wholesale market trade, and economic analysis. The consultants and advisors hired and proposed by the
Bank had both academic as well as practical intemational experience, which provided an appropriate blend
of expertise for this type of operation.
At the appraisal stage, the Bank assistance was matched by borrower commitment to the project,
demonstrated by securing and contributing required equity financing for the investment, and by cooperation
with Bank staff in the processing of the project. Moreover, the local authorities proved their commitment to
the project by appropriating funds to link public infrastructure.
The Project Appraisal Document recognized most of the risks involved, though it may not have given at
least two of them adequate rating. The competition from European supermarkets expanding in Poland was
underrated, competition which is now very substantial, while the cooperation by local authorities and the
willingness of traders to move were overrated. With respect to the former, competition from contemporary
mass marketing channels, it can be argued that, seven years ago, one could not foresee the dynamic growth
of this sector in Poland in recent years. On the other hand, the proposed mitigation measures for that
competition still hold, including development of the market as a multi-sector food and food products
distribution and processing center in order to compete with the hypermarkets as a modem food handling
and distribution center. The cooperation from authorities in enforcing pertinent laws and, particularly, the
willingness of traders to move, were taken for granted. In retrospect, this was clearly a mistake and should
-11 -



be regarded as a major lesson learned.
The project has been consistent with Bank safeguard policies. Mitigation measures for perceived
environmental threats, recommended in the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA), were included in the
project costs and were implemented by the borrower (see section 7.7).
7.2 Supervision:
The QAG completed a "Quality of Supervision Assessment" over FY00 activities in October, 2000 for the
twin of the Gdansk market, i.e. the one in Lublin, see its ICR, recently completed. The supervision of that
market project was assessed as satisfactory overall, so were all summary categories except for "Quality and
Realism of Reporting" which was found marginally satisfactory. As the assessing panel stated, the focus of
the Bank supervision during the period under review was on supporting project implementation. The QAG
highlighted the Task Manager's depth of understanding of the issues and frankness in addressing problems.
A willingness to bring in other expertise to assist in seeking solutions were seen as important strengths.
Frequency and intensity of supervision effort appear to have paid off in fostering good physical market
construction. It was pointed out that additional attention to the operational phase of the market and its
sustainability would be needed. Also, monitoring and evaluation during project supervision should focus
more on factors relevant for longer term sustainability. The following is the summary assessment of quality
of supervision as stated by the QAG for the market in Lublin:
Focus on Development Effectiveness: Satisfactory
Supervision of Fiduciary/Safeguard Aspects: Satisfactory
Adequacy of Supervision Inputs and Processes: Satisfactory
Quality and Realism of Reporting: Marginal
Overall Assessment: Satisfactory
Since supervision of both markets, Gdansk and Lublin, was mostly done in parallel by the same supervision
teams, it is suggested that the QAG evaluation of the Lublin project's supervision applies, mutatis
mutandis to the Gdansk market.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
It is unlikely that this project would have materialized without the Bank's support, both financial and
otherwise. The latter relates, both, to Bank support for preparation and to direct and indirect support, often
at ministerial level, at crucial junctions in project implementation. On the other hand, Bank requirements
and procedures have notably lengthened the time of realization of the project. The latter has, in retrospect,
been very important as the rapid development of Poland's economy, and concomitantly, of its marketing
infrastructure, is closing the window of opportunity for the traditional urban wholesale market much more
rapidly than was foreseen during project preparation. Thus, the three or so years of project preparation that
have been spent on Bank related requirements and procedures have shortened by the same length of time the
period of expected full capacity utilization of the market, with the operating concept as foreseen during
preparation. Among the major Bank induced delays have been: 19 months of basic project preparation,
including the writing of a complete feasibility study and the creation of an environmental impact
assessment, over 6 months to obtain the statutorily required government guarantee and a little over 6
months for the pre-contract activities for construction under ICB rules. On average, the Banks'
performance throughout project preparation and supervision should be evaluated as satisfactory.
- 12 -



Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The borrower, the PHCRS, initiated preparation by asking for Bank assistance in formulating the market
concept, evaluating its feasibility, and assisting in its financing. The borrower fulfilled early the two
pre-conditions set, at the time, for the Bank support for wholesale market development in Poland,
establishment of a joint stock company, under Polish corporate law, to own and operate the then, future
market, and the acquisition, by that company, of the site on which the market was to be built. The
Borrower has collaborated fully with the expertise to help design the market concept and to evaluate its
feasibility, made available through the Bank and executed by consultants working under the auspices of the
UK Know How Fund. The Borrower's consistent and ultimately effective efforts made at every step and
every juncture of project preparation have been highlighted earlier. With respect to preparation it may also
be noted that the borrower defended the project successfully against opposition from neighbors, opposition
that was based on allegations of expected disturbances during construction and while the market would be
operational. This defense, though, delayed the start of construction by about a year. In conclusion it may be
stated that borrower's contribution to the project preparation should be rated highly satisfactory.
7.5 Government iniplementation performance:
Government has been supportive with equity contributions that have allowed for Bank financing of the
investment, which in turn has attracted a number of private shareholders. As stated earlier, though,
government was slow in extending its sovereign guarantee, delaying construction by at least a year. In
addition, government diluted available resources and official attention for implementation through a
government sponsored program for the creation of a total of 22 wholesale markets nation wide, most of
which have not stood the test of time, many of which now are in serious financial difficulties. Government
support has not been consistent, an issue that came to a head when failure to enforce applicable laws and
regulations allowed, and still allow, for the continued existence of primitive markets that, in the case of the
Gdansk market, threaten to destroy its very viability.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
In this project both the borrower, and the implementing agency is the PHCRS. Hence, an assessment of its
performance is provided below for these two categories.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The borrower and implementing agency, in this case the market company PHCRS, has performed well in
preparation and construction phases, but appears to be less effective in the actual operation of the market.
As a result of the current poor financial results, the company was unable to cover from ordinary revenues
the first interest payment due to the Bank in December 2000, which had to be financed by renewed equity
injections by the BIG bank and the Agriculture Property Agency (APA). It is unlikely that the company
will be able to pay the next interest installment, due in July of 2001 from ordinary revenue and may, again,
have to ask financial support from shareholders. Some of the blame for less than optimal performance
should be shared by the company's executive board, whose members do not seem to provide the critical
support needed by company management in the present difficult phase of market establishment.
- 13 -



The PHCRS took all mitigation measures recommended in the Bank sponsored Environmental Impact
Assessment (EIA), often going beyond standard requirements under Polish law. As a result, the company
invested in the following physical systems and structures with costs as indicated:
* on-site waste water collection system (PLN 976,000 ) with discharge of water pre-treated into the
municipal sewage system;
* on-site run-off collection system (PLN 2,295,000), including three oil separators to remove oil and
floating matters from collected run-off, and a retention tank (PLN 848,000) to pre-treat water drained
from the market's roofs and paved areas, prior to being discharged into the local sewage system;
* ground barrier to protect new residential areas in Gdynia Osowa against noise ( PLN 900,000).
The actual costs of all the mitigation measures has been about 6.3% of total investment. To facilitate
market related traffic, avoid traffic congestion, and improve traffic safety, new access roads were
constructed. The PHCRS participated in financing of these new constructions and covered part of the costs
of an access road (PLN 15.9 million). The EIA included also analyses of noise levels which were higher
than permissible. Therefore, the borrower erected an earthen wall along the entire northem side of the
market to provide visual and noise isolation from surrounding communities. In addition, the EIA included a
requirement that the night time use of compressors and heavy equipment would not be allowed.
It may be noted, with respect to the EIA and its proposed mitigation measures, that an official complaint
against the market construction and operation was lodged by neighbors on account of alleged expected
disturbances. This referred in particular to construction traffic that might have to go through the
neighborhood and to noise and other environmental pollution that might result from operations. The
company ultimately prevailed in court, in part because of the existence of the Bank mandated EIA and its
mitigation measures.
8. Lessons Learned
The following lessons can be drawn from the Gdansk Wholesale Market project:
* It is in the nature of a rapidly developing economy, such as the Polish one in the nineties, that current
conditions are a poor indicator for future developments. The rapid development of contemporary
private marketing infrastructure, notably supermarkets and discount wholesalers was not foreseen at
the time that the project concept was created. The competition faced by the traditional wholesale
markets from these new structures has, thus, come to Poland earlier than originally thought, has
narrowed the window of opportunity for the traditional wholesale market structure and has added
urgency to the need to find additional sources of revenue for the market.
* It should not be taken for granted that the clients, i.e. the traders and their customers will flock to the
new market, merely by its being there. Although the physical trading environment may be far superior
to what they have now, a complex set of considerations may keep them from moving spontaneously.
Among these are: the need to move all at once, as the customers tend to prefer a market with multiple
choices, rather than going to one individual trader; fear of the unknown, notably with respect to future
rental and other costs; reluctance to abandon assets, even primitive ones, in which part of the trading
capital has been invested; the transparency of the new market, particularly with respect to tax
payments and with regards to difficulties in pursuing illegal trades of contraband and forbidden goods,
such as drugs.
- 14 -



*   Legally binding agreements on enforcement of pertinent laws with respect to market operations should
be entered into with national and local authorities. Deadlines set for compliance should be agreed upon
prior to the start of market construction. These deadlines should be published and copies of the relevant
agreements, laws and regulations should be submitted to existing markets. The latter would then have
time to attempt compliance, failing of which would mean automatic closure.
*   Revenue of traditional wholesale markets, i.e. those whose activities are limited to trade in perishable
agriculture products, is insufficient to support investments required, notably when the costs of
contemporary requirements to fulfill sanitary and environmental considerations are taken into account.
In continuation of past practice, traditional wholesale markets would have to be justified as providers
of public services whose investment is a sunk cost incurred by society. In the light of modem
altemative trading venues, such as supermarkets and wholesale clubs, this justification does often not
hold any longer. Thus, in order to be economically and financially justified, the market concept has to
be broadened from the traditional wholesale trade in perishables to a multi service establishment for the
wholesale trade in food.
*   As in any other business venture, the sustainability and development of a wholesale market depends to
a large degree on the adaptive skills and creativity of its management. People remain the most valuable
asset and success of the venture is determined by their knowledge of local and regional conditions, their
recognition of possible threats, as well as trends and opportunities, and their ability to exploit the latter
and guard against the former. Contemporary wholesale markets have to adapt to a rapidly changing
trading environment, particularly in transition periods as those experienced by Poland in the nineties.
*   Projects based on joint stock companies as their institutional structure are liable to exhibit all problems
that are inherent in corporate structures. In the case of the market in Gdansk it appears that the
supervisory board is ineffective in helping management overcome the problems created by the
continued operation of the illegal primitive markets. The reasons for this apparent ineffectiveness of the
board are not fully clear. However, it has been observed, and the last supervision mission was told, that
the supervisory board is in full agreement with management's plans, in spite of the fact that these
plans lack vision, have a weak quantitative base, fail to take into account recommendations made by
outside consultants and do nothing to help overcome the current key problem, closing the illegal
primitive markets. In addition, the board was misinformed about the contents of key correspondence,
notably a letter from company management to the minister of agriculture requesting emergency funding
to stave off insolvency. It appears that the supervisory board does not defend the interests of
shareholders effectively, does not have influence and contacts that might help in solving key problems
and is too close to management. A lesson to learn is that supervisory board members, notably those
that represent public sector shareholders, are expected to defend shareholders' interests even, and
particularly, when this may seem to run counter to company or management interests.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Comments from the Borrower: Pomorskie Hurtowe Centrum Rolno-Spozywcze S.A. (PHCRS)
Appraisal of the project objective, design and implementation
The Company, Pomorskie Hurtowe Centrum Rolno-Spozywcze S.A., (Pomeranian Wholesale Market
Company) was established in May 1995, to create a modem infrastructure, compliant with all requirements
- 15-



of the Polish laws, as well as the standards applied by other countries, including the EU member states,
with respect to wholesale trading in flowers, vegetables and fruits, as well as other foodstuffs. The objective
of the Project was to concentrate such wholesale trading in one location, to improve competitiveness,
quality of products and ensure better monitoring of standards, compliance with sanitary, phyto-sanitary and
veterinarian requirements etc.
Financial projections and market organization design assumed staged development of the market, taking
account of the current and future functions to be performed by the facility. The area of 56 ha, constituting
the ownership of the Company, ensured the Company's expansion for many years to come thereby
facilitating construction of facilities to perform the role of distribution and logistics centres serving large
entities operating large discount shop chains and retailers.
The period of the Company's operation can be divided into the three basic periods:
1.     From the moment of the Company's establishment until obtaining of the land
development permit
This period (ca. 3 years) was marked, primarily, by a struggle to obtain all documents and decisions, as
required by the Polish laws for construction of a facility of this type. This required, primarily, a
introduction of changes into the local zoning plan, although when the Company was originally established
local authorities had stated that zoning plan effective at that time had remained in keeping with the original
project assumptions. It was a period marked with attacks by various local government, environmental
organizations, pressure groups interested in maintaining the status quo of existing, illegal facilities of this
type within the Tri-City agglomeration and the passive attitude employed by local authorities. Local
politicians and local government officials lacked an understanding of the function to be performed by the
future wholesale market for the entire region. The Company - an undertaking set out to constitute an
element of the region's infrastructure ensuring balanced development of the medium size and small retail
trade, and wholesale trade in agricultural products and foodstuff, was often treated as a self-financing
venture operating fully on the commercial basis. However, the Company was designed to operate on the
basis of the public-commercial partnership.
Excessively long time required for the Company to obtain the land development permits resulted in the
following:
*   The real value of the Company's capitals, at the high inflation rate, accounted for the fact that
construction costs was growing relative to the funds the Company had;
* Lack of the possibility to define the construction commencement and completion dates, accounted for
the fact, that the Company was not able to obtain additional financing via issuance of shares addressed
to the future market operators;
*   Three-year period of the struggle for obtaining land development permits, created a negative climate
around the future capital project, significantly reduced the faith amongst the prospective market
operators regarding the Project feasibility, and forced many an entities to make investments into
construction of their own facilities located in various places within the Tri-City agglomeration;
*   The Company could not make use of a portion of available grant and assistance funding, due to the
fact, that it could not implement the assumptions under the project schedule;
*   The Company could not commence procurement procedures regarding selection of a designer and,
subsequently, the contractor.
- 16 -



In summary, the said three-year period resulted in loss of credibility of the Project objectives, as perceived
by majority of entities to benefit from the Project.
2.     Project preparation and implementation
Upon obtaining land development permits for the future project, the financial projection of the project was
updated in a fast and efficient manner, the feasibility study was completed, the loan from the World Bank
was negotiated and granted, tender to select turn-key contractor was completed in line with lender's
requirements. The construction process itself was completed efficiently in keeping with the project schedule
and its financial assumptions.
Unlike many new capital projects of similar nature implemented in Poland, all facilities were completed and
commissioned on time; the Company had paid all its liabilities to the Contractor in 100 per cent, and
generated a financial surplus, as at the end of the year 2000 in the amount of ca. PLN 2.2 million.
Furthermore, marketing conducted by the Company generated the occupation rate of the commercial space
at the level of 85 per cent, as confirmed by lease agreements and security paid in.
3.     The period from commissioning of the market in September, 1999 until March 31,
2001.
In spite of the fact that the facility, compliant with all standards provided for under the laws of Poland
regarding trading in agricultural and food products, the overall objective i.e. concentration of wholesale
trading in a single location was not achieved. This was, primarily due to the fact that existing markets in
Gdaiisk and Gdynia were not closed based on administrative decision. In spite of the fact, that these markets
are not in compliance with relevant legal requirements (environmental regulations, sanitary, construction
law, state labour inspection regulations etc.), they continue to operate, and today there are no signs pointing
out to any future closing date. This is an effect of a lack of decisive actions that should be undertaken by
many a law enforcement and local government institutions and agencies responsible for maintaining law.
Local governments continue to perceive the new wholesale market as a commercial undertaking. During the
period the Company has undertaken a number of marketing and promotional campaigns to encourage
operators to locate their businesses in the new wholesale market. These activities have been conducted to no
avail in spite of significant financial outlays. At present, only the flower hall is operating satisfactorily due
not to any marketing efforts, but due to closure of an illegal flower market located in the area of the Gdanisk
sport stadium.
In view of the above, as well as in capacity to close down existing markets, as well as defining deadlines by
which the relevant state law enforcement agencies would execute their duties, the Company has undertaken
efforts to prepare the Company's restructuring programme.
Self-appraisal of the Borrower - during project preparation and implementation, with a
focus on the lessons learned which may be important in the future.
The principal phase of the Project design and implementation was completed efficiently. Construction of the
future wholesale market was completed in keeping with financial assumptions and the Project schedule.
In summary of this period of the Company's operations and relevant experience gathered it is necessary to
state as follows:
- 17 -



* Any project of this nature has to be implemented in a close co-operation with not only central
government, but also local authorities. Prior to making a decision on project implementation, allocation
of funds, including loan facilities, the declaration or undertaking, provided in writing, regarding support
for such a project would have to be obtained. The financial and legal responsibility will have to be
borne by the relevant local government. No infrastructure project, such as the wholesale market, can be
burdened by additional capital projects forced upon by the local government (construction of power
transmission lines, ran off collection system, sewers, roads etc.) beyond the site owned by the
Company.
* There has to be a contractual arrangement for the similar facilities operating in default of legal
requirements and standards to be closed down upon commissioning of the wholesale market.
*   Illegal, temporary markets should not be permitted to undertake actions to legitimise their existence
only after the new wholesale market construction process is commenced.
* In the situation of the new wholesale market the risk of Company's insolvency is borne exclusively by
the State Treasury and shareholders, while the local governments who create such situation by failing to
observe effective regulation and ensure the equal playing field for competitors are not held accountable.
Appraisal of the Bank activities, co-financing institutions, or other partners in preparation and
implementation of the project, along with appraisal of effectiveness of cooperation between the Borrower,
the Bank, and other co-financing institutions and partners, with a stress on lessons learned which may be
important in the future.
Excellent, model co-operation with the World Bank needs to be stressed. The Lender has not limited its
involvement only to co-operation in the area of Project financing but also, knowing the problems faced by
the Company regarding commencement of the wholesale market operations, participated in discussions with
market operators, local, voivodship, and central Government authorities. This co-operation is reflected in
consecutive reports generated by the World Bank. Furthermore, the Company has gained positive
experience from co-operation with the Ministry of Finance. This co-operation reflects understanding of the
Company's problems and, until today, has generated decisions facilitating commencement of the Company'
s restructuring process.
On the other hand a negative attitude towards the new wholesale market of the part of the local authorities
needs to be stressed, paired with provision of support to similar entities even though such entities fail to
comply with standards imposed in Poland in order to achieve social accord. It is necessary to stress that
only the Wojewoda Pomorski (Voivod - Governor, of Pomerania) representing the Government, has been
trying to close down the wholesale market located in Gdynia at Rdestowa street. However, lack of
co-operation from gmina authorities with the Voivod, has accounted for a lack of effects of these actions.
The Voivod is supportive regarding the Company's restructuring actions and declares his broad assistance.
Comments from the Guarantor: Government of Poland
The Ministry of Agriculture
and Rural Development
Department of Agricultural Markets
RRg. 076/24/391/01
Warsaw, 30 March 2001
- 18 -



Pursuant to the letter dated March 15, 2001 on evaluation of the construction of the Pomeranian
Agricultural Produce Trade Center in Gdanisk, I would like to inform of the following:
1.     Location of the wholesale market in Bamiewice was justified because of the size of the Tri-city
urban complex, as well as the possibility of convenient commuting from the most distant places of the city.
According to the plans, the market was to be a typical distribution market, focused on supplying the local
trade network and sea ships with essential food products. Moreover, the absence of a suitable trade
infrastructure in that region fully justified the decision on the location and construction of the wholesale
market.
Whereas the market location, preparation of the feasibility study as well as the implementation process
itself progressed smoothly, the problem of changes in the zoning plan and the many remarks reported by the
local residents influenced the time of obtaining the construction permit. The process also extended the date
of project initiation by a year at least.
Above resulted in the project being completed as late as September 1999. It must be emphasized, that
construction was carried out in accordance with the feasibility study, and its actual implementation cost did
not significantly differ from the cost estimate.
2.     As in the case of the Lublin wholesale market, the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development,
as a central government body, was not directly involved in the project implementation. Nonetheless, both in
the phase of preparation of the whole sale markets project, and later on, certain actions were taken for the
benefit of the Company.This concems organizational actions related to study trips to Westem European
markets to learn about the organization and technical solutions applied there.
The Ministry also steered assistance from Western European specialists who prepared a series of studies
for the Company. Assistance funds of the Japanese Grant were also used there, to develop various studies,
analyses and training.
While evaluating the project implementation, a negative rating should be given to the activities of the
voivodship offices, as well as the local governments of the cities of Gdafisk and Gdynia. This mainly
concems failure to fulfill the decisions to close the primitive markets.
Not solving this problem has a negative impact on the activity of the Wholesale Market both as regards the
use of trading space and the capacity to acquire funds. This means, that in the future, all agreements should
be concluded as legal agreements, that provide the possibility of executing them. Part of the blame for this
state of things goes to the Company's statutory bodies.
It also appears that the decision to launch an investment project of such size as this in Gdafisk, should be
preceded by accumulation of at least 50% of the necessary capital.
3.     On evaluating the activity of the Bank, it must be acknowledged that from the beginning
cooperation has proceeded well. A separate matter, according to the borrowers, is the arduous procedures
and their duration, since commencement of efforts to obtain the loan until the time of obtaining it. The
procedure of obtaining a guarantee of the State Treasury to secure bank loans is also arduous. It can be
said that lengthy procedures can be referred to all financial institutions cooperating with the Company.
Sincerely,
(-) for Deputy Director
Aleksander Bielski
- 19-



(b) Cofinanciers:
None
(c) Other partners (NGOs/prii'ate sector):
None
10. Additional Information
It may be noted, and gratefully acknowledged, that the UK Know How Fund, under the guidance of its,
then, resident representative in Poland, Mr. David Hughes has made substantive contributions to early
project formulation, to assessment of its feasibility and, ultimately, to project design. Similar gratitude is
due the Japanese Trust Fund, whose PHRD facility allowed for the financing of a complete EIA. Work on
this document has been a collective effort lead by the Task Team Leader, Mr. Richard Lacroix, with
contribution from the following ICR team members: Jolanta Kryspin-Watson; Barbara Letachowicz; and
Jean-Marc Bisson (FAO/CP).
- 20 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome -Ilmpact Indicators:
l_____________Indl_ato_ _1  __1                  Projected In last PSR                  Aetuaslatest Estimate
Profitability of wholesale market company    Cost of operation and debt service are  Neither costs of operations nor the debt
covered                                service can be fully covered from the current
level of revenue
Market is used for trading             80% of capacity utilization             55% of capacity utilization
Output Indicators:
lndicator XatvX                      Projected in last PSR                  ActUiLUtest Estimat
Establishment of market infrastructure  100% completed                         100% completed
End of project
- 21 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Costs by Component (in US$ million equivaleit)
Maret  aciities                      20.1          23.1         '114.9%/
Public Infrastructure                     2.9           2.9         100.()%
Total Costs                              23.0          26.L 0. -, ) 0%
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangenments (Appraisal Estijiate) (US$ million equivalent)
*Figures in parenthesis are the amounts which were to be finianced by the Bank loan.
"*Works include the construction of the wholesale market, associat.ed infrastruicture, design and constrttction costs, and
pre- 1998 capital expenditures incurred by the Gdansk Wholesale Mlarket Comrpany. Miscellaneous consists of interest and fees
during construction, incremental working capital requirements and pre-start up expentses of the Gdansk Wholesale Market
Company.
Project Costs by Procuremient Arrangements (Actual?Latest Estimatte) (US$ million equivalent)
A. Civil Works                 20.494.1                              2f;J.2
B. Miscellaneous                            2.5                      2.5
Total164                                     25413.
________________(15.9)         - 
22



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million eqluivalent)
~_ ___                         __                                 -              nrs  __
Market Facilities   15.9   4.2               15.9     7.1             100.0%  169.0%
Public Infrastructure                2.9                      2.9                       100.0%
- 23 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Gdansk Wholesale Market - Economic Benefits, Costs and Economic Rate of Return
(constant PLN of the year 2000)
1995196   1996197    1997/98    1998199    1999100
Benefits '                                                 1,315,800  5,639,143
Capital Costs              10,383,640           19,010,730 17,118,299 45,908,022
Recurrent Costs               906,734  1,208,979  1,813,469  3,626,938 12,733,339
Total Costs               11,290,374  1,208,979 20,824,199 20,745,237 58,641,361
Net Benefits              -11,290,374 -1,208,979 -20,824,199 -19,429,437 -53,002,218
2000101    2001/02   2002/03    2003/04    2004/05
Benefits                    9,962,486 14,285,829 18,609,171 22,932,514 27,255,857
Capital Costs               2,500,000
Recurrent Costs             4,787,811  8,739,999  7,801,008  6,676,282  8,637,611
Total Costs                7,287,811  8,739,999  7,801,008  6,676,282  8,637,611
Net Benefits                2,674,675  5,545,830 10,808,163 16,256,232 18,618,246
2005/06    2006107   2007108   2008109    2009110
Benefits                   31,579,200 31,579,200 31,579,200 31,579,200 31,579,200
Capital Costs
Recurrent Costs             7,906,659  9,118,130  8,788,604  9,097,822  9,418,235
Total Costs                7,906,659  9,118,130  8,788,604  9,097,822  9,418,235
Net Benefits               23,672,541 22,461,071 22,790,597 22,481,378 22,160,965
2010/11    2011/12    2012113   2013/14   2014115
Benefits                   31,579,200 31,579,200 31,579,200 31,579,200 31,579,200
Capital Costs
Recurrent Costs             9,751,711 10,101,146 10,471,658 10,609,439 10,609,439
Total Costs                9,751,711 10,101,146 10,471,658 10,609,439 10,609,439
Net Benefits               21,827,489 21,478,054 21,107,543 20,969,761 20,969,761
- 24 -



2015116        2016117        2017118        2018119        2019120
Benefits                                31,579,200  31,579,200  31,579,200  31,579,200  31,579,200
Capital Costs
Recurrent Costs                         10,609,439  10,609,439   10,609,439   10,609,439   10,609,439
Total Costs                           10,609,439  10,609,439   10,609,439   10,609,439   10,609,439
Net Benefits                            20,969,761  20,969,761   20,969,761   20,969,761   20,969,761
Base ERR              12%
Benefits at 70% of Base: ERR                   6%
Based on reductions in search, transaction and transport costs estimated at PLN 146/ton, a throughput of 20 ton/m2 and total
area rented as per the company's business plan. Cost reduction parameters are the same as those used in the appraisal report.
Note: A Standard Conversion Factor [SCF] of 0.9 has been applied to the 'economic benefits" and to the "running costs", equal to
the SCF used in the appraisal report.
Source: Company Records and Business Plan for costs; mission estimates for benefits.
-25-



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions.
kStage of Project Cycle=No.ofPersons and Specialty                                Perfomce Rat ng.:
i:Q.:St- :y. :S.;  -(e.g. 2.Economists, 1FMS, etc.):    Implementation   Developmenti
. Moth/Year   Count            Specialty                      WProress        Objective
Identification/Preparation
February 1996
I   Task Mlanager
Appraisal/Negotiation
June 1996                   5   Task Manager, Financial
Analyst, Agricultural
Econornist Business Analyst
December 1997               4   Task Manager, Legal Counsel,
Disbursement Officer,
Procurement Specialist
December 1997               1   Task Manager
Supervision
October 1998                 1   Task Mlanager                       HS               S
June 1999                    3   Task Manager; Program Team          HS               HS
Leader, Environmental Specialist
December 1999                I   Task Mlanager                       HS              HS
May 2000                    .5  Task Manager; Wholesale               S               U
Markets Specialists
September 2000               3   Task NManager; Environmental         S               U
Specialists; Management
Specialist
ICR
April, 2001                 3    Task Manager; Economist;             S               U
Environmental Specialist
(b) Staff:
Stage ofProject Cycle                     Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              .US$ ('000) 
Identification/Preparation
Appraisal/Negotiation                       65                        243.2
Supervision                                 32                        118.5
ICR                                          8                           30
Total                                      105                        391.7
*Data prior to 1997 was available.
- 26 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Sector Policies                         O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Z Physical                                *H OSUOM ON ONA
Z Financial                               O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
Z Institutional Development               0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
X Environmental                           0 H  O SU0M  0 N  0 NA
Social
Z Poverty Reduction                O H  O SU * M  O N  O NA
OGender                            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
l Other (Please specify)           O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Z Private sector development              0 H  O SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
* Public sector management                0 H  O SU O M  0 N  * NA
El Other (Please specify)                 O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
- 27 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                  Rating
N Lending                                             OHS OS OU OHU
N Supervision                                         OHS OS   OU  OHU
Z Overall                                             OHS OS OU O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                              Rating
Z Preparation                                         *HS OS  O  U  O HU
 Government implementation performance               O HS O s   0  U  0 HU
 Implementation agency performance                   OHS OS   *U  O HU
Z Overall                                             OHS OS * U O HU
- 28 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
The World-Bank, Wholesale Markets Project II, Report No. 17552-PL (Project Appraisal Document), June
30, 1998
The World Bank, Poverty in Poland, Report No. 13051 -POL, September 14, 1994
The World Bank, Country Assistance Strategy - Progress Report, Report No. 19749, August 25, 1999
The World Bank, Environmental Impact Assessment:
Ocena oddzialywania na srodowisko Pomorskiego Hurtowego Centrum Rolno-Spozywczego S.A w
Gdansku, PROEKO, May 1996
Halcrow Rural Management, Landell Mills Ltd, Agrobusiness Consult, Feasibility Study for the Wholesale
Market in Gdansk, December 1995
- 29 -



Additional Annex 8. Financial Analysis
Gdansk Wholesale Market - Cash Flow and Financial Rate of Return
(constant PLN of the year 2000)
1995/96   1996/97   1997/98   1998/99   1999100
Revenues
Revenues from rental                                      867,602  7,072,343
Other revenues 1            519,182   519,182  1,469,719  4,441,320  2,489,755
Total Revenues            519,182   519,182  1,469,719  5,308,922  9,562,098
Operating Costs
Running Costs              1,007,483  1,343,310  2,014,966  4,029,931 14,148,154
Financing Costs
interest
principal repayments
Total Operating Costs    1,007,483  1,343,310  2,014,966  4,029,931 14,148,154
Cash Flow                -488,301  -824,128  -545,247  1,278,991 -4,586,056
2000101   2001/02   2002103   2003/04   2004105
Revenues
Revenues from rental      2,217,959  2,520,000  7,151,424 12,804,929 12,952,031
Other revenues            4,287,333 15,470,001  4,287,333  1,295,336  4,287,333
Total Revenues           6,505,292 17,990,001 11,438,757 14,100,265 17,239,364
Operating Costs
Running Costs              5,319,790  9,711,110  8,667,787  7,418,091  9,597,346
Financing Costs            3,829,068  5,826,190  2,382,800  8,752,800  8,590,050
interest                  3,829,068  3,126,190  2,382,800  2,032,800  1,786,050
principal repayments                2,700,000           6,720,000  6,804,000
Total Operating Costs    9,148,858 15,537,300 11,050,587 16,170,891 18,187,396
Cash Flow               -2,643,566  2,452,701   388,170 -2,070,626  -948,032
2005/06   2006107   2007108   2008/09   2009/10
Revenues
Revenues from rental     15,126,431 15,126,431 15,126,431 15,126,431 15,126,431
Other revenues            1,292,432  4,855,002  1,535,582  1,431,219  1,294,235
Total Revenues          16,418,863 19,981,433 16,662,013 16,557,650 16,420,666
- 30 -



2005/06    2006107   2007108   2008109   2009110
Operating Costs
Running Costs               8,785,177 10,131,255  9,765,115 10,108,691 10,464,706
Financing Costs             8,385,930  8,181,810  7,977,690  7,773,570  7,569,450
interest                   1,581,930  1,377,810  1,173,690   969,570   765,450
principal repayments       6,804,000  6,804,000  6,804,000  6,804,000  6,804,000
Total Operating Costs    17,171,107 18,313,065 17,742,805 17,882,261 18,034,156
Cash Flow                 -752,244  1,668,368 -1,080,792 -1,324,611 -1,613,490
2010111   2011112   2012113   2013114   2014115
Revenues
Revenues from rental      15,126,431 15,126,431 15,126,431 15,126,431 15,126,431
Other revenues             1,118,782    898,219   625,208   625,208   625,208
Total Revenues           16,245,213 16,024,650 15,751,639 15,751,639 15,751,639
Operating Costs
Running Costs              10,835,234 11,223,496 11,635,175 11,788,266 11,788,266
Financing Costs             7,365,330  7,161,210  6,957,090       0         0
interest                    561,330   357,210   153,090
principal repayments       6,804,000  6,804,000  6,804,000
Total Operating Costs    18,200,564 18,384,706 18,592,265 11,788,266 11,788,266
Cash Flow                -1,955,351 -2,360,056 -2,840,626  3,963,373  3,963,373
2015116   2016117   2017118   2018/19   2019/20
Revenues
Revenues from rental      15,126,431 15,126,431 15,126,431 15,126,431 15,126,431
Other revenues               625,208   625,208   625,208   625,208   625,208
Total Revenues           15,751,639 15,751,639 15,751,639 15,751,639 15,751,639
Operating Costs
Running Costs              11,788,266 11,788,266 11,788,266 11,788,266 11,788,266
Financing Costs                    0         0         0          0         0
interest
principal repayments
Total Operating Costs    11,788,266 11,788,266 11,788,266 11,788,266 11,788,266
Cash Flow                 3,963,373  3,963,373  3,963,373  3,963,373  3,963,373
FRR         4%
'Between 1995 and 1998 estimated as 5% of equity. Sales of 7 ha. of land at US$ 401m2 included in 2001/02 and further land
lease as per the business plan, adjusted, though, such that lease revenues in 2002/03 and 2004/05 equal those in 2000/01.
Source: Company Records and Business Plan
- 31 -



