Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4377 POL
Loan Agreement
(Wholesale Markets Project I)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
POMORSKIE HURTOWE CENTRUM ROLNO-SPOZYWCZE S.A.
Dated August 29, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4377 POL
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 29, 1998, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and POMORSKIE HURTOWE CENTRUM ROLNO-SPOZYWCZE S.A. (the 
Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) the Republic of Poland (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, having been 
satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between 
the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of 
the Borrower in respect of the Loan; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modification of Section 6.03 set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
Page  2
“Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the right of the Borrower 
to make 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspended with 
respect to any amount of 
the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) at 
any time, the Bank determines, 
after consultation with the Borrower, that an amount 
of the Loan will not be required to 
finance the Project’s costs to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any 
time, the Bank determines, 
with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan, that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or the execution of 
such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to 
the Bank to remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of 
such contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of  the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank 
determines that the procurement of any contract to be 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or 
referred to 
in the Loan Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of 
such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Loan shall remain 
unwithdrawn from 
the Loan Account, or (f) the Bank shall have received notice from 
the Guarantor pursuant to  Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank 
may, by notice to the Borrower 
and the Guarantor, terminate the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to 
such amount.  Upon the giving of such 
notice, such amount of the Loan shall be cancelled.” 
Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Deutsche Mark” and “DEM” each means the lawful currency of the Federal 
Republic of Germany;
(b)
“Infrastructure Agreement” means the agreement dated  September 26, 1996, 
among the Borrower, the Municipality of Gdansk and the Gdansk Voivod;
(c)
“Statutes” means the corporate statutes of the Borrower dated June 7, 
1995, as amended to the date of this Agreement; and
(d)
“Turnkey Contract” means the contract referred to in Part B.1 of Schedule 
4 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to twenty 
eight million Deutsche Mark (DEM 28,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of interest and 
other charges on the Loan.
(b)
On each of the semiannual interest payment dates specified in Section 
2.06 of this Agreement, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay, on such date, interest and 
other charges on the Loan accrued and payable on or before the date set forth, and up 
to the amount allocated, in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be 
amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be July 31, 2002, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of 
such later date.
Page  3
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate, plus LIBOR Total Spread;
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this 
Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in Deutsche Mark 
for value the first day 
of such Interest Period (or, in the case of 
the initial Interest Period, for 
value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day 
of such Interest Period), 
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed 
as a percentage per 
annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 
of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower and Guarantor of LIBOR Base Rate and 
LIBOR Total Spread, for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis.  The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable June 15 and December 
15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
wholesale market, engineering, environmental, administrative and financial practices, 
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
Page  4
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and works required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, 
all in accordance with accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently 
applied, adequate to reflect its operations and financial condition and to register 
separately the operations, resources and expenditures for and in connection with the 
carrying out of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) above 
for such year as so audited, and 
(B) an opinion on such statements and a 
report of such audit, by said 
auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records, accounts 
and financial statements, and the audit thereof, and 
concerning said auditors, 
as the Bank may from time to time reasonably 
request.
 Section 4.02. The Borrower and the Bank shall, from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views with respect to rates applicable to the 
Borrower’s services.  The purpose of the review will be to agree on adjustments, if 
necessary, to such rates so as to enable the Borrower to cover its operating costs 
including taxes, earn an adequate return on its equity, meet its financial obligations 
and make a reasonable contribution to its future investments.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
not incur any debt, unless the net revenues of the Borrower for the fiscal year 
immediately preceding the date of such incurrence or for a later twelve-month period 
ended prior to the date of such incurrence, whichever is the greater, shall be at 
least 1.5 times the estimated maximum debt service requirements of the Borrower for 
any succeeding fiscal year on all debt of the Borrower, including the debt to be 
incurred.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
Page  5
(i)
The term “debt” means any indebtedness of the Borrower maturing by 
its terms 
more than one year after the date on which it is originally 
incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or 
other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms 
of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) 
under a guarantee agreement, on 
the date the agreement providing for such 
guarantee has been 
entered into.
(iii)
The term "net revenues" means the difference between:
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations 
adjusted to 
take account of the Borrower’s rates in effect at the 
time of the 
incurrence of debt even though they were not 
in effect during the 
twelve-month period to which such 
revenues relate and net non-operating 
income; and
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration, 
adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in 
lieu of taxes, but 
excluding provision for depreciation, 
other non-cash operating charges 
and interest and other charges on 
debt.
(iv)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including rates and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in 
the generation of revenues in (A) above.
(v)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments 
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest 
and other charges 
on, debt.
(vi)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in 
terms of the currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in 
another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange 
at which such other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for 
the purposes of servicing 
such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the 
basis of a rate of 
exchange acceptable to the Bank.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall:
(a)
carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with sound 
administrative, financial, wholesale market, engineering and environmental practices 
under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent 
staff in adequate numbers;
(b)
at all times operate and maintain its plants, machinery, equipment and 
other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs 
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, environmental, 
financial and wholesale market practices; and
(c)
take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make other provision 
satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as 
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE VI
Page  6
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
The Statutes shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower to perform 
any of its obligations under this Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the Borrower or for the 
suspension of its operations.
(c)
The Borrower, the Municipality of Gdansk or the Gdansk Voivod shall have 
failed to carry out any of their respective obligations under the Infrastructure 
Agreement pertaining to the Project.
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: any event specified in paragraphs (a), (b) 
or (c) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a) 
the Borrower has concluded, on terms satisfactory to the Bank, a Turnkey 
Contract for the construction of the market facilities under Part A of the Project;
(b) 
the Borrower has obtained the necessary permits required for the 
construction of the market facilities under Part A of the Project; and
(c) 
the Borrower has employed engineers with qualifications, experience and 
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, to assist in supervising the construction 
activities under Part A of the Project.
Section 7.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The President and the Vice President of the Borrower are 
designated as representatives of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
Page  7
For the Borrower:
Pomorskie Hurtowe Centrum Rolno-Spozywcze S.A.
ul. Malachowskiego 1
80-262 Gdansk
Republic of Poland
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the City of Gdansk, Republic of Poland, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Basil G. Kavalsky 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia
POMORSKIE HURTOWE CENTRUM
   ROLNO-SPOZYWCZE S.A.
By /s/ Krzysztof Kowalski
   /s/ Jacek Austen 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
% of
  (Expressed
  Expenditures
Category
   in DEM)
 to be Financed
(1)
Turnkey Contract 
22,300,000
80%
under Part A of the 
Project
(2)
Interest and other
 2,700,000
Amounts due
charges on the Loan
pursuant to
accrued on or before
Section 2.02(b)
September 30, 2000
of this 
Agreement
(3)  Unallocated
 3,000,000
                                           ========
TOTAL
28,000,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Page  8
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is the construction of a commercially 
self-sustaining wholesale market for the greater Gdansk area with related physical 
infrastructure.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Market Facilities and Site Infrastructure
Development of market facilities and site infrastructure consisting of 
construction of: (a) the main buildings and associated structures of the market; and 
(b) on-site and off-site roads, parking lots and on-site infrastructure for treatment 
of run-off rainwater and other utilities.
Part B:
Public Utilities and Infrastructure Services
Development of public utilities and infrastructure services consisting of: (a) 
the laying of sewage piping to the market complex; (b) connections to water, gas, and 
electricity utilities, and to the local telephone network; and (c) access to an 
adjacent highway.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in DEM) *
December 15, 2003
1,400,000 
June 15, 2004
1,400,000 
December 15, 2004
1,400,000 
June 15, 2005
1,400,000 
December 15, 2005
1,400,000 
June 15, 2006
1,400,000 
December 15, 2006
1,400,000 
June 15, 2007
1,400,000 
December 15, 2007
1,400,000 
June 15, 2008
1,400,000 
December 15, 2008
1,400,000 
June 15, 2009
1,400,000 
December 15, 2009
1,400,000 
June 15, 2010
1,400,000 
December 15, 2010
1,400,000 
June 15, 2011
1,400,000 
December 15, 2011
1,400,000 
June 15, 2012
1,400,000 
December 15, 2012
1,400,000 
June 15, 2013
1,400,000
_________________________ 
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Deutsche Mark to be repaid, 
except as 
provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement of Goods and Works
Page  9
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and in September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Schedule, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Goods and works for construction of market facilities and site infrastructure 
under Part A of the Project shall be procured under a Turnkey Contract awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of 
Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Prequalification
Bidders for the Turnkey Contract shall be prequalified in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Prior Review
With respect to the Turnkey Contract the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 
and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall: (a) carry out its obligations set forth in the 
Infrastructure Agreement; and (b) except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Infrastructure 
Agreement or any provision thereof.
2.
The Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines satisfactory to the 
Bank, and furnish to the Bank for review and comment monthly progress reports on 
Project execution.
3.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about September 30, 1999, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by December 31, 1999, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
Page  10
