Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY               FILE ,?
Report No. 1786-GR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
IN THE HELLENIC STATE
February 21, 1978
Education and Manpower Development Divsion
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1.00  =  36.7 Drachmas (Dr)
Dr 1.00 = US$ 0.02725
MEASURES
1 m       -   3.28 feet
1 m       -  10.76 square feet
1 km2     -   0.38 square miles
1 hectare -   2.47 acres
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
HELLENIC STATE (GREECE)
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
BASIC DATA
GLOSSARY
I.   INTRODUCTION .........................................                      1
II.    MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT AND EDUCATION SYSTEM                1............ 
Labor Force and Employment  ...........................                    1
Development Strategy and Prospects ...................                     2
Regional Development  ....................        .............            3
Future Manpower Supply and Demand ....................                     3
Overview of Education System              .........................        4
Administration  .       ....................................             4
Structure           ..........................................          5
Educational Issues  ...................................                    7
Government's Educational Strategy for Development  .....                   8
Improving the Quality of Compulsory Education .......                   8
Regionalization of Educational Opportunities  ........                  9
Reorganization of Technical and Vocational Education.                  10
Training and Recruitment of Teachers  ................                 11
Assessment of Educational Development Strategy .........                  12
Education Finance ......... . . .. .  ..................................... .  14
Review of Bank Lending and Strategy in Education  ......                  15
Implementation of Previous Bank Education Projects ....                   17
III.    THE PROJECT              ...........................................      17
Objectives and Scope . ................................ .                 17
Project Components  . .............. .....................                18
Gymnasia            ............................................       18
School for the Advanced Training of Secondary
Education Teachers and Officials  (SELME)  ..........                19
Technical Lycees and Vocational Schools (KETEs)  .....                 20
Centers of Higher Technical and Vocational
Education (KATEs) ...............        ..................          21
Technical Assistance  ............. ..     ..................          23
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)                                                                                                       Page No.
IV.   PROJECT COST, FINANCING, IMPLEMENTATION ANT
DISBURSEMENTS .......................................                                                              24
Cost   of   the   Project   ...................................                                                       24
Summary   of   Project   Cost   .............                            ..         ..............                24
Bases   of   Cost   Estimates   .........                        ..     .................  .                      25
Custom  Duties   and   Taxes   ..............                              ..        .............                25
Contingency   Allowance   ............................. ..                                                        26
Foreign   Exchange   Component   ...........                               ..         .............               26
Project   Financing   .                   ................. ..                    .................                   26
Recurrent  Costs  . ........                                                                                      27
Implementation ............                                                                                           27
Administration   ............................................                                                     27
Architectural   Services   ........  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     ...... . . ........   .                           28
Sites                    ...............................................                                          28
Procurement                    .....................                    ....................                      28
Bank   Review  and   Approval   ............                             ..         ..............                29
Disbursements   .........................................                                                             29
V.   BENEFITS, RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES, EVALUATION ....                                                         .....           30
Benefits   ..............................................                                                             30
Risks   and   Uncertainties    ..............                              ..         ...............                 31
Monitoring  and   Evaluation                                    .............................                         32
Critical   Activities    ......                      ............                 .................                   32
VI.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  ....... .. ........                                                                34



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
ANNEXES
0   Comparative Education Indicators
1   GDP Employment and Productivity
2  Manpower Projections for Selected Occupational Groups
3  Manpower Projections for Occupational Groups Other Than Those
Included in Table 2
4   Central Service of Ministry of Education - Organization Chart
5   Structure of the Education System, 1977
6   Greece Education Pyramid, 1975-76
7A Teacher Requirements, Public and Private, by Type and Level of
Education, 1976-86
7B Estimated Teacher Requirements, by Disciplines, for Fourth
Education Project Institutions
8   Public Expenditure on Education, 1964-76
9  Ministry of Education Recurrent Expenditures in 1975-76 by Type
of Expenditure and Level of Education
10   Projection of Recurrent Expenditures of the Ministry of Education
1976-86
11   Projection of Capital Expenditures on Education of the Ministry
of Education 1976-86
12   Implementation Problems in First, Second and Third Education Projects
13   Enrollments, Outputs, Pupil/Teacher Ratios and Use Factors of
Project Institutions
14   Unit Capital Costs and Area per Student - Project Institutions
15   Contingency Allowances
16   Implementation Schedule (Gymnasia)
17   Implementation Schedule (KETE)
18   Implementation Schedule (KATE, SELME)
19   Proposed Administrative Arrangements for Fourth Project
20   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
RELATED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
MAP






HELLENIC STATE (GREECE)
Basic Data and References
Population (1976 ):
Total population      9.16 million (mid-1976)
Rate of growth        0.7% per annum (1971-75)
Density               69 per sq. km.
Urban population      32% of population is concentrated in Greater
Athens area, while size of rural population has
been falling both absolutely and relatively.
Education (1975-76):
Level                  Enrollment      % of Relevant Age Group
Primary                 933,000                 108
Lower secondary
General               317,000                  73
Vocational             48,000                  12
Upper secondary
General               235,000                  57
Technical              78,000                  18
Higher                  124,000                  15
Public Expenditure on Education (1976):
Government recurrent education expenditure as % of
government total recurrent expenditure                      9.5%
Government education development expenditure as % of
government total development expendirure                   13.9%
Total public education expenditure as % of GDP                3.1%
Total public and private expenditure on education
as % of GDP                                                 4.4%
Monetary Unit:
Rate (July 1977) - US$1.00 = 36.7 Drachmas (floating)
GNP per capita:
1976 - $2,590 (World Bank Atlas, 1977)



-ii-
HELLENIC STATE (GREECE)
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
GLOSSARY
ASETEM          -  Combined Technical and Teacher Training College,
under SELETE
DGP            -  Directorate General of Programming
DIEP           -  Directorate of Implementation of Educational Projects
EEC            -  Europe Economic Community
KATEs/KATEEs   -  Centers of Higher Technical and Vocational Education
(grades 13 and above)
KEME           -  Center for Educational Studies and Advanced Training of
Teachers
KEPE           -  Center for Planning and Economic Research
KETE           -  Vocational and Technical Education Center (comprises
technical secondary school and vocational school)
MOE             - Ministry of National Education and Religious Affairs
OSK            -  Organization for School Building
PATES          -  Pedagogical Training Department for Technical and
Vocational Teachers, under SELETE
SELETE         -  School for Teachers of Vocational and Technical Education
SELME          -  School for Advanced Training of Secondary Education
Teachers and Officials
UNDP           -  United Nations Development Program



-iii-
GLOSSARY (continued)
Demotiki            -  Modern Greek language
Gymnasia            -  Lower secondary school (grades 7-9)
Katharevousa        -  Classical Greek language
Lycee               -  Secondary education school (grades 10-12)
Nomos               -  Prefecture/jurisdictional unit
Technical lycee    -  Technical secondary education school (grades 10-12)
Vocational school  -  Vocational school (grades 10-11)



I



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      A Bank mission visited Greece in June and September 1976 to discuss
with the government its proposals for a fourth education project and to iden-
tify project items suitable for Bank financing. Its recommendations were
further discussed with the government in February 1977, and in February/March
1977, a Bank mission assisted it in preparing the project for appraisal. The
project (estimated to cost US$123.5 million for which a Bank loan of US$60.0
million is proposed) was appraised in May/June 1977 by a mission comprising
Messrs. V. Desa (Technical Educator and Mission Leader); J. St. Germain
(Architect/Consultant); D. Leu (Educator/Consultant); and Mrs. A. Kottis
(Economist/Consultant).
1.02      The project content was altered during appraisal by the inclusion
of the construction and equipping of the School for the Advanced Training of
Secondary Education Teachers and Officials, as its feasibility report had
been satisfactorily completed. The Educational Materials Production Center
and the training vessels for the Merchant Marine Training Directorate were
not included in the project due to the lack of timely preparation. Further-
more, the equipping of two more merchant marine officers' schools were
deleted because of the recently reported five year delay in construction of
two of the merchant marine officers' schools being equipped under the second
project and the transfer of the equipment provided by that project to other
institutions.
II. MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT AND EDUCATION SYSTEM
Labor Force and Employment
2.01      Employment in 1975 was estimated to be about 3.2 million people, 37%
of whom were employed in agriculture and related activities, 27.8% in industry
(19% in manufacturing) and 35.2% in service-related activities. 1/ The growth
of employment in the various economic sectors reflects the changes in the
structure of the economic activities of the country; for example, during
1971-75 employment in agriculture declined annually on an average by 1.5%,
while that in the secondary and tertiary sectors increased by 0.7% and
2.0% respectively. The low growth rate of employment in the secondary sector
was principally due to the large employment decrease in the construction
industry during the 1974-75 recession. 2/
2.02      The relatively high rate of economic growth up to 1972 and substantial
emigration during the period up to 1974 helped keep overall unemployment at rela-
tively low levels. In recent years, unemployment has increased but still the
1/   Estimates of employment are constantly being updated from the 1971 census
figures. The estimates of people employed in agriculture in Greece show
large differences depending upon the source.
2/   During 1971-75 employment increased on average by 1.7%, 3.6% and 0.4%
per annum in the industries of manufacturing, public utilities and
mining respectively and decreased by 1.9% in the construction industry.



rate of unemployment is relatively low -- at the end of 1976, it was esti-
mated to be around 4%. However, this overall rate does not reveal the unequal
distribution of employment opportunities in the regions nor the substantial
rural underemployment and unemployment. For example, in the boom year of 1971
while the rate of unemployment for the greater Athens area was 2.8%, the rates
of unemployment for the regions of Thessaly, Thrace and Macedonia were 4.5%,
4.3% and 3.9%, respectively. The greater availability of employment oppor-
tunities in the Athens area can also be attested from the greater success of
employment offices in this area in placing applicants to jobs. In 1974, about
99.1% and in 1975, about 94.4% of those enrolled with the employment offices
in the greater Athens area were placed in jobs while the corresponding per-
centages for those enrolled with employment offices in the rest of the country
were 90.4% and 88.5% respectively.
2.03      Inequalities in industrial employment exist not only by regions and
sub-regions but also between men and women. In 1971, while the Athens area
had about 27% of the total labor force of the country, it had 64% of the total
manufacturing employment, 45% of the employment in transportation, 42% of the
employment in utilities and 36% of the employment in construction. In the
same year, 29.0% of the male and 32.4% of the female labor force in the Athens
area were employed in manufacturing, while the corresponding percentages for
the rest of the country were 12.8% and 11.6% respectively. 1/
Development Strategy and Prospects
2.04      The basic goals of develctpment strategy are being enunciated in a
new development plan currently in an advanced stage of preparation. The
preliminary draft of the plan envisaged:  (i) GDP growth of 6-7% per annum
with the greatest contribution coming from industry; (ii) expansion of empioy-
ment opportunities, for which purpose about 250,000 new non-agricultural jobs,
half of which will be in the secondary sector, are expected to be created by
1980; (iii) improvement in the composition, orientation and organization
of production to achieve an annual growth rate of 10% for manufacturing and
increase exports from 15.2% in 1976 to 20% of the total industrial production
by 1980; and (iv) correction of regional imbalances in the distribution
of economic activities, due to their heavy concentration in the areas of
Athens and Salonica.
2.05      Interwoven with these objectives is the critical need for the struc-
tural transformation of the economy to prepare for EEC membership.  While the
agricultural and industrial sectors have distinct competitive advantage in the
fields of labor costs and freight differentials, both sectors suffer from a
low level of productivity averaging only 45% of the level prevailing in the
European Community in the agricultural sector and 60% in the manufacturing
sector.
1/   In the nomos (prefectures) where three of the project KATEs are proposed
to be located, the percentages of the labor force employed in manufac-
turing for men and women in 1971 were as follows: nomos Aitolias and
Akarnanias, 6.9% and 5.0%; nomos Fthiotidos, 9.4% and 7.6%; and nomos
Messinias 7.7% and 7.2% respectively.



2.06      An important social target to complement the economic goals is the
reorganization of the educational system to meet the present and future needs
of society and the provision of professional guidance to young people who seek
training for occupations that are going to be needed.
Regional Development
2.07      The objective of decentralization of economic activities is being
pursued through the establishment of a hierarchy of regional centers that can
act as growth poles and where largest employment gains can be realized. Such
policies involve fiscal and monetary incentives to industry to locate in these
centers, restriction of extensive industrial expansion in the areas of Athens
and Salonica, and the provision of regional institutional and physical infra-
structure to support and encourage planned regional development.
2.08      Among such infrastructure is the building of educational facilities
that will be distributed regionally. One aim is to establish secondary tech-
nical and vocational schooling facilities in at least the capital of each
jurisdictional unit (nomos) and, if the demand justifies it, in other urban
centers in the nomos. Another is to set up higher technical and vocational
educational units in regional centers that serve a number of nomos. Such
regional centers include Lamia, which serves a region in Central Greece com-
prising five nomos; Kalamata which acts as a secondary growth pole of the
region of Peloponnesus and western Sterea Hellas; and Messolonghi-Agrinion
as secondary growth poles for a region in western Greece (see map).
Future Manpower Supply and Demand
2.09      A national manpower study was undertaken by the Center for Planning
and Economic Research (KEPE) with reference to the draft development plan.
According to the studies by KEPE 1/, total non-agricultural employment will
increase during the period up to 1986 by an average of 2.1% per annum (manu-
facturing employment rising by 2.2% per annum) while agricultural employment
will decrease by 2.0%. Up to 1980, the output of the textile industry is
projected to grow at 12.8% per annum, that of the clothing industry by 12%,
chemicals by 13%, non-metallic minerals by 10% and metallurgical products
by 14%. Besides these industries or sectors, in which employment is expected
to increase most, are also those of food, construction, transportation,
storage, communication and machinery. Because of technological innovation,
total employment in mining will show a small increase but the increase in
demand for technical mining personnel will be significantly larger. Further,
although employment in agriculture is expected to decline, there will be an
increasing demand for agricultural technicians as large export-oriented
enterprises enter into the sector and the irrigation projects come into
operation.
1/   Manufacturing.  Study prepared for the draft development plan,
KEPE, October 1976.



- 4 -
2.10      Using the results of the KEPE study and other relevant information,
the mission made manpower projections for the years up to 1986. The results
of the projections appear in Annexes 2 and 3. The following table summarizes,
for selected occupational groups, the manpower needs up to the year 1986,
together with the system's estimated output in 1975.
Projected Annual Demand and Supply for Selected Occupational Groups
1975-86
Output
Needed                    Previous
Average   Output from    Bank Proj-   Proposed IV
Annual    the Educa-      ects I, II      Project
Addition  tional System  & III Begin-  Beginning
1976-86     in 1975       ning 1982        1985
University Graduates               9,035     15,780 /1             0            0
Engineering & Agricultural
Technicians (with post-
secondary non-university
education)                        2,950         250 /2       2,100         1,050
Business Management Techno-
logists (with post-secondary
non-university education)         2,100         250           1,500          330
Merchant Marine Officers           1,740       1,590             160             0
Health Professions                 1,710         750           1,600            35
Clerical Workers, Merchants
& Sales Workers                  17,350      5,500)
Service Workers                    8,500       1,600)          7,535        5,200
Skilled Workers                   32,450     25,440)
/1   Includes output from 4-year engineering schools at Athens and Salonika.
/2   Output from KATE-type institutions.
2.11      The data in the table confirm the need for the expansion of voca-
tional and technical education at both secondary and post-secondary levels.
Overview of Education System
2.12      Administration.  The Ministry of National Education and Religious
Affairs is responsible for all private and public education, except for a
number of vocational training centers presently administered by the Ministries
of Agriculture, Social Welfare, Labor, Merchant Marine and the National Tourism



Organization. Recent years have witnessed the introduction of major changes
in the Greek education system in the areas of general and technical education,
and also the development and legislation of several autonomous organizations
reporting directly to the Minister of National Education, the most important
of these being the Center for Educational Studies and Advanced Training of
Teachers (KEME) and the OrganizaLior. for School Building .AK).  Furthermore,
the authority for administration and supervision of the educational system
is now being decentralized and, increasingly, initiatives for development of
educational institutions are coming from regional/district levels. A Supreme
Education Council comprising the director generals vf the Ministry of National
Education and the regional education councillors is responsible for overall
policy matters. Annex 4 , Chart 1, depicts the organization of the Ministry
of National Education and Religious Affairs.
2.13      Structure.  The 1976 Reform Law 309 of General Education requires a
restructuring of the formal schooling system and provides for an extension of
compulsory education, by 1980-81, from six to nine years. Consequently, the
new education system has a four-tiered structure (Annex 5, Chart 2), compris-
ing six years of primary education (grades 1-6), followed by three years of
lower secondary (gymnasium) education (grades 7-9), three years of upper sec-
ondary (lyc'e) education (grades 10-12) and higher education (grades 13 and
above). The lyc'ee level now consists of the general 1ycee, offering partially
diversified programs (classics and sciences) and traditionally preparing
students for higher education, and the proposed technical lycee (with indus-
trial, commercial, agricultural and social services branches) leading to
either direct employment or higher education. Higher education is offered at
universities and at the non-university level institutions, of which latter the
principal ones are the Teacher Training Colleges and the Centers of Higher
Technical Education (KATE) that were initiated and expanded with the assis-
tance of the two Bank education projects (Loans 711 and 1134-GR). KATEs are
multi-disciplinary institutions training higher level of technicians in spe-
cialties such as engineering technologies, business and ;nanagement, graphic
arts, agricultural and food technologies and health and social welfare service
fields.
2.14      The formal education system is quantitatively well developed (Annex
6, Chart 3). With universal primary education, 85% of the relevant age group
in the lower secondary education level, and no significant imbalance between
male and female enrollments, questions of equity at these levels of the Greek
education system are of diminished importance. In the upper secondary educa-
tion system, student enrollments were 57% of the age group in the general lycee
and 18% of the age group in the existing middle level vocational schools, with
the corresponding percentage of female enrollments at 49% and 18%. In higher
education, where some 15% of the relevant age group were enrolled, some im-
balance in enrollments by sex does exist, but it is not out of line with the
experience of countries at Greece's stage of development. In 1975-76, female
enrollment in higher education was 35%, although nearly 51% of the student
numbers in primary teacher training colleges were female.



2.15      The internal efficiency of the Greek education system is generally
good. Dropout and repeater rates in primary and general secondary education
are relatively low. Repeater rates varied in 1973-74 between 8% in grade 1
to 1% in grade 6; these rates are decreasing annually. In the lower secondary
schools, the promotion rates are within the range 80-83% for grades 7 through
11; student transfers to lower vocational schools reduce the retention rate
to about 70%. Although the dropout rates are low (7%) and repeater rates vary
between 5% to 14% in the general lycges, dropouts are higher (between 11% and
19%) in the existing middle vocational schools depending on the grade; a situa-
tion brought about by the terminal nature of this type of education and also
since many lycge graduates, admitted to these schools, leave after being
successful at the university entrance examinations.
2.16      All teachers of primary schools are qualified and of satisfactory
academic standard, being trained at the pedagogical academies/primary teacher
training colleges that offer two to three year pre-service training programs.
The average teacher student ratio of 1:31 at the primary level, though satis-
factory, conceals the problems of oversized classes in the urban and suburban
areas, where these ratios may be from 1:33 to 1:36. The teacher student ratios
in the public general lycge is on the overall good (1:29), but unsatisfactory
in the private lyc£e (1:42); only 13% of all the teachers in the general
secondary schooling system were mathematics teachers and 12% were science
teachers. In the middle vocational schools, the teacher student ratio was
1:20 in the public schools and 1:28 in the privately managed schools. Tech-
nical teachers for the vocational schools are trained at SELETE (School for
Teachers of Vocational and Technical Education) which includes an in-service
teacher (pedagogical) training department (PATES) and a combined technical and
teacher training college (ASETEM).
2.17      University enrollments are weighted in favor of law and political
science, humanities and the social sciences, with only about 25% of enroll-
ments in the natural and engineering sciences. Furthermore, many candidates
who are unable to obtain entrance into Greek universities enroll abroad, and
this expenditure constitutes a drain of foreign exchange resources (expendi-
ture channeled through the Bank of Greece on this account, in 1974, amounted
to nearly 1,410 million drachmas). While universities have contributed satis-
factorily to the supply of high level professional manpower, their research
efforts in solving the country's development problems have not been signif-
icant, despite their strong base of qualified scientists. This has been
largely due to the excessive teaching loads caused by burgeoning undergraduate
enrollments.
2.18      In the non-university higher technical education, enrollments in the
KATEs have risen sharply from about 4,500 in 1974-75, the first year of their
operation, to 9,600 in 1976-77 as lyc6e graduates became increasingly aware of
the potential job opportunities for high level technicians in Greece. However,
the full-time teacher student ratio of 1:33 is not quite satisfactory, and the
gap in teaching loads is made up by part-time teachers.



-7-
Educational Issues
2.19      The commendable progress in quantitative expansion of the Greek
educational system conceals some deficiencies in quality and regional dispari-
ties in openings for vocational/technical education.
2.20      In the lower secondary school (gymnasium) there has been an over-
emphasis on traditional academic studies and this has restricted the view of
lower secondary school leavers towards opportunities for vocational/technical
education. With gymnasia education now being made compulsory, there is need
to modernize and broaden the curricula as enrollments that had grown from
300,000 (70% of age group) to 317,000 (73% of age group) during the period
1973-76 are expected to reach 400,000 (100% of the age group) by 1980-81.
Moreover, the majority of the existing gymnasia buildings has neither science
laboratories nor facilities for the introduction of pre-vocational subjects.
2.21      The lower vocational schools (grades 7-9) prepare students at too
early an age for semi-skilled employment, and offer courses that have an in-
sufficient base of general education for maintaining career options later. As
a consequence, enrollments in these schools have been on a continuous decline
over the years from 14% of the age group in 1973-74 to 12% in 1975-76.
2.22      The curricula of the general lycges (grades 10-12) has been greatly
influenced by the admission requirements to the universities. Moreover, few
of the teachers of these schools have received adequate pedagogical training,
as this previously was not considered essential since all teachers had the
requisite academic qualifications of a university degree. Until last year,
there was no pedagogical training institution for secondary school teachers.
2.23      The middle vocational schools (grades 10-11), the majority of which
are private schools, are poorly staffed and lack adequate physical facilities.
Because of the low standard of training, and lack of motivation for vocational
studies, there are considerable dropouts (11-19%) and many of the graduates of
these schools find it difficult to gain admission to post-secondary technical
institutions.
2.24      The task of modernizing the curricula in the educational system
rests statutorily with KEME (para. 2.12) which is also responsible for poli-
cies on the training of teachers. This training is the catalyst which can
bring about the desired changes and improvements in the system. Although
enrollments in gymnasia are predicted to increase, those in the general lycees
will decrease as new technical lyce'es are established. Consequently, with
attention now given to quality of secondary education, the necessity for in-
service training (both pedagogical and advanced) of gymnasia and general lycee
teachers has been recognized, particularly in science and prevocational sub-
jects. The establishment of such a new training institution has been spurred
through the pre-investment study for a center of pedagogical studies under the
Bank's third education project (Loan 1134-GR).



- 8 -
2.25      The requirements of additional teachers, on the other hand, will be
in the areas of highest growth, namely, the technical lyc'ees and non-university
higher technical education (paras. 2.40-2.43). A major source of these addi-
tional teachers for the technical lycoees will be the KATES, but these new
teachers will need in-service training at the School for Teachers of Voca-
tional and Technical Education (SELETE).
2.26      Vocational schooling opportunities are presently largely concen-
trated in the regions of Athens and Saloniki (some 64% of the schools). The
eight KATEs, being established under the first and third Bank education proj-
ects, although dispersed, have not adequately covered the central and western
regions of Greece and southern Peloponnese. The execution of regional devel-
opment policy of the government, with its selection of growth poles (para.
2.07), has been handicapped in some of the regions by the low availability
of skilled and technician manpower.
2.27      The recently enacted law requiring modern Greek (Demotiki) language
as the language of instruction is a de facto recognition of the practice at
the primary education level. It is only at the lycee level that some diffi-
culties are foreseen, as most teachers with university degrees have received
their education in the "Katharevousa" Greek language, but these are remediable
through programs of in-service training at the secondary school teachers
training institutions. Preparation of textbooks in modern Greek (Demotiki),
which are distributed free to students, has been taken in hand by the Educa-
tional Textbook Organization. Other educational materials, including science
apparatus and audio-visual equipment aids, are necessary inputs for moderniz-
ing the educational programs. In this respect, the Educational Materials
Production Center contributes significantly through its own production program
of some science equipment and bulk purchase of others for the public schools.
Provision was included in the Bank's third education project for a pre-invest-
ment study for an expanded Educational Materials Production Center. Although
the government has not proceeded rapidly enough to complete the feasibility
study to permit consideration of the Center within the proposed project, plans
for the future include a purposeful role for the Center in the educational
development effort.
Government's Educational Strategy for L velopment
2.28      The government's development strategy in education, as envisaged in
the draft development plan, is directed towards improving the quality and
relevance of education while pursuing a better adaptation of the system
to the manpower training needs and regionalization of the economy. It also
calls for modernization of the curricula in accord with the expansion of
knowledge and changing societal needs, particularly, with the anticipated
entry of Greece into the EEC.
2.29      Improving the quality of compulsory education.  Since the prepara-
tion of the draft development plan, many educational reforms have been ini-
tiated to correct the imbalances in the education system. One of the reforms
in the Law 309 of 1976 relates to modernizing the curricula of compulsory
gymnasia education to include science and prevocational subjects (serving



orientation purposes) so as to cultivate the aptitudes and interests of the
students before they must opt for general lycges, new technical lycges or
vocational schools. (The inefficient lower vocational schools (para. 2.21)
will be phased out and cease operations by 1982-83.) The needed curriculum
development has already been initiated by KEME authorities (para. 2.24).
This compulsory gymnasia education will provide for equity in terms of oppor-
tunities for advancing through merit in the education system for all social
strata and regions within the country. By 1985/86, enrollments in the gymnasia
are expected to reach 440,000; a program to construct new gymnasia and improve
and expand existing gymnasia has been prepared for the development period
1976-80.
2.30      Regionalization of educational opportunities.  To correct regional
disparities in economic activities, the government's strategy is to develop
the needed physical and social infrastructure of the regions; educational and
training facilities are regarded as part of this infrastructure. To reduce
the present imbalances in educational opportunities, 1/ intensive school map-
ping exercises have been conducted to determine the optimum locations of the
new gymnasia in a number of regions. These mapping studies are being extended
to cover the entire country. The construction program, which is expected for
completion by 1980-81, has been carefully scheduled so that educational oppor-
tunities will be distributed fairly.
2.31      For the locations of the new combined technical lycges and voca-
tional schools, called KETEs (para. 2.37), an in-depth analysis of factors
such as regional demographic characteristics, agriculture and industry was
carried out to establish the potential for development of the regions. Some
25 nomos were identified as having good prospects for development. Of the
total 141 locations identified in these nomos for the KETEs, 65 are proposed
for construction in the first stage, and 26 in the second; both stages are
expected to be completed in the 1977-81 period. The number and type of
specializations and enrollments in each of the KETEs will reflect regional
development priority needs.
2.32      To support an ongoing effort to extend opportunities for post-
secondary technical/vocational education in the different regions of the
country, three of the four KATEs planned are to be in regions not served by
the eight KATEs either constructed or under construction, with the assistance
of the first and third Bank projects. In addition, responding to the specific
manpower needs of the economy in priority sectors, specializations thus far
not covered by these earlier KATEs will be included within the new KATEs.
1/   For example in 1973-74, the ratio of secondary school enrollments to
population in the Athens area was more than 48% greater than in the
areas of Thrace and the Aegean and Ionian islands.



- 10 -
2.33      Reorganization of technical and vocational education.  Under comple-
mentary Law 576 1/ of 1977, the middle vocational schools of the Ministry of
National Education will be reorganized into technical lycees, and basic poli-
cies concerning all technical/vocational schools including other secondary
technical schools and apprenticeship schools of all other ministries, will
have to be co-signed by the Minister of National Education. This will enable
the Ministry of National Education to have a much needed overview of the
entire technical and vocational education system and thereby correlate the
system more closely to technical manpower needs of the country. This is a
major basic reform.
2.34      The new technical lycee, with six semesters of studies for day
schools and prolonged by another two semesters for evening schools, will
provide general education and also technical knowledge to develop skills to
enhance the student's ability to gain employment after graduating. The com-
mercial/financial course sections of the general lycees are to be transferred
in stages to the new technical lycges. Only gymnasia graduates will be ad-
mitted to the technical lycges after selection through entrance examinations.
The graduates of the technical lycees will be eligible for admission to the
higher education institutions if they have successfully pursued the additional
subjects required for admission to each specialized higher school.
2.35      Law 576 also requires the establishment of vocational schools with
programs of two to four semesters in duration depending on the speciality
(prolonged by one to two semesters in evening sections), aimed at development
of skills and knowledge in a specific trade. Only gymnasia graduates will be
admitted to the vocational schools but without an entrance examination so as
to give these training opportunities for all secondary schools age students.
To avoid giving an entirely terminal character to this program, those who
complete the vocational schools may be admitted to the third semester of the
technical lycge after a selection process to be specified by the Ministry.
2.36      Starting with the 1977-78 session, gymnasia graduates over 18 years
of age will not be permitted to enroll in the first semester of the day sec-
tions of these institutions (technical lycges and vocational schools) while
the evening sections will be open only to those who are fully employed.
2.37      The technical lycee and vocational school may be grouped together
to form a single educational unit, namely the vocational and technical educa-
tion center, called the KETE, for an integrated use of facilities. All these
institutions henceforth will be public schools.
1/   Law 576 incorporates provisions for establishing ten Diversified Centers
of Secondary Schools so as to improve the functions of secondary educa-
tion through continued use of facilities and staff in the general sec-
ondary and technical/vocational secondary lycee sections, in conformity
with the ten multilateral secondary schools being set up under the third
education project.



- 11 -
2.38      Law 576 also brings the Centers of Higher Technical and Vocational
Education (KATEs) into the national perspective of training higher level
cadres of technicians in a wide variety of specialties that are needed for
the development of identified sectors of the economy. For admission to the
KATEs, graduates of the lyce'es (technical and general) will be selected follow-
ing a nationwide competitive examination. In order to favor recruitment from
the respective regions, no boarding facilities are planned for construction in
the proposed new KATEs. Compulsory daily attendance is required and students
undergo extramural practical training. Graduates of the KATEs will be eli-
gible for higher admission to the universities in specified departments on the
basis of scholarship tests.
2.39      Training and recruitment of teachers.  For achieving the goals of
the educational strategies for the entire education system, the government has
shown an awareness that certain factors will be crucial, among these being the
recruitment and training of teachers, and has taken action by passing appro-
priate legislative enactments.
2.40      In recognition of the urgency for in-service teacher training, par-
ticularly as pedagogical training of the bulk of the existing 19,000 general
lyc'ee and gymnasium teachers is either incomplete (humanities university grad-
uates) or non-existent (science and mathematics university graduates), and
for the introduction of the new curricula (paras. 2.24 and 2.29), government
has accorded a high priority to the establishment of the School for Advanced
Training of Secondary Education Teachers and Officials (SELME). Prior to the
establishment of SELME, very limited secondary teacher training was provided
in universities, usually amounting to only one or two courses in pedagogy,
during the entire four years of study. Secondary school teachers, as a conse-
quence, were well-trained in the subject matter which they taught, but were
inadequately prepared from a pedagogical viewpoint. The presidential decree
of 1977 authorizes KEME (paras. 2.12 and 2.24) to organize and operate SELME
that will have a full time equivalent enrollment of about 1,000 trainees.
A feasibility study has satisfactorily been completed outlining the needs of
in-service training and pre-service training, purposes, curriculum, enroll-
ments, staffing and building requirements for SELME. Because of the exigency
of the situation, SELME has commenced limited operation in rented premises
with an initial enrollment of 300, but expects to begin all operations in the
new buildings to be constructed and equipped with the assistance of the pro-
posed Bank project in December, 1981.
2.41      Law 576 of 1977 authorizes for the entire vocational and technical
education system, sufficient numbers of teaching positions by cadres (grades
and scales of pay), qualifications and branches of specializations for the
five year development period. The filling of these posts will be done in
stages with promulgation of presidential decrees 1/ and in proportion to the
development of the system.
1/   Based on the decision of the Council of State on the proposal of the
Prime Minister and Minister of National Education.



- 12 -
2.42      For the technical lycees, vocational schools and KETEs under the
Ministry of National Education, a total of 5,900 teaching positions has been
authorized for the period 1976-80, of which 4,600 will be technical/vocational
teachers and laboratory/shop instructors. The existing stock of full-time
technical teaching staff in the lower and middle vocational schools is about
2,000, leaving about 2,600 to be recruited from now until 1980. The mission
estimates (Annex 7A) annual teaching staff requirements through 1985-86 to be
910 for this system of technical secondary schools; 650 of these will be
technical/vocational teachers (the qualifications required being diplomas of
universities or KATEs) and 230 will be laboratory/shop instructors (qualifi-
cations required being a diploma from a technical secondary school and some
professional experience). All the technical teaching staff require a diploma
in pedagogic studies. The potential sources of technical teachers and instruc-
tors (Annex 7B) are adequate to meet these needs. Pedagogical training is
conducted at PATES, the technical teacher training department under SELETE
(School for Teachers of Vocational and Technical Education). PATES has an
annual output of 600 which needs to be expanded to 950 to meet the training
requirements of teachers for the technical secondary school system. Some 30
teacher trainers will have to be added to PATES's teaching staff strength to
cope with the expanded enrollment, for which PATES has the necessary physical
facilities.
2.43      For all the KATEs, a total of 1,970 teaching positions has been
authorized under Law 576 for the period 1976-80. The teachers will be re-
cruited from those with qualifications of diplomas from the universities or
equivalent institutions. The new pay scales of the KATE teachers are suffi-
cient to attract persons with experience in both professional employment and
teaching in the given specialty. In the existing five KATEs there are some
288 full-time teachers, supplemented by a large number of part-time teachers.
Mission estimates (Annex 7A) that annually 260 additional teachers would be
required for all the KATEs through 1986 and that the potential sources of
supply are adequate. Whilst in the past year there was delay in recruiting
additional teachers for the KATEs of the first Bank project, this situation
has changed considerably with the passage of Law 576 in April 1977; a presi-
dential decree was promulgated in August, 1977 for 193 additional posts of
professors and instructors for these KATEs and these posts have since been
advertized. Overseas training in subject matter of planned new specializations
and for curricula improvements of existing disciplines and/or specializations
has been programmed by the Ministry of National Education by providing 52
fellowships under the third Bank education project; further, a KATE fellowship
program for specialized training of 200 teachers abroad in subject matter has
been formulated as a UNDP technical assistance project and is presently under
discussions between the government and UNDP (para. 3.21).
Assessment of Educational Development Strategy
2.44      The educational development strategy is satisfactorily attuned to
the basic economic and social goals of the government for expanding employment
opportunities, increasing productivity and correcting regional imbalances in
the distribution of economic activities, and to the complementary goals of



- 13 -
improving the quality and relevance of education. With the passage of the
general education Law 306 of 1976 and the technical education Law 576 of 1977,
foundations have been laid for a related massive reform of the general, tech-
nical and vocational education system, with thrusts directed also to building
up a more relevant technological structural capability for Greece's anticipated
association with the European Economic Community.
2.45      The introduction of modernized science curricula and pre-vocational
subjects in compulsory gymnasia education will provide not only for equity in
terms of educational opportunities in all the regions of the country, but also
for vocational guidance that is presently lacking in the education system.
Such vocational guidance becomes all the more necessary as, in plans to sup-
port the reforms, all students in the final grade of the gymnasia are expected
to continue their education, with nearly 45% of them going into the general
lycee, 35% into the technical lycges or equivalent institutions and 20% into
the vocational schools or centers. The net anticipated effect is a better
adaptation of the education system to the nation's manpower training needs
and a diminishing attraction for secondary school students to university
faculties that have small employment prospects for their graduates.
2.46      Although satisfactory curricula changes in gymnasia and general
lycge education have been initiated by KEME, the success of these innovative
changes hinges largely on the availability of suitably qualified and trained
teachers. In this regard, the government has rightly accorded a high priority
to the establishment of the School for the Advanced Training of Secondary Edu-
cation Teachers and Officials (SELME), as previously stated (para. 2.40).
2.47      The new technical lycees, vocational schools and KETEs and the addi-
tional KATEs will make important contributions to filling the gaps between
demand and supply of technically trained personnel (para. 2.11). Now that all
technical and vocational education is coordinated under one Ministry (para.
2.33), the Ministry of National Education, the formal education system can be
closely matched to technical manpower needs. Furthermore, a mechanism for
soordination and planning is provided under the technical education law with
provisions for the establishment of a national technical and vocational educa-
tion consultative committee having representatives from all the concerned
ministries, and representatives of the technical and agricultural chambers of
Greece, the federation of industries, confederations of agricultural coopera-
tives, labor and small industries, and of the professions.
2.48      The above educational strategies will also assist in the build-up
of stock of skilled and technician manpower needed for regional development
projects, while improving regional educational opportunities, thereby reducing
he emigration of young people to the major urban centers of the country.
2.49      The mission's estimates of the average annual needs for additional
teachers for the entire education system during the period 1976-86 are shown
in Annex 7A and of the potential sources of teachers for key types and level
of education in Annex 7B. These comparisons indicate that recruitment of
these -eachers is within the capacity of achievement of the Ministry of
National Education.



- 14 -
Education Finance
2.50      During the period 1972-76, public education expenditure increased
by an average of 24% p.a. However, because of the steadily increasing bud-
get, the share of total public expenditure allocated to education remained
relatively low (see Basic Data and Annex 8), with total public and private
education expenditure in 1976 representing only 4.4% of GDP.
2.51      The greater emphasis given by the government to technical and voca-
tional education is reflected in the recent relatively higher growth rate of
the Ministry of Education's recurrent expenditure allocated to it (Table 2).
The increase in the percentage of recurrent expenditure spent on technical
and vocational education came mainly from decreases in the corresponding
percentages for primary and pre-primary education and for gymnasia and general
lycees (Annex 9).
Table 2: Ministry of Education Recurrent Expenditure 1972-76
Percentage of Total Average Annual Growth
Recurrent Expenditure   Rate of Recurrent
Expenditure
1972    1975      1976    1972-76   1975-76
Primary education                    45.0    41.0       37.9      27.3       10.1
General secondary education          27.4    24.0       22.9      26.9       13.3
(including gymnasium & lycee)
Technical and vocational education  6.4        4.4       7.2      44.7       98.8
(including KATE and SELETE)
University education                  13.4    17.3      18.6      58.4       28.0
2.52      The share of recurrent expenditure on secondary and post-secondary
technical and vocational education is expected to increase from 7.2% of the
total recurrent expenditure of the Ministry of Education in 1976 to 16.4% in
1986. This increase will partly become feasible through a decrease in the
percentage of recurrent expenditure spent on primary and general secondary
education (Annex 10) but there will be need for some major expenditure re-
allocations within the educational budget, especially on university education.
2.53      Assuming constant real teacher salaries and on the basis of achiev-
ing government targets regarding teacher-student ratios and replacement of
existing sub-standard places, the Ministry of Education expenditures are
estimated to grow during 1976-86 at an average rate of 3% p.a. reaching the
level of 31.4 billion drachmas in 1986 (Annexes 10 and 11). Educational
expenditures by other Ministries in 1986 is projected to be around 1.2 billion
drachmas. If, as is expected, real GDP and total government expenditure grow
during this period at an average rate of 6% p.a., public education expenditure
will account for about 9.3% of the national budget and 2.7% of the GDP in



- 15 -
1986. 1/ This suggests that Greece's educational objectives for the period
up to 1986 could be achieved without major strain on the national budget. Due
to the high priority assigned by the government to the project institutions,
the government can be expected to allocate the full amount of funds required
for the establishment and operation of these institutions.
Review of Bank Lending and Strategy in Education
2.54      The proposed project is the culmination of the Bank's efforts to
assist in modernizing and up-grading the Greece education system to make it
a more effective instrument for economic development. It is appropriate,
therefore, to review the Bank's activities from the beginning of its opera-
tions in the Greece education sector and to examine the contributions it has
made through the various Bank financed education projects towards the conver-
sion of a tradition-bound classical education system into a modern, more tech-
nically oriented system, better able to respond effectively to the manpower
needs of the economy.
2.55      At the time of the first Bank education reconnaissance mission to
Greece in February 1967, the Greece education and training system was poorly
attuned to the manpower demands of a developing economy and to the govern-
ment's aspirations for joining the EEC. Despite increasingly serious shortages
of trained technical personnel, the education system was predominantly clas-
sical, with increasingly disproportionate enrollments in academic secondary
schools and in universities as compared with enrollments in any form or level
of technical education. Such technical education as existed was extremely
limited and of poor quality: post-secondary diploma level technical education
consisted of two small civil engineering schools, poorly housed and equipped;
in the absence of sufficient public secondary technical schools, private
profit-making technical schools had sprung into existence with inadequate
buildings, equipment, and staff. Although there was a manifest need to
diversify the secondary school curriculum and to prepare secondary school
students for either immediate employment or higher technical studies, sugges-
tions that the classical gymnasium should be modified to include an element of
practical work met with strong opposition.
2.56      In teacher training, the emphasis was upon training in subject
matter rather than pedagogy. Primary school teachers were trained in a two-
year post-secondary course in a network of small, over-crowded and poorly
equipped institutes. At the secondary school level, neither faculties of
education nor secondary school teacher training institutes existed.
2.57      The government was anxious to obtain Bank financing for technical
manpower development, but did not appear to be interested in proposals to
1/   In 1976, private education expenditures were 44.5% of the public education
expenditures. If, as is expected, private expenditures are reduced to
around 30% of the public education expenditures in 1986, total private
and public expenditure on education will be 3.3% of the projected GDP in
1986.



- 16 -
improve oI reform its fonnal education system. Consequently, the strategy
adapted by the Bank was to respond favorably to requests for assistance in
manpower training programs while continuing to press for the needed educa-
tional reforms.
2.58      This strategy has proved successful.  It is to the government's
_redit that almost all of the basic institutional reforms and adjustments
inherent in gradually changing a classical system into one more attuned to the
needs of a developing economy, and which present difficulties in many countries
for implementation, have been put through in Greece. The first Bank education
project (Loan 711-GR), approved in November 1970, introduced into Greece the
concept of a diploma level, multi-disciplinary technical institution (KATE)
offering specialized instruction in agriculture, business, engineering, food
processing and health. This project was innovative and provided a desirable
alternative to university studies. Indeed, the concept of the KATEs has
caught on so strongly that there is an overwhelming student demand for entry
into these institutions. But more importantly, this project provided the
basis for further Bank discussions on the need for changes in the formal
education system.
2.59      The first of these changes was realized in the second education
project (Loan 859-GR, September 1972) which provided for an up-grading in the
quality of instruction in primary schools through the financing of the con-
solidation of the existing primary teacher training system into larger and
more efficient and better equipped institutions with a reformed curriculum.
In addition, the Bank widened its activities beyond the Ministry of Education
in this project and provided assistance in meeting manpower requirements in
agriculture, industry, the merchant marine, and tourism.
2.60      Further break-throughs in the reform of the education system were
realized during the preparation and appraisal of the third Greece education
project (Loan 1134-GR, June 1975). This project included, on an experimental
basis, 10 multilateral secondary schools which provided instruction in shop-
work and technical subjects to secondary school students for the first time
in Greece. In addition, financing was provided for a pre-investment study of
the need for a pedagogical center for pre-service training of secondary school
teachers and a study of the development of the post-secondary education
system.
2.61      With the inclusion of the secondary school teacher training center
in the proposed project, all of the major educational reform measures identi-
fied at the beginning of the Bank's operations in the education sector in
Greece will have been realized. At the same time, the technical education
system has been greatly expanded and modernized--in vocational training
centers, secondary technical schools, and in post-secondary diploma institu-
tutes, ail greatly assisted by the Bank. The transformation of the Greece
education system is due in large part to the Bank initiated dialogue on the
need for such changes, but is also due in large measure to the emergence on
che Greece education scene of more progressive educators and administrators
who were willing to break with tradition and to experiment with more modern
educational concepts.



- 17 -
Implementation of Previous Bank Education Projects
2.62      The currently projected completion dates for the various components
of the first, second and third education projects are estimated to be from two
to five years behind the original implementation schedule. Besides delays
arising from change in government, the main obstacles to timely implementation
have been weaknesses in project administration, tardy acquisition of sites,
and protracted procedures for selection and appointment of architects, and
evaluating designs and civil works review.
2.63      Following an exchange of letters with the government concerning
implementation delays of the ongoing education projects, a special Bank mis-
sion visited Greece in October 1977 and again in January 1978 to review the
possibility of modifying administration arrangements and implementation
procedures with a view to preventing delays in the future. The mission
reported that major efforts are being made by the government and that the two
main obstacles, namely the acquisiton of sites and appointment of architects
have been overcome generally. Furthermore, agreements were reached with the
government (Annex 12) on measures to ensure timely implementation; these
constitute an appropriate remedy, and include improved administrative arrange-
ments, assignments of additional staff, better review procedures, shorter
construction periods and timely on-site supervision. With these improved
arrangements and procedures, project implementation should proceed without
additional delays. Finally, between the October and January missions, there
was substantial progress in physical implementation.
III. THE PROJECT
Objectives and Scope
3.01      The project would assist in the implementation of programs consis-
tent with the Government's educational development strategy through the
following key measures:  (a) increase the quality and relevance of compulsory
education at the gymnasia level through the introduction of a more balanced
science and practical-oriented curriculum; (b) establish a School for the
Advanced Training of Secondary Education Teachers and Officials; (c) provide
technical/vocational secondary education in keeping with the new technical
education reforms by establishing technical lycges with associated vocational
school programs (KETEs) having emphasis on the development of skills and know-
ledge, and (d) establish additional KATEs to improve regional opportunities
for post-secondary technical/vocational education, in response to specific
manpower needs of the economy in priority sectors and in specializations thus
far not covered by the previous Bank assisted KATEs.
3.02      Lile project would comprise (a) constructing and/or equipping the
following institutions (Annex 13) and (b) related technical assistance.



- 18 -
Student         Estimated
Type of Institution                  Grades      enrollment    annual output
General Education
Equipping only:
40 existing gymnasia                     7-9        16,320             5,200
21 gymnasia under construction           7-9        10,920             3,600
Construction and equipping:
School for the Advanced Training       ungraded       1,000            3,000
of Secondary Education Teachers &   post-           (full time
Officials (SELME)                     university   equivalent)
Technical and Vocational Education
Construction and equipping:
10 Technical lycges combined           10-12         9,240             2,500
with vocational schools (KETEs)   10-11           5,920             2,700
4 Centers of Higher Technical
& Vocational Education (KATEs)    13-15           4,200             1,380
(student
places)
Project Components
3.03      Gymnasia.  As part of the government's policy to make gymnasia educa-
tion compulsory and to strengthen the teaching of science and practical activi-
ties in the schools, the 61 project gymnasia schools will be among the first
gymnasia that will be equipped to offer the revised curricula in which all
students in each grade will take science and pre-vocational studies, thereby
providing vocational guidance before they must decide whether to opt for gen-
eral, technical or vocational education streams. The curricula changes are
innovative. Within the 31 hours per week of teaching in each of the three
grades, 5 periods per week will be assigned to science subjects, and the
development of practical activities will be fostered through the incorporation
of 3-4 periods per week for exploratory work in arts and crafts, vocational
orientation and elementary technology.
3.04      The 21 new gymnasia are satisfactorily located throughout the coun-
try as a result of school mapping exercises carried out by the Ministry of
National Education. All project gymnasia have a population base adequate to
sustain each school within its catchment areas. Enrollments would vary from
120 to 1200, with the majority in the 240-600 range.  Total project schools'
enrollment would amount to nearly 8.2% of the total 1976-77 gymnasia school
enrollments.
3.05      All existing gymnasia teachers and newly appointed ones will undergo
pedagogical and special training in the new School for Advanced Training of
Secondary Education Teachers and Officials (SELME) that is being established
under the fourth Bank education project (paras. 3.07-3.09). For the 21 new



- 19 -
gymnasia, a total of 410 teaching staff will be needed, with senior teachers
and administrators drawn from existing schools. For the 61 project gymnasia
schools, teachers of science subjects, arts and crafts and elementary tech-
nology are estimated to number about 230, and will be trained in the revised
curricula at SELME. There will be no difficulty in the provision of this
number of teachers for the project schools.
3.06      School for the Advanced Training of Secondary Education Teachers
and Officials (SELME). As the first institution to be established in Greece
for the pedagogical training of secondary school teachers, SELME is the
cornerstone of the proposals to reform secondary education and is the center-
piece of this project. All existing 1976 stock of gymnasia teachers (11,910)
and general lycge teachers (8,800) and the respective estimated annual addi-
tions through 1985-86 of 1,190 and 230 teachers (Annex 7A) will ultimately
receive training organized by SELME. When SELME begins full operations in its
new buildings in December 1981, it will be able to offer the following programs
annually: (a) an introductory 1-6 month course for about 1,000 newly appointed
teachers, (b) an advanced 9-month course for 560 in-service teachers, (c) a
shorter 2-month course for 400 in-service teachers four times per year, and
(d) short courses up to 2 months for newly appointed headmasters and school
inspectors. SELME's total annual output is projected to be about 3,000.
3.07      SELME has been placed under the autonomous body, Center for Educa-
tional Studies and Advanced Training of Teachers (KEME), in the Ministry of
National Education as: (i) comparatively extensive in-service pedagogical
training is urgently required; (ii) training programs have to be flexible
in terms of duration, curriculum content and timing to adapt to changing
needs, such as a short training program (June to October) for newly appointed
teachers followed, at a later time, with advanced training of 9-month duration;
and (iii) close association is possible between SELME and KEME, which has as
its statutory functions those of education research and innovation, including
curriculum development.
3.08      Satisfactory curricula have been developed by the education special-
ists of KEME. For teacher training, 20-21 periods per week are devoted to a
common core of subjects, principally in the area of pedagogy, and 7-8 periods
to subjects of specialization of the teachers, including modern Greek (Demo-
tiki) language to promote the use of demotiki as the language of instruction
at all levels of education (para. 2.27). Secondary school teachers will be
invited to submit applications for admission to SELME and their selection
will be made by a Commission appointed by the Minister of Education.
3.09      In full operation, SELME will have an equivalent of some 70 full-
time staff. Thirty educational specialists of KEME will constitute the core
of SELME's full-time staff. The remainder of the teaching staff requirements
will be met through part-time recruitment of the 27 councillors of KEME as
well as scholars of recognized authority from the Ministry of National Educa-
tion, the universities and similar institutions. No difficulty is anticipated
over their recruitment. The government has provided assurance that SELME will
be operated with qualified teachers, administrative and supporting staff in
adequate numbers and employed promptly as needed.



- 20 -
3.10      Technical Lycees and Vocational Schools (KETEs).  This project item
would lend further support to the government's plan to transform the secondary
schooling system, which has been largely traditional classical education, by
providing quality technical and vocational schooling. It would also help
initiate the integrated use of the school premises of the KETE for both the
technical lycee (grades 10-12) and the vocational school (grades 10-11) pro-
grams with resulting economies in the use of laboratories, workshops and
instructors. In the technical lycee, with principally a day-time program,
the aim is to impart technical and general knowledge for developing skills
of the students so that they, after graduation, could either find employment
in a particular occupational branch or gain admission to institutions of
higher technical education; while in the vocational school, with mainly
evening programs, the purpose is more trade specific and directed to train-
ing youth, already in employment, in new skills or upgrading existing ones.
Admission to both the technical lycee and the vocational school is open only
to graduates of gymnasia schools; candidates for the technical lycees are
selected following a nationwide entrance examination.
3.11      Each technical lycee comprises two sections:  (a) industrial, and
(b) non-industrial. Within the industrial section there are specialized
departments such as: (i) mechanical and automotive, (ii) electrical and
electronic, (iii) construction and building, and (iv) chemistry and metal-
lurgy; while the non-industrial section includes: (i) secretarial, account-
ing and business, (ii) agriculture and animal husbandry, and (iii) social
services (including para-medical).  The duration of the technical lycee
courses is six semesters; the first semester course, with 34 periods per week,
is common to all students and gives a good preview of the range of offerings
through the inclusion of subjects such as introductions to modern agriculture,
technology, business and industrial and state organizations. In the second
semester the students branch into the industrial and non-industrial sections.
About fifty percent of the weekly periods in the first two semesters is devoted
to the teaching of science, mathematics and general subjects. In the subse-
quent semesters of 30-32 periods per week, students follow studies related to
their specializations on an average of about 20 periods per week, nearly half
of which is spent on practical work.
3.12      In the vocational school, the duration of the trade courses varies,
depending on the specialty, from two to four semesters with the school week
ranging from 15-23 periods.  The training departments of the vocational school
are organized on the same basis as the departments of the technical lyc'ee,
except that the practical work rooms and shops are equipped for the specific
trade offerings, since about 50% of the time of the trainees is spent on
practical work.
3.13      The ten project KETEs, with a cotal enrollment of about 15,160
students, which will be some of the first new KETEs to be constructed, were
selected on the basis of site availability and regional distribution (para.
2.31), including the comparatively disadvantaged regions of Komotini and
Mytilini. In the project KETEs, school enrollments will range from 360 to
1440 in the technical lycee sections and from 240 to 880 in the vocational



- 21 -
school sections, reflecting the needs of the catchment areas served and an
adequate utilization of physical facilities. Correspondingly, the number of
specialized departments in the technical lyczee vary from 4 to 11; the number
of skilled trade offerings in the vocational school, from 5 to 10.
3.14      The mission has estimated requirements of a total of 736 teaching
staff for the project KETEs (Annex 7B) of whom 444 will be technical teachers.
The nucleus of the teaching staff will be from the qualified teachers of the
existing public middle vocational schools that will be phased out (para. 2.42).
The potential sources of additional teacher recruitments include not only the
graduates of the universities but also the graduates of the KATEs (Annex 7B),
for by 1981 (the year of operation of the project KETEs) the annual outputs
of the KATEs are estimated to be 1440 in engineering/technology, 180 in agri-
culture, 840 in health services and 1240 in business, commerce and management
studies. The government has provided an assurance that the project KETEs will
be operated with qualified teachers in adequate numbers, who will be recruited
timely prior to the opening of the schools. All newly recruited teachers of
the project KETEs will receive pedagogical training in PATES-SELETE (para.
2.42). As the entire program of the new technical lycees, vocational schools
and KETEs depends on the pedagogical training of the newly recruited technical
teachers for these institutions, including the project KETEs, the government
'as provided an assurance that additional teacher trainers for the pedagogical
training departments under the supervision of SELETE shall be employed as
rcquired for the training of vocational and technical teachers to meet the
planned expansion of vocational and technical education centers; such training
shall be accomplished through programs in accordance with the government's
legislation. Out of the 30 estimated additional teacher trainers so required,
government has provided assurances that at least 10 shall be employed before
the beginning of the 1979-80 academic year. Furthermore, understanding
was also reached that the remaining 20 teacher trainers shall be employed by
a date to be specified (tentatively December 30, 1980).
3.15      The output of the nearly 5,200 graduates from the project KETEs can
contribute to nearly 9% of the projected annual demand (1976-86) for sales,
clerical, service and skilled workers in the economy. A tracer system to
trace the employment of the graduates of the project KETES would provide
valuable information regarding the effectiveness of the KETE training, par-
ticularly as the transition between formal schooling and work is problematic,
determined by the attitudes of the students towards future work and the rele-
vance of their schooling to it. Furthermore, the data on the proportion of
school leavers who find remunerative employment within a limited time and
those who continue with full-time schooling are important for further educa-
tional and economic planning. The government has provided an assurance of
making appropriate arrangements:  (a) to assist graduates of each project
KETE in their job placement; such arrangements shall be to the extent possi-
ble similar to those existing for the KATEs (para. 3.19); and (b) for tracing
the employment of graduates of the project KETEs and providing information to
the Bank regarding the efficiency of their training.
3.16      Centers of Higher Technical and Vocational Education (KATEs).  The
concept of the KATE for training higher level technicians that was introduced



- 22 -
with the first Bank education project has been steadily gaining ground as a
purposeful alternative to university education. This project item would ex-
pand this higher technical education system by the provision of three new
KATEs at Lamia, Messolonghi and Kalamata, which would simultaneously improve
regional distribution of such training opportunities, and another KATE at
Athens/Piraeus that would also assist in siphoning off the excess student
enrollments in the existing Athens KATE, where enrollments have already
exceeded the designed capacity by nearly 50%.
3.17      The four project KATEs have provision of about 4,200 student places
in the schools of engineering technology, agricultural technology and business
management. In addition to providing training in the presently offered con-
ventional fields of mechanical, electrical, electronic, surveying and building
technologies, accountancy and secretarial sciences and agricultural technology,
the project KATEs would introduce other specializations required in the regions.
The additional specializations of mining, metallurgy, and crop production to be
introduced at Lamia, textile technology and fisheries at Messolonghi, market
gardening at Kalamata and production technology, environmental protection,
marketing and advertising, computer programming and beautician courses at
Athens-Piraeus, are in consonance with regional development plans. With the
semester program of courses that allows admissions twice in the year and the
commissioning of morning and afternoon sessions, there is flexibility for
increasing enrollments when necessary and also of allowing students to repeat
a semester without the loss of a full year of studies.
3.18      Curricula of the KATE courses, which had been prepared with tech-
nical assistance under the first Bank project, have been revised to benefit
from operational experience. Curriculum outlines for the new specializations
have been completed by the specialists of KEME in consultation with local
experts drawn from the industrial, business and agricultural sectors. The
technology courses last six semesters and 18 of the 36 weekly periods are
assigned to laboratory and practical work; in the area of business management,
the course lasts four semesters with 16 periods weekly allotted to practical
studies. In addition, during the vacations, students undergo advanced prac-
tical training in industry or commerce.
3.19      Each KATE is administered by a board comprising the heads of the
schools and the director of the KATE as its chairman. As there is an absence
of employers' professional advice and guidance to each KATE, government has
provided an assurance that the administrative board of each project KATE shall
consult with representatives of industry, commerce, agriculture and social
services, as appropriate, on the training provided by such centers. Since
these KATEs will graduate annually some 1,380 high level technicians and about
3,600 from the other eight KATEs by the 1980's, placement of graduates will be
important to the success of the KATEs' efforts. This has been recognized for
there is provision for a placement officer in each KATE and liaison is being
established between the Ministry of Education and the labor force employment
organization of the Ministry of Employment for the notification of job oppor-
tunities and placement. The government has given an assurance that further
arrangements shall be made for tracing the employment of graduates of the
project KATEs and providing information regarding the efficiency of their
training.



- 23 -
3.20      The teacher requirements for the project KATEs are estimated to
total 254 (Annex 7B). There is sufficient annual output from the universities
to meet these needs in nearly all the specializations; in 1976, 2,125 graduated
in mathematics and sciences, 977 in engineering/technology, 487 in agricul-
ture and animal husbandry, 74 in forestry and 2,279 in economics, business and
management studies. No difficulty is foreseen regarding the potential avail-
ability of teachers for the existing specializations in the project KATEs.
Immediate overseas training needs of 10 fellowships for introducing new
specializations are being accommodated in the 52 fellowships under the third
Bank education project technical assistance and other requirements are likely
to be met from the UNDP KATEs fellowship program now under discussion between
the government and UNDP (para. 3.21).
3.21      Technical Assistance.  During appraisal, the government requested
the provision of four man-years of expert services and 30 man-years of fellow-
ships, estimated to cost US$580,000, in the proposed fourth project. Since
then, the technical assistance program under the third education project
(US$2.6 million) has been revised. Delay in utilizing technical assistance
under the third education project was principally due to non-availability of
teacher trainees; this is being rectified by authorization of teacher positions
and promulgation of appropriate decrees (paras. 2.40 and 2.41). The technical
assistance revision, inter alia, includes provision of fellowships and expert
services not only to meet the needs of the third education project, but also
the immediate needs of the fourth. Furthermore, as continuation of a UNDP/
UNESCO project (GRE/71/533-1972-76), a second phase has been recently prepared
entitled "Higher Technical Education, Phase II (Staff Development and Training
Abroad)". The program, extending over 4-5 years, consists of training abroad
of 200 professors and instructors presently appointed or soon to be appointed
as teachers in the KATEs, starting in September/October 1978.  Bank's views,
that were requested on the draft UNDP/UNESCO document, have been largely
incorporated in the revised text and it is expected to be signed shortly.
The government has further provided an assurance that all arrangements with
UNDP will be completed by September 30, 1978, and that the program of train-
ing abroad of KATE teachers shall be implemented in accordance with a schedule
satisfactory to the government and the Bank.



- 24 -
IV. PROJECT COST, FINANCING, IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENTS
Cost of the Project
4.01      Summary of Project Cost.  The total cost of the project is estimated
at Dr. 4,531.0 million or US$123.5 million equivalent. The estimated total cost
and foreign exchange components by main project items are summarized below:
Dr Millions               US$ Millions        % of
Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Total
GYMNASIA                      7.9      70.5     78.4   0.2       1.9     2.1    2.4
SELME (School for            70.2     42.0    112.2   1.9       1.2      3.1    3.5
Advanced Training of
Secondary Education
Teachers and
Officials)
KETEs (Technical            976.3    898.6  1,874.9  26.6    24.5    51.1   57.9
Lycees and Voca-
tional Schools)
KATEs (Centers of           604.1    566.6  1,170.7  16.5    15.4    31.9   36.2
Higher Technical
and Vocational
Education)            _    -
Baseline Cost             1,658.5  1,577.7  3,236.2  45.2    43.0    88.2  100.0
Contingencies               673.6    621.2  1,294.   18.3    17.0    35.3   40.0
TOTAL PROJECT COST    2,332.1  2,198.9  4,531.0  63.5    60.0   123.5



- 25 -
4.02      A breakdown of estimated project costs into local and foreign cost
elements by categories of expenditure is summarized as follows:
% of
Category of Expenditure    Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Total
---- Dr Millions ----  --- US$ Millions ----
Construction:
Site Development           134.8    52.4    187.2   3.7        1.4    5.1      5.8
Building                 1,140.1   443.4  1,583.5  31.1    12.1   43.2    48.9
Professional Services    177.1        0.0    177.1   4.8       0.0    4.8      5.5
Subtotal               1,452.0   495.8  1,947.8  39.6    13.5   53.1    60.2
Furniture                     93.2    62.1    155.3   2.5        1.7    4.2       4.8
Equipment                    113.3 1,019.8  1,133.1   3.1    27.8   30.9    35.0
Subtotal                 206.5 1,081.9  1,288.4   5.6    29.5   35.1    39.8
Baseline Cost              1,658.5 1,577.7  3,236.2  45.2    43.0   88.2   100.0
Contingencies                673.6   621.2  1,294.8  18.3    17.0   35.3    40.0
TOTAL PROJECT COST   2,332.1 2,198.9  4,531.0  63.5    60.0  123.5
4.03      Bases of Cost Estimates.  Estimated civil works costs for the pro-
posed project are based on bid prices for school construction in Greece ob-
tained during the first half of 1977, adjusted for regional cost differences.
Furniture costs are also based on recently bid prices. Equipment cost esti-
mates are based on current CIF unit prices and adjusted upward to include
local transportation and installation. Costs per student place, which compare
well with those for similar institutions in recent Bank projects, are satis-
factory and appropriate to the planned student enrollments (Annex 14). Base-
line cost estimates have been adjusted to reflect the anticipated prices at
the scheduled date of negotiations (January, 1978).
4.04      Custom Duties and Taxes.  Goods imported directly for special educa-
tion purposes are exempt from custom duties, and the price of imported goods
bought locally includes custom duties which are refundable for education
institutions. There is no sales tax in Greece. Contractors pay 2.4% stamp
tax and 1.5% against future income tax assessment which is withheld on the
contractor's requisition. The contractor is also responsible for payment of
health, unemployment pension, etc., and social insurance stamps amounting to
over 50% of workers' wages. Since all labor is considered local cost, no
duties or taxes have any effect on the foreign exchange component of the
project.



- 26 -
4.05      Contingency Allowance.  The project cost includes a contingency
allowance for unforeseen physical additions equal to 10% of the estimated
costs of civil works, furniture and equipment and 5% of the estimated cost for
professional fees (Annex 15). Price escalation contingencies 1/ have been cal-
culated for a period beginning January 1, 1978; prices are expected to increase
during the implementation period by about 32.6% for civil works, 25.0% for fur-
niture and equipment and 7.6% for professional services. Accordingly, total
price increases are estimated at about 28% of baseline costs plus physical
contingencies.
4.06      Foreign Exchange Component.  The estimated foreign exchange com-
ponent is US$60.0 million equivalent or about 49% of the total project cost.
The calculations of the foreign exchange component are based on the expecta-
tion that: (a) civil works and furniture contracts and professional services
would be awarded to local firms; (b) all major equipment would be directly
imported; and (c) locally procured equipment, principally for the gymnasia,
would be 80% of local origin and 20% of foreign origin. The resulting foreign
exchange content of each category of expenditure is as follows; (i) civil
works: 28%; (ii) furniture: 40%; and (iii) equipment: 90%.
Project Financing
4.07      The proposed loan of US$60.0 million would finance 100% of the
total estimated foreign exchange cost of construction, furniture and equip-
ment. The balance of total project costs would be financed entirely by the
government. The proposed financial plan is summarized below:
Government           IBRD             Total
US$               US$               US$
Millions    %    Millions    %    Millions    %
Civil Works                   34.8      72      13.5      28      48.3      55
Furniture                      2.5     60        1.7      40       4.2       5
Equipment                      3.1     10       27.8      90      30.9      35
Professional Services          4.8    100        0.0       0       4.8       5
Baseline Cost                 45.2              43.0              88.2    100
Contingencies:
Physical                    4.1                4.0               8.1
Price Increase              14.2              13.0              27.2
Subtotal                      18.3              17.0              35.3
Total Project Cost            63.5              60.0             123.5
1/   Based on anticipated annual increases of 9% for 1978 and 1979 and 8% for
1980 and 1981 for civil works; 7.5% annually through 1979 and 7% for 1980
and 1981 for equipment and furniture.



- 27 -
4.08      Recurrent Costs.  When fully operational, the annual recurrent costs
of the project institutions would be about Dr 562 million which would be met
without difficulty (i) as these costs amount to only 2.5% of the total recur-
rent budget for education and (ii) the government has assigned high priority
to these project institutions. However, assurance will be needed from govern-
ment at the time of negotiations, that budgetary provisions will be made
opportunely for the recruitment of adequate numbers of teachers for the
project institutions and that their appointments would be timely both for
undergoing desired training and for the opening of the project institutions.
Implementation
4.09      According to the implementation schedule (Annexes 16, 17, 18) which
was agreed with the Ministry of Education during appraisal, the project would
be scheduled for completion by June 1982. As additional six months would be
required for completion of payments and withdrawals from the loan account, the
proposed Closing Date would be December 31, 1982.
4.10      Administration.  In discussions between the mission and the Minister
of National Education, it was agreed that the Directorate General of Program-
ming (DGP) in the Ministry of National Education would be responsible for
overall management of the project and would coordinate the activities of the
services and agencies involved in carrying out the project, and perform or
cause its Directorate of Implementation of Educational Projects (DIEP) or the
Organization for School Building (OSK) to perform functions in accordance with
a timetable satisfactory to the government and the Bank (Annex 19). The
implementation of these arrangements has been confirmed by the government in
its letter of October 20, 1977. This will make the task of project administra-
tion much easier than in the second and third Bank education projects, which
included a number of project items under the responsibility of various minis-
tries, and will ensure that overall responsibility for project administration
will be vested in an able executive with sufficient authority to direct the
activities of all agencies within the Ministry of Education that will have a
role in project implementation. Government has given assurance that the
Director General of DGP will also ensure, within his powers and in consulta-
tion with the other responsible services of the government, that appropriate
allocations out of the government's annual budget are made for the design,
construction, furnishing and equipping of the project institutions, and the
recruitment, appointment and training of an adequate number of qualified
teachers and teacher trainers.
4.11      Furthermore, DIEP will have primary responsibility under DGP for
project scheduling, monitoring and supervision of implementation, including
follow-up of site acquisition, review of architectural designs, preparation
of furniture lists, compilation of final equipment lists, tendering, super-
vision of bidding and award of contracts. Government has given an assurance
that DIEP, under the direction of its Director, will employ qualified engi-
neering and architectural staff and supporting personnel in sufficient numbers,
including, inter alia, a full-time qualified engineer to assist the DIEP
Director in technical matters, a qualified equipment procurement officer
and accountant; the full-time engineer and procurement officer shall be in



- 28 -
place by June 30, 1978.  The government has also given assurance that the Cen-
ter for Educational Studies and Training (KEME), the General Directorate of
Vocational and Technical Education and the General Directorate of General Edu-
cation will each appoint a qualified and experienced official to liaise W LL
DIEP and OSK on all educational aspects of the respective project institutions.
These officials will also be responsible, inter alia, for ensuring the prepara-
tion of furniture and equipment lists and for setting up experts' teams, as
necessary, for these purposes.
4.12      Architectural Services.  Satisfactory educational, architectural
and schematic relationship worksheets were prepared for all project items by
DIEP. The Organization for School Building (OSK), an autonomous body reporting
directly to the Minister of National Education, was established in 1968 with
the responsibility for design, construction, furnishing and equipping of all
public primary and secondary schools, including gymnasia. Over the years, it
has demonstrated sufficient competence for these tasks. In 1976, OSK was
expanded to a total of 209 full-time employees. By a ministerial decision
dated June 23, 1977, OSK has been directed to prepare the preliminary architec-
tural designs and costs estimates of the fourth education project items, in
continuous collaboration with DIEP and the operating agencies (para. 4.11) and
submit these designs by 30 November 1977. For this purpose, a special staff
of 11 architects and 14 other supporting designers and draftsmen has already
been appointed by OSK, work has been initiated and preliminary architectural
designs of five project institutions completed in October 1977. The govern-
ment has further confirmed by letter of October 20, 1977, that the final
architectural designs for all the project institutions will also be prepared
by OSK. In order to enable OSK to perform such tasks, the government has
provided assurance that OSK will be or will continue to be staffed with
qualified and experienced personnel, including at least 11 architects, 2
mechanical and electrical engineers and 12 other supporting staff to be
assigned during project design development. OSK will collaborate with DIEP,
upon DIEP's request, in the preparation of bidding documents for the project
institutions and in the supervision of their construction. Contracting
procedures for civil works and procurement of equipment agreed upon by the
October, 1977 supervision mission for the first three education projects and
acceptable to the Bank will also be followed in the fourth education project.
4.13      Sites.  The sites for all project institutions have been selected
and are adequate. Twelve sites have been acquired and acquisition of the
remaining three sites is proceeding satisfactory. The government has provided
an assurance that the legal possession of all sites will be completed prior to
the scheduled commencement of construction of the project institutions.
4.14      Procurement.  Civil works contracts (amounting to US$70.0 million,
including contingencies) would be awarded on the basis of international compe-
titive bidding. It is likely that all contracts would be awarded to Greek



- 29 -
firms because the country has a well developed and competitive construction
industry capable of implementing the required civil works. Equipment and
furniture items (amounting to US$48.0 million, including contingencies) would
be grouped, to the extent possible, in large packages to permit bulk procure-
ment and contracts for bid packages in excess of US$50,000 estimated value
would be awarded on the basis of ICB. Specialized items and small items which
must be compatible with equipment procured under ICB but which can practically
be grouped only in small packages (of less than US$50,000 value) would be
procured under normal government procedures, which are satisfactory to the
Bank, and would include to the extent feasible quotations from at least three
manufacturers or suppliers. The total aggregate value of equipment and furni-
ture items so procured would not exceed US$5 million equivalent. In ICB
comparisons, local manufacturers of equipment and furniture would be allowed a
margin of preference equal to 15% of the CIF price or the existing rate of
customs duties applicable to competing imports, whichever is lower. Books for
the KATEs and SELME would be procured directly from authorized distributors
with Bank approval, under negotiated contracts for bulk purchase.
4.15      Bank Review and Approval.  Preliminary designs of 11 project schools
have been received and reviewed by the Bank and are satisfactory; the remain-
ing preliminary designs are expected by June 1978. Master furniture and
equipment lists, draft tender and contract documents would be reviewed and
approved by the Bank upon the completion of the documents. Approval of tender
evaluation documents would be required prior to the award of furniture and
equipment contracts under TCB and civil works contracts exceeding US$200,000
equivalent.
Disbursements
4.16      Disbursement (Annex 20) wou : be on the basis of:
(a)  28% of the total cost of c-vil works;
(b) 100% of Eoreign expenditures or 40% of local expenditures for
furniture;
(c)  100% of foreign  -,penditures or 85% of local expenditures for
equipment.
These percentages wo,ild re Adjusted, if required, to distribute the disburse-
ments over the imTrnDmentation period. All disbursements will be fully docu-
mented.



- 30 -
V. BENEFITS, RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES, EVALUATION
Benefits
5.01      The proposed fourth education project would reinforce the pattern
of educational developments promoted by the earlier three Bank education
projects. The project would provide crucial support to the government's
recently enacted reforms directed towards improving the quality of the edu-
cational system and also contribute to increasing the stock of trained man-
power to meet both regional and national needs, particularly, with the
anticipated accession of Greece into the EEC.
5.02      The major benefits of the project are expected to be:
(a) Improving the relevance of the recently instituted compulsory
gymnasia education by introducing modernised curricula, in-
cluding science and pre-vocational subjects, and providing
vocational guidance before students opt either for the general
lycee or the new technical lycee or the new vocational school.
The Bank's assistance in equipping the science and technology
laboratories, and arts and crafts rooms of the project gymnasia
would help commence the new program and would contribute to the
equitable distribution of opportunities for advancing through
merit in the educational system.
(b) Upgrading the quality of secondary school teaching by estab-
lishing the School for Advanced Training of Secondary Education
Teachers and Officials (SELME), the only institution of its kind.
Its concept was first advocated in a pre-investment study under
the Bank's third education project. SELME aims to correct
existing weaknesses through a variety of training programs,
flexibly designed for both existing and newly recruited
teachers, in pedagogy, modernised curricula and instruction
in 'demotiki' Greek language.
(c) Diversifying upper secondary schooling with the establishment
of new technical lycees and vocational schools that would
prepare graduates for employment in prospective vocations
and also have the flexibility to allow meritorious students
to pursue further technical education. The Bank project
KETEs would initiate the integrated use of the KETE premises
for technical lyce'es and vocational school programs, through
daytime and evening attendance sections.
(d)  Extending the Bank's efforts in the first and third education
projects to provide a wide distribution of non-university
technical education facilities by additional project KATEs
to be located in regions and offering specialisations thus
far not covered.



- 31 -
(e) Subscribing to the government objectives of regional dis-
persal of technical and vocational educational opportunities
through the project KETEs and KATEs, thereby contributing
to meeting the regional demands for trained manpower and,
as a result, to an abatement of emigration of young people
to the large urban centers.
Risks and Uncertainties
5.03      Care has been taken to benefit from the experience gained in the
implementation of the first three Greece education projects to develop satis-
factory project management arrangements (paras. 4.10, 4.11 and 4.12). Arising
out of the constructive approach taken by the government, the Director General
of Programming in the Ministry of National Education would now have the overall
responsibility for project implementation. Furthermore, the education minis-
terial decision of 23 June 1977 has been vigorously implemented with the
immediate appointment of adequate staff in OSK for preparing the preliminary
architectural designs of the project institutions; by January 1978 preliminary
designs of eleven project schools were prepared and others are in progress.
The designation of OSK to carry out the final architectural designs of all
project institutions removes uncertainty of timely designation of agency or
agencies for this purpose.
5.04      Except for the possible risk described below, the project has only
the normal risks associated with a project of this magnitude and diversity,
traceable more to the efficiency and motivation of the various persons who
will be responsible for the many activities within project implementation.
Because all the project items are within the Ministry of National Education,
many of the staff assigned to this project will be experienced in project
implementation as a result of their involvement with earlier Bank financed
education projects. Consequently, lack of familiarity with Bank procedures
is not expected to be a problem.
5.05      All newly recruited technical teachers of the project KETEs (com-
bined technical lycees and vocational schools) will have to begin to receive
pedagogical training by March, 1980 in the School for Teachers of Vocational
and Technical Education (SELETE) in order to complete their training before
the opening of the KETEs in September 1981. The KETE program being new, the
existing pedagogical training courses offered at SELETE will need revision.
As this revision of curricula involves the cooperation of and coordination
between the two autonomous agencies, namely SELETE and the Center for Educa-
tional Studies and Advanced Training of Teachers within the Ministry of
National Education, there is a possibility that the curricula revision may
not be completed timely. Both the government and the Bank are aware of this
risk; the Bank will monitor this training program closely in an effort to
prevent any delays in the preparation of the required curricula.



- 32 -
Monitoring and Evaluation
5.06      The government has provided an assurance that it shall establish a
monitoring and evaluation system covering all project schools to (a) collect
and analyse information on   (i) the number of applicants, numbers accepted
and enrollments at the beginning of each year, (ii) numbers of graduates who
have completed their courses, numBers employed within six months and one year,
(iii) staffing numbers, qualifications and turnover and (iv) utilisation of
facilities; and (b) assess the effectiveness of the curricular changes in the
gymnasia and KETEs. Analytical summaries of the above information would be
provided annually during the first four years of operation of the project
institutions.
Critical Activities
5.07      Understanding was reached with government that the critical activi-
ties in the implementation of the project and the expected dates of completion
indicated in the following table, would serve as a project implementation and
monitoring tool.



- 33 -
KETEs      KATEs       SELME
A.   Civil Works
1.  Completion of site acquisition       June 1978   June 1978   Dec.1977
(Mytilini
Oct. 1978)
2. Completion of architectural
design development drawings          Oct. 1978   Oct. 1978   Oct. 1978
3. Completion of architectural
drawings                             March 1979  March 1979  March 1979
4.  Commencement of construction         Dec. 1979   Dec. 1979   Dec. 1979
5.  Completion of construction           Sept. 1981  Mar. 1982   Sept. 1981
B.   Furniture and Equipment
1.  Completion of master lists           June 1978   June 1978   June 1978
2. Completion of preparation of
final equipment lists with
complete specifications              Feb. 1979   Feb. 1979   Feb. 1979
3. Completion of installation of
major equipment                      Sept. 1981  Dec. 1981   Sept. 1981
4. Completion of supply of
furniture                            Oct. 1981   Oct. 1981   Oct. 1981
C.   Budget and Staff
1. Recurrent budget allocation
proposals                            June 1980   June 1980   June 1980
2. Appointment of Directors and
Department   Heads                   Mar. 1981   June 1981   June 1981
3. Recruitment of teachers for
training                             March 1980  June 1979   June 1978
4.  Appointment of teachers              June 1981   Sept. 1981  June 1981



- 34 -
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following princi-
pal points:
(i)  Ten additional teacher trainers for the pedagogical training
departments under the supervision of SELETE, needed to train
KETE teachers, shall be employed by the beginning of the
1979-80 academic year (para. 3.14).
(ii)  Appropriate arrangements will be made (a) to assist graduates
of each project KETE in their job placement, similar, to the
extent possible, to those existing for the KATEs, and (b) for
tracing the employment of graduates of the project KATEs and
KETEs (paras. 3.15 and 3.19).
(iii)  Administrative board of each project KATE shall consult with
representatives of industry, commerce, agriculture and social
services, as appropriate, on the training provided by such
centers (para. 3.19).
6.02      The project provides a suitable basis for a loan of US$60.0 million
to the Hellenic State for a period of 15 years including a grace period of
three years.



ANNEX 0
COMPARATIVL EDUCATION INDICATOR3                                                    P-ge I  f 2
JAN. 3le 1978
..................................................................................................................................
t       i        I           I         I                 I         I        I          I       I            I            a        I      a        I
I       I GNP/ IS GNP  SS TOIAL111  OF FUNLIC I                    I        I          sPRI. tAV.P                               ISEC   I
I       ICAPITAI DfV07f_01PUI11L1C I EDUCATION    iLITER- SPRI. 1COM1PLE- s3TU- i3CH.71;CM:PROGRES3.: SEC,  STU- t
I       IAlITil EOU.8  EXt. I RECURRENT    eACV                    sENROLLorION        IDENTSISALARY INOInN RATE 1ENRULLIDENTStHIGHLRI
I       IMARKEts (PUBt-ICIDEVOIEBILXP ALLOCATED$  RATE 9RATIO IRArt FOROPER   IRELATION OFROM PRI.IRATIO SPER   IENROLLN
IPOP, $PRICE$$ EXP,    I  TLI   I             TOi        4(1 OF   S Nir  cphock,inAcos TO GNP/ iTn SEC,  I NET   $TEACH- RAT10i
YRIMILLS.s (US01 tINLY)  I  VOU. IPAI. SEC. N.IADULTS)v (Z)  seYCLE(I)jER    I CAPtYA   S  C%l                             t (1)  IER    I M           I
I       I                                                                                                   I            I        I      I        I
I                                                                                                  (147    I (itl        Otte)  1(13) 1(14)  I
............................................................... ...................................................................
ADVANCED
Z;_T;7;          73    7.5L 4410E         A.1      4;9      419  2SO  ZOG    99          98        gs        26         ato        99        It       19       5,00
C44ADA           TP  j?.5L 6t199E          To?    1-004      so    36    19      gfl      49        96        24         2,0        99        62        IT      9,00
GERMANY F,RLP41?  62,0E 6AE-69E            4st    14 42      ;;;  74** 26        99       #I        99        33         t - t      99        gi       22      t7loocy
JAPAN            ?I 1v9.7L 4 *TOE            I    ao 7      39    35    it       99       Ito       99C       2sc        zoo        99C       94D      aot    28,00D
NETNERLANDS    7I              kjosof      a:       I11,
NEN                    IS.SL 54            A 5    I  is    32    49    19        99       9s        95        ag         310        97        73       20      11,00
ZEALANO    71    3.0t 0,1,910E                         49    24    89       99       409       99        ?6         ...        99        67       19      24,OU
NORWAY           ?z    4.0c S 860C    S'::    ;;,2          $8    23    13       gq       90        90        20         t,9        99        7b       34      Ii,00
SWEOEN           711           PI A.zc 74 240F  Ft    U      56    14    Is      99       99        99        IT                    90        8-5      10      30,00
U,K.             ?p  SS.9t: 3 59OF         6:19  11 07      ?6    so    22       tR       99                                                  b3       11      11.00
U.3.A,                         4                   15        ...                                                                                       19U    29.00
7i itl.qL 6,bToE         6 0       .4            71** 27       99       99        99        asu        Ito                  93
EURUPE
p0590      206    toiq       37    a6    21      86B      99        AID        111      2,0         7oL        so       27     15.00
IRELAND          T?    I IL a411201'   .5. 1    11,90    43Y  41Y  14Y   9pi              97        99A       %S                    95A       75       1 9      7.OOA
PORTOGAL         TS    q:b  SL630          4,1    IT FL    S2    2?    Is        TO       98        SS        ?I       Ito          70        29        i4      7,60
ROMANIA          is,  3 1,30:E             ::6      b:4A    1      19                                                               96.       40       22      to
71                          '.a   S .       6                           ST                   is                              29      10
SPAIN                  151:1L 2,49                  5 2      41Y  III  !SI    ;'4A        I A                    A                               A              6:'0%
AFRICA
;:;M;            77   16"9       Q90G      7 s               42          at      Is       Tax       45        19         4,0        SS        abx       0       b,00
BENIN            71   'I,Oi-   120L        5:19   12"'o,    47    ;;,  to        11       32xa      708       908      2sofis       436         78     398      0#44cy
BOTSWANA         74    o. I      290       S:O    ?O 0       In    aiR  Is       25       7ox       75        SS         5.0        24         13X     18       0,30Y
BURIJNDI         74    1.6        go.      2 5    1:1.9u    47R  49Y             to       pox       10?       36        iO,O        14          ex      18      1,0
-5,              38            7y              74                 -SIDY
CAMERII(N        71    T.tL    2SCE          9    2  O         V  2      ;ZR    ..4                 ...                ...          ...                23cy    0,90cy
C.A.R.           To    t.IL:   Rtee    11 ::N  ?0;o          56    19    O..    ...,    64cy        25        bsey    ".            18         15cy    Z75Y    0,07Y
CHAD             7s    4.oL    tese        I       10.0      IR    II            is       29xsy    30         &Say    IS.u           a          2xgy  30        D,OIBY
CONGO(d)         74    I'S       470       6:9    19.3       40    SZ    Zi      SO?    133X        61        SI        6.0         46        3jx      22       S.00
EGYPY            74  "46.4       ?90       s it    1;4       29    36    24      40       74X       45        40                    64        39X      28      11,00
ETHIOPIA         lb  PA.0        too       a:8    Ist        ?A    as    19       I       ?I       ...        -30                   63          a      34       I,
GABUN            73    0.5  1;960E         s q    ?4,6       25     9    It      .0.    184XBY    asc         46C        S'o        ISA       20C      21C      1 140cy
GAMBIA           76    u's       170       'S.%    11,5      46    ag      6     io    al          90        31       ...          92        13       25         ...
GHANA            it   9.6L    430t         4,7    24,4DR  SAO   150  ?30    ...           S6xCY    62         IOCY    ...           14        ttx      16cy    0,74sy
IVURY CrIA37    72    *.qL    469E         b.-k   I417      2TRY 33BY 13Y         9A      52        57A       q6       ...          '..       to       as       1,208Y
ILENYA           76   t3,8       P40       5,9    ?bag       61    ZI    10      40       80?       607       14         6 "i       30        1 6      2T       i . 0
LESUTHO          7%    1.2       14OL    12, OP  ?3.0        49    1 8   20      40       As        so        q?         j,QN       a t       I O      26       i.00
LlSERIA          TS    I.S       410       2,4    13.2       27    Is    IO      73       So        ...       IS         Ito        ...       la       26       1.10AY
MADAGASCAR       74    4.6       180       3.a    ?121      SI    21    as       40       6ax       la        63       13,0         46         9x      26       1,00
MALAWI           76    Ste       tao       p a    go                                      Wl        17        12         2,4        7o         4fX    20        0    Cy
MALI             7S    S.7p       ger               3 0             7    I 8     I 0      ??x                 48          SF        So         bx      2
F
:OF    : -25F  ;OF     P      F                                                  F                 I
MAURITANIA       7"
I tL    29or      4,S    pi'v       ...  ...             I 0      ISX       ...       II                               3       24
MAURITIUS        le.   o.9L    695         4, 7    I 11 I    so    26     6      soc      94        99        a4         4                    45       32
MOROCCO          74  16.1        140       S OC   lb's       44    47      9     6?      54X       el        11                    3t        13X      zi       Z,00
NIGERIA          It  71,uL    ?TF         3:2N              40A  24A  ZOA                39ycy               14cy
;A t                                                                  ...        ...         4      ?UCY    O.3TCY
RWANDA           71    4,OL       HOE      It2r.  22 SOD    t t .  ...  ...   as          52                  15 I       ...        . . I      2       1 3      0,23CY
3ENCGAL          7 1 4.9c    lltoc         4  N      SSOR  39A  42A    SA    to           SAX       ...       46         ...        , . .     I I x    25       1,71cy
SIERRA Ltf1e4V  73    2.9c    190C         3 4    zi         11   36    So       197      34X       'I 5      32        11 : OF     68        13X      2 1      0.53BY
30MALIA    1   75   It.0         too       3:70  10:4        490   t60 19g    SO?         3"x       R6        Its       'O0         60         3       Is       0040
SUDAN            7 15.aL   ;";QL          4 S    ti.2       4't   Ig    I R     I 5      sm        7S        14 S       4 , O      25        1 I      2 0      1,23Y
SWAZILAND        7 5    0.5      470                  -      1#1   I I   1 9     S 0      7 3       1 1       3 n        I'R        5 t        4       2 2      1.0 0
TANZANIA         7 414.4C    169E            go N  1 ;7,9    36    ...  I 2      63       44X       ...       49         I . .       7         2       21C      O. 30
TUNISIA          7 1 5.5c    054E          bIt   23,4        37    41    1 a     SS       12        9 I       4 I        6,o        3 I        4       2 1      3. oo
UGANDA           TQ  tt.,.L    240E        5 ?N    I *CR  409  220  ISO    25A            45xcy    ...        36                    14A         4XCV  21        0,58BY
UPpER VnLTA                                      .1319       65    to             S       10                  45       18.         20         a       23       0,010Y
ZAIRE            73  ?::IL    tseE         S'ecN 21 '3C    S:C   ;IC  Z9C    I S          63        18        44A        6,0        43          a      24       0,96BY
ZAMBIA           To       a      -1 ;.-0   5't   14.2        3      a     I 6    43       Bit       010       q 7        9,0        20        1 3      2 a      I .0 0
CENTRAL AMERICA AND THL CARIBBEAN
5      ??;7      57    2S    1 2      99       86CY      65        29        3 . O       58        912cy    25      12,11CY
DOMINICAN REP,?Z    4.6c    69ge           %:O    ;3 9        z    24    22      St       OSOC      17.       94r        3 OD       63        13.5    24        7 , 0 0
EL SALVADITR   TS    $.AL    410E          4 6      I:A      :1     5    22      605      6                   19Y        , : .      39        13XC    21cy    4.3SBY
GUATEMALA        73    S.-L    SMOL        t 9    1b,o       SS    ?`5   14      4?       64        26        is         1.0        69         8       25       4, ogy
HAITI            lb    4,7       ?0O       I0    ;A::c    61S  2t,  !I           2011    2SF        13        56U        3.6        62         4       ..,       0.7
KQNDURAB         75    Z.9       39OG        IG    a ,   6e    Is          9G    53       78        30        its        I .0       be        I 1      17       4, 0 0
JAMAICA          7a    a ,                     y             13Y  22Y    Ty    66        106xy                42                    ...       S2XY    11)       4, 7gy
MEXICII          TO5    tI'09 L            2 6      9:3      sz    24    1 2     76       7I                  q6         Ito        63        19       23       6,32CY
NICARAPIA        To    ?,: C     6T0E    v 54  1442         6     13     13     S?       65        21        41         ?,O        93        17       20       7.00
"MTSE      It 4    1
TRINfD*D & T, 7o    1. 0 1                          v.HQ    SUE  asE   13L    90C          Fk 1     93        1 4        2,00       49        4 4      25
SOUTH AMERIMA
;;-;7; ......
Li             To    S.A      315F      slo    17;SF                          38        IIB       j-)D      24        5F                     49      18D
BRAZIL           TS 107.0   t;010          5,0    ly         4PE          14E  64A        669                                                 260      ISCY    6,005
CHILE                                                                                                         R7CY
72   Iv.4L    M30E       4.6y  10,bAY  36Y  14Y  3bY    ...    titxoy                        37by                           45XDY   ...
COLUMBIA         70  23.%L    SOOE         1:0      0 9      is    la    20      73       67        20         36        4          90
ecuADLIR                                                                                                                                      1 7      A 4      a
7 11   6. 9L    480E     3 1    ;?:Tc    439Y 429Y 109Y  69             72         q . .     la                              I a     1 4      4:9711Y
GUYANA           74    0.9       Sao       S AN  f4 7Q    47    35    14         OS'A    92X        39        is         6.0        19        02X      Z4       1,00
PARAGUAY         74    ?,S       SI*       t:R    11:0       55    13    2?      Al       82        26        10         1.9        65        17       12       SOOO
PERIJ            7 114.9L    7 93 oE         S    24 , I D    5 6    21    1 S   72       so        38         390Y      I          I 0       30       230t  la,00
URUGUAY          TS    z,R   t;300         ;:S    1513       46    34    20      94       96        ...       24                    83         . ! -   I a       , . .
VENEZUELA        71  ft.6i: 1,966r         4.6    10.9       300  PBQ  SSO    ??A         et         ...       11                             33        ...    12.63cy



CDPARATIVE EDUCATION INDICATORS   (CONTD)                                      ANINEX 0
.zgSSwU3U3USU3U33U9333SSU333.B                             Pa~~~Fge 2 of 2
CJAN. 32, 1978
.............................................S......U8  ..........3
I       I        I          I         I                I                .      I       - - -S- - - -    2; -- - - -  I-- -   I-- -;- - -
I       I GNP/ I I GNP   IS TOT7ALIX  OF PUBLICI                 I       I          iPRI, #AV,PRI,   I               I       ISEC   I        I
I       ICAPITAI DFVOTEDIPUSLIC I FDUCATION    ILITER- t PRI, ICOMPLe- iSTUm  ISCH,TEACNiPROGRE33.1 IEC, ISTU.  I 
I       I  Al  I TIO [DU.I1  TXP,  I RECURiRENT    mAcE          IENROLLITION       IDENTS13ALARY INIION RATE OENROLLIDENTSIHISMERS
I       IMARKETI  (PUSLJC2DEVOTEDIEXP ALLOCATED.   RATE IRATID IRATE FORIPER   IRELAIION IFROM PRI,SRATIO IPER  $ENROLL$
I PIIP', IPRICESI EXV,    i  TO    I         T01      sI(  OF   I NET   IPRI,SCH,IT1ACHI  TO SNP/ ITr) SEC,  I NET   ITEACH. RATIDI
Y1'1mILL$,I  (USS)i OINLY)   IETOU, IPRI. SEC, MI,,ADULTS)i (X)   iCYCLE(X)IER    I CAPITA   I   M                     I CX   iERl    I CX) 
I I) is  (25 I  (Al   I  (4)  I             CS)      )           I(72   2  (B)    I (9) I  (lo)    I (it)          1(12)   1(13) 1 CI4) 
-- - - - -- - - - -        --- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
ASIA AND oCLANIA
AFGHANISTAN    74  16,Rb"  Ito   ~ ..    .            9 !  23P   161'   t0       26X       Z4        41        5,0        78         ox     21       1,00
BANGLADESH       71I  7*.,L    19oT      i,      26,2      ..    ,.           23       564       ...      48        a.           .         34     28       *.
CMINACTAIWAN~~~~ 71  15.712    RIoT  34    I4~~~~~A  ~~i1   41    22  82  98C   94        40       14,II       84        6112     26     20,00C2
INDIA            "1 595.612    11012     2,VY *..'        .      ..   ..      29       791       ...      qAA        ...        ..,      28       20AY    4,OOAY
INDONESIA        74 1lbF       220G      I, 9F    II,F    69   II   to        608      794       43       10        206        52        191      14       2,0Oo
IRAN             71 t1t3 IL 1?I'50E      I,      l26       g 1    8?b sq e0124    501  77        74A       12       5,08       BOA       24       32       4,32CY
IRAQ1            72~ lo:81 a I11OE       6,7    1b,30R        .          ,    26       6IEY      ...      2?         .          I,      26XCY  26        6,28CY
JURDAN           719   2,6L2   430E      I,                2     I 2A         54      191X       76        la       S,0        84        504      22       4,00
KOREA            75351          510       ,9     IO       652    3     2;    92        04       98        92        3's        77        54       3         ,
LEBANLIN         TA?   3.IL I,o7oE       I,S    2A,0      39    40    1o      68       86        65        19       i.0        63        26U      25     23,00
MALAYSIA    ~~~74  92,7    680       6,4    2A,V      44    II    It      4012    96F       90        142       4,00       83F       44F      27F     3,00F
NEPIAL           76  (2,BF    ttOF       III    10,0      29    20    41      19       S9       28        II1       2.3        641       14       24       O,8
OMAN             72   ri,7L I.o6OE       1,jN    3,A      96      -           20       24X      99        31        7,0         ...      0,4X      9         .
PAKISTAN,        75  69,0       SloE     1,6    l,2       45    25s    1      21       47X      50        19        2,0 LI     ...       17X      18      6,00
PAPujA N.G.      75    p,        10      5.6    16b1I,    38    26    24      32       S7?      73P       31       12,0        90        124?    24       0,90?
PHILIPPINES    70  ;I42        IO         ,I5    24,9     71    25    12      87      2041       ...      IA       15,0        ...       464      ..,    21,00
SINGAPORE        7     2.1    490E       1,1     2o2      44    3       X     75A      96Y      72A       II        *,         99A        7        4        ,5
SYRIA            7,   719      060      't,6   6,9        39    25    26      53       89        70       15        2,         9         45       21     12,00
THAILAND         Y1  4Q.7L   '2012    4,QNr 20,7F    65           9    is     A2       874      93C       1        3,0 U      91C       211      24      2,00
TURKY            7?  37.9D   600D         I, 30D.OIY                                              .        NT         ,         .        224y    27DY    5,31BY
YEMEN            71t   6,412    28012    0,       4,0     45P21         3P    2        I51       18        6        5,0        759        24      19      0O'sBY
YEMEN P,O.N.   7?    1,6L2  122E         ?,IA  12.o       79    12      *     10       701      31        29       28,0        9         124      20      0,O8AY
SUMMARY FToM OEVELOPING C0IINTRILSt
NUJMBER  IF 121)UNTNIESI                 77      7s      73    72    72      74      91        58        8 1         55       'AX       8 1      78       74
--ANGE---                         Co,5-   C3IA.  (25. Co.   (0-    t5-         (20-      (I?-      (19-       (1.8-    (7-        1,4.    (9"      (,04.
12.0)' 1  12,3)  96 1 52)  40)   98)           184X1    99 1       65 1       2,5,(0)    99)      75.0O)  431      23,0)
GOIARTIES1LIPPrR 1                     9.,2   224'2     55    12    22      7s      87        75        46          8        80        29      26       6,0
MELDIANII                  4,     180        5    21    IS     50       72        So        18          5       63         lb      23       2,00
LII.12N  I                 1,0    23,'9     18    16   112     21       52        10        11          3        25         9      20        .
-MAGNITUDL NlL OR9 NLGLIGIBLEL 8.1971                            N.BDP....
7  OUE$71IINARLE                        1.29 72                    R21NCLUDING FOREIGN AI)                     C)L.UMNSII AND 2 WORLD BANK ATLAS
*  INELUDEB PART,TIME STUJDENTS Dm1973                            OGCENTRAL GOVt. ONLY                                             04 IBRO MISSIONS
**  EIIMOIUrED WITH I'RIMARY          L*1974                        RuMIN15TRY OF EDUCATION CM(IEI ONLY                   3 TO)1 IAB18D MISSIONS
*oUNDrR REVIEO                       Fto975                       SEMUE AND STArE GLuvY, ONLY                                     AND/OR UNESCO
GmI976                       T.EXCLUDING CENTRAL GOVT.                                       STATISTICAL
UmPUBLIC ONLY                                                   YEARBOOK
VOINCLUDING PRIVATE EXPENDITU,RE
X.INCLUDING OVERAGED STUDENTS
YUUNESCO SOURCES
COMPARATIVE EDULATIOIN DATA ARE USEFUL. IN THE EVALUATION OFr VARIOUS EDUCATION SYSTEMS AND ANALYSIS OF RELATIVE STAGES OF EDUCATIONAL
DEVELnPMENT BETWEEN VARDI(LIS CnUNTRIES, HO)WEVER,ON TME BASIS UF THE PRESENT DATA,CRO3S.NATIONAL COMPARISON SHOULD BE APPROACHED WITH
GREAT CA1ITION, DATA PRESENTED IN THE A51-WE TABLE HAVE BEEN CULLECTED LARGELY BY THE SANK MISSIONS FROM GOVERNMENT SOURCE41 THE
REMAINDER ARE STAFF l4STlHATES IllR YAFA FR11M UNESCO.' EFFORTS HAVE BEEN MADE TO STANDARDIZE DEFINITIONS AND WITHIN LIMITS, TO CHECK TME
ACCIJRACY [IF THE DATA. NCVERTHCLESS,SUCH DATA ARF STILL, IMPERFECT IN SEVERAL RESPECtS AND THEF SANK IS HORKING TO ImPROvE THEM
PROGRESSIVELY IIN THE O)CCASIO)N IIF ITS OPERATIONAL WORK, IN THE USE OP THESE DATA, THE FOLLOWING QUALIFICATIONS SHOULD BE BORNE IN
HINDi
CIIEDUCATION" AS DEFINED IN THE tABLE INCLUDES ALL EDUCATION AND TRAINING, FORMAL AND NON.FORMALI
(a)'PRIMARY L'DUCATIIIN REFERS TI) EDUCATIOIN AT THEf FIRST LEVEL AND -SECONDARY" EDUCATION REFERS tO ALL EDUCATION AT THE SECONDARY
LEVEL REGARDLESS I)F TYPE. CE;G, GEINERAL, TECHNICAL, AGRICULTURAL) P
(A)PLITERACY RATWMIC,L,6) ARE OFTEN OBTAINED PROM COUNTRY CENSUSES, IN HANYCouNrRIEO THEY ARE ONLY APPROXIMATIONS AND IT IS
DOUBTFUL THAT ANY oNIFORM DEFINITION OF "LITERATE'I HAS SEEN FOLLOWED CONSISTENTLYP
(B)"PUBLIC EXPENDITURE, IN EDUCATI1ON"(COILS.3,4 AN)D 5) REFER TO ALL CAPIrAL AND RECURRENT EXPENDIrURES DEVOTED TO EDUCATION BY
PUBLIC AND QUASI-PuBLIC AGENCIESI
(S)PENRO)LLMeNT RATI1'3.(COLS3 7, I2 AND 14) REFER TO SCHOOL YEAR AND MEAN THE PERCENTAGE Of ELIGIBLE CHILDREN ENROLLED FULL-TIME
IN THE APPRIOPRIAFE sCHOiII, rUBLIC AND PRIVATE BY LEVEL, THEY ARE OFTEN SUBJeCt TO A WIDE MARGIN OF ERROR IN THE DEVELOPING
CUUNTRIES IIWING TO VARIATiION IN THE ACCURACY OF BASIC DATACI.E. AGE.SPECIFIC POPULATION AND ENROLLMENTS), ENROLLMENT FIGURES
FREQUENTLY ARE HIGwER THAN THL NUMBER OF STUDENrS ACTUALLY IN SCHOOL. OVERAGED STUDENTS WHOISE INCLUSION 1S INDICATED BY
FOOTNOTTES AL31) CAN INFL-ArE THE: RATIOS,



GREECE
Gross Domestic Product, Employment and Productivity
Gross Domestic Product in Constant                         Productivity  Average Annual Rate of Growth 1970-1975
1970 Prices                       Employment  per Worker    Gross Domestic  Employment  Productivity
In Year 1975             In Year 1976 I1        in 1975        in 1975        Product
Billions  Percentage    Billions  Percentage    Thousands   Thousands           Percentage       Percentage  Percentage
of     Distribution      of      Distribution                   of
Drachmas                 Drachmas                                Drachmas
Agriculture, Forestry, etc.         56.3          16.7          55.4       15.6         1,180           47,7            3.7            -1.2          4.9
Mining and Quarrying                 5.0           1.5           5.2         1.5            22         227.3            6.8.            1.0          5.8
Manufacturing                       70.8         21.0           77.7       21.8           603          117.4            7.5             1.5          6.0
Electricity, Gas,Water               8.3          2.5           9.6         2.7            30          276.7          10.7              3.1          7.6
Construction                        23.2          6.9          24.3         6.8           230          100.9            0.0            -2.1          2.1
Transportation,Communications       28.4          8.4          31.0          8.7          245          115.9            7.8             3.3          4.5
Trade, Banking                      50.2         14.9           53.4        15.0          490          102.4            6.5             1.6          4.9
Housing (Rents)                     28.9          8.6           30.3         8.6
Administration, Defense             29.3 1         8.7          30.4         8.5          3S0           173.1           4.8       <     1.1          3.7
Health, Education                   15.0          4.4           15.5         4.3
Other Services                      21.5          6.4           23.2         6.5                                                 J
TOTAL                              336.9        100.0         356.0       100.0         3,180            96.8           5.5             0.3          5.2
L/ Provisional Estimates
Source: Ministry of Coordination



GREECE
Manpower Projections for Selected Occupational Groups
Occupational Groups         Manpower  Estimated  Projected         1975         Needed       Needed      Number of New
Stock in  Manpower   Manpower   Manpower Stock  Total         Avg. Annual       Graduates
1971    Stock in   Need for       Surviving      Addition   Addition    __  1975
1975       1986      up to 1986 2/   1976-86    1976-86
Physical Scientists    10,350    17,160        20,780       13,730            7,050         705           2,260
Engineers                12,530    15,110      24,960       12,090           12,870       1,287           1,180
Doctors & Dentists       18,120    23,010      29,460       18,410           11,050       1,105           1,890
Agronomists &             2,930      5,120      6,260        4,100            2,160         216              490
Veterinarians
Economists, Adminis-   68,060    83,390    110,900          66,710           44,190       4,419           6,920
trators, Lawyers &
Political Scientists
Graduates of             21,990    30,070      37,090       24,060           13,030       1,303           1,940
Humanities
Merchant Marine Officersl/          25,000     30,860       13,450           17,410       1,741           1,590
Paramedical               2,360      5,810      6,240        4,650            1,590         159               50
Professions
Technicians with          9,480    18,580      44,370       14,860           29,510       2,951           1,350
Higher Education
Nurses and Midwives    17,900    19,120        30,850       15,300           15,550       1,555              700
TOTAL                   163,720   242,370    341,770       187,360          154,410      15,441          18,370
Notes:  1/  The 1971 Census of Population did not give a reasonably good estimate of the existing number of
Merchant Marine Officers because it did not include a large number of officers who served in
Greek-owned ships under foreign flags. The estimate was based on data contained in the report
"Nautical Education" by A. Sotinopoulos, Ministry of Merchant Marine, May 1976.
2/  The attrition rate is assumed to be 2.2% per annum.  On the basis of data from the past,tVe                     01
attrition rate for Merchant Marine Officers was estimated to be in the range of 6% per annur
Sources: Manpower Stock in 1971: Census of Population, 1971
Estimated Manpower Stock in 1975 and
Projected Manpower Need for 1986: Mission Estimates



ANNEX 3
GREECE
Manpower Projections for Occupational Groups
Other Than Those Included in Annex 2
Manpower
Manpower   Projected  Stock    Needed       Needed
Occupational Groups       Stock in   Manpower   in 1971   Total  Avg. Annual
1971     Need in   Surviving Addition  Addition
1986     in 1986   1971-86  1971-86
Skilled Workers        901,540  1,132,200    645,500  486,700   32,450
Clerical Workers,      463,410    612,880    331,800  281,080   18,75011
Merchants & Sales
Workers
Service Workers        248,930    316,150    178,230  137,920    9,200/-
Farmers, Agricul-   1,254,810    939,070    898,440   40,630    2,700
tural Workers &
Related
Writers, Artists &      19,600      23,230     14,030    9,200        600
Welfare Workers
Athletes & Related       2,140       4,160      1,530    2,630        200
Workers
Unskilled Workers       56,000      59,600     40,096   19,504    1,300
TOTAL                2,946,430  3,087,29   2,109,626  977,664   65,200
/1 It has been estimated that about 1400 of the annual projected demand
for clerical and sales workers and 700 of the service workers will be
graduates of post-secondary non-university institutions.
Source: Manpower Stock in 1971: Census of Population 1971
Projected Manpower Need in 1986: Mission estimates



GREECE
CENTRAL SERVICES OF THE
MINISTRY OF NATIONAL EDUCATION AND RELiGIOUS AFFAIRS
IOAAL TECHN CAL A D               P               *OVERNMENT                                                                                                      SCHOOL  FOR EA                ORGANIZATION
ASCALIONAI. EDUCAIONT ED                           CO      N O                                                                     LUCATIOA  S                    O VOCA      L AN             F        L             PECIA
F  T           TAIFIFRS VEEMF --E L--`E
OF RELIG IOUS AFFAIR             Of UNIVERSITYrGENERA  EDUCATION                                             VODCATIONA  AN TE IA               FOR PROGRAMMING lOGP,               TE   lET)A
NS ULT                                          DUCAT EDCATONEONA IO
SEl CRRYUIEAT                                                     EVICE                SEVC                   AS CUHCL                         RESEARCH DIRECTORACGE        E T U D RNAS
CONSULT                                                                                                                  AND ADVANCED TRAIENTGITICHTECHNICAL EDUCATION
DIRECTFORATE                      INSTITUTION                                                             ETECHTICNA  AIDSTIN                                                    ADMINISTRATION OP
_ NOF   TUTIOND FS          L                      _          PRIMAPRD AND       _ 'RIMAPRI AND            PEREDNNEL              _      _  ED          ASELRSEL
--|~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~                         R  FRi MARTl         PRE-FRIMAR| DIRECTORATEX  -J^;:U              PERSONNEL X -    R ;SAITC                 L SUET  FAR
DIRECTORATEIE               EDUCAONDY             P ERSUCATIONL                                                _
AFFAIRS                                  _   EDUCA ON             LPERSONNEL              PRIV~~~~SFl,,lTTA]l  O  SATE O'TOADIOFMPENAIN                         ITRAlNL
DIRECTORATE OFOTTDENISTATIVE FDINCANC                 COUCTINO ANDL RO                     STUENTSAFFA
GINOHARTHDGEANDRAN D RESEARCH                                      GENERA        _   DIECTNORAT            DIRECTORATE                      STATISTI CSRELATIO
ADMINISTRATIVE                       SECDN                 EDL CAION
AFUCAIRSN                       EDU           CATION PERSONNELO
DIRECTORATE  DIRECTO                                                           I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIVEATEH VOCATIONALT1 FTMPEENATO                       TENTIN
OF CHURCH                                                                                                                         A~~~~~~~IECOAE      TCNCA  DEHINOFEUATO A     E ICS  REDUCATIONALT
UNIVERSI                                                                                                                             SHO~~~~~FNAC  SECTRAEIDEI  E ATIN
THYSCRER    1        DIRECTORATE 
ATEOF   ~ ~    TATININGIN
DSIRECTORATE              PRIVAT
IES   iCE CC ATTC A T I N.
AND OTHER~~~~~RY IR 
SCIENTIFIC ~ ~ ~~F  TC TI 
~Nl ITLII T I . NIS                                                                         0IIIECTORADIRECTORATE
555CR U ON ~     !H  N 
DIRECI RAT OF                                                                __j         _ [A   1,NT111RADIRECTORATE
ND                                                                                                                                        s~~~~~~~~~DRETRT
US  L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S
C.N.ARy  _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P I I ON ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~S



GREECE
STRUCTURE OF THE EDUCATION SYSTEM, 1977
COMPULSORY EDUCATION                                                                               POST SECONDARY
PRIMARY                                 GYMNASIUM                  SECONDARY                    MEDICAL SCHOOL AND DENTISTRY
APPRENTICESHIP SCHOOLS1|
OTHER UNIVERSITY FACULITIES AND HIGHER EDUCATION
PRE-PRIMARY AND PRIMARY TEACHER TRAININC
KINDER GARTEN                                                                                                                                  2       3
YEAR ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GYMNASIUM1~+-    A
GRADE                                                                                                                                                                                             E
YEAR                                                                                                              o1      1 
| TOURISM lBUSINESS AND POLITICAL SCIENCES                                                  R
m
A
R
K
NAUTICAL SCHOOLS                                         E
~~~ E } ~~~~~__                __ _ _ _ __ __t_ __ _ _ _         T
u   ENTRANCE EXAMINATION
VOCAI'IONAL AGRICULTURE             SUB-ENGINEERS SCHOOLS
M   TO BE PHASED OUT                                                                                                }_                                             _
mi NON-FORMAL                                                       LOWER VOCATIONAL              TECHNICAL LYCEE                 EDUCATION CENTER (KATE)
LjTO BE PHASED IN                                                                                   |       IKTE                
VOCATIONAL SCHOOLS                  NATIONAL TECHNICAL UNIVERSITY
LABOUR MARKET
AGE  4        5       6       7       B       9       10      11          12       13      14          15      16      17               18       19      20      21      22       23
Sources Ministries of Agriculture, Education,, -n< Labour
Note   The age-gradr relat-nsh,l appiies on,, wnen students enter
the scriol 8' 5at-6 and proceed throagh the svsterr without repeating a class                                                                                         World Bank-17356



GREECE
EDUCATION PYRAMID 1975-76
TOTAL
GRADES                                                                                                                                                   ENROLLMENT
MALE                                                         POST SECONDARY                                                      FEMALE
18                                                                          930  310                                                                        1,240
17                                                                      3,625    963                                                                        4,588
16                                                              13,667                 7,041                                                               20,708
15      65%                                                  18,296                     9,852                                                   35%        28,148
14                                                          19,681        -                                                                                30,752
13                                                      24,443                             13,749                                                          38,192
UPPER SECONDARY                                                                              123,622
12                                     41,967;                                                            144,296                                           86,263
11                                 53,101        ,-                                                            43,428                                       96,529
10                     72,9171                                                                                          57,291                            130,208
LOWER SECONDARY                                                                             313,000
9                   66,410                                                                                           48,090                              114,500
8      59%     73,3181                                                                                                50,928                   41%       124,246
7            75,752                                                                                                   50,502                             126,254
PRIMARY                                                                               365,000
6                   73,259                                                                                                       67,624                  140,883
52%               .            *-.48%
5     52%         75,200                                                      _                                                      ............. _ _  202_=.=      _  _ 69,415  48144,615
4               78,111                                                                                                               72,102              150,213
3             31,507                                                          |                                                          E f 2            ; 1 75,237  156,744
2          85,388|                      . .: jak :::::   ,, ,,>* -  w :: ::::: ¢- ¢e¢L::                                               l 78,820          164,208
1     91,695|                                                                                                                                 84,642     176,337
*   *  *   *  933,000
100,000       80,000         60,000        40,000        20,000           0            20,000        40,000        60,000         80,000       100,000
World Bank - 17895



GREECE
Teacher Requirements. Public and Private. by Type and Level of Education.
1975-1985 (Enrollment in 000's) -
1975-76                                                       1985-86
Students                              Students                           2/                 Average
Type and Level            Enrollment   Teachers       per       Enrollment   Teachers       per       Additional  Attrition    Gross Need   Annual
F00-01.)                Teacher       (000's)                  Teacher      Teachers                                  Need
Pre-primary                   104          3,880        27          154         6,200          25         2,300        1,800         4,100          410
Primary                       933         30,380        31          900        32,200          28         1,900       10,100        12,000        1,200
Secondary;
3/
Gymnasium-                 317         11,910        27          440        17,600          25         5,800        6,100        11,900        1,190
Lower Vocational-/          48          2,400        20           -            -            -         -2,400        1,000        -1,400         -140
General Lycee              235          8,800        27          200         8,700          23          -100        2,400         2,300          230
Technical Lycee and                           5/
Vocational School         78          3,800-       21          220        11,000         20          7,200        1,900         9,100          910
Post-secondary:
Non-university              20            860-/      23            50         2,940         17         2,080          500          2,580         258
University4/               104          4,O005/      26           130        6,500          20         2,500        2,000          4,500         450
1/  Sources:  Ministry of Coordination - "Educational Development Report, 197V1',p. 5, & Ministry of Education, Operation Research Section,
"Student Population, 1960-61 to 1975-76".
Mission estimates.
21  Attrition:  Allowance for retirements, deaths, resignations, etc. , 5% per annum in technical-vocational and post-secondary;
4% per annum in all other types and levels.
31  Gymnasium )  Lower vocational schools are being phased out with the students being assigned to the gymnasiums which have been made
Lower voc.)  compulsory by the reform law of 1976.  Teachers will be transferred to vocational schools.
4/ University: Assistant teaching staff included, but not laboratory and workshop assistants.
5/ Includes part-time teachers.



GREECE
Estimated Teacher Requirements, By Discipline,
for Fourth Education Project Institutions
Disciplines:              Gen.      Pedagogy  Maths         Gen.    Mech.   Electrical   Civil              Chem.  Mining  Text,  Agric.  Agric.  Forestry  Ani-   Nurs-  Other  Bus.-  Accounting/  TOTAL
New                           incldg.                  &         Voc.&    Tech.         &         Tech.         Tech.      &      Tech,  Eng, &  incldg.                   mal      iug    Para-  Sect.  Banking/
Project                       Foreign                Sciences  Tech.   incldg. Electronic  incldg.             Envir.  Metal.              Survey- Aboric.                Husb.            Med.             Tourism
Institutions                  Lang.                                       Prod.,  'Technology  Constr,         Prot,   Tech.                 ing     CrOp
Auto.                  Ilydulics                                          Fisher.
Teacher Requirements:
SELME                   20          30          12        8                                                                                                                                                         70
10 KETEs               172                     120      30        127           77          36            12        7               18       22                   21         22      20       5      47            736
4 KATEs                  22                      42      14         32           28          21           10        11       4        7       16                                       5             42            254
Potential Sources of
Teachers:
Annual Output of
Universities         Grad  1665                     2100                       288               425                61                   183      384           74      90                324            2279
(1976)              PhD        3                      25                         5                10                 5                              8                    5                  4               2
(humanities)
Annual Output (1975) of
PATES - SELETE                                            566
ASETEM  -SELETE                                        (Pedagog.      55           60
(Equiv. of KATE)                                      Trained
Tech.
Teachers)
Estimated Ano-al Ourpvt of                                              420          340         530           80                40       30      120                   60       495      345    540      700
KATEMs (1981)
KAME Sraff                                30          27



GREECE
Public Expenditures on Education
Public Expenditure & Education Exoenditure 1964-1976
(in Billion of Drachmas)
1964   1965   1966   1967   1968   1969   1970   1971   1972   1973   1974   1975   1976*
GDP                                                       136.5  154.1   169.0  182.6  196.6  220.7  247.3  277.1  318.6  414.3  512.2  595.2  707,3
Total public expenditure                                   29.3   33.3    38.6   44.9   51.8   65.3   65.0   73.7   87.1  103.5  129.4  170.5  209.9
Recurrent                                                                                                                     105.8  137.6  169.0
Capital                                                                                                                        23.6   32.9   40.9
Public education expenditure                                3.5    4.3      4.5    5.8    6.2    6.2    6.7    7.2    9.3   11.3   13.6   18.1   21.8
Recurrent                                                                                                                       11.1   13.4   16.1
Capital                                                                                                                          2.5    4.7    5.7
Public education expenditure as a % of
total public expenditure                                    12%    13%      12%    13%    12%   9.5%  10.3%    10%  10.7%    11%   10.5   10.6   10.4
Recurrent public education expenditure as a % of
total public recurrent expenditure                                                                                                    10.5    9.7    9.5
Capital public education expenditure as a % of                                                                                        10.6   14.3   13.9
total public capital expenditure
Private education expenditure                               1.9    1.9      2.1    2.3   n.a.    3.0    3.1    3.3   n.a.    4.5    7.0    8.3    9.7
Public and private education expenditure                    5.4    6.2      6.6    8.1   n.a.    9.2    9.8   10.5   n.a.   15.8   20.6   26.4   31.5
Public education expenditure as a % of GDP                  2.6    2.8      2.7    3.2    3.2    2.8    2.7    2.6    2.9    2.7    2.7    3.0    3.1
Public and private education expenditure as a % of GDP       4%     4%    3.9%   4.4%    --    4.2%        4%   3.8%     --   3.8%   4.0%   4.4%   4.4%
* Provisional
Source: Ministry of Coordination and Planning.



AN~NEX 9
~~~~~~~~~~~ !
2                      N                                          ON 
{_~~~ N
=1~~~~~~~~~~~~ 01  OI
So                                        ^     i           ,      
o - 0g                           r - 0       0                 2
I   g  sD   zD    e    <         g    gl       ¢11 >~~~~a
--            0  o0        0    0 ' 0 ~            0      o20  r0   | 



GREECE
Projection of Recurrent Expenditure of the Ministry of Education -
Projected      Recurrent       Recurrent       Recurrent       Projected Recurrent   Percentage
Type and Level of Education             Enrollments    Enrollments    Expenditure    Expenditure    Expenditure         Expenditure in 1986   Distribution
1975-76        1985-86          1976         per Student    per Student          (in constant         of Recurrent
('000 Dr)       in 1976       in 1986 in           1976 prices)        Expenditure
(Dr.)        constant  2/         ('000 Dr)            in 1986
U7 D?r jEes-
Pre-primary                              104,000         154,000                                        6,108                 940,632              4.2
5,865,370
Primary                                  933,000         900,000   J                    5,656           6,262               5,635,800             25.0
Gymnasia                                 317,000         440,000 
G   3,538,334       6,410           7,211              4,615,040              20.5
General Lycee                            235,000         200,000   J
Technical Lycee and
Vocational School                       78,000         220,000         663,269        8,503           9,920               2,182,400              9.7
Post-secondary:
University                           104,000         130,000       2,884,119       27,732          36,052               4,686,760             20.8
Non-university:
KATEs and SELETE                      10,430          35,600         445,805       42,743          43,305               1,541,650              6.8
Other                                  9,5703/        13,700         119,274       12,463          17,448                 239,038              1.1
1,839,000-     2,093,300       13,516,171                                           19,841,320
Other Ministry of Education
Expenditure                                                          1,963,308                                            2,684,038             11.9
TOTAL                                           15,479,479                                           22,525,358
Source:  Enrollments and recurrent expenditures in 1976 from the Ministry of Education; Projection of enrollments and recurrent expenditures
for 1986 are mission estimates.
1/  The recurrent expenditure on education of other ministries in 1976 is expected to be around Dr 225.3 million.                                            x
2/ The recurrent expenditure per student in 1986 was estimated on the basis of planned improvements in teacher-student ratios,
3/ Includes enrollment of 48,000 students in lower vocational schools that are being phased out,



GREECE
Projection of Capital Expenditure on Education of the Ministry of Education,-  1976-86
Projected      Projected      Needed          Places           Total       Average Annual Need        Estimated         Projected Capital
Enrollments   Enrollments   Enrollments  Additional   Required for   New Places   for Additional Places    Cost per   2/  Expenditure in 19861
1975-76        1980-81        1985-86        Places      Replacement      Required              1976-85            Place '1986)-          ('000 Dr)
1976-85                                                                    Dr
Pre-primary                   104,000                        154,000        50,000         15,000          65,000               6,500               84,000               546,000
Primary                       933,000          900,000       900,000      -33,000         170,000        137,000              13,700               100,000             1,370,000
Gymnasia                      317,000          400,000       440,000      123,000          55,000        178,000              17,800               115,150             2,049,700
General Lycee                 235,000           200,000      200,000       -35,000         40,000           5,000                 500              130,000                65,000
Technical Lycee and
Vocational School            78,000           125,000      220,000      142,000          30,000        172,000              17,200               172,297             2,963,500
Post-secondary:
University                104,000          120,000       130,000       26,000          20,000         46,000               4,600              240,000              1,104,000
Non-university:
KATEEs and SELETE          10,430            22,000       35,600       25,170            -            25,170                2,517              261,778               658,900
Other                       9,570            11,000       13,700        4,130           3,000          7,130                  713              195,000               139040
8,896,140
1/ The capital expenditure on education of other ministries in 1986 is expected to be around Dr 326,0 million
2/  At constant 1976 prices
Source:  Enrollments, 1975-76:  Ministry of Education and Ministry of Coordination
Projected enrollments, 1985-86:  Mission estimates
Number of places required for replacement: Ministry of Coordination
Cost per place in 1986: Mission estimates



ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 2
GREECE
IMPLEMENTATION PROBLEMS IN FIRST, SECOND AND THIRD
GREECE EDUCATION PROJECTS
1.        The currently projected completion dates are four years behind the
original estimates for the first education project (Loan 711-GR), and from
three to five years behind for the various components of the second education
project (Loan 859-GR). The third education project (Loan 1134-GR) is cur-
rently estimated to be about two years behind the original implementation
schedule.
2.        The main obstacles to the timely implementation of all the three
projects have been principally the acquisition of sites, selection and
appointment of architects and protracted procedures for evaluating designs
and civil works review. In addition the central project unit in the Ministry
of Coordination has suffered from weak management, and the other project units
were not fully staffed to carry out implementation. Added to these difficul-
ties has been that of ensuring that completion dates were met by civil works
contractors in the absence of penalty clauses for non-compliance and poor on-
site supervision.
3.        Following an exchange of letters with the government concerning
implementation delays on ongoing projects and the effect these delays may
have on the processing of the fourth education project, a special Bank mission
visited Greece in October 1977 and again in January 1978 to review administra-
tion arrangements and implementation procedures.
4.        The mission reported that major efforts are being made by the govern-
ment to overcome physical implementation difficulties and delays and that the
main obstacles to timely implementation, in particular acquisition of sites
and appointment of architects, have now been overcome generally, but not
entirely for the ongoing projects.
5.        Between October and January, there was significant progress on
physical implementation and a schedule of target dates for future critical
activities has been discussed and agreed. Furthermore, agreement was reached
with the government related to measures necessary to ensure timely implementa-
tion, including modifying the administrative arrangements set out in the Loan
Agreement for the Second and Third Projects and the procedures to be applied
to all projects. In particular:
(a) each operating ministry or agency will have primary responsi-
bility for implementing its own project items under a designated
Director-General within each ministry/agency who will ensure
the implementation is carried out according to schedules accept-
able to the Bank;



ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 2
(b) at the same time, the role of CPU in the Ministry of Coordina-
tion will be limited to ensuring the timely transmittal of
documents and reports to the Bank, payment and accounting
services and providing a limited amount of technical assis-
tance to the operating ministries other than Education;
(c) A Director-General or Deputy Director-General in the Ministry
of Coordination will be designated to supervise the Central
Project Unit (CPU) and will liaise with the Director-Generals
in each operating ministry to ensure continuance of imple-
mentation momentum;
(d) additional appropriate staffing has been provided to the
Ministries of National Education and Agriculture, and will
be maintained;
(e) simplified review procedures of civil works will be followed
within the operating ministries, without a further review or
approval stage in CPU;
(f) construction contracts will stipulate a reduced construction
period with a penalty clause for non-compliance;
(g) under a new law, design architects will have architectural
responsibility during construction and periodic visits to
sites will be mandatory, with the result that previous delays
in issuance of change orders during construction should be
obviated or greatly reduced; and
(h) to ensure more expeditious equipment procurement, improved
bidding and evaluation procedures will be implemented.
6.        As a result and subject to the effective operation of the improved
procedures, there can be a high expectation that the revised completion dates
as discussed with the mission will be met.



GREECE
ENROLLMENTS, OUTPUTS. PUPIL/TEACHER RATIO AND USE FACTORS
IN PROJECT INSTITUTIONS
Level                                                              Periods         Length   Total         Estimated  Stodent/                     Use Factors
&                                                                Per             of        Anneal       Anoa.l      Teacher  Class-    Laboratories Workshops
Itstitutions      Noe. Locatios                                   ioos                       Corses                Week             Course   Enrollment  Output        Ratio    reoCls            Average Range
Gymnasia           61  All over                 Lower                           General, Mathematics, Screenc,           36         3 years      16,320    5,200        27:1    0.8-0.84          0.5-0.84
Greece                   Secondary                      Arts & Crafts and General Tech.  (4-5 periods-                    10,920    3,600
(Credo 7-9)                                                         Extra-
curricular)
KETE.s             10  Athens I, Athens 11,   Upper
Athens III, Thessalo-  Sc.oodary
niki. Yan-its-,          I) Technical a)Ind-striel   Mechanical, Electroca1, Slectrot-c,    30-34           3 years        5,280    1,425
Aegis, Karditsa,            lycee        smction       Consiruction, Drafting, Chemical,
Kountimi, Mytilimi,"                                   Miming & Metallurgical Technologies
Messolongi
b)Non-          Infants nursing, Boatiiins, Medi-    30-34           3 years       3,960    1,070
or Sporti                              iodosiriol    -1 lab. asitsret, N,rs.ing Assist-
section      anLs, Disisfectors, Agriculturai
machinery, Animal breeding, Crop
production                                                                               21:1    0.76-0.82         0.35-0.88
Secretarial, Accounting, Banking,
Transportation & Tourism
2) Vocational a)nIdustrial  Machine operators, Fitters, Rolling-   15-23            1-2 years    5,320    2,500
school        section     welding, Heat engines, Aer condition-
ing, Automotive & Agric. Machinery
Maintenanco, Rlectrical Instailation,
Auto Eleot., Electronics, Survey &
Road, Concrete & Masenry, Construction
b)Non-         Floricuiture, Arbo-iculture, Cattle    15-23         1-2 years        520       220
industrial  breeding
section
KATEs               1  Lmi                      Ppost-          a)Engineering Building Construction, Mechanical           36         3 years         720       220O
secondary        technology  Engineering, Slectrical Engine-ring,
technical                     Eloctronics, Mining, Metallurgy
b)Agricultur- Crop Prod-ction                             36        3 years          120        37
al Tech.
c)Busin.es-   Ac.cuntancy, Secretarial Sciences           36        2 years          160        75
Management (3ssienes Administration)
16.5:1   0.82            0.32-0.80
I  Kalanata                 Post-          a)Engineering Mechanical Eog., Electrical Elg.,           36         3 years         480       140
seconcary        Technology  Nuilding Cnnstruction, Mining
technical
b)Agri.citcr- Market Gardening, Arboricultuce             36         3 yearn         240        75
al Tech.
c)Business    Socretarial Sciences (BRsiness              36        2 years           H0        35
Admini ntratcon)
1 Messalongi                Pnnt-          a)Eegsn-er-   Hydraulic works & Treosportation.,          36         3 years         600        180
secondary        ing Tech-   Astonobile Eog., Agricultural
technical        nology       Machinery, Surveying & Textile Tech.
b)             Fisheries                                  36         3 years         120        37
c)B-scnese    Accountancy, Socrertrio1 Sciences,          36         2 years         240       110
Tourism
I  Athens -                 Poot-          a)Engineer-   Building Cons-tr-uton,  -red-ct-oo          36         3 years       1,200       360
Pira..s                  secondary        sog Tech-   Technology, Tranop. & Hydraulico,
technical        nology       Electr. Tech., Autonotive Tech.,
Heating, Air-conditioning, Chonc-al
Tech., E-vironmn-tal Protection,
Conputer Programming, Beauticians.
b)BRsiness-   Socretarial Sciences, Accountancy,          36         2 years         240       110
M-negenent Ma-ketiOg-AdOe-ti-i9H.
SELME               1 Athens                     Post-                         a)  Foe nowly appointed teachers            27-29   1-6 conths       1,000
secon.dary                    b)  For advancd training of teachers  27-29           9 months     560        l
Ungraded                           in service                                                   r            13,000      14:1    0.9              0.7-0.80
tn-service 6                  c)  Short cm-service tr-ins-g co.rses  25             2 conths.       400                  F T.E.
Pr-ser--e( times/yj
d)  For school headn-sters &               25        2 months   i_  150
Inspectors                                                     = 966 F.T.E:.
I TE  FPll Tine Eq-soalent



ANNEX 14
GREECE
Unit Capital Costs & Area Per Student in
Project Institutions
Area//
Type of Facility                  Student   Building'/ Furniture   Equipment!' Total
__M2 _ --- _----- ---------  US$  -------------------
School for Advanced Training
of Secondary Education
Teachers and Officials (SELME):
Academic and communal             6.9      2,075        268         506      2,849
Technical Lycee and Vocational
School (KETE): Academic and
communal                         10.8      2,724        219       1,865      4,808
Center for Higher Technical
and Vocational Education
(KATE):  Academic and communal   15.2      3,475        299       2,618      6,392
1/ Based on unit cost prices without including regional price differences;
professional fees and contingencies not included.
2/ Includes kitchen equipment.



GREECE
Contingency Allowances
Professional
Site Development      Building         Furniture         Equipment           Services        Total Project Cost
Local  Foreign   Local  Foreign   Local  Foreign   Local  Foreign   Local  Foreign   Local  Foreign  Total
Contingencies
(as % of Project Cost):
Unforeseen                        10.0    10.0      10.0    10.0      10.0    10.0      10.0    10.0       5.0     5.0
Price Escalation                 32,6    32.6       32.6    32.6      25.0    25.0      25.0    25.0      7.6      7.6
Total                      45.9    45.9      45.9    459        37.5    37.5      37.5    37.5    13.0    13.0
Project Cost
(without contingencies)
Dr Millions                      134.8    52.4  1,140.1   443.4       93.2    62.1    113.3 1,081.9   177.1         -      1,658.5  1,577.7  3,236.2
US$ Millions                       3.7     1.4      31.1    12.1       2.5      1.7       3.1    27.8      4.8       _        45.2      43.0      88.2
% Foreign Exchange                          28.0               28.0              40.0              90.0                                   48.8
Contingencies (Amounts):
Unforeseen
Dr Millions                    12.7     4.9    107.3    41.7        8.7      5.9     10.6    96.0       8.9      _        148.2    148.5    296.7
US$ Millions                    0.4     0.1       3.0     1.1       0.2      0.2      0.3      2.6      0.2       -         4.1       4.0       8.1
Price Escalation
Dr Millions                   48.1    18.7    406.7   158.1        25.5    17.0      31.0   278.9    14.1        -        525.4    472.7    998.1
US$ Millions                    1.3     0.5      11.0     4.4       0.7      0.5      0.8      7.6      0.4      -         14.2      13.0      27.2
Subtotal
Dr Millions                   60.8    23.6    513.9   199.9        34.3    22.8      41.6   374.9    23.0        -        673.6    621.2  1,294.8
US$ Millions                    1.7     0.6      14.0     5.5       0.9      0.7      1.1    10.2       0.6       -        18.3      17.0      35.3
% Foreign Exchange                          28.0              28.0               40.0              90.0                                   48.0
Total Project Cost
(with contingencies):
Dr Millions                  195.5    76.1  1,654.1   643.2    127.4    85.0    155.0 1,394.6   200.1            -      2,332.1  2,198.9  4,531.0
US$ Millions                    5.3     2.1      45.0    17.6       3.5      2.3      4.2    38.0       5.5       _        63.5      60.0    123.5
% Foreign Exchange                          28.0              28.0               40.0              90.0                                   48.5



FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
GREECE
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1977           1978               1979                1980                1981                1982                 1983
_____ _1_ _3_    3  14 1 3    1 1 2    3   4    ,12    3   4 li                12     41      2    3   4       ] j      3   4
GYMNASIA (EXISTING)
Equipment
Preliminary lists
Final I ists
Specifications and cost estimate                   _
Bid documents
Advertise, analyse bids, awards
Manufacture, deliver and install
GYMNAStA (NEW}
Equipment
Preliminary lists
Final lists
Specifications and cost estimatejs
Bid documents
Advertise, analyse bids, awards
Marnufacture, deliver arid install
Loan signing
A indicates IBRD Approval and/or Review                                                                                                              World Bank   18319
z
Z
Z-.



FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
GREECE
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1977          1978                1979               1980                1981                1982                1983
< <  2 1i 3 1< 21i<< X ] 7 1~~~~3                                                             1   2    3   4 1l
Technical Lycees (K. E. T. E.)
Design and Construction
Sites selected
Sites acquired
Preliminary drawings
Design development drawings               _^
Bid documents
Final drawings and cost estimates
Advertise and issue documents
Receive, analyse bids, awards
Building construction                                                             _
Guarantee period
Furniture
Preliminary lists
Final lists
Specifications and cost estimate_)
Bid documents
Advertise, analyse bids, awards
Manufacture, deliver and install
Equipment
Preliminary lists
Final lists
Specifications and cost estimate)s
Bid documents
Advertise, analyse bids, awards
Manufacture, deliver and install                                                                            -     -
Loan Signing
A  indicates IBRD Approval and/or Review                                                                                                            World Bank   18320



FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
GREECE
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1977           1978                  1979                 1980                  1981                  1982                  1983
_ _ii 34 -3~                               3 A T; i1 Xt-24           412                        12341233 4 l 2 3 F
Higher Technical Institution (K. A. T. E.)
Center for Pedagogical Studies (S. E. L. M. E.)
Design and Construction
Sites selected
Sites acquired
Preliminary drawings
Design development drawings
Bid documents
Final drawings and cost estimates                 _i
Advertise and issue documents
Receive, analyse bids, awards
Building construction
Guarantee period
Furniture
Preliminary lists
Final lists
Specifications and cost estimate_ 
Bid documents
Advertise, analyse bids, awards
Manufacture, deliver and install                                                            L
Equipment
Preliminary lists
Final lists
Specifications and cost estimates)
Bid documents
Advertise, analyse bids, awards
Manufacture, deliver and install
_ _ __            _     _              _                              _     __                          _          _                                     I                _
Loan Signing
A   indicates IBRD Approval and/or Review                                                                                                                           World Bank - 18321
x



ANNEX 19
Page 1 of 3
ADMINISTRATIVE ARRANGEtIENTS FOR FOURTH PROJECT
Ministry of National Education
Department                              Functions
Al   Directorate General of       1. Responsible for overall management of
Programming (DGP)               project.
2. Coordinate the activities of the govern-
ment's services and agencies involved in
carrying out the project.
3. Perform or cause DIEP and OSK to perform
such functions as detailed below, all in
accordance with a timetable satisfactory
to the government and the Bank.
4. Ensure, through its Director General within
his powers and in consultation with the
other responsible services, that appropriate
allocations out of the government's annual
budget are made for the design, construc-
tion, furnishing and equipping of the
project institutions, and the recruitment,
appointment and training of an adequate
number of qualified teachers and teacher
trainers.
A2   Directorate of Imple-        1. Scheduling, monitoring progress and super-
mentation of Educational        vision of execution, including follow-up
Projects (DIEP) under           of site acquisitions and review of designs,
the Directorate General         at all stages, of the project institutions.
of Programming, and with
assistance, as may be       2. Compilation of final lists of furniture
necessary, of the               and equipment required for the project.
government's relevant
services and agencies.      3. Preparation of bidding documents, evalua-
tion of bids and award of contracts for
civil works, furniture and equipment,
and more generally, ensuring that pro-
curement procedures comply with the
requirements of the Loan Agreement.
4. Supervision and on-site inspection of,
construction of, and installation of
equipment for the project institutions.



ANNEX 19
Page 2 of 3
Department                              Functions
5. Review and approval of reports, specifica-
tions and other materials submitt-z 'hy t4-
Borrower's services and agencies involved
in the carrying out of the project or any
part thereof.
6. Maintenance of project accounts and prep-
aration of interim evaluations and finan-
cial statements.
7. Preparation of applications for withdrawals
from the Loan Account.
8. Preparation and submission of progress
reports to the Bank; and
9. Acting as liaison between the Bank and the
Borrower's services and agencies involved
in the carrying out of the project or any
part thereof.
B    Organization for School    1. Responsible for the preparation of the
Buildings (OSK)                 preliminary and final architectural designs
established in 1968             of all project institutions.
and expanded in 1976;
autonomous body reporting  2. Collaborate with DIEP, upon DIEP's request,
to the Minister of Edu-        in the preparation of the bidding documents
cation                          for the project institutions and in the
supervision of their construction.
C    Operating Departments        1. Advise DIEP and OSK on all educational
(1) Directorate General        aspects of the relevant project institu-
of Vocational and Techni-       tions.
cal Education (KETEs and
KATEs); (2) Center for      2. Assist in the examination of preliminary
Educational Studies and        architectural designs for conformity with
Advance Training of             educational programs and equipment layout.
Teachers(KEME) (for
SELME); (3) Director-       3. Ensure preparation of furniture and equip-
ate General of General         ment lists for the respective institutions
Education (for project          and setting up experts' teams, as necessary,
gymnasia)                       for these purposes.



ANNEX 19
Page 3 of 3
Department                               Functions
Qualified and experienced         4. Initiate programs of training teachers and
officials appointed by                recruitment of teachers for project insti-
Operating Department to               tutions.
liaise with DIEP and OSK
5. Advise on technical assistance programs
available under the Third Project for
meeting the immediate requirements of
Fourth Project and the UNDP/UNESCO Project.



ANNEX 20
GREECE
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(in US$ millions)
Accumulated             Undisbursed
1/      Disbursements             Disbursements             Balance
Semester -       Amount   Percent        Amount    Percent        Amount    Percent
First year                                                         60.0
1              0.0       0.0           0.0        0.0          60.0       100.0
2              0.0       0.0           0.0        0.0          60.0       100.0
Second year
1              0.8       1.3           0.8        1.3          59.2        98.7
2              0.7       1.2           1.5        2.5          58.5        97.5
Third year
1              7.8      13.0           9.3       15.5          50.7        84.5
2             11.7      19.5          21.0       35.0          39.0        65.0
Fourth year
1             16.6      27.7          37.6       62.7         22.4         37.3
2             18.4      30.7          56.0       93.4          4.0          6.6
Fifth year
1              4.0       6.6          60.0      100.0          0.0         0.0
1/ Beginning from date of Loan Agreement.



Page 1 of 4
GREECE
RELATED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
A.   General Reports and Studies on Manpower Employment and Financing of
Education
1.   Employment Survey, National Statistical Service of Greece (E.S.Y.E.)
Bulletins for 1967, 1974 and 1975, Athens 1968, 1974 and 1976
respectively.
2.   Population and Housing Census of 1971, Volume III, E.S.Y.E.,
Athens, 1977.
3.   Statistical Year Book of Greece, N.S.S.G., Athens, 1976.
4.   Labor Statistics, Volume 1, 4, E.S.Y.E., Athens, 1977.
5.   Monthly Statistical Bulletin, December  1976, January 1977, E.S.Y.E.,
Athens, 1977.
6.   Education Statistics, 1973-74, E.S.Y.E., Athens, 1977.
7.   Report of the Governor of the National Bank of Greece, National Bank
of Greece, Athens, 1977.
8.   Report of the Organization for the Employment of the Labor Force
(O.A.E.D.), Athens, 1976.
9.   Report of the Minister of Finance on the 1976 Budget, Ministry of
Finance, Athens, 1976.
10.   Study of the Cost of Higher Education, Ministry of Education, 1976.
11.   Hellenic Republic:  Education Sector Memorandum, IBRD, May 1977.
12.   GREECE, Country Economic Memorandum, IBRD, September 1976.
13.   Appraisal of an Education Project in the Hellenic State, IBRD,
May 1975.
14.   Preliminary Information for the Development Plan, 1976-80, Center
for Economic Research and Planning (K.E.P.E.), Athens, 1977.
15.   Human Resources, K.E.P.E., 1976.
16.   Resources and Organization of the Educational System, 1976-80, Center
for Economic Research and Planning (KEPE), Athens, 1976.
17.   Supply of and Demand for Labor Force, 1976-80, KEPE, October 1976.
Volume 2.



Page 2 of 4
18.   Higher Education, International Comparison, Ministry of
Education, Athens, 1975.
19.   Regional Development, KEPE, 1976.
20.   Manufacturing:  Prospects and Problems of the Sector, KEPE, 1976.
21.   Mining, Prospects and Problems, KEPE, 1976.
22.   Mining Deposits of Central Greece, Regional Development Office of
Central Greece, Larissa, 1976.
23.   Law No. 186/1975 "re Keme".
24.   Law No. 567/77 "re Classification of General Education Issues".
25.   Education sector memorandum  Draft Ibid.  May 1976
B.   General Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
1.   Presidential Decree (P.D.) No. 127/12-2-77 "re the Organization and
Operation of Secondary Teacher Training School of KEME (SELME)".
With English translation.
2.   Draft Presidential Decree "re Amendments and Additions to P.D. No.
127/1977 re the Organization and Operation of Secondary Teacher
Training School (Government Gazette No. 40/1977, volume A).
3.   Law No. 576/77 "re the Administration and Organization of Secondary
and Higher Technical and Vocational Education".
4.   Law No. 309/1976 "Restructuring of General Education (Primary,
Secondary)".
5.   FA79.21/IV/17/66852 "Minister of Education Decision on Implementation
of Project".
6.   Law 309  30 April 1976  "Reorganization of the Secondary Education
System".
7.   Report:  Project Group for the Evaluation of Needs in Vocational
Education, Ministry of National Education and Religious Affairs,
Athens, May 1977.
8.   Law 576  13 April 1977  Law "on organisation and administration of
secondary and higher technical and vocational education".
9.   Article 38  Functions of the Directorate of Application of Educational
Plans (DIEP).
10.   Law 627/1968  "on the School Building Organisation and establishment
of a Directorate of Planning and studies under the Ministry of National
Education".



Page 3 of 4
11.   Law 513  30 December 1976  Amendment and supplement of legislation
AN 627/1968 on the School Building Organisation.
12.   Proposal for Building and and Equipment needs, Center for Educational
Research and In Service Training (KEME) in relation to the Center
of Pedagogical Studies, May 1977. Sub Project Proposal Report to
School for Advanced Training of Secondary School Teachers and
Education Officials, June 1977.
13.   Educational Statistics.  Enrollments in public schools of technician
and vocational educational lower and middle level, 1972-1976,
Directorate General of Technical Education, Ministry of Education.
14.   New Curriculum for Technical Lycees and Vocational Schools.  KEME,
May 1977.
15.   Lists of Teachers in middle level technical vocational schools,
1972-1976, June 1977.
16.   Development Targets for the Region of Central and Western Macedonia,
Regional Development Office of Central and Western Macedonia,
Salonica, 1976.
17.   Nomos Aitolias and Akarnanias, Report for the National Development
Plan, 1976-80, Nomarchia Aitolias and Akarnanias, 1976.
18.   Sectoral Analysis of Industry in Peloponnesus and Western Sterea
Hellas, Regional Development Office of Peloponnesus and Western Sterea
Hellas, Patrae, 1976.
19.   Plan for the Development of Nomos Aitolias and Akarnanias, Regional
Development Office for Peloponnesus and Western Sterea Hellas,
Patrae, 1975.
20.   Plan for the Development of Nomos Messinias, Regional Development
Office for Peloponnesus and Western Sterea Hellas, Patrae, 1975.
21.   Nomos Messinias, Report for the National Development Plan, 1976-80,
Nomarchia Messinias, Kalamata, 1976.
22.   Nomos Fthiotidos, Report for the National Development Plan,1976-80,
Nomarchia Fthiotidos, 1976.
23.   Curricula of courses for KATES  1973



Page 4 of 4
C.   Working Papers, Drawings and Tables
1.   Site plans.
2.   Educational working papers.
3.   Architectural working papers.
4.   Architectural space relationships.
5.   Contingency allowance calculation.
6.   Foreign exchange calculation.
7.   C.P.M. schedule.
8.   Equipment lists for existing disciplines, and equipment
and furniture costs for individual academic, shop and
laboratory spaces.



IBRD 13102R1
M ~       ~~~~~~~~ K
, f               '                                           *   ',,,                ,,                                          .  . 
-~5~j~    AnS5>  ''l.-5<-                                                  Oinl               ,                     Xeti         -u .otn                                                  - '.LSO 
; ' i e 2-'i                                                                                 K-t-
GREEiS,E \ P ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0, '~Aco ,droopotc                                                                                .A     4 -
X,  echjsw  LyeesfB.TE                                   HESLNK ,                                                 ..                                                   ,Jhhdk5
K.-i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
E~~
ARISSA t~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-   ~
j                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~LESBO 
Kof.lhi.                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CHIOS0 C, 
T35               A                    AtHEeS f4r                                                                                 a-a-I -ua-a-a) 3
NOpl-                        Wk.-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  J~.A
Railvveys~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~io                                                                                            ,E oI r.r 5
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -oplo                                                                                   Mikononono  Ioungrio 1-~ C                                       a=-A -
0~~~~~ sn i 10i0 rosFs rtSsWr4b ta-r                                                               rsl     v t   T E 
GREECE                  -                                               2n                                                                                               2
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                    R   o    a
Hgher Technict Center$ (K AI  E.)                                                                                                 I                                                
Telochinical LycFes (KE.T1E(B
so-   ~ ~ ~~8          Center- for Pedaogoical Studies (S.E.LM.E)
A      Previovs- Eduatiolon PropeCts
Mo'n Roads                                                                                                                                            ,
-----Railways                                     N 
Int-errohcrtol Airports                                                  har
-- Ports         BaadnsIA                                                             Rtiro               RK-O 
-.- Intematoooa-l                                                                           A ndesIAKLO
0           55            1                                                                          
20'                                            22                                              2                                               26'                                              28'
FEBRUARY 1978



