FIlE COPYVDocument of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2244-GR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE HELLENIC STATE
FOR A
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
March 1, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Unit                                              Drachma
The Greek Drachma is now defined in terms of a basket of currencies
including the US dollar and those of its other major trading partners,
and is floating. For this report the following currency equivalents
were used:
Dr.  1                             =                        US$0.03
US$  1                                                      Dr. 36.7
Dr.  1,000                         =                        US$27.25
Dr.  1,000,000                     =                        US$27.250
Fiscal Year                        January 1 to December 31
Abbreviations
DIEP                               Directorate of Implementation of Education
Projects
EEC                                European Economic Community
KATE                               Center of Higher Technical and Vocational
Education (grades 13 and above)
KEME                               Center for Educational Studies and Advanced
Training of Teachers
KETE                               Vocational and Technical Education Center
(comprises technical secondary school and
vocational school)
MOE                                Ministry of National Education
OSK                                Organization for School Building
SELME                              School for Advanced Training of Secondary
Education Teachers and Officials
UNDP                               United Nations Development Program



FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT             FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GREECE
Loan and Pro_ect Summary
Borrower:            The Hellenic State
Amount:              US$60.0 million
Terms:               15 years including three years of grace, at 7.45 percent
per annum.
Project
Description:        The project is part of the Borrower's program to improve
technical secondary/post secondary education and general
secondary teacher training in Greece. It would comprise:
(a)  Equipping of science and pre-vocational facilities
of 40 existing gymnasias (lower secondary schools)
and 21 gymnasias under construction, which together
provide 27,240 student places;
(b)  Construction, equipping and furnishing of 10 combined
Vocational and Technical Education Centers (KETEs),
to provide 15,160 new student places;
(c)  Construction, equipping and furnishing of 4 Higher
Technical and Vocational Education Centers (KATEs),
to provide 4,200 new student places; and
(d)  Construction, equipping and furnishing of a post-
university School for the Advanced Training of
Secondary Education Teachers and Officials (SELME),
to provide about 1,000 full time equivalent new
student places.
The project faces the normal risks associated with a proj-
ect of this magnitude and complexity, including the risk
of delay.
Project Costs:                                            Costs              % of
Local  Foreign    Total   Project
-------US$ million-----    Costs
61 Gymnasia                                  0.2      1.9       2.1       2.4
10 KETEs                                    26.6    24.5       51.1      57.9
4 KATEs                                     16.5    15.4       31.9      36.2
SELME                                        1.9      1.2       3.1       3.5
Subtotal - base cost                   45.2    43.0       88.2    100.0
Contingencies (physical and price)          18.3    17.0       35.3      40.0
TOTAL PROJECT COST                     63.5    60.0      123.5
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Financing Plan:
Dr       US$           %
(million) (million)
IBRD                                2,199      60.0         48.6
Government                          2,332      63.5         51.4
TOTAL                         4,531    123.5          100.0
Estimated Disbursements:
US$ million
FY79    FY80    FY81    FY82    FY83
Annual                            0.0      1.5    19.5    35.0       4.0
Cumulative                        0.0      1.5    21.0    56.0    60.0
Rate of Return:       Not applicable.
Staff Appraisal
Report:              "Fourth Education Project in the Hellenic State" (No.
1786-GR) dated February 21, 1978.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPO]RT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE HELLIENIC STATE FOR A FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Hellenic State for the equivalent of $60.0 million, to finance the
foreign exchange cost of a project for education. The loan would have a term
of 15 years including 3 years of grace, with interest at 7.45 percent per
annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Country Economic Memorandum - Greece" dated
February 8, 1978 was distributed to the Executive Directors on February 21,
1978 (1755a-GR). It was based on the findings of an economic updating
mission which visited Greece in mid 1977. Its conclusions are reflected
herein. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Recent Developments
3.        The Karamanlis Government, elected to power in June 1975 after the
approval of a new constitution reestablishing a parliamentary system with a
strong presidency, was re-elected in the November 1977 elections, but with a
reduced majority. The last Government was initially concerned with the re-
establishment of democracy and then with the restoration and broadening of
international economic relations, especially with the European Economic Com-
munity (EEC). It took imeasures to revive economic activity, reduce inflation,
and correct a growing balance of payments deficit. Informal negotiations with
the EEC for accession to full membership are ongoing. It is hoped that with
the initiation of formal negotiations in the near future, accession into the
EEC, including ratification of the membership agreement by all parliaments of
EEC member countries, might be achieved by around 1980/81.
4.        During the late 1960's, the economy enjoyed rapid GDP growth,
averaging 7.5 percent per year in real terms, and relatively stable prices.
However, by 1972, as the economy reached full employment, supply constraints
began to develop and domestic prices came under increasing inflationary
pressure. This trend was reinforced by the termination of price controls in
1973, increases in import prices (particularly petroleum after October 1973),
higher agricultural support prices and increased Government expenditures.
Consequently, consumer prices, which had increased by less than 3 percent per
annum on average during 1968-72, rose 16 percent in 1973 and 27 percent in
1974. The restrictive policies that the Government adopted to combat infla-
tion, together with the impact of the 1974 Cyprus crisis and resulting uncer-
tainties in Greece, severely affected economic growth. In 1974, there was a
decline of 1.8 percent in the GDP accompanied by strong inflationary pressures.



- 2 -
5.        The Government responded with policies aimed at stabilizing the
economy, by laying the basis for growth while controlling inflation and con-
taining the balance of payments deficit. The traditional policy of a low-key
public sector was modified, and public sector investments were given a key
role in stimulating the economy through expansionary monetary and credit
policies. The economy responded to these changes and recovery began in the
early months of 1975. GDP in constant prices rose by 4.5 percent in 1975 and
5.4 percent in 1976. The 1976 growth was achieved despite weak performance in
agriculture, where output declined by 1.5 percent mainly due to unfavorable
climatic conditions.  Industry was the main source of growth, with an increase
in output of 8.8 percent in 1975 and 8.4 percent in 1976. Services were also
important, with growth of 6 percent in 1976.
6.        On the demand side, the main domestic expansionary forces in 1975
and 1976 were the increases in public expenditure, private consumption, and
investment in residential construction. Other private investment was slug-
gish: manufacturing investment declined and total investment has not yet
regained the 1973 level of Dr. 100 billion. Growth in 1976 was accompanied
by a lower rate of inflation, 11.7 percent as against 15.7 percent in 1975.
Inflationary pressures, however, persisted due to the large inflow of foreign
exchange desposits and the large consolidated public sector deficit, represent-
ing 6.7 percent of GNP in 1976, as against 5.7 percent in 1975. The deficit
was met largely through borrowings from the Central Bank, and was caused by
substantial Central Government investments, relatively heavy defense expendi-
tures (5.3 percent of GNP in 1976), large civil service salary increases and
continuing price subsidies. The Government, in 1977, has attempted to contain
the deficit to ensure price stability and further reduce inflation.
7.        Greece's balance of payments has shown persistent deficits over many
years, as a result of structural weaknesses in the economy and reflecting a
high degree of dependence on imports. The current account deficit in 1976 was
$1.1 billion, about the same as in 1975. The deficit was largely financed by
a considerable inflow of private capital, mainly in the form of (a) foreign
exchange deposits made by Greek seamen and emigrant workers amounting to $545
million; and (b) $360 million in real estate investment. The combined inflow
from these two sources, which resulted from special incentive schemes that the
Government announced in 1976, financed more than 80 percent of the current
account deficit in 1976, against about 47 percent in 1975. As a result, the
need for public external borrowing was substantially lower in 1976, and
amounted to only $183 million in gross terms, as compared to $542 million in
1975. Indeed the 1976 borrowings were undertaken to amortize previous obliga-
tions secured on hard terms and relatively short maturities to which Greece
had to resort to finance its development activities in view of the minimal
long-term assistance it has been receiving in the last 5 years on conces-
sionary terms. Foreign exchange reserves stood at $905 million at end-1976,
and were equal to about two months of imports.



- 3 -
8.        The trends in tlhe first three quarters of 1977 indicate that the
Government's triple objectives of maintaining steady growth, limited inflation
and no further deterioration in the balance of payments, will be achieved.
GDP growth is expected to be somewhat over 4 percent, inflation about 10 per-
cent, and the current account deficit at about the same level as in 1976.
Economic Structure and Development Issues
9.        The modest, but sustained growth since 1975, after a drop in GDP in
1974 has brought significant improvements in the economy and helped to raise
per capita income levels. Greece, however, faces several structural problems,
similar in many ways to those facing lower-income developing countries. Agri-
culture now accounts for 37 percent of exports, 34 percent of employment and
18 percent of GDP; but growth in the sector continues to be hampered by small
and fragmented farm holdings, insufficient irrigation, and lack of market
facilities. Industry, including construction, has been a dynamic sector, with
an average annual growth of nearly 10 percent in real terms since 1960; its
share in GDP increased from nearly 26 percent in 1965 to 31 percent in 1976.
However, despite rising productivity, industrial growth is still restricted by
a small domestic market, limited export orientation and heavy dependence on
capital goods imports, as well as a structure dominated by small family units
with limited financial, mianagerial and technical know-how. The Government's
policy for industrial investment has been influenced significantly by these
constraints and by the need for better export performance and the potential
competition from European, manufacturers following entry into the EEC. It is
therefore trying to encourage industries which may have a competitive edge and
are preferably based on indigenous resources. The Government is also trying
to develop basic domestic resources such as forestry and mining (especially
energy-related investments) in view of their foreign exchange earning or
saving potential. The most critical problem which continues is that in
contrast to the highly af'fluent Athens and Salonica regions, many Greek
regions have per capita incomes substantially below the national average. The
Government is addressing itself to this difficult task of redressing such
sharp disparities in the levels of income and development between regions.
However the Greek administrative and institutional resources are weak. To
initiate and implement the structural changes, such as those needed to prepare
the economy for full membership of the EEC, described below, will be a major
challenge.
10.       A financial protocol was signed last year with the EEC totaling
about $310 million, over the next 4-1/2 years, of which about $250 will be
loans from the European Investment Bank. Over the long term, Greece stands
to gain significantly from full membership in the EEC, mainly by hastening
changes in its economy towards a more developed and efficient production
structure. In addition ito the new financial protocol, a net financial inflow
of $360 million a year is expected as direct budgetary support, mostly for
agriculture and regional development. But this substantially will be forth-
coming only after EEC membership is ratified possibly by 1980/81. In the
interim, however, significant infrastructure investment will have to be under-
taken to conform with European standards, and there will be considerable



problems of adaptation, largely due to the structural differences between the
economy of Greece and those of the EEC. Besides, the administrative require-
ments of implementing European policies and directives, such as the Common
Agricultural Policy, are likely to be considerable. The benefits, however,
may include greater inflow of foreign investment and technology and more
efficient management. Membership is expected to bring greater rationalization
and hence competitiveness of production and export activities, and may help
the Government overcome institutional rigidities in enacting and implementing
far-reaching socio-economic reforms which otherwise would be difficult to
undertake.
Medium-Term Prospects
11.       The Government's medium-term development objectives are being cry-
stallized in a new Plan, currently in an advanced stage of preparation. The
preliminary draft of the Plan envisaged an ambitious growth of 6 to 7 percent
in real GDP, 10 percent in real gross fixed investment, and a balance of
payments deficit of $1.1 billion in 1980. However based on past experience,
the likelihood of shortfalls in investment levels from those included in the
draft Plan, could not be altogether overlooked. The preliminary draft Plan
also did not fully reflect investment expenditures necessary to initiate
improvements in Greek infrastructure to bring it to par with EEC countries.
Hence, these policy targets are being reconsidered while finalizing the Plan.
The Government also recognizes that if the planned growth in output and
investment levels is to be achieved, it is likely to lead to rather higlh
levels of current account deficits and external borrowing requirements over
the medium-term. The Plan is now being revised to correct these deficiencies.
12.       Assuming that EEC related investments will be included in the
revised and more realistic Plan targets now being finalized by the Government
and also every effort is made by Greece to minimize shortfalls between plan-
ned and actual investment expenditures, the Bank's assessment is that during
the next Plan period, Greece should be able to sustain an annual gross fixed
investment of around $5.4 billion 1/. This is somewhat less than the average
annual level of about $6.1 billion which the preliminary draft envisage2d but
appears feasible and consistent with the GDP growth of past years and a
current account deficit of about $1.4 billion in 1980. Assuming a gradual
tapering off the current inflows of foreign exchange deposits, the Government
may need to borrow about $800 million annually (in gross terms) to finalnce
this deficit, as well as to allow for the increased amortization payments and
some improvement in reserves. In view of Greece's rather limited access to
concessionary finance from bilateral and multilateral sources until its
accession to the EEC is ratified, the Government will need to continue to
borrow meanwhile on commercial terms from European capital markets.
13.       Public external debt outstanding (including undisbursed) at the end
of 1976 remained at the same level as in 1975 ($3.0 billion).  Debt service
1/   In 1976 constant prices and exchange rates.



- 5 -
payments in 1976 reached $487.4 million (of which $14.4 million was for IBRD
loans), and represented 11.2 percent of exports of goods and non-factor ser-
vices. Inclusive of external private debt, it stood at about 15 percent in
1976. Based on reasonable expectations regarding export growth and future
borrowing, the debt service ratio should remain at similar levels in 1980.
About 3.3 percent of total service payments would be due to the Bank. In view
of the good prospects for future economic growth, Greece remains creditworthy
for Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GREECE
14.       Bank lending to Greece started in 1968, after disputes in connec-
tion with the country's pre-war external debt had been substantially settled.
Greece has so far received fourteen loans totalling $374.9 million (net of
cancellations), of which $310.5 million was held by the Bank as of January 31,
1978.    These include five loans totalling $96.6 million to the National
Investment Bank for Industrial Development (NIBID), three loans for education
($82.3 million), three loans for irrigation ($95 million), a highway loan ($30
million), a wastewater disposal loan ($36 million) and a loan for regional
development ($35.0 million). The execution of Bank-financed projects has
generally been satisfactory, although fairly slow and subject to significant
cost overruns due to both domestic and international inflationary pressures.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IFC investments as of
January 31, 1978.
15.       Bank assistance to Greece has had the following objectives:  sup-
porting institutional reform and essential infrastructure in key sectors,
including agriculture, wastewater disposal, and highways; modernizing key
sectors such as agriculture and education; and reducing substantial regional
income and social disparities through support for selected regional develop-
ment programs and regional balance in projects. In furtherance of these
objectives, a project for the development of vegetable exports to the EEC
countries stressing institutional objectives and to help Greece take advantage
of its potential entry into the EEC, is being appraised and is expected to be
ready for Board consideration in the last quarter of this fiscal year.
16.       Although Greeces has a much higher average per capita income than
that enjoyed by other developing countries, continued Bank lending is justi-
fied by several considerations. First, given the magnitude of its external
capital requirements, it remains difficult for Greece to meet its borrowing
needs for development on reasonable terms entirely from market sources. Bank
lending has not only provided some modest direct concessionary assistance
until Greece begins receiving such assistance in substantial amounts after
its future entry into the EEC, but the Bank's presence has also facilitated
Greece's access to capital markets and, in Government's view, been a catalyst
for other lenders.  Second, Greece has large pockets of poverty and serious
regional imbalances in incomes and development, and needs assistance in



- 6 -
modernizing its key sectors. Third, the country is poorly equipped insti-
tutionally and administratively to take full advantage of its expected member-
ship in the EEC as well as to develop key sectors like agriculture and educa-
tion. To meet these challenges, the Government particularly wishes the Bank
to help strengthen its institutions and administrative capacity through lending
for projects in these sectors, for which the Bank is probably the only avail-
able source of external funds. It is, however, anticipated that Greece should
be gradually able to finance its development program without resort to Bank
funds by around FY79.
17.       IFC has made investments totalling $56.2 million in six Greek com-
panies. An equity and loan investment of $0.6 million was made in a fertili-
zer factory in 1962 and sold in 1970. An equity investment of $0.7 million
was made in NIBID in 1965, reduced to $0.1 million in 1974. In 1977, IFC
made a $40 million loan to NIBID, of which $5 million was for IFCs own account.
Loan and equity investments totalling $8.7 million were made in an aluminium
company in 1970 and 1972. In early 1975, IFC invested $1.1 million in an
agro-industry project in Larisa for processing of tomatoes from the area of
the Groundwater Development Project assisted by the Bank (Loan 754-GR). IFC
recently contributed another $0.1 million to expansion of this project to
include the growing and harvesting of tomatoes as well as the canning of
apricots and peaches. Other industrial investments are under consideration.
PART III - EDUCATION SECTOR AND THE BANK'S ROLE IN ITS DEVELOPMENT
Introduction
18.       The structure of Greek education has changed dramatically over the
last ten years, due to increased recognition of the importance of adapting a
largely classical system to the needs of a modern economy and, more recently,
to the challenges of potential full membership in the EEC. In the mid 1960s,
there were disproportionate enrollments in academic secondary schools and
academically oriented curricula in universities, as compared with enrollments
in any form or level of technical education. Such technical education as
existed, was limited and of poor quality. There was an increasing shortage
of trained technical personnel. Post-secondary technical education consisted
of two small civil engineering schools, poorly housed and equipped. In the
absence of sufficient public secondary technical schools, private technical
schools had come into existence, with inadequate buildings, equipment, and
staff. Although there was a manifest need to diversify the secondary school
curriculum and provide secondary school students with the alternatives of
training for technical or trade employment or higher technical studies,
suggestions that the classical gymnasia (lower secondary schools) be modified
to include an element of practical work, generally met with strong opposition.
19.       In teacher training, the emphasis was upon training in subject
matter, rather than pedagogy. Primary school teachers were trained in a two-
year post-secondary course, in a network of small, overcrowded and poorly



equipped institutes. At the secondary level, neither the faculties of educa-
tion, nor secondary school teacher training institutes existed.
20.       The Government approached the Bank in the mid 1960s, for assistance
in manpower development, but was hesitant about making significant changes in
Greece's formal education system. The Bank responded favorably to the requests
for assistance in technical education, but continued to advise the authorities
on the more general need for reform. The response to this dialogue has been
most positive. Indeed, in the course of the seven years between the negotia-
tions of the first education project in 1970 and appraisal this year of the
proposed fourth project, almost all of the basic institutional reforms and
adjustments required for gradually evolving a classical system into one
attuned to the needs of a developing economy, have been essentially imple-
mented. This is an admirable record of achievement by Greece, since many
countries find it difficult, for political and social reasons to put through
basic institutional reforms substantially changing the fabric and character
of a classical education system.
21.       Over this period, compulsory education has been extended from six
to nine years. The language of instruction has been changed from the formal,
classically derived and artificial Katharevousa Greek to the popularly spoken
Demotiki Greek. Decisions were taken to introduce science, mathematics and
technology courses into the general education of all students. New technical
education curricula have been designed and these are beinLg introduced at both
pre-vocational and vocational levels through new types of multilateral and
technical secondary and post secondary schools. Primary teacher training has
been upgraded and the legal framework provided for pedagogical training of
secondary teachers. Despite tremendous progress in introducing fundamental
institutional changes and in developing the policy framework for further
reforms, including the passage of two basic laws in 1976 and 1977 covering
respectively compulsory and technical/vocational education, a great deal
remains to be done to implement these including the further development of
curricula, the training of general and technical teachers and the construction
of facilities.
The Present Education 'System and Future Manpower Development
22.       The 1976 and 1977 Reform Laws provide for a restructuring of the
*            education system into a four-tiered structure, comprising:  (i) six years of
compulsory primary education; (ii) three years of compulsory lower secondary
education (gymnasia); (iii) three years of upper secondary education either
at general lycees or new combined technical lycees and vocational schools
(KETEs); and (iv) higher education at centers of higher technical education
(KATEs), universities and teacher training colleges.
23.       The educationa system is now quantitatively well developed, with
universal primary education, 85 percent of the relevant age group in lower
secondary education (grades 7-9) and no significant imbalances between male
and female enrollments. Some 57 percent of the relevant age group is in the
upper secondary schools (grades 10-12) and another 18 percent in the vocational



-8-
scnools at this level. In higher education (grades 13 and above), where about
15 percent of the age group is enrolled, some imbalance in enrollments by sex
does exist, but it is not out of line with experience in countries at Greece' s
stage of development. The internal efficiency of the education system is also
generally good, with low repeater rates of a maximum ot 8 percent in primary
schools and up to 14 percent in secondary schools (with dropout rates in sec-
ondary schools of only about 7 percent).
24.       To implement the reforms described in paragraph 22, the Government
is broadening and modernizing the gymnasia curricula to include science and
pre-vocational subjects, and providing the needed teachers, science labora-
tories and shops for pre-vocational subjects. Graduates will thus, in future,
be aware of opportunities for following a vocational/technical education path.
The reorganization of upper-secondary vocational schools into a new type of
technical upper secondary school (KETEs), defined in paragraph 22, complements
the introduction of broader gymnasia curricula. The KETE will offer a three-
year technical lycee curriculum alongside a new one to two year vocational
school curriculum and will be a viable alternative to the general lycee for
gymnasia graduates. The graduates of the technical lycee sections will, in
turn, be eligible for admission to higher education institutions. The curri-
cula in both the technical and general lycees is being modernized and upgraded.
Pedagogical training for all general lycee and gymnasia school teachers,
essential if the reforms are to be successful, is being introduced through a
new School for the Advanced Training of Secondary School Teachers and Officials
(SELME). Pedagogical training of technical secondary teachers is provided by
the existing semi-autonomous School for Teachers of Vocational and Technical
Education, which will be expanded and upgraded.
25.       The Government's education strategy responds to the nce d for improv-
ing the quality and relevance of education, while better meeting the manpower
needs of an economy facing substantial structural changes to meet the chal-
lenges of EEC membership and supporting the objective of decentralization of
economic activities through regional development. The preliminary draft Plan
projects manpower needs for the period 1976-86 as follows: Average incremental
requirements for the period 1976-1986 for post-secondary engineering, agricul-
ture and business management technicians are estimated at 5,000 per annum; the
planned output of the education system in 1985 is about 5,400 per annum,
including 3,600 from previous Bank projects, and 1,300 from the proposed
project. Incremental requirements of skilled workers are estimated at 58,000
per annum for this period; the output of the present training system is about
32,500.  By 1985, Bank projects will contribute about 13,500 additional
students towards meeting this demand, of which 6,000 would come from the
proposed project. Additional schools will be built to make up the deficit.
26.       The Ministry of National Education (MOE) has the primary respon-
sibility for most private and public education in Greece. Since the said 1976
and 1977 reforms, it also has a joint responsibility for policies concerning
the technical/vocational schools and training centers administered by the
Ministries of Agriculture, Social Welfare, Labor and Merchant Marine, and the
National Tourism Organization, which in the past were autonomous. Overall
educational planning has also increasingly shifted from the Ministry of
Coordination to MOE.



- 9 -
27.       To provide better curriculum development, teacher training and
school construction, new semi-autonomous organizations under MOE have been
created or strengthened. These include the Center for Educational Studies
and Advanced Training of Teachers (KEME) and the Organization for School
Building (OSK). The authority for administration and supervision of the
education system is also being gradually decentralized to provAncial and
regional levels. Policy matters within the jurisdiction of MOE are now
reviewed by a Supreme Education Council, consisting of the Directors General
of MOE and its Regional Department Heads. A national technical and vocational
education consultation committee is being established under Law 576 of 1977
with representatives of employers from commerce, industry and agriculture.
28.       These improvements in Greek education have been achieved while
spending a relatively small proportion of national resources on public
education--10.4 percent of total Government expenditures and 3.1 percent of
GDP in 1976. These percentages have changed little over the past decade and
are about one-half the level of developed countries. Despite the further
qualitative and quantitative changes which the Government proposes to intro-
duce through the proposed project and its own investments in the sector, these
percentages are unlikely to increase in the medium-term.
Ongoing Education Projects
29.       The Greek achievement of successfully introducing difficult insti-
tutional reforms in cornection with the three ongoing education projects
financed by the Bank has been summarized above. Specifically, the first Bank
education project, approved in 1970, introduced into Greece a diploma-level,
multi-disciplinary technical institution (the KATE) offering specialized
instruction in agriculture, business, engineering, food processing and health.
This innovative concept: provided a desirable alternative to university studies.
Indeed, it has caught on so strongly in Greece, that there is an overwhelming
student demand for entry into these institutions and an additional four KATEs
will be provided under the proposed project. More importantly, the first
project provided the basis for further fruitful dialogue between Greece and
the Bank on the need for further changes in the formal education system. The
first of these, which was realized under the second education project approved
in late 1972, involved an upgrading in the quality of instruction in primary
schools through the consolidation of existing primary teacher training schools
into larger, more efficient and better equipped institutions with a reformed
curriculum. In addition, the Bank widened its activities beyond MOE in this
project, and provided assistance in meeting manpower requirements in agricul-
ture, industry, the merchant marine, and tourism.
30.       Further institutional changes were realized in the third education
project, approved in June 1975. This project included the establishment, on
an experimental basis, of 10 multilateral secondary schools, providing instruc-
tion in shopwork and technical subjects to upper and lower secondary student
for the first time in Greece. In addition, a preinvestment study of pedagog-
ical training of secondary school teachers and a study of the development of
the post-secondary education system were also undertaken. The former resulted



- 10 -
in the inclusion of the School for the Advanced Training of Secondary Educa-
tion Teachers (SELME) in the proposed project.  With the inclusion of the mo_
comprehensive gymnasia in the proposed project, nearly all the major education
reforms identified at the beginning of the Bank's operations in the education
sector in Greece will have been realized. In large measure, this was ia.ii-
itated by the emergence on the Greek education scheme of more progressive
educators and administrators who were willing to break with tradition aad
experiment with more modern educational concepts.
31.       Unfortunately, Greece's exemplary record of institutional achieve-
ments and curriculum development is not matched by its performance on physical
implementation of the ongoing projects. That has been much slower than what
either the Government or the Bank might have wished. The projected completion
dates for all these projects are now estimated to be from two to five years
behind the original, perhaps overly optimistic, implementation schedules
envisaged during project appraisal. Some delays resulted from the several
changes in governments since 1971. However the main obstacles to timely
implementation have been tardy acquisition of sites, protracted procedures for
the selection and appointment of architects, as well as for evaluating designs
and awarding civil works and equipment contracts and, overall, weaknesses in
the project administrative machinery established for these projects.
32.       These obstacles have been serious.  If they were allowed to remain,
these would further impede and delay the implementation of these ongoing proj-
ects and bring into question whether the Bank should proceed at this stage
with the proposed project, much needed as it is at this point of time. How-
ever, since these obstacles are now clear from hindsight, the Government and
the Bank have had an intensive dialogue over the last few months to determine
how the projects' administrative machinery could be modified and the proce-
dural obstacles removed, so as to ensure that these three projects are imple-
mented expeditiously and without further delays. The obstacles of the acquisi-
tion of sites and appointment of architects have now been resolved. In the
last few months, actions on several fronts which had bogged down the physical
implementation of these projects (as manifested in a total disbursement of
less than $13 million so far in respect of all 3 projects), have been taken
with such determination and speed by the Government, that it leads to a
reasonable expectation that physical performance will now begin to match the
superb Greek performance in effecting institutional changes in this sector.
More importantly, agreements have been reached on measures to ensure timely
implementation, through improved administrative arrangements for implementing
these projects, assignments of additional staff, better review procedures,
shorter construction periods and timely on-site supervision. The implementa-
tion of these measures, agreed through an exchange of letters modifying the
existing loan agreements, should help ensure timely and satisfactory comple-
tion of these projects.



- 11 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
33.       The proposed project was identified by the Governtent in consulta-
tion with Bank missions which visited Greece in June and September 1976.
Thereafter, it was substantially prepared by the Government with only periodic
assistance provided throulgh Bank missions. It was appraised in May/June 1977.
Negotiations were held in January/February 1978 with a Greek delegation headed
by Mr. Petros Papadakis, Director General of the Ministry of Coordination, and
which included Mr. S. Scoutaris, Director General of MOE.
Project Objective
34.       The proposed project would assist in:  (a) modernizing and improving
the quality of compulsory education at the lower secondary school level
(gymnasia) through the introduction of a broader curriculum including science
and pre-vocational subjects; (b) providing a new type of technical/vocational
upper secondary education as part of the recent technical education reforms,
by establishing new combined Vocational and Technical Education Centers
(KETEs), having emphasis on the development of skills and technical knowledge;
(c) meeting needs for higher level technicians in priority sectors and spe-
cializations through estaLblishing additional Higher Technical and Vocational
Education Centers (KATEs) in more regions of Greece so as to improve regional
opportunities for post-secondary technical/vocational education; and (d)
improving the quality of secondary school teaching by supporting the intro-
duction of pedagogical training of all secondary teachers through a newly
established School for the Advanced Training of Secondary Education Teachers
and Officials (SELME).
Project Description and Content
35.       Specifically, ithe proposed project would include:  the equipping of
science and pre-vocational facilities of 40 existing and 21 nearly completed
gymnasia (grades 7-9); constructing, furnishing and equipping of 10 new KETEs
(grades 10-12), four additional KATEs (higher education) and SELME (teacher
training). As a result, the numbers of additional male and female student
places created would be 15,160 at the KETE level, 4,200 at the KATE level, and
1,000 (fulltime equivalent) for teacher training. Details are summarized in
subsequent paragraphs and in the Loan and Project Summary. A report entitled
"Staff Appraisal Report, Fourth Education Project in the Hellenic State", No.
1786-GR dated February 21, 1978, is also being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors.
36.       Gymnasia.  The 61 gymnasia (lower secondary schools), out of about
600 existing today in Greece, will be among the first equipped to offer the new
revised curriculum in which all students will take science and pre-vocational
studies (arts and crafts; and elementary technology). The schools were selected
based on their regional distribution, availability of space for the new courses
or stage of construction and the adequacy of the school-age population base



- 12 -
in the catchment area. Vocational guidance will be provided to enable the
graduates to decide whether to go into general, technical or vocational
education streams at the next stage. The project will equip the science
laboratory, arts and crafts room and the technology laboratory of these
gymnasia, to make possible effective instruction and student participation in
these subjects. These gymnasia will serve 27,000 students, of which 10,900
are additional places, or about 8 percent of the total 1977 enrollments of all
such schools.
37.       KETES.  The 10 project KETEs (Vocational and Technical Centers) are
among the first of these new type institutions to be built in Greece and are
suitably distributed regionally, including the less developed Komotini and
Mytilini regions (Map 13102R1). The Bank's involvement in these new institu-
tions is expected to have a favorable impact on the subsequent planned expan-
sion of the KETE system. When in full operation, they will provide additional
places for about 9,240 lycee students and 5,920 vocational school students.
The enrollment, number of specialized departments and skilled trade offerings
in the KETEs, reflect the projected needs of their respective catchment
areas.
38.       These KETEs are part of the Government's program to diversify
the upper secondary school system to provide quality technical secondary
education as a more viable alternative to general secondary education. They
will better prepare the students for employment than the previous vocational
schools and, if they have the ability, will enable them to continue to higher
education which was impossible under the old system. The KETEs provide for
the integrated use of the school premises for the technical lycee and the new
type vocational school programs in day and evening sections.
39.       Each technical lycee in the KETE will have an industrial and
non-industrial section. The industrial section will include specialized
departments such as mechanical and automotive, electrical and electronic,
construction and building, and chemistry and metallurgy; while the non-
industrial section will include secretarial, accounting and business, agri-
culture and animal husbandry and social services (including paramedical).
About 50 percent of the periods in the first two semesters will be devoted to
science, mathematics and general subjects. In the subsequent four semesters,
students will spend about two-thirds of their time on studies related to their
specializations and about half of this will be spent on practical work. The
duration of the trade courses in the vocational schools will vary from two
to four semesters, depending on the specialty, with about 50 percent of the
time spent on practical work. The schools will be operated by the General
Directorate of Vocational and Technical Education in MOE.  Assurances have
been obtained that appropriate arrangements will be made to help KETE graduates
find employment, and for tracing their employment to provide information on
the efficiency of their training (Loan Agreement, Section 4.04).
40.       KATES.  The KATEs (Higher Technical and Vocational Education Centers)
have steadily gained ground as an alternative to university education since
they were introduced in Greece under the first education project. The four
new KATEs would expand this system to 12 institutions, and provide 4,200
additional student places in schools of engineering technology, agricultural



- 13 -
technology and business mianagement. In addition to the programs offered in
existing KATEs, the new institutions would introduce specializations appro-
priate to their region; for example, mining, metallurgy, crop production at
Lamia, textile technologyr at Messolonghi, market gardening at Kalamata, and
production technology, ernvironmental protection, marketing and advertising,
and computer programming at Athens-Piraeus. Technology courses will last
six semesters, with 18 of the 36 weekly periods assigned to laboratory and
practical work; the business management course will last four semesters with
16 periods weekly allotted to practical.studies. In addition, during vaca-
tion, students will receive advanced practical training in the field, industry
or commerce.
41.       Each KATE is adlministered by a board comprising the heads of the
schools with the director of the KATE as its chairman, under the general
direction of the General Directorate of Vocational and Technical Education
in MOE. To provide guidance from employers on the training provided by the
centers, assurances were obtained that the project KATE boards will consult
with representatives of employers from industry, commerce, agriculture and the
social services, as appropriate (Loan Agreement, Section 4.03(a)). Each KATE
will have a placement officer.
42.       SELME.  The Sc'hool for Advanced Training of Secondary Education
Teachers and Officials (SELME), legally established in 1977, is the first
institution in Greece to offer pedagogical training for general secondary
school teachers. All new and existing gymnasia and general lycee teachers
will ultimately receive training organized by SELME. SELME is thus central
to carrying out reforms in secondary education, and is a cornerstone of the
Government's new education policy. When SELME begins full operations in
1981 it will provide a variety of programs designed to improve the pedago-
gical capabilities of teachers through: (a) an introductory one-to-six month
course for about 1,000 newly appointed teachers; (b) an advanced nine-month
course for 560 in-service teachers; (c) a shorter two-month course four times
a year, for 400 in-service teachers; and (d) short courses up to two months
for newly appointed headmasters and school inspectors. SELME would also
introduce teachers to tbLe new curricula that is part of the educational
reforms and to instruction in the newly introduced "Demotiki" Greek language
(para. 21). Satisfactory curricula for SELME have been developed by the
education specialists of the Center for Educational Studies aad Advanced
Training of Teachers (KEME) (para. 27), the semi-autonomous agency under
MOE responsible for administering SELME.
43.       Technical AssiLstance.  Although it is not included under the project
for reasons indicated hereafter, about 70 fellowships for training abroad, are
needed for KATE teachers in new specializations, and for curriculum development
of existing KATE disciplines.  The technical assistance program under the
Third Education Project (Loan 1134-GR) has been reviewed and sufficient funds
exist to meet not only the requirements of that project, but also to cover 10
fellowships for the immediate needs for KATE teacher training for the proposed
project. In addition, about 200 KATE teacher fellowships will be provided by
a UNDP project, of whiclh at least 60 will be for the KATEs included in the pro-
posed fourth project. The UNDP project, which will be signed shortly, has been



- 14 -
reviewed by Bank staff and is acceptable. In any case, assurances have been
obtained that Government will assure provision of this essential training by
completing the arrangements for UNDP financing by September 30, 1978 (Loan
Agreement, Section 4.03(c)).
Project Cost and Financing
44.       Total project cost (including a 28 percent price and a 10 percent
physical contingency) is estimated at about $124 million, of which about $60
million is foreign exchange. These estimates assume that most civil works and
furniture contracts will be won by local contractors and manufacturers and
that the major equipment will be imported. The proposed Bank loan of $60
million would thus cover 49 percent of the total cost of the project. The
balance would be provided by the Government.
Project Implementation
45.       The project would be carried out by MOE.  The implementation arrange-
ments are designed to avoid some of the weaknesses of the administrative
machinery, that became apparent during implementation of the ongoing education
projects. The Directorate General for Programming in MOE would have overall
responsibility for implementation, including establishing linkages with the
other departments and semi-autonomous agencies in MOE associated with the
project. The task of project administration will be easier than in the
second and third Bank education projects, which included project items under
the responsibility of other ministries, and agencies. Moreover, the proposed
arrangements will ensure that the overall responsibility for project adminis-
tration will be vested in a senior executive, the Director General of Program-
ming with sufficient authority to ensure the cooperation of all agencies
within the MOE that have a role in project implementation.
46.       The Directorate of Implementation of Education Projects (DIEP) with-
in the Directorate General for Programming will have primary responsibility
under the Director General, for project scheduling, monitoring and supervision
of implementation. Assurances were obtained that qualified engineering and
architectural staff in sufficient numbers including a full time qualified
engineer to assist the director in technical matters and a qualified equipment
procurement officer will be provided to DIEP. The latter will be in place by
June 30, 1978 (Loan Agreement, Schedule 5). To facilitate execution, the
Organization for School Building (OSK) has been designated responsible for the
design of the project schools. OSK will assist DIEP in the drafting of civil
works contracts and in the supervision of construction. Additional staff have
been provided to OSK to carry out these functions. Project officers have been
nominated by the Center for Educational Studies and Advanced Training of
Teachers (KEME) and by the General Directorates of Technical Education and
General Education, the operating departments in the MOE responsible for proj-
ect schools, to liaise with DIEP and OSK on the educational aspects of the
respective project items.
47.       To avoid the delays plaguing previous projects, care was taken that
site acquisition was sufficiently advanced so as not to delay the construction
of the project institutions. Sites for 12 out of 15 project institutions have



- 15 -
already been acquired and actions initiated which should ensure the remaining
three sites will be available on time. Preliminary designs for 11 project
schools prepared by OSK have already been received and reviewed by the Bank,
and are satisfactory. The remaining preliminary designs are expected by June
1978 and final designs by March 1979. Revised procedures for contracting
arising from the discussion of the ongoing projects will also be introduced
and are expected to reduce delays. In addition to minimizing construction
problems and changes, understandings were reached that DIEP's architects and
engineers will visit construction sites frequently during construction. More-
over, an understanding has been reached in a supplemental letter on the target
dates for completion of the critical activities for project implementation.
48.       To assess the effectiveness of the project schools and the curricula
reforms introduced, assurances were obtained that a monitoring and evaluation
system will be established to collect and analyze the appropriate data for at
least four years after the start of project school operations. Annual analyti-
cal summaries of the information collected will be provided to the Bank (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.03(c)).
Teachers for the Project Schools
49.       The recruitment of qualified teachers for the project gymnasia are
expected to present no problem; only about 410 new staff will be needed and
can easily be recruited from existing sources. The necessary pedagogical
training of all new and existing gymnasia teachers will be provided by SELME.
A total of 736 teachers will be required for the project KETEs when they are
in full operation at which time the KETE system is expected to need about
8,000 teachers in all. About 3,800 of these teachers, of which 2,000 are
technical teachers, will come from the existing vocational school teaching
staffs. The remaining 900 per year will be recruited from adequate univer-
sity and KATE sources. However, to ensure that KETE teachers have adequate
pedagogical training, the semi-autonomous School for Teachers of Vocational
and Technical Education, a UNDP/UNESCO sponsored institution--SELME trains
only general secondary teachers and gymnasia teachers--requires an estimated
30 additional teacher-trainers. Assurances were obtained that at least 10 new
teacher-trainers will be employed by the beginning of the 1979-80 academic
year and that the remainder will be provided as needed thereafter (Loan Agree-
ment, Section 4.03(b)). The 254 teachers per year needed for the four project
*         KATEs, can be provided from existing sources.  The equivalent of 70 full time
teachers will be required for SELME, the core of which will come from KEME
staff. The remainder will be recruited from the MOE, universities and like
institutions. Moreover, assurances were obtained that all teachers will, be
provided promptly as needed (Loan Agreement, Section 4.05 (a) and Schedule 2
Annex) and an understanding was reached on the timing of recruitment and
appointment (Supplemental Letter).
Procurement and Disbursement
50.       Civil works contracts (amounting to $70.0 million, including con-
tingencies) and contracts for furniture and equipment in excess of US$50,000
would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB).



- 16 -
f urrnture and equipment items (amounting to $48.0 million, including contin-
gencies), would be grouped, to the extent possible, in large packages to
permit bulk procurement. Specialized items and small items which must be
compatible with equipment procured under ICB, and which practically can only
be grouped in small packages (of less than $50,000), wouLa be procured under
normal Government procedures, which are satisfactory to the Bank, and would
include to the extent feasible quotations from at least t'hree manufacturers or
suppliers. The contracts for these items would not exceed an aggregate total
of $5.0 million. Local manufacturers of equipment and furniture would be
allowed a margin of preference under ICB equal to 15 percent of the CIF price
or the existing rate of cutoms duties applicable to competing imports, which-
ever is less. Books for the KATEs and SELME would be procured directly from
authorized distributors with Bank approval, under negotiated contracts for
bulk purchase.
51.       The loan would be disbursed against:  28 percent of the cost of
civil works contracts (representing the estimated foreign exchange component);
100 percent of foreign expenditures or 85 percent of local expenditures for
equipment; and 100 percent of foreign expenditures or 40 percent of local
expenditures for furniture.
Benefits, Risks and Uncertainties
52.       The project would support the Government's recently enacted reforms
directed towards improving the quality of the educational system. The major
benefits of the project are expected to be through: improving the relevance
of gymnasia education by introducing modernized curricula; upgrading the
quality of secondary school teaching by assisting the establishment of the
School for Advanced Training of Secondary Education Teachers and Officials
(SELME); diversifying upper secondary schooling with the establishment of new
combined technical lycees and vocational schools and; more expeditious provi-
sion of the physical facilities needed. The project would also assist in the
provision of the trained manpower required to meet both regional and national
needs, particularly, with the anticipated entry of Greece into the EEC. The
project KETEs would supply about 9 percent of the projected annual demand for
sales, clerical, service and skilled workers, and the project KATEs nearly 27
percent of the annual demand for agricultural and engineering technicians, and
non-university business management personnel. The project is also expected to
support regional development through regional dispersion of project schools.
I
53.       Care has been taken to benefit from the experience gained in the
implementation of the ongoing three education projects, to develop satis-
factory project implementation arrangements and avoid the delays these proj-
ects experienced by advancing the acquisition of sites and the preparation
of preliminary designs and through assigning the responsibility for final
designs, all before board considerations. Arising out of the constructive
approach taken by the government, the Directorate General of Programming in
the MOE would have clear overall responsibility for project implementation.
Except for the risk of delay, the project has only the normal risks associated



- 17 -
with a project of this magnitude and diversity. Because all the project items
are within MOE many of the staff assigned to this project will be experienced
in project implementation as a result of their involvement with earlier Bank
financed education projects.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
54.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Hellenic State and the Bank,
and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii)
of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. The draft agreement conforms generally to the normal pattern for
loans for education projects. Features of the Loan Agreement of special
interest are referred to in the appropriate paragraphs of this Report and
summarized in Annex III. Since the Agreement must be ratified by Parliament,
and this is time consuming, the Agreement provides for a terminal date of
effectiveness 180 days after signing.
55.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
56.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
March 1, 1978
Washington, D.C.






ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 6
GREECE              - SOCIAL IN)ICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                  --------------------------------------------------
---------------                                   GREECE                               REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL       131.9                                       MOST RECENT
AGRIC.      91.6                        1960       1970   ESTIMATE           SPAIN           BELGIUM        FRANCE **
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                     510.0*   1360.0*  2590.0*/a              1580.0*     3800.0*  3670.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STAiISTICS
_  _     _  __  _     _     _  __  _     _     _  __  _     _ --- _
POPULATION (MID-YR. M.LLION)             E.3        B.8        9.1/a              33.6         9.7        50.8
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                        63.0       67.0      69.0/a              67.0       317.0         93.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND         93.0       96.0      99.071T            105.0       604.0        156.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THO.J, AV)         19.4       19.1       15.4                21.0        16.3        17.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THCJ,AV)            7.3        a.0        9.4                 8.S        12.3        11.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)         40.1       29.6      24.0                27.9        21.1         18.2
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)        68.0       70.9      71.6                70.5        70.9         71.6
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                1.1        1.0        1.0                 1.4         1.3         1.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                  1..u       o.5/a      0.7                 1.1         0.6         1.1
URBAN                                  2.1        1.         *-.                2.0         1.3         2.5
URBAN POPJLATION (% OF TOTAL)           57.0       62.6       64.8/b              59.1        71.2        70.2
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                        26.7       24.9       24.2               27.8         23.7        24.0
I; 15    YER                         35.1        34.0      03.6                62.5        63.0        62 6
65 YEARS AND OVER                      8.2       11.1       12.0                9.1         ,3.J        '3..4
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                     0.5        0.6        0.6                 0.6         0.6         0.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                0.9          .        1.1/b               1.1         1.O         0.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)            ..         .          ..                  ..          .
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN).                              .        .               .     .    .
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THO.SAND)          3600.0 /a       .    3300,0              11900.0      3600.0    20600.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)          54.0         ..       34.0                25.0         4.5 /a     15.1 /a
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)            6.0 /b                3.0 /c              1.1 /a      2.2         2.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME RECOD BY-
HIGHEST  s% OF HOUSEHOLDS             16.7 Ic      .          *-
HIGHEST 20% OF HOLSEHOLOS             44.7         . .        .                   ..
LOWEST  20X OF HOUSEHOLDS              6.3 7       .          ..                  ...
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS             17.47              ..             ..7
DISTRI1UTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS              ..         ..       27.5/d                ..          .
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS            ..         ..        2.6                  . .         ...
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN               790.u /d  620.0       500.0               740.o/b    650.o/b    750.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         1260.07 e1140.0    1 280.0/                   . .      410.o       370.0
POPULATION PER HOSP!TAL BED            170.0 7a   160.0      160.0               220.0       120.0       140.0/b
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)         120.0      116.0      126.0/f             107.0       126.O/c    127.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)               99.0       99.0      113.07r              B1.0        94 07/    104.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          39.0       52.0 /b      I .              40.0         56.0 r      66.0
DEATH RATE ()THOU) AGES 1-4               *          *-        0.9/b               0.9         0.9         0.8
EDUCATION
ADJUSTEo ENROLLMENT RAT ID
PRIMARY OC;IOOL                     U-0        110.0      108.0/a              123.0          . .      117.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                        .        70.0       8o.0 T              57.0          ..        74.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECONO LEVEL)              12.0       12.0       12.0               11.0         14.0        14.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARY)                      17.0/h    20.0        22.0/b             20.0         60.0        19.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (5)                 BO.0       62.0          ..               94.0        99.0        99.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                 1.4                   o.s/b                , .        0.6/d       0.9
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (x)                       71 0                  35 0 b g
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY                                                                         12.0/e       9.0
(x OF ALL DWELLINGS)                  53.0                  88 99.0/b             .        100.0        99.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (X)                    14.0         .        77.o/b                          96.0        98.0
CONSUMPTION
_    __ --- _ _ _ 
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)          9S.0      111.0      112.0               214.0       350.0       314.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU Pop)            5.0       26.0       42.0                71.0       213.0       254.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)           274.0    1072.0    1589.D                1634.0      3199.0      2759.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                2.6         1.6       5.4                598         16.6        11.9
StE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERISE



AhNNEX I
Page 2 of 6
NOTES
UInless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any yesr between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970, and for Most Recent Estimate between
1973 and 1975.
o SNP per capita data are based on the World Bgnk Atlas methodology (1974-76 basic).
C* ceoniderlng Greece's imminent entry into the European Community, comparison with the French economy is appropriate.
GREECE       1960    /a  Excluding persons in compulsory military aervica;    lb  Eicluding   nenplo.yd seam.en;    /n  1957-58, urban;    Id  1962;
Tn  Including aidsiven and nurses  ith midifery qualifications;    /f  Including maternity hospitals;                     /s  1960-62;
7b  Teacher training not included in secondary school enrollment                /i  Inside only.
190      /a  fue to emigration population growth rate is lower than the rate of natural increae;                   /b  1967.
i105T RECENT ESTENATEt    (a  1976;    /b  1971;    Ic  Excluding unemployed scomen;    Id  1972;    /e  Including anaistont nurses snd
midwives;    If  1969-71;    /A  Inside only.
SPtIN       1970    /-  Employment office estimite;           lb  Registered, nor all practicing in che country.
BELGIUM     1970    /s  Ercloding unemptoyed;          /b  Including physicians practicing dentistry;            /c  Belgiume and Lnnenbuurg;        /d  Total urba
and rural;    /e  Inside.
FRANCE      1970      a  ErIcluding unemployed;    /b  fl-ern-ent hoopitol establishmenta
R15, March 1, 1978
DEFINIT7ION OF SOCMIL INDICATORS
Land Area (thou ki2)                                                                          PoPulatio. per nurning persoe - Population divided by number of practicing
Total - Total usrface area comprising land area and inland waters,                               male and female gr-dsate nurses,  trained" or "certified" nooses, wnd
asrb. - Mont recent esti-ate of agricultural area used te,spararily or pesma-                    auxiliary personnel with training or esperienn.
nently for crops, pantures,  acrket A kitchen gardens or to lie fallo.                       Population Per honspital bed - Population divided by numbes  of hospital Sods
available is Psublic and privats gensr-I and spenf.ialed hospital and
GNP per capita (US$) - GNP per capita  stima tes at current market prices,                       reitbilitatinp centers; eaclude  nursing homes and nscablithse-tu fur
calculated by name conversion method as World Rank Atlas (1973-75 baste);                      cuatodial and preventiv  care.
1960; 1970 and 1975 data.                                                                   Psr a.Pita spply of carories % of requirements) - Computed fron energy
P-P-I.tion ..d vital  t.tistic;                                         ~~~~~~~~quivalent of set food supplies avilable isoonerry per ca pita Per day;
Population and vital stetioticf                                                                  aveilablo supplies c.-priss domestic pr-duntion, imports less e-port. and
Populatios (mid-year million)   As of July first:  if  nt available,  vrnage                     ohanges in  tbck; net supplies exclude anial feed, seeds, quantities used
xi two end-year estimates; 160, 1970 and 1975 data,                                            in fod processing and losses in distribution; requirenmentc er-    uninttd
by FAO based on physiological nesds for normal activity and health consid-
Population depsiyt - per square kms - Mid-year population per square kilometer                   ering envirosmental temperature, body weighta, age sod sex distribctions of
(100 hectares) of taa  area.                                                                  popuplatien, and allowing 107, fir waste at household level.
Population density - per aquare la of  gric.  land - Computed as  bove for                     Per nepit. spply of protein (Rrams per day) - Protein contert of per cupic-
agricultural land only.                                                                        net supply of food par day; net supply of food is defined as above; requivo-
vLt.I  t.tt.ti.j                                                        .. I~~~~~~~~~~~~~nets for all coantrias esatblisbed by UiSlA Economic Reseach lervice-
Cital  rtaristics                                                                                provide for a niniaum allowance of 60 grams of total proteis per day, and
Crude birth rate per thousand. overage - Annual live births per thousand of                      20 grams of animal and pslse protein, of which 10 graso should be animal
mid-year population; ten-year arithmetic ayerages ending in 1960 and 1970,                     protein; these standards am  lower then thoao of 75 gra=a of total protrei
and five-year average  nading in 1975 for maot resent .stiast.                                 *nd 23 grams of animal protein as as average for the world, proposed bh  FAOQ
Crude death rate per thousand. average - Annual deaths par thousand of mid-year                  In tho Third World Food Survey.
population; ten-year erithmetic awera. ee ending in 1960 and 1970 and five-                  Par c.pitc  proreim  -uppl  fro- animaI end PuI.e - Proteln supply of focd
year average ending in 1975 for mast recent eatimats.                                          derived from animal  and pulses in grams par day.
Infant mortalitry rate (Ithou) - Anneal deaths of infants under one year of age                Death rate  cthild en    1-4 - Anna  deoaths par thousand  s ago grop 1-4
par thowuand live births.                                                                      years, to children in this age group; soggeutci an an iodicator of
Life expectancy  at birth (yre) - Average nuher of years of life remaining at                    malnutrition.
birth; nasally five-year averagms ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
ing countrie.                                                                               Education
Gross reroduction rare - syorage  -meber of live daughtera a woman will bear                  Adjusted enrollment ratio - primary school - Enrollasent of a11 ages as per-
in her eumal reproductive period if she experiences present age-specific                       centage of primary school-age population; includes children aged 6-11 years
fertility rates; usually five-year  -vereges ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                     but adjusted for different lengths of primary education; for countries with
for developing conntrien                                                                       universal education, enrollment may exceed 1001  since some pupils are obeo
Population growth rate (TI - total - Cmpound annual growth rates of mid-year                     or above the official acbool age.
population for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                                 Adjusted  seroilment ratio - escoedary  school - Computed as above; secondary
PoPulation grovth rate  i) - urban - Computed like growth rate of total                          education requires at least fuur yeara of approved primary inatruction;
papulation; different definitions of urban areas may affect comparability of                   prnvidea general, vIcational or teacher training instructions for pupili
data among countries.                                                                          uf 12 in 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally occluded.
Urban population (% of total) - Ratio of urban to  tEal population; different                  Years of *choalirg provided (first and second levels) - Total years of
dsfinitione of urban areas may affect comparability of dta among countries.                    schooling; at secondary le"el, v-ctaionel inatruction may be partially or
VcomPletely secluded.
ARe structure (porcent) - Cbildren (0-14 years), vorking-age (15-64 years),                    Voctional enrollment (', of scrondary) - Votution-i in-titutio-s i-in d
and retired (65 years and over) as parc.ntage- of mid-year populainti-                          echuicol, indu trial or other programs which opera-- indepepd-ntly or us
aSs dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to those                     departneets of secondary institutonea
of ages 15 through 64.                                                                       Adult literacvy  ate () - Literate adolta  (able tO read and write: an por-
Econtoi  dePendency ratio - Ratin af population under 15 wed 65 and over to                      centago of total adult population aged 15 yearn -nd over
the labor farce is agS group of 15-64 years.
Family  elsnino  - soceotars  (c,aswlative,  thou) - CuIulative number of acceptors            Hoosing
of birth-control devices under auspices of national family planning progran                  Persons per room (urban) - A-crage  onuber of per-ono per toon t ccculed
since inception.                                                                               convetional dvellings in urban areas; dwellf-gtso dc-luinto -p-r nnot
Faoily  Planning - users  f7 of married women) - Percentages of marriod cones of                 stroctures and unoccupied ports.
child-bearing age (15-44 yearn) who use birth-central devices to a11 married                 Occopied dwelliing  withbut piped  water  17' - Iccopidn convri-onal iwolli-igc
comeo ill same age grup.                                                                       in orbun and rural aras without inside or outside piped cuter facilitocs
as percentage of a11 occupied dwllings.
iploytnest                                                                                     Accens  to electricity (f of a11 duellinga) - Conventional dwellmgs with
Total labor force (thousand) - Economically ective persons, including ased                       electricity in living quarters as percent of to-r  dwellongs In -rba  and
forces and unemployed but e..luding hbaoeie.      , students, etc.; definitions                rural areas.
in various countries are nor compar able                                                     nuraI dwellings  connected  to electrinti  (TI - Computed as above for r,rul
Labor force in  agriculture (i) - Agricaltural labhr force (in fmin.g, forestry,                 dwellings only.
hunting and fishing) as percentage of total labor force.
Un employed (7 of labor fare) - Unemployed are usually dafined as parsons who                  Coneumption
re able and willing tn take a job, out of a Job on a given day, remained ant                 Radio receivers (per thou pop) - All types of  oesci-ern for radic broadcasts
of    job, end seeking vork for a specified minimom period not seceeding one                   to general public per thousand of population; ecludes  nliceonod re-ci-rs
eek;  ay et be comparable between countries due to different definitions                        in countries wed in yearn vhe. registration of radio untu Wan i  effert;
of unemployed and sourc  pf dat-, e.g., employment office  t-ctiacic-,  s-plo                  data for recent years may not be comparable since most co-nrrive  abulichod
nurveys, compulsory unemployment nsurance                                                      licensing.
Passenger  ears (par thou Poe) -anegrcars comprise sror car  snaing
Income dlntribution - Percentage of privaie income (both in .sah and kind)                        l.ee  tha ceight perston; exc lude  ambularces, hearser  and silita-Y
received by richest 5%, richest 207, poorest 20%, and poorest 40% of house-                      shicles.
holds.                                                                                       Electricity  (kwh/yr per cap) - A-nnal consumption of industrial, cmo-rniu.1
publIc en   rvteestfity in kilosoat houra per capita, ge-or11ly
nitrribotiun  of laud  ounershin  - Per-entagen of lend  tewed by weaIthiest 10%                  b icd on production data, ithout atlow ace for leses in grids hut ullow-
and poorest 107, of land owners.                                                              ing for imparts sod exports of electricity.
Newsprint (kg/yr per cap) - Per capita annual coanumption in kilogron-
HelIth and Nutrition                                                                              estimated from  domestic prodaction plc  net imparts of -nw-priet.
Population Par physician - Population dividsd by somber of practicing
phyniniase qualified from a medical school at university leal.



ANNRX I
Page 3 of 6
GREECE: ECONGMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
Average Aecool Growth Raten
Actual    ________                                        Projected                                   1970     1974       1975    1977
1970     1974-  1975       1976              1977       1978    1979     1980     1981      1982              1974      1975      1976    1982
A. NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
(19764100, billion drochos
Gro.s Domestic Prodoct                          594.8   728.9    761.8   803.0               450.9      900.0   953.8    1010.5   1069.7   1132.7              5.1       4.5       5.4     5.8
Goons from Terms of Tr-de                         6.4      2.8      0.9      -                 0.8       -2.3    -2.4      -2.2     -2.2      -2.2             ..        ..        .
Gross DOtrstl  Inoe.e.                          601.2    731.7    762.7   803.0               851.7     897.7   951.4    1008.3   1067.5   1130.5              4.6       5.9       5.7     5.0
toporos (8 0 nO.)                                68.2    110.6   120.2    139.5              1i2.9      188.0   204.5     222.6    242.5    264.4             12.9      8.7       16.1     8.7
Inporce (g o of.)                             -136.7  -186.7  -200.6  -216.3                -237.1   -250.8  -265.7   -281.5  -298.0  -315.6                   8.1      7.4        7.8     5.7
Resoorre Ba_lote                                -68.5    -76.1   -80.4    -76.8               -64.2    -62.8  -61.2       -58.9   -55.5    -51.2
In'scternt                                     182.5    192.5    191.6    198.6              215.2      231.6   249.8     269.2    290.1    312.6              1.3      -0.5       3.7     7.Y
Coesomptior                                    483.9    603.2    650.9    684.2               699.9     731.0   765.3     800.2    835.2    871.3              5.7       7.9       5.1     4.1
Dnesc. c SavIoRs                                110.9    114.3    110.9    121.8             151.8      166.7   186.1     229.1    232.3    259.2              0. 9      2.3       9.5    15.4
-  national Sononas                             126.5    130.0    133.0    146.7              274.0     109.3   208.2     229.5    253.3    260.0              2.2       3.6       l.     11.3
B. SECTOR OUTPUT                                  Shore of GDP (factor c.st) St 1976 Prlo.s
Agrirult-re                                      18.2     19.6     18.7     18.3               17.6      17.2    16.9      16.6      16.3     16.0
Indoetry                                         31.4     31.0     30.6     31.1              32.0       32.8    33.6      34.3     35.0      35.7
Sorclcee                                        50.4      49.4     50.7     50.6              50.4       50.0    49.5      49.1     48.7      48.3
C. PRICE5 (1976=100)
E.port Prior Ild-e                              44.G      79.4     91.1    100.0              112.4     116.2   123.6     131.9    140.9    150.3             15.9      14,7       9,7     7.1
Import Prior Indee                              40.2      77.5     90.5    100.0             111.9     117.6   125.0      133.2    142.2    151.8             27 .8    16.8       10,66    7.2
Germs of Trade Inde                             109.5    100.5   l0G.7   100.0                100.4      90.6    98.8      99.3     95.1      99.1 
GDP Dlflt-r                                     50.2     79.3     88.4    100.0             110.0      121.0   133.1     143.7    155.2    167.7             12.1      11.5      15.0     9.0
Oncroge E-hongo Rote (S1.00-Dr-.)                30.1     30.1     32.3     36.9
D. PUBLIC FINANCE                                         As .er cent of GDP
Currenc frootue                                 18.5      18.3     20.4     21.6
Toe Reoenoe                                      17.2     17.0     17.9     20.0
Curreoni toxpndlcores                           16.2      17.6     19.1     20.6
Definer Eopr-d tcres                              5.3      3.9      5.1      5.4
Goverenn.t Savings                                2.3      0.7      0.8      1.0
CapItol Etpooditcres                              4.3      4.1      4.8      5.0
E. SELECTED INDICATORS                                 1965-73           1976-82 1.                                F.  LABOR FORCE                               1961                1971 2/
1ncronental Copitcl!/Lipot Retlo                      3.0               4.4                                        L"hor Porno (oil icon)                     3.86                3.39
Inpo-c Eligeicy                                      1.2                1.0                                         .ne.plny.e..   (million)                  0.22                0.11
Avetage 1itlonol Sonlnge Race                        16.7              21.9                                           ( of LW)                                5.7                 3.2
-aroinol Notio-oi Sonin.s R-tc                       24.2              42.1                                        Elpiy.-ot (lllion)                        3.64                3.28
Irports/GDP                                         24.0               27.9                                           X ohor- of:
Agriculture                          53.9               40.5
Iodoet-y                             19.1               25.6
Se-ite                               27.0               33.9
1/ Inly a cOORh co.parl-on ton  Ie rAdo hocartn the tno cots of motel Erdlcotor va ions as Elgurce for 0965  ero obtnloed by applying  -rocth
natno obtolood frpr the old notional long oe ocroounc seriss roprsserd in tonstoet 1950 serIes.
21 Lobor fort-  dote Is cL rrcntly -nd-r       -iior renleloo doe to lnoravlra di-otoered In the 1971  reno pgrtti-lo rly  wlth rcard to the
-ocopation-l etroocoro.  The.e fig-roe, th-enforo, roy not bh cooporoble to thEos. -p-ortd  etrecnly  l-her.                                                                       M2 
CPDi lI-A
Febrot-y 24, 1978



ANNEX 1
Fage 4 of 6
IMPORT DETAIL
1974      1975    1976       1977      1978       1980      1982
A.  CONSTANT 1976 PRICES (Million $)
Food                                       594.4    683.6   619.0    653.5    691.2    776.0    869.9
Intermediate goods  -                    1141.3   1008.4  1011.2   1067.6   1129.2   1267.7   1421.1
Petroleum products                        1009.5    918.9   987.7   1042.8   1102.9   1238.3   1388.1
Capital goods                            1451.4   1538.3  1523.6   1608.6   1701.3   1910.1   2141.2
Manufactured consumer goods               1097.4   1153.0  1410.7   1489.4   1575.3   1768.6   1982.5
Total goods (c.i.f.)                     5294.0   5302.2  5552.2   5861.9   6199.9   6960.7   7802.8
Non-factor services  -                     617.7    578.2   567.2    598.8    633.4    711.1           797.1
Total goods and NFS                      5911.7   5880.4  6119.4   6460.4   6833.3   7671.8   8599.9
B.  PRICE INDICES (1976=100)
Food                                       101.8      84.7   100        149.6     127.7      126.6    138.3
Intermediate goods 2/                       87.5      98.5   100        107.5    116.1       135.5     152.9
Petroleum products 2                        84.9      93.2   100        108.7     118.3      135.7     155.4
Capital goods        -/                     87.5      98.5   100        107.5    116.1       133.5     152.9
Manufactured consumer goods                 87.5      98.5   100        107.5    116.1       133.5     152.9
Total goods (c.i.f.)                        88.6      95.8   100        112.4     117.8      133.2     151.7
Non-factor services 2/                      87.5      98.5   100        107.5      116.1     133.5    152.9
Total goods and NFS                         88.5      96.1   100        111.9      117.6     133.2     151.8
C.  CURRENT VALUES (Million $)
Food                                       605.1     579.0   619.0    977.7    882.7    982.5   1202.7
Intermediate goods  1/                     998.6    993.3  1011.2   1147.7   1310.9   1693.0   2172.8
Petroleum                                  857.1    856.4   987.7   1133.5   1304.7   1680.4   2156.5
Capital goods                             1270.0   1515.2  1523.6   1729.2   1975.2   2550.8   3273.8
Manufactured consumer goods                960.2   1135.7  1410.7   1601.1    1828.9   2361.8   3031.2
Total goods (c.i.f.)                      4691.0   5079.6  5552.2   6589.1   7302.4   9268.4  11837.0
Non-factor services 1'                     540.5    569.5   567.2    643.7    735.3    949.6   1218.8
Total goods and NFS                      5231.5   5649.1  6119.4   7232.8   8037.7  10218.0  13055.8
1/    Obtained as a residual
2/   Index of international inflation
EMENA Region
CPD II-A
February 24, 1978



ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 6
EXPORT DETAIL
1974      1975    1976    1977       1978        1980      1982
A. CONSTANT 1976 PRICES (Million S)
Food and Beverage                         374.1    607.4   542.2   563.9    586.4          634.3    686.1
Tobacco                                   164.2    143.5   161.7   171.4    181.7          204.1    229.4
Petroleum products                        145.3      93.3    73.6    80.9        89.1      107.8    130.4
Textiles and yarns                        245.9    341.4   369.5   413.8    463.5          581.4    729.3
Metals                                    261.5    280.3   271.5   282.4    293.7          317.6    343.5
Cement                                     91.6    133.7   131.1   136.3    141.8          153.4    165.9
Raw materials                             260.7    254.2   260.4   281.2    303.7          354.3    413.2
Manufactured goods                        294.2    327.2   387.9   407.3    427.7          471.5    519.8
Other products  LI                         49.3      29.8    29.6    30.8        32.0       34.6      37.5
Total goods                              1886.8   2210.8  2227.5  2368.0   2519.6    2859.0   3255.1
Non-factor services  1/                  1880.4   1876.4  2112.1  2344.4   2602.3    3206.3   3950.5
Total goods and NFS                      3767.2   4087.2  4339.6  4712.4   5121.9    6065.3   7205.6
B.  PRICE INDICES (1976=100)
Food and Beverage                         101.8      84.7   100       149.6    127.7       126.6    138.3
Tobacco                                    98.2    116.3   100        115.0    126.9       151.8    180.7
Petroleum products                         84.9      93.2   100       108.7    118.3       135.7    155.4
Textiles and yarns                         83.5      70.6   100       101.0      95.1      104.3    119.4
Metals                                    123.8    102.1   100        110.6    119.9       157.1    183.9
Cement                                     87.2      98.5   100       107.5    116.1       133.5    152.9
Raw materials                              87.2      98.5   100       107.5    116.1       133.5    152.9
Manufactured goods                         87.2      98.5   100       107.5    116.1       133.5    152.9
Other products                             87.2      98.5   100       107.5    116.1       133.5    152.9
Total goods                                95.6      91.8   100       117.3    116.2       130.1    147.6
Non-factor services  2/                    87.2      98.5   100       107.5    116.1       133.5    152.9
Total goods and NFS                        91.4      94.9   100       112.5    116.2       131.9    150.5
C.  CURRENT VALUES (Million$)
Food and Beverage                         380.8    514.5   542.2   843.6    748.9          803.0    948.5
Tobacco                                   161.2    166.9   161.7   197.1    230.6          309.9    414.4
Petroleum products                        123.4      87.0    73.6    88.0    105.4         146.2    202.6
Textiles and yarns                        205.3    241.0   369.5   418.0    440.9          606.3    870.8
Metals                                    323.7    286.2   271.5   312.3    352.1          499.0    631.8
Cement                                     79.9    131.7   131.1   146.6    164.6          204.8    253.6
Raw materials                             228.1    250.4   260.4   302.3    352.6          473.1    631.8
Manufactured goods                        257.4    322.3   387.9   437.8    496.5          629.7    794.8
Other products                             43.1      29.4    29.6    33.1        37.2       46.2      57.3
Total goods                              1802.9   2029.4  2227.5  2778.8   2928.8    3718.2   4805.6
Non-factor services                      1639.7   1848.3  2112.1  2520.3   3021,3    4281.8   6040.1
Total goods and NFS                      3442.6   3877.7  4339.6  5299.1   5950.1    8000.0  10845.7
1/    Obtained as a residual.
2/    Index of international inflation.
EMENA Region
CPD II-A
February 24. 1978



ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
(in current U5 $ millions)
Actual                                              Projected
1974       19 75     1976             1977       1978       1979       1980       1981      1982
A.   SUMMARY OF BALANCE OF PAYMENTS L-
1.  Exports (Goods and NFS)                         3442.6    3877.7    4339.6            5299.1    5950.1    6884.1    8000.0    9310.4  10845.7
2.  Imports (Goods and NFS)                         5231.5    5649.1    6123.2             7232.8    8037.8    9055.6   10218.0   11548.5  13055.7
3.  Resoorce Baionce                               -1788.9   -1771.4   -1783.6           -1933.7   -2087.7   -2171.5   -2218.0   -2238.1  -2210.0
4.  Total net factor income                          576.3      683.0      692.1            673.5      716.5      752.2      779.1      816.7    865.6
a.  Interest and profits (net)                   -97.2    -100.0    -111.1            -194.0    -220.3    -259.6    -313.6    -363.5   -409.0
b.  Workers' remittances                         673.5      783.0     803.2            867.5      936.8    1011.8    1092.7    1180.2   1274.6
5.  Net transfe--
6.  Balance on current account                     -1212.6   -1088.4   -1091.5           -1260.2   -1371.2   -1419.3   -1438.9   -1422.4  -1344.4
7.  Direct Foreigo lnvestneq f 3 -/                  292.7      357.9      367.2           400.3      436.3      475.5       518.3      564.9    615.8
8.  Net Private Borrowing  -                         200.3      325.4      281.6            250.0      264.3      321.4      264.3      207.1    150.0
Disbursements                              (282.5)   (423.3)   (346.0)            (250.0)   (300.0)   (400.0)   (400.0)   (400.0)  (400.0)
Amortization                                (-82.2)   (-97.9)   (-64.4)             (-)      (-35.7)   (-78.6)  (-135.7)  (-192.9) (-250.0)
.  Net Public Borrowing -333.4                                  295.9    -100.7            232.3       347.0      257.7      283.9      235.1    220.4
Disbursements                              (431.8)   (542.4)   (182.9)            (620.8)   (728.6)   (865.5)   (946.2)   (931.3) (1037.6)
Amortization            6                   (-98.4)  (-246.5)  (-283.6)          (-388.5)  (-381.7)  (-607.8)  (-662.2)  (-696.2) (-817.2)
10.  Foreign Exchange Deposits -                      195.5      185.0      545.2            500.0      450.0      425.0      400.0      400.0    400.0
11.  Other Items n.e.i. 7/                             78.1      -48.9       -7.5                         8.0      109.6      166.4      236.4    210.0
12.  Increase in Reserves (-- increase)               112.6       -6.9        5.7          -122.3    -134.4    -170.0    -194.1    -222.2   -251.7
13.  Official Reserves (end year)                     903.7      910.6      905.0
Ac tual
3.   LOAN COMMITMENTS                                                                      PUBLIC EXTERNAL DEBT                 1974       1975       1976
1.  Total public M & LT loans                        166.7      221.0      207.1      Public DO&D                        2037.3    2551.7    237t.1
a.  IBRD                                          30.0      110.0       30.0      Intereec                            143.4      172.4      176.9
b.  EIB                                            -         56.7        9.0      Amortizations                       187.0      272.0      310.4
c.  Others                                        36.7       54.3      168.1      Total Debt Service                  330.4      444,4      487.3
2.  Total public commercial loans                    487.4      378.3      243.8      Debt Service Ratio
Debt Service/Emporto NFS            9.6       11.5       11.2
PUBLIC EXTERNAL DEBT                               Outstanding Dec.31,1976              Debt Service/Exports NFS 6
(Disbursed Only)                               Amount            Percent              Immigrant's Remittances              8.0        9.5        9.5
1.  lBRD                                           81.8               3.5             Terms
2.  Other Multilateral                            123.8              5.2                 Interest on Total DO&D/
3.  Governments                                   371.1             15.6                    Total DO&D                       7.0        6.8        7.4
4.  Financial Institutions                       1547.6             65.1                 Total Debt Service/Total DOiD   16.2          17.4       20.5
5.  SDpplier-  Credit                             129.0               5.4
6.  Others                                        123.9              5.2              IBRD DO&D                             60.5       70.7       81.8
TO-AL                                       2377.2             100.0              IBRD DO&D as 1 of total DO&D           3.0        2.8        3.4
IBRD Debt Service as Z of
Total Debt Service                  2.4        2.5        3.0
1/   Data for 1974-1976 are estimated in dollars on the basis of current exchange rates.
2/   Includes net direct investment income and net dividends.
3/   Includes direct investment under Law 2687/53, real estate investment and other net private investment.
4/     Includes loans to priv-te corporations, net suppliers credits and loans to private banks.
5/   Borrowing by the Bank of Greece and other public agencies.                                                                            EMENA Regio
6/   Foreign currency deposits of Greebk  arti-als abroad vith local  comme bci bu      nke.                                               CPD Il-A
7/   Residual balancing items including errors and omissions.br                                                                                     24,  97



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GREECE
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (As of January 31, 1978)
US$ Million
Amount
Loan                                                                 (Less
Number      Year         Borrower         Purpose                 Cancellation)  Undisbursed
Four loans fully disbursed                                            71.6              -
711         1970     Hellenic State    Education                      13.8             2.8
754         1971     Hellenic State    Irrigation                     25.0             8.3
859         1972     Hellenic State    Education                      23.5            21.9
991         1974     Hellenic State    Irrigation                     30.0            30.0
1134        1975     Hellenic State    Education                      45.0           45.0
1135       1975      NIBID                                            25.0            Z.u
1165        1975     Hellenic State    Irrigation                     40.0            39.5
1240       1976      Hellenic State    Highway                        30.0           28.4
134511      1977     Hellenic State    Sewerage                       36.0            36.0
145711     1977      Hellenic State    Evros                          35.0           35.0
TOTAL                                                374*9          248.9
of which has been repaid                            33.6
Total now outstanding                                341 3
Amount sold                              34. 0
of which has been repaid               3-. 2        30.8
Total now he:Ld by Bank/2                            310.5
Total undisbursed                                                   248.9
/1 Not yet effective



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (As of January 31, 1978)
Fiscal                                                                    Amount in US$ Million
Year      Obligor                                 Type of Business       Loan   Equity   Total
1962      Aevol Industrial Company
Organic Fertilizers, S. A.            Fertilizers             0.60    -        0.60
1965      "Titan" Cement Company, S. A. I         Cement                  1.00   0.50      1.50
Industrial
1966      NIBID                                    Finance                 -     0.72      0.72
1966      General Cement Company, S. A.           Cement                  3.50    -        3.50
1966      "Titan" Cement Company, S. A. II        Cement                   -     0.03      0.03
1970      Aluminium de Grece, S. A.
Industielle et Commerciale I          Aluminium               3.50   5.10      8.60
1972      Aluminium de Grece, S. A.
Industielle et Commerciale II         Aluminium                -     0.05      0.05
1975      Hellenic Food Industries, S. A.         Food Processing         1.00   0.13      1.13
.1977     Hellenic Food Industries, S. A.         Food Processing          -     0.11      0.11
Industrial
1977      NIBID                                    Finance               40.00    -       40.00
Total Gross Commitments                                     49.60   6.64    56.24
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                                     43.41   5.72    49.13
Total Commitments now held by IFC                             6.19   0.92      7.11
Total undisbursed                                            25.00    -       25.00



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan No. 711 - First Education Project; $13.8 million Loan of November 5, 1970;
Effectiveness Date: March 31, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
The five project post secondary technical schools (KATEs) are nearly
completed. Procurement of the remaining furniture and equipment is expected
to be completed during 1978. Most of the funds have been disbursed and the
balance will be fully absorbed as this remaining procurement is completed.
Despite delays in construction and procurement, the higher technical educa-
tion program has been offered since 1974, both in temporary facilities and in
the partially-finished project schools. At present, about 9,000 students
are enrolled in the program, or more than 45 percent above original design
capacity.
Loan No. 754 - Groundwatetr Development Project (Irrigation); US$25 million
Loan of June 21, 1971; Effectiveness Date: November 15, 1971; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981.
Implementation of this project began slowly due to delays in contract
awards, changes in design of the distribution network following consultants'
recommendations, and a protracted search for a satisfactory solution, found
in December 1973, to the question of farmers' contributions to the capital
cost of the project. Meanwhile, and as'a result, project costs increased
substantially. The Government proposals to phase the construction of the
permanent irrigation network through 1985 were approved by the Executive
Directors on November 10, 1977 ((R77-275). Drilling of the wells is 85 per-
cent completed and irrigation has started on about 16,000 ha of the 40,000 ha
using temporary facilities. The substantial cost overruns are being borne
by the Government. A problem of sand infiltration in about one third of the
wells has been studied and a program of testing and rehabilitation is underway.
Loan No. 859 - Second Education Project; $23.5 million Loan of October 2, 1972;
Effectiveness Date: March 30, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Architectural designs for all but 3 of the 31 project institutions
are completed. Eight construction contracts have been awarded and another 17
are expected to be awarded by June 30, 1978. Procurement of equipment for
existing schools has started and some 19 contracts have been awarded. However,
due to initial delays in preparing designs and bidding documents, project com-
pletion is now expected only in 1981. These delays, together with changes in
educational and technical designs, have led to cost increases about 70 percent
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5
above the appraisal estimates, for which the Government is providing funds.
Meanwhile, $8.0 million of the loan has been committed. Agreements have been
reached to revise the administrative and related arrangements, which should
ensure improved implementation of this, as well as the Third Education Project.
Loan No. 991 - Yannitsa Irrigation Project: $30.0 Million Loan of June 3,
1974; Effectiveness Date: July 29, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Because of political changes in 1974/75, delays were experienced
in completing the conditions of effectiveness and project costs increased
significantly. Project implementation has however begun; the first (of three)
contracts was awarded in September 1976 and the second in December 1977. Con-
struction began in June 1977 and completion is expected by December 1979, or
about six months later than appraisal estimates. The Government proposal to
delete the Nestos subproject and to use the funds to cover the increased cost
of the Yannitsa project was approved by the Executive Directors on November
10, 1977 (R77-276).
Loan No. 1134 - Third Education Project; $45 million Loan of June 27, 1975;
Effectiveness Date: April 29, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Start up has been quite slow; architects were selected only in
October 1977 to design the project schools but preliminary designs for 14 of
the 17 institutions are now completed. Agreements have been reached on revi-
sions to the administrative and related arrangements, which should ensure
improved implementation of this, as well as the Second Education Project. The
Government has passed the legislative framework for reforms in technical edu-
cation. Some delays have resulted from having to reflect these developments,
which do not affect enrollments or costs, in the project school designs.
Loan No. 1135 - Fifth NIBID Project: $25 million Loan of June 27, 1975;
Effectiveness Date: October 28, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
This loan has been fully committed.
Loan No. 1165 - The East Vermion Irrigation Project: $40.0 Million Loan
of October 3, 1975; Effectiveness Date: August 12, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Progress is satisfactory. The first contract is being awarded and
tender documents have been prepared for the second (of three). A Project
Manager and a steering committee have been appointed and are functioning. The
Government has postponed the feasibility studies for a future project in the
Xanthi Komotini area.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
Loan No. 1240 - Highway Project: $30.0 Million Loan of May 24, 1976;
Effectiveness Date: January 5, 1977; Closing Date: December 30, 1980.
Progress is satisfactory; awards for most of the road maintenance
equipment have been approved; the road maintenance directorate is now operat-
ing; and the bidding for the project road is underway. Consultants for trans-
port planning are being selected.
Loan No. 1345 - Salonica and Volos Sewerage Project: $36 Million Loan of
February 3, 1977; Effectiveness Date: Not yet effective; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982.
The draft law for the Volos Authority, as well as the law ratifying
this loan is still pending, since the Parliament was unable to find time to
consider these before it was dissolved for the November 1977 elections and the
new Parliament has only just begun to sit. Meanwhile, engineering consultants
have been hired for Volos and selected for Salonica.
Loan No. 1457 - Evros Development Project: $35 Million Loan of June 27, 1977;
Effectiveness Date: Not yet effective; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The project office has been established and staffed and has prepared
the first years investment budget for Evros. The law ratifying the loan
is still pending, since Parliament was unable to consider this before its
dissolved for the November 1977 elections and the new Parliament has only just
begun to sit.



ANNEX III
Page 1
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:            Nine months (September 1976-
May 1977)
(b)  Agencies which prepared the project:   Mainly the Ministry of National
Education (MOE) with some assis-
tance by Bank missions
(c) Initial discussion with Bank and
identification mission:                  June 1976 and September 1976
(d)  Pre-appraisal mission:                    February 1977
(e)  Departure of appraisal mission:           May 1977
(f)  Completion of negotiations:               February 3, 1978
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:            September 30, 1978
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions: None
Close supervision of initial stages.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) Project administration has been vested in the Directorate General
of Programming, which has sufficient authority to ensure the MOE
agencies having a role in project implementation act promptly.
The Directorate of Implementation of Education Projects within
the Directorate General of Programming will be primarily respon-
sible for day to day activities. The Organization for School
Building (OSK) will be responsible for designs (paras 45, 46,
Loan Agreement, Schedule 5);
(b) Ten additional teacher trainers needed to train the Vocational
and Technical Education Center (KETE) teachers will be employed
by the beginning of the 1979/80 academic year (para 49, Loan
Agreement, Section 4.03 (b));
(c) The Center of Higher Technical and Vocational Education (KATE)
boards will consult employer representatives from agriculture,
industry, commerce and the social services on the training
provided by this institution (para 41, Loan Agreement, Section
4.03 (a));



ANNEX III
Page 2
(d) The KETEs will have a placement system and a system will be
established to trace their graduates after graduation (para 39,
Loan Agreement, Section 4.04);
(e)  Qualified teachers will be provided promptly as needed (para 49,
Loan Agreement, Section 4.05 (a)).






IBRD 13102RI
SEA
Ed.                                                                                                                              EA   OF
tAesondro,po9                                    AlA 0AI?AP
Th-so
F  EOESSALONI KI                                         Sonlo,brots
U- I
ARISSA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~[00
Main Rornds .. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 mit
LERSBOS           T
EUBOEA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
CHIOS ~Ch
Ruilwriys                                                                                                           / lhorrooXs            4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oro
*~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~T pol,natonz  Airorf pIrJnn                                                                 Mios           ikss         &'          )   '              
zi  Porhii                                                                                                                   v _>> ? p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Poo
[   I          I                       t                       i                       I                       g                                  FEBRUARY 1 97E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~mi- ~ I w;
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT                                                                               Mo                                                                    ,
A     Higher Technical Centers (K. A T. E.)                   K hoTh-o
lb     Technicol Lyceeo (K.E.TE.)                                                                                                                                            'Roo
-36-             0~~~ Center for Pedogogical Studies (S.E.LME.
A      Previoou  Education Projects 
____Motn Roods
Railways                                     N                                                                                                            dlwhoAos
"~ Internaionarrl Airports                                                  C.
Ports
-    nternationuol Boundaries                                                    A      Rh,noIRAKLION-
___    ___   ___         too_                                                               E       T 
KILOMETERS
20    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~2'24'                                                                                                        2602
FEBRUARY 1 978



