CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1539 GR
Loan Agreement
(Fourth Education Project)
between
THE HELLENIC STATE
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 14, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1539 GR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 14, 1978, between THE HELLENIC STATE
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "MOE" means the Borrower's Ministry of National Edu-
cation;
(b) "DGP" means the Directorate General for Programming
within MOE;
(c) "DIEP" means the Directorate of Implementation of
Educational Projects within DGP;
(d) "SELETE" means the School for Teachers of Vocational and
Technical Education of MOE;
(e) "OSK" means the Organization for School Building within
MOE;
(f) "KEME" means the Center for Educational Studies and
Advanced Training of Teachers within MOE; and
(g) "Project Institutions" means any of the centers and
schools under the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.


﻿- 2-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
sixty million dollars ($60,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1982
or such later date as the Bank shall otherwise establish. The
Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven and forty-five hundredths per cent (7.45%) per annum
on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through its MOE, in accordance with the objectives stated in


﻿-3-
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
engineering and educational practices, and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
(b) Except as the parties to this Agreement shall otherwise
agree, the DGP shall: (i) be responsible for overall management
of the Project, (ii) coordinate the activities of the Borrower's
services and agencies involved in the carrying out of the Project,
and (iii) perform or cause DIEP and OSK to perform such functions
as are set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement, all in accor-
dance with a timetable satisfactory to the parties to this
Agreement.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair ruch goods.
(b) Except as the parties to this Agreement shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively for the
Project.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be
furnished to the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the plans,
specifications, reports, contract documents and construction and
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifi-
cations thereof cr additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower, (i) shall maintain or cause to be main-
tained records and procedures adequate to record and monitor the
progress of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to be
derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their use in the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives
to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall
furnish or cause to be furnished to the Bank at regular intervals


﻿-4-
all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request con-
cerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan
and the goods and services financed out of such prnceeds.
(c) The Borrower shall establish a monitoring and evalua-
tion system to collect and analyze the necessary information to
evaluate the results of operation of the Project Institutions
for the first four years, and shall furnish to the Bank annual
analytical summaries of such information.
(d) After completion of the Project, but not later than six
months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed
for this purpose between the parties to this Agreement, the
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of
such scope and detail as shall be satisfactory to the parties to
this Agreement, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it and the other matters referred to in Section 9.01 (b) of the
General Conditions.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire, as and when
needed, all such land and rights in respect of land as shall
be required for the construction and operation of the Project
Institutions and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after such
acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land and
rights in respect of land are available for purposes related to
the Project, and in any case, prior to the scheduled commencement
of construction of the Project Institutions.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the mutual intention of the Borrower
and the Bank that no other external debt shall enjoy any priority
over the Loan by way of a lien on governmental assets.
(b) To that end the Borrower (i) represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any governmental assets as
security for any external debt except as otherwise disclosed in
writing by the Borrower to the Bank, and (ii) undertakes that,
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, if any such lien shall
be created, it will ipso facto equally and ratably, and at no cost
to the Bank, secure the payment of the principal of, and interest


﻿-5-
and other charges on, the Loan and in the creation of any such
lien express provision will be made to that effect. The Borrower
shall promptly inform the Bank of the creation of any such lien.
(c) The foregoing representation and undertaking shall not
apply to: (i) any lien created on property, at the time of pur-
chase thereof, solely as security for payment of the purchase
price of such property; or (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary
course of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not
more than one year after its date; or (iii) any lien on commercial
goods to secure a debt maturing not more than one year after the
date on which it is originally incurred and to be paid out of the
proceeds of sale of such commercial goods; or (iv) any lien upon
real estate or other property in Greece or revenues or receipts in
the currency of the Borrower, if such lien is given by a political
subdivision or by an agency of a political subdivision of the
Borrower under arrangements or circumstances which would not
result in priority in the allocation or realization of foreign
exchange.
(d) As used in this Section, the term "governmental assets"
includes assets of the Borrower or of any of its political sub-
divisions or of any agency of the Borrovar or of any agency of any
such political subdivision or of the Bank of Greece or of any
other institution performing the functions of a central bank.
(e) If the Borrower, because of constitutional or other
legal provisions, shall be unable to make the foregoing effective
with respect to any lien on any assets of a political subdivision
or agency of a political subdivision, the Borrower, except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, shall give to the Bank an equivalent
lien or equivalent priority in the allocation or realization of
foreign exchange, as the case may be, satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resrurces and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.03. Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall take all such measures,
as shall be required, so that:


﻿- 6-
(a) the administrative board of each higher technical and
vocational education center listed in Part 2 (c) of the Project
shall consult with representatives of industry, commerce, agri-
culture and social services, as appropriate, on the training
provided by such center;
(b) additional teacher-trainers for the pedagogical training
departments under the supervision of SELETE shall be employed as
required for the training of vocational and technical teachers to
meet the planned expansion of vocational and technical education
centers; such training shall be accomplished through programs
approved in accordance with the Borrower's legislation as of
the date of this Agreement. Out of the 30 estimated additional
teacher-trainers so required, at least ten shall be employed
before the beginning of the 1979-80 academic year; and
(c) not later than September 30, 1978, arrangements are
completed with the United Nations Development Programme for the
training abroad of an appropriate number of teachers on requisite
and selected subjects for higher technical and vocational educa-
tion centers, and, thereafter, such training shall be implemented
in accordance with a schedule satisfactory to the parties to this
Agreement.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall make appropriate arrange-
ments: (a) to assist graduates of each vocational and technical
education center listed in Part 2 (b) of the Project in their job
placement; such arrangements shall be to the extent possible
sirilar to those existing for the higher technical and vocational
education centers; and (b) for tracing the employment of graduates
of the centers (KETEs and KATEs) included in Part 2 (b) and (c) of
the Project and providing information regarding the efficiency of
their training.
Section 4.05. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Project
Institutions to be operated in accordance with appropriate
administrative and educational policies and practices and with due
regard to economy, with qualified teachers, administrators and
supporting staff in adequate numbers and employed promptly as
needed, all as required in order to further the objectives
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the buildings, equipment and
furniture of the Project Institutions to be adequately maintained
and shall cause all necessary repairs and renewals thereof to be
made in accordance with appropriate administrative and technical
standards.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date October 11, 1978, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Ministry of Finance
Athens, Greece
With a copy to:
The Ministry of Coordination
Athens, Greece
Telex:
216326 YSYNGR
Athens, Greece
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
THE HELLENIC STATE
By /s/ Menelaos Alexandrakis
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Martijn J.W.M. Paijuans
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil work.s                18,300,000       28%
(2) Furniture                    2,200,000       100% of foreign
expenditures
and 40% of
local expendi-
tures
(3) Equipment                   35,500,000       100% of foreign
expenditures
and 85% of
local expendi-
tures
(4) Unallocated                 4,000,000
TOTAL       60,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.


﻿- 10 -
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for (a)
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, and (b) expendi-
tures incurred under contracts with a contract price of less than
$5,000 equivalent each.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insuffi-
cient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in
that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the
Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's continuing program to
improve and expand its education and training system. On the basis
of the Borrower's educational development policies, the objectives
of the Project include modernizing and improving the quality of
compulsory education at the gymnasia level; upgrading the quality
of secondary school teaching; adapting technical/vocational
secondary education to recent technical education reforms; and
improving regional opportunities for post-secondary education in
response to specific manpower needs of the economy.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part 1:
Provision of instructional equipment for forty existing
gymnasia and twenty-one gymnasia under construction;
Part 2:
Design, construction, furnishing and equipping for:
(a) the School for the Advanced Training of Secondary
Education Teachers and Officials (SELME);
(b) ten vocational and technical education centers (KETEs);
and
(c) four higher technical and vocational education centers
(KATEs);
All above, as described in the Annex to this Schedule.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1982.


﻿- 12 -
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
Project Institutions
Estimated Estimated
Gross       New
Estimated   Area (m2)   Teacher
Level          Annual     New Con- Require-
Institutions    Location    and Type      Enrollment struction    ments
1. Gymnasia       Various     Lower
(a) 40 existing               secondary     16,320
(b) 21 under                                10,920                   410
construction
2. School for     Athens      Post-          1,000       6,910        70
the Advanced               secondary      (full-
Training of                in-service     time
Secondary                  and pre-       equiv-
Education                  service        alent)
Teachers and
Officials
(SELME)
3. Vocational    Athens I     Upper         1,440/880   13,090   )
and Techni-   Athens II    secondary     1,200/720   11,760   )
cal Educa-    Athens III   combined      1,440/880   13,190   )
tion Cen-     Yannitsa   (a) technical                        )
ters (KETEs)                 lyc6es        360/240    5,400   )
Thessalo-  (b) vocational                       )    736
niki         schools     1,440/880   14,860   )
Aegio                        480/280    5,980   )
Karditsa                     840/640   10,730   )
Komotini                     720/480    8,410   )
Mytilini*                    840/640    9,750   )
Messolongi                   480/280    6,200   )
4. Higher Tech-  Lamia        Post-          1,000      15,120   )
nical and     Kalamata     secondary        800      14,450   )
Vocational    Messolongi   technical        960      15,590   )   254
Education     Athens-                                         )
Centers        Piraeus                    1,440      18,610   )
(KATEs)                                                       )
*    or Sparti, at the option of the Borrower.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 1 and December 1
beginning December 1, 1981
through   June 1, 1993                      2,500,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 14 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                               1.50%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                      3.00%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                               5.45%
More than eleven years but not
more than thirteen years
before maturity                               6.45%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                               7.45%


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the
purchase of goods or for civil works shall be procured in accor-
dance with procedures consistent with those set forth in the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding
as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding under the Project, the Borrower shall
prepare and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in
any event not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability
to the public of the first tender or prequalification documents
relating thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement
notice, in such form and detail and containing such information as
the Bank shall reasonably request; the Bank shall arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods or
works remain to be procured on the basis of international competi-
tive bidding.
3.   Items of furniture and equipment shall be grouped so as to
permit bulk procurement as shall be consistent with appropriate
technical and procurement practices. Bidding documents therefor
shall specify that bidders must bid for at least 75%, or such
other percentage as may be agreed between the Borrower and the
Bank, of the price of each package, and that the Borrower may make
awards for less than one package if judged more economical.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for items of furniture and equipment which (i)
cannot be grouped in accordance with Part A.3 above and which are
each estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less, (ii)
must be compatible with existing equipment procured on the basis
of international competitive bidding, or (iii) are of such highly
specialized nature that international competitive bidding would


﻿- 16 -
not be practicable, may be procured in accordance with the Bor-
rower's procurement procedures provided that, prior to awarding
such contracts, the Borrower shall to the extent feasible obtain
price quotations from not less than three manufacturers or sup-
pliers. The aggregate amount of contracts awarded pursuant to
the provisions of this Part B.1 shall not exceed $5,000,000
equivalent.
2.   Books for the School for the Advanced Training of Secondary
Education Teachers and Officials (SELME) and the higher technical
and vocational centers (KATEs) may be procured under negotiated
contracts for bulk purchase, acceptable to the Bank, with author-
ized distributors of these books.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods (except for those procured in accordance
with the Borrower's procurement procedures): (i) bidders shall be
required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price
for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically
manufactured goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on
imported goods, and sales and similar taxes on domestically
supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the
Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to
the delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation
shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Greece may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Greece if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that the


﻿- 17 -
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Greece equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Greece.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
(c) above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C
bids shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid
from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is
the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of lists of items of furniture and equipment.
Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall send to the
Bank for its concurrence the lists of all items of furniture and
equipment and the proposed grouping thereof, indicating the
specifications, estimated unit price and total price of each
category of items. The lists shall identify only those items or
categories of items costing $10,000 equivalent or more. Identified
items shall be indexed, coded and numbered for identification with
the Project Institutions, courses and spaces for which they are


﻿- 18 -
required. Amendments to such lists shall also be sent to the Bank
for its concurrence. Procurement of furniture and equipment
shall be limited to those items specified in the lists for which
the Bank shall have given its concurrence and identified in
contract documents by such indices, codes and number as appear in
such lists.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for (i) civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, and (ii) furniture and
equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, together with a justification (with due
regard to conformity with specifications and to price) for the
intended award, and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.


﻿- 19 -
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrow-r shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of
the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 5
Project Administration
1.   DGP, assisted by DIEP, will carry out its responsibilities
under the Project through its Director General who will also
ensure, within his powers and in consultation with the other
responsible services of the Borrower, that appropriate alloca-
tions out of the Borrower's annual budget are made for the design,
construction, furnishing and equipping of the Project Institu-
tions, and the recruitment, appointment and training of an ade-
quate number of qualified teachers and teacher-trainers therefor.
2.   DIEP, under the direction of its Director, will employ
qualified engineering and architectural staff and supporting
personnel in sufficient numbers, including, inter alios, a full-
time qualified engineer to assist the DIEP Director in technical
matters, a qualified equipment procurement officer and a qualified
accountant. Said full-time engineer and procurement officer shall
be in place by June 30, 1978.
3.   With the assistance, as may be necessary, of the Borrower's
relevant services and agencies, DIEP will perform the functions
outlined below, under DGP supervision, for the purpose of the
Project:
(a) scheduling and monitoring progress and supervision of
execution, including follow-up of site acquisitions
and review of designs, at all stages, c the Project
Institutions;
(b) compilation of final lists of furniture and equipment
required for the Project;
(c) preparation of bidding documents, evaluation of bids
and award of contracts for civil works, furniture
and equipment, and more generally, ensuring that pro-
curement procedures comply with the requirements of the
Loan Agreement;
(d) supervision and on-site inspection of construction of,
and installation of equipment for, the Project Institu-
tions;
(e) review and approval of reports, specifications and
other materials submitted by the Borrower's services


﻿- 21 -
and agencies involved in the carrying out of the Project
or any part thereof;
(f) maintenance of Project accounts and preparation of
interim evaluations and financial statements;
(g) preparation of applications for withdrawals from the
Loan Account;
(h) preparation and submission of progress reports to
the Bank; and
(i) acting as liaison between the Bank and the Borrower's
services and agencies involved in the carrying out
of the Project or any part thereof.
4.   OSK will be responsible for the preparation of the prelimi-
nary and final architectural designs of all the Project Institu-
tions. In order to enable OSK to perform such tasks, OSK will be
or will continue to be staffed with qualified and experienced
personnel, including at least 11 architects, 2 mechanical and
electrical engineers and 12 other supporting staff to be assigned
during Project design development. OSK will collaborate with DIEP,
upon DIEP's request, in the preparation of the bidding documents
for the Project Institutions and in the supervision of construc-
tion thereof.
5.   KEME and the Borrower's General Directorate of Vocational and
Technical Education and General Directorate of General Education
will each appoint a qualified and experienced official to liaise
with DIEP and OSK on all educational aspects of the relevant
Project Institutions. These officials will also be responsible,
inter alia, for ensuring the preparation of furniture and equip-
ment lists and for setting up experts' teams, 'as necessary, for
these purposes.


