Final Environmental Impact Assessment
670011 950S
Updated in April 2004
*--'   -      I            ---    -
_.Pk~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z
4,-   . 
X,   ,  *
!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                -,
-<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.o
Slw a~~~~-                                b ' - \ j 
Vietnam:., The _CStie  Saiato    Prjc
_~~Hihn          Su-rjc              E256
1 B Additional Project       Volume 12
Ministry for Foreign Affairs of Finland
JAAKKO OYRYI S RA
Soil and Water
FILE 8M



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project                                   1
Copyright ( Soil and Water Ltd
All rights are reserved. This document or any part thereof may not be copied or
reproduced without permission in writing from Soil an(d Water Ltd
April 2004



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project               1
Preface
Contents
Summary
PART 1 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT
1   INTRODUCTION AND PROJECT DESCRIPTION .................................................. 2
1.1   Background of the Project ...................................................................  2
1.2   Environmental Impact Assessment of Vietnam - Sanitation Project, Haiphong
Component .................................................................... 2
1.3   Environmental Impact Assessment of Additional Works          .3
1.4   Background, Objectives, Scope and Location of Additional Works   .4
2 ENVIRONMENTAL POLICIES AND LEGISLATION.                                      7
2.1 Environmental Management                           .7
2.2    Environmental Law, Decree and Standards               .8
2.3 World Bank Guidelines.                                                     9
3 BACKGROUND                    ..11
3.1 Environmental Setting .11
3.2   Previous and Ongoing Sanitation Projects and Studies .12
3.3 Haiphong Master Plans .13
3.3.1   Haiphong City Master Plan       ..13
3.3.2   Haiphong Sewerage and Drainage Master Plan  ..13
3.3.3   The Study on Sanitation Improvement Plan for Haiphong City in the Socialist
Republic of Vietnam           ..14
4 BASELINE DATA                  ..16
4.1 ocation .16
4.2 Climate Condition .16
4.3 Topography and Soil Conditions .17
4.4 Flora and Fauna .17
4.5 Rivers, Lakes, and Channels .18
4.5.1   Major Hydrological Network and Flow               ..18
4.5.2 Tide Regime              ..19
4.5.3   Water and Sediment Quality Data of Rivers  ..20
4.5.4   Water and Sediment Quality Data of Lakes and Channels  . .21
4.5.5   Water Quality Data from Phuong Luu Area   ..23
4.6   Population and Socio-economic Environment ............ ............................ 23
4.6.1 Population Forecast           ..23
4.6.2 Economic Structure            ..24
4.6.3 Household Economy             ..26
April 2004



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project                 3
PART 3 PUBLIC INVOLVEMENT AND CONSULTATION
12    PUBLIC INVOLVEMENT AND CONSULTATION ...................................... 60
12.1  General ......................................... 60
12.2  Key principles ......................................... 60
12.3  Disclosure ......................................... 60
12.4  Public Consultation Meeting ......................................... 61
Annexes
Annex I     Locations of Additional Works
Annex 2     Water and Sediment Quality Data 2001 - 2003
Annex 3     Surface Water and Groundwater Quality in Phuong Luu Lake Area
Annex 4     Pollution Loads to Water Bodies according to the Study on Sanitation Improvement
Plan for Haiphong City
Annex 5     Environmental Impacts of the Project Components
Annex 6     Minutes of Public Consultation Meeting
List of Abbreviations
Organisations
HPPC                   Haiphong People's Committee
SADCo, HPSADCo         Haiphong Sewerage and Drainage Company
HPWSSP                 Haiphong Water Supply and Sanitation Programme
WSDSSMP                Water Supply, Drainage, Sewerage and Sanitation Management
Programme in Haiphong
CMS                    Consulting Management Services
MOC                    Ministry of Construction
MOF     -              Ministry of Finance
MPI                    Ministry of Planning and Investment
MONRE                  Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment
NEA                    National Environmental Agency
MOSTE                  Ministry of Science, Technology and Environment
DOSTE                  Department of Science, Technology and Environment
MOST                   Ministry of Science and Technology
PMU                    Project Management Unit
TUPWS                  Transportation and Urban Public Works Service
WB, the Bank           The World Bank
NGO                    Non-governmental organisation
Other
ARI                    Average Recurrence Interval
EIA                    Environmental Impact Assessment
EMP                    Environmental Management Plan
PIP                    Project Implementation Plan
RAP                    Resettlement Action Plan
TA                     Technical Assistance
O&M                    Operation and Maintenance
Phuong                 ward
April 2004



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation ProjecO - Haiphong Sutb-Project
Final Envirbnmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project                1
Summary
Background of EIA of Additional Works
Draft Environmental Impact Assessment for Additional Works was prepared during
the conceptual design phase of the Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project -
Haiphong Sub-Project in December 2002 and the final draft EIA report during the
feasibility study phase in February - March 2003. The final EIA report has been
updated in February - April 2004. This final report can be considered as addendum
to the Environmental Impact Assessment report prepared for the Vietnam -
Sanitation Project, Haiphong Component in December 1998.
Project Description of Additional Works
The objective of Additional Works is to define additional priority investment
components for the sewerage and storm drainage services in Haiphong, which have
not been included in the Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-
Project, and to assess the costs and impacts of the proposed additional works. The
additional investment components discussed in this study follow the proposal of the
Project Management Unit of HPSADCO for utilising the savings.
Scope of Additional Works
The project formulation is based on the problem tree and objectives presented in
Feasibility Study. The proposed Contract HPSANP-CID: Construction and
Rehabilitation of Regulation Lakes and Interceptor Sewers consists of the following
components:
- Interceptor sewers along the North-East and South-West channels
- Construction a new Phuong Luu Regulating Lake
- Rehabilitation Cat Bi regulating lake
- Construction of new office building for the Employer
- Supply and maintenance of minor office equipment and vehicles for the
Employer and the Engineer
The project components listed above are included in the proposal, which the
Project Management Unit of HPSADCO has submitted to the World Bank, to the
Prime Minister's Office and to the Haiphong People's Committee for approval.
No objection from the World Bank was received on October 24, 2002, and the
Prime Minister approved the proposal on February 27, 2003 (Decision No
220/CP-CN) with statement that further decisions concerning additional works
will be made by Haiphong People's Committee.
Wastewater Quality and Pollution Loads
For the needs of the Study on Sanitation Improvement Plan for Haiphong City it
was conducted in 2000 Source-wise Unit Pollution Load Study. Samples were
taken from domestic, commercial and institutional and industrial wastewater.
Pollution loads to North-East channel, South-West channel and An Kim Hai
channel were estimated, same as pollution loads to the Cam River, the Lach Tray
April 2004



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project               2
River, the Da Do River, the An Kim Hai Channel, Bach Bo Bay and the Bach Dang
River.
According to the surveys it was clear that the impacts of the pollution loads from
the study area to the water qualities of these rivers are not large. In particular, the
impact on the Cam River is negligible, due to a sufficiently large flow of the Cam
River compared to the sewage volume. It can be estimated that during rainy season
the dilution capacity of the Cam River is 17,000:1 and dilution capacity of the Lach
Tray River is 840:1. In particular, the impact on the Cam River is negligible,
because the Cam River has sufficiently big flow, Qmax = 5,215 m3/s, compared to
the sewage volume of the interceptor system, which the estimated peak flow of
about 0.3 m3/s in 2020. Although the flow is smaller in the Lach Tray River, Qmax =
252 m3/s, even there the impact is small and even there the limits of class B TCVN
5942-1995 can be reached.
In the 1B Project, the selected wastewater treatment method is wastewater
treatment via septic tanks. Parallel to the implementation of the lB Project septic
tank coverage will increase and the O&M improve. Sewage is discharged from the
septic tanks into sewers and further on into the lakes, channels and the Cam River
and the Lach Tray River, which flow directly to the sea. The existing regulation
lakes have provided partial sewage treatment, but are heavily overloaded at present.
The construction of interceptor sewers, which is proposed as a part of the additional
works for the lB Project, will enable the implementation of wastewater treatment in
a later stage in the future. The proposed locations and discharge points of the
interceptor sewers will support the implementation of centralised wastewater
treatment in the future and are consistent with the Haiphong Sewerage and
Drainage Master Plan.
Alternatives of the Project
The without project alternative is to leave the project unimplemented. In that case
the current environmental pollution will increase as follows:
- If there will be no interceptor sewers, the untreated wastewater will flow as for
the time being straight to the just rehabilitated channels and Cat Bi Lake, the
environmental improvement gained by rehabilitation will not be sustainable, and
the living conditions of the people living along rehabilitated channels will
increase only partially.
- However, no significant impact on the water quality of the Cam River and the
Lach Tray River due to big flow, dilution capacity and tide of the recipient
rivers
- Phuong Luu Lake does not have any significant impact on drainage system, but
it would have big recreational value in the area
Environmental Impacts
General
All kind of construction works as well as activities related to these, will lead to
certain cause and impacts on the environment. In this EIA-study will be analysed
and specified both the negative and positive environmental impacts on the physical,
April 2004



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project                3
biological and human environment caused by the rehabilitation and construction of
sewerage and drainage system.
The main impacts in the proposed project area will mainly affect the human and
aquatic environment, in lesser amount the atmospheric and terrestrial environment.
The atmospheric and terrestrial impacts are mainly temporary during construction and
rehabilitation works and therefore of short duration.
The improvement of urban sanitation, which is currently badly hampered by
frequent flooding, towards a clean and healthy environment for the population of
Haiphong city is essential. The overall impact of the proposed project is positive
and it is an important step in improvement of sanitation in Haiphong. This project is
including the additional works to the first sanitation project aiming at the
rehabilitation of the existing sewerage and drainage system of the city.
Construction of Interceptor Sewers and Pumping Stations along the Channels
For the time being to and through North-East channel is discharged a big amount of
untreated wastewater to the Cam River and to and through South-West channel to
the Lach Tray River. Construction of interceptor sewers to the both side of the
channel minimises the direct discharge of untreated wastewater to the channel and
hence stops the deterioration of water and sediment quality in the channel, but does
not increase the total amount of wastewater, because already now all the related
areas belong to the sewer network or discharge directly to channels. Closing of
numerous sewers will increase the hygienic and aesthetic conditions along the
channel. The stinking odour of wastewater will be also decreased.
The quality of wastewater to be collected and discharged through interceptor sewers
to the rivers will be improved in the near future when more and more septic tanks
will be constructed with the help of revolving fund and private financing.
According to the surveys the impact of discharged wastewater on the river water
quality is not significant due to the high dilution capacity.
The water level in the channel will be high enough also after intercepting
wastewater due to operation of tidal gates. Besides that the annual mean surplus
between precipitation and evaporation is positive and it not possible to stop all
surface runoff to the channel.
Construction of Phuong Luu Lake
Construction of Phuong Luu Lake provides system improvements for storms of
high intensity (5 year average-recurrence-interval, ARI, and greater), high tide
conditions, and water levels regulated at minimum levels. These are conditions,
where the additional storage capacity of the lake is most effective. System
improvements for storms of less intensity and low tide conditions are not as
significant.
The amount of excavated earth during the construction of the Phuong Luu Lake and
outlet channel is estimated to be about 510,000 mi3. The earth under the topsoil
consists mainly of silts and there is no need for treatment of the earth or for any
April 2004



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project               4
special disposal arrangements. The earth can be used as backfilling material and on
the proposed area there is enough place for the all excavated earth.
SADCo has made arrangements with a developer of industrial areas for the tipping
of the excavated earth on a 45 ha plot located between the old and new main roads
to Do Son in Tan Thanh Commune, Kien Thuy rural district and Ngoc Xuyen
Phuong in Do Son town. The location of this tip ("Do Son 96") is shown on Annex
1. The development of the site as a proposed industrial area was started in mid
1990's, the works implemented during that time include some general back fill and
partial fencing of the site. Since late 1990's tip area has been used mainly for
aquaculture. There are some temporary houses or huts within the tip site. According
to the available information Haiphong Export Processing Zone Joint Venture Co.
plan to develop the tip site as part of Haiphong '96 Export Processing Zone. In
accordance with HPPC's decision No. 3697QD-UB dated 08.02.2002 the future
investors will be supported partially for the site levelling costs. It is proposed that in
particular case the support should be in kind instead of monetary contribution.
The tip sites are already existing sites for this kind of land use and will not cause
significant long-term environmental impacts on the surrounding areas. However,
transportation of excavated earth will cause temporary serious nuisance along the
transportation routes by increasing dust, noise and possibility of traffic accidents,
although most of the transportation can be done via the main streets.
The permanent environmental impact is the change of land use from agricultural
land to lake and recreational area. However, the area is in the vicinity of Highway
No 5, new road to Cat Bi airport and development area, and in the long run the land
use change in inevitable.
The latest location of the Phuong Luu Lake has been selected so that the need of
relocation of graveyard is minimised. However, removal some existing tombs
might disturb spiritual feelings of people and needs attention from local authorities.
Rehabilitation of Cat Bi Lake and Construction of Interceptor Sewer
For the time being wastewater from Dong Quoc Binh pumping station and from Cat
Bi area is discharged through Cat Bi Lake and tidal gate into the Lach Tray River.
Population of Cat Bi area has increased and the area has developed remarkably in
the recent years. All of this has increased pollution of Cat Bi Lake, which has
caused public nuisances and health hazards (low hygienic level, odour, mosquito
swarms, contaminated aquatic plants and fishes, inaesthetic view, etc.).
After the construction of interceptor sewer wastewater will bypass the lake and
decrease significantly the pollution load into the small lake.
Due to the limited storage capacity and bad condition of the small lakes, dredging
has been considered as one major efficient method together with other
improvements (improvement of water turnover, etc.) to improve the volume for
temporary storing of storm water during heavy rain and to improve the overall
environmental condition of the lakes.
April 2004



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project                  5
The Contractor shall dredge the Cat Bi Lake as dry excavation. The amount of the
dredging and disposal is about 46,000 m3 sludge and earth. The works shall be
carried out during the dry season, October - April. The Contractor shall transport
and dispose excavated sludge, about 20,000 m3, at already existing Trang Cat
composting facility constructed for the needs of Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation
Project - Haiphong Sub-Project there is enough place and facilities to dispose this
amount of sludge.The excavated earth, about 20,000 m3, will be transported to
SADCo's Trang Cat composting yard and stockpiled for future use in Trang Cat
area. The excavated earth is not contaminated and can be used as cover material at
Trang Cat area without any treatment.
Transportation of the sludge from the Cat Bi Lake to Trang Cat will cause
temporary nuisance along the transportation routes by increasing dust, noise and
possibility of traffic accidents, although most of the transportation can be done via
the main street.
Impacts during Operation
Operation of interceptor sewers will improve the water and sediment quality in the
Northeast and Southwest channels, and hence improve the health situation on the
area. Due to the strong tidal effect the dilution capacity in the discharging point of
Northeast channel into the Cam River at May Den and Southwest channel into the
Lach Tray River at Vinh Niem is so good that in practice there will no deterioration
of water and sediment quality of recipient water bodies.
The construction of Phuong Luu Lake and the rehabilitation of Cat Bi Lake will
increase the reservoir capacity of the drainage system and hence minimise floods.
Phuong Luu Lake will also improve aesthetic value of the area, which will be used
also as recreational area.
Mitigation Measures
General
Environmental matters shall be integrated in all the design work and planning of the
project. The designing will to be done by minimising the adverse impacts on
environment using as much as possible existing facilities and selecting the location
of new facilities in areas where the disturbance to environment, people and existing
structures is the smallest. Where possible existing rights-of-way should be used
rather than create new ones.
Design of Interceptor Sewers and Pumping Stations
To prevent the possibility of contamination water supply system a special attention
shall be paid to the crossing of water pipes and collectors and other sewers. It is not
allowed to install water pipes going through the sewer manholes or box culverts. If
possible the sewers should be designed in the lower level than water pipelines.
Discharging points of the collectors shall be selected so that the dilution will be
maximised and the back flow of wastewater to channels shall be prevented. The
discharging points shall have adequate distance from the tidal gates. However, the
impact of busy boat traffic has to be considered, too.
April 2004



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project                     6
Synergy of the impacts of tide, flow of the river and flow from interceptor sewer
has to be considered and erosion has to be minimised. One possible would be to
discharge the sewage from interceptor sewer along the North-East channel at first to
the existing small pond next to the pier and grow there durable species of
mangrove. Screening of the wastewater will be done in pumping stations and there
will be no garbage to be stuck to mangroves. Discharging through the pond would
be not only as biological treatment system but also prevent erosion and abrasion of
pier structures. However, according to the decision of the Haiphong People's
Committee the construction of primary settling lagoon with mangroves is not
included in the scope of work of Contract HPSANP-C1D.
Lake Construction and Dredging
Excavation of the Phuong Luu regulating lake will most probably break the
geological structure and contamination of the upper aquifer is possible without
mitigation measures. Special attention shall be paid to avoid contamination of
groundwater by oil, petrol and lubricants and the like during the construction
works. Transportation of excavated material shall be arranged in the proper way.
Loads shall be covered properly to avoid spills and dust.
During the excavation of the Cat Bi Lake has to be prevented the release of heavy
metals and possible organic micro-pollutants and loose sediments to surrounding
areas shall be prevented. The dredging works shall be carried out during the dry
season. The works shall be done as dry excavation. Because there are no rare or
valuable species of animals or plants in the lakes, at least the small lakes can be
drained completely. This will decrease the need of de-watering of dredged material
and decrease the need of transportation. The excavated sludge and other possibly
contaminated material shall be transported to SADCo's Trang Cat composting
facility for further treatment and disposal.
Summary of Mitigation Measures
Phase        Main mitigation measures                            Responsible
organisation
Design        - International and Vietnamese design criteria and  Design
standards to be used                             Consultant
- Interceptor sewers and lakes designed so that need for  Design
resettlement is minimised                        Consultant
- Works designed to implemented during dry season
Construction  - Minimise dust, odour, litter, noise and traffic emissions  Contractor
by good operation management and site supervision
- Appropriate working methods shall be followed    Contractor
- Sites shall be kept clean and safe during and after the  Contractor
work
- Safety and healtlh regulations shall be strictly followed  Contractor
- Protective clothing and operational training for workers is Contractor
essential
- Transportation shall be minimised and routes selected to  Contractor
avoid public nuisance
- Transportation during rush hours and night shall be  Contractor
avoided
- Tight and proper equipment to transport sludge shall be  Contractor
l_____________  used to avoid accidental spills and odour nuisances
April 2004



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project                   7
- Construction sites and time shall be informed to the local  Contractor
people in advance
O&M           - Minimise dust, odour, litter, noise and traffic emissions  SADCo
by good operation management and site supervision
- Appropriate working methods shall be adopted and  SADCo
followed                                        SADCo
- Sites shall be kept clean and safe during and after the
work                                            SADCo
- Safety and health regulations shall be strictly followed  SADCo
- Protective clothing and operational training for workers is
essential                                       SADCo
- Transportation shall be minimised and routes selected to
avoid public nuisance                           SADCo
- Transportation during rush hours and nights shall be
avoided                                         SADCo
- Tight and proper equipment to transport sludge shall be
used to avoid accidental spills and odour nuisances
Monitoring
Generic
Environmental monitoring will be done during construction in three levels; namely
as monitoring of development of project performance indicators done by PMU;
monitoring of implementation of mitigation measures done by the Contractor; and
overall regulatory monitoring of the project done by DONRE.
Present Monitoring
Into SADCO has been established Environmental Monitoring System in November
2001 to monitor impacts of Vietnam: 3 Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-
Project. The Environmental Monitoring System includes the following performance
indicators: water and sediment quality data; flooding data; monitoring of
groundwater level; health indicators; and household sanitation improvements.
The responsibilities have been agreed with PMU and SADCO. SADCO is in charge
of sampling and analysing and collected data is entered in the PMU's computer
system and filed in environmental archive. Water and sediment samples are taken
from North-East channel system from five points and from South-West channel
system from five points twice per year starting from November 2001.
Monitoring of lB Additional Project (HPSANP-C1D)
Monitoring duties of the Contractor are specified in the Contract Documents and
are related to the impacts during construction.
Monitoring during the construction shall concentrate on safety aspects. Special
attention shall be paid to the protection of excavations, open manholes and cleaning
of the streets. During the sewer cleaning the Contractor shall utilise gas detectors
when opening and entering to manholes. The Contractor shall measure noise at the
construction  sites. DONRE  is monitoring  that Vietnamese environmental
regulations are followed during the construction.
April 2004



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project               8
Totally three new water and sediment monitoring points should be added to the
present environmental monitoring programme of SADCO: 1) at May Den for the
Cam River and 2) Phuong Luu Lake and 3) Cat Bi Lake. There is already a
sampling point at Vinh Niem for the Lach Tray River. Samples will be taken twice
per year.
All reporting of 1B Additional Project will be done through lB main project
including Semi-Annual Progress Report to WB, monitoring of implementation of
mitigation measures done by the Contractors and all other relevant reports already
in use.
Capacity Development
Organisation responsible for Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong
Sub-Project is Haiphong Sewerage and Drainage Company (SADCo). SADCo as
the statutory provider of the sector services in Haiphong will be implementing
agency of the Haiphong Sub-Project, advised by Haiphong People's Committee
(HPPC). For practical day-to-day work of this Project SADCo has set up a Project
Management Unit (PMU).
Management Team has been established to take the matters to the Steering
Committee and Supervisory Board to decide. The issues discussed in the
Management Team meetings should include the following: design situation;
progress of the works; payment situation; work permits; and connections to the
owners of the utilities, like water, power, telecommunication etc.
SADCo shall pay attention to protection of environment and implement EMP
during construction. SADCo shall observe and follow resettlement rules and pay
resettlement compensations.
Technical assistance through Water Supply, Drainage and Sewerage and Sanitation
Management Programme in Haiphong comprises institutional strengthening of
SADCo including development of the organisation, relevant studies, human
resources development and institutional support for commercialisation.
Along with the implementation of the lB Project the need for communication with
the public and the need for the information sharing have considerably increased.
For that purpose SADCo would need a permanent Information Officer in charge of
public relations and community participation.
One engineer of PMU has been in charge of environmental monitoring of lB
Project from 2001.
Public Involvement and Consultation
The World Bank's Operational Policies (OP 4.01) on Environmental Impact
Assessment requires that affected groups and local NGOs to be informed and
consulted as a part of the EIA preparation during at least two stages of the EIA-
process: shortly after the EA category has been assigned and after the draft EIA-
report has been prepared. Proper consultation is a requirement for EIA category A
projects. Participation should be enabled during project preparation under certain
conditions and is generally recommended as part of implementation. Projects that
April 2004



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project               9
require involuntary resettlement (OP 4.30), consultation on social issues should be
included.
The World Bank, like other donors, lenders and governments around the world,
have recognised that many planned interventions in the past have led to undesirable
impacts, often exacerbating economic inequalities and socio-political injustices. As
such, these agencies have, for the past few years, been developing guidelines to
ensure that meaningful consultation occurs, whereby relevant information is
provided to the stakeholders and their inputs are encouraged. The World Bank's
guideline entitled Policy on Disclosure of Information requires both public
consultation and public disclosure by the project sponsors in the preparation of an
environmental assessment.
The Vietnamese version of the executive summary of draft EIA report was
disclosed in all districts including to the project in February 2004. At the same time
the full text of the draft EIA report was available at PMU office and informed to the
project affected households. The final EA documents will be disclosed in InfoShop
and VDIC at the World Bank office in Hanoi.
SADCO has implemented public awareness campaigns in 2002 concerning the
Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project, and the
campaigns will continue in 2003.
Public consultation meeting for additional works was organised on 4 February 2004
and there were representatives from Ngo Quyen district, An Hai district, Cat Bi,
Dong Hai and Dong Khe phuongs totally 17 participants and 6 participants from
Sadco.
In the meeting the participants supported the project and were ready to co-operate
with PMU and contractors. It was agreed i.e. that PMU will inform well in advance
the construction time; the graveyard in Phuong Luu area will be removed; PMU has
to co-operate closely with districts and phuongs concerning land acquisition and
compensation; and PMU has to co-operate closely with other projects in the same
area.
April 2004



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project                                          1
PART I ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT
April 2004



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Projec* - Hlaiphong Sub-Projoet
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project                2
INTRODUCTION AND PROJECT DESCRIPTION
1.1     Background of the Project
This Environmental Management Plan for Additional Works of the Vietnam:
Three Cities Sanitation Project, Haiphong Sub-Project (lB project) is part of the
ongoing World Bank-financed sanitation project in Vietnam. The Ministry for
Foreign Affairs of Finland, Department for International Development Co-
operation, has agreed to provide funds for the consultancy services for the
preparation of this Environmental Impact Assessment, including to the Feasibility
Study, as a part of the CMS services in Water Supply, Drainage, Sewerage and
Sanitation Management Programme in Haiphong (WSDSSMP).
The Government of Vietnam has received a credit from the World Bank for the
implementation of the Vietnam Three Cities Sanitation Project, which would
rehabilitate and expand the sewerage and drainage systems in Haiphong city, in
Halong city and Cam Pha in Quang Ninh Province, and in Da Nang city. In
Haiphong, after signing the Contracts CIA and CIC, it became apparent that there
would be considerable savings in the Credit allocation for the works. It was
originally estimated that there would be savings up to 5 million USD but the
revised estimation indicated approximately 8 million USD savings, including the
20% counterpart budget.
1.2     Environmental Impact Assessment of Vietnam - Sanitation Project, Haiphong
Component
During the feasibility and preliminary design phase of Vietnam - Sanitation
Project, Haiphong Component was prepared in 1998 an Environmental Impact
Assessment Study (EIA) of category "A" of the sanitation component (sewerage
and storm drainage services) as required by the World Bank before loan
consideration.
Meeting the donor requirements, the EIA must also follow the Vietnamese law and
policy. The Vietnamese Law on Environmental Protection (National Assembly),
Article 18, and the Government Decree No. 175/CP, Article 9 in Chapter III,
require an EIA for the sanitation component.
The Water Supply and Sanitation Guidelines Project (GLO06) on Environmental
Impact (June 1997) are guidelines to prepare environmental documentation to
projects funded by the World Bank, the Asian Development Bank and most bi-
lateral agencies. The guidelines also define specific issues that should be considered
in an EIA-study of sanitation projects. The EIA also followed the World Bank
Environmental Assessment Sourcebook, for sewerage and drainage projects, and
the World Bank Operational Policies (OP 4.01 and OP 4.30).
The Ministry of Science, Technology and Environment (MOSTE) was in 1999 the
authority responsible for the approval of Environmental Impact Assessments in
Vietnam. The EIA can be approved by HPPC under the authorisation of MOSTE.
April 2004



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project               3
MOSTE approved an "A" category project. DOSTE is the responsible authority to
supervise and control the monitoring of the project.
Public consultation with parties potentially affected by the project has been an
integral part of the environmental assessment methodology. It has provided
baseline information; has assisted in the identification of issues requiring
resolution; and has established a mechanism for constructive exchange of
information between the proponent and local residents.
The land acquisition and resettlement plan was presented in a separate Resettlement
Action Plan report.
The environmental assessment of the original project was based on the following:
- collection of background data in situ in Vietnam
- updating data from previous EIAs and Feasibility Studies in Vietnam
- review of documents and project overview
- site visits
- surface water sampling from the rivers Cam and Lach Tray, An Kim Hai
channel, and Dong Quoc Binh Drain (January 1998)
- analysis of sewage sludge samples (1997)
- water and sediment quality analysis from lakes and channels (1995)
- small-scale phuong level representative and household study in 7 phuongs,
January 1998
- interviews with DOSTE, SADCo, and URENCo
- first public hearing in six phuongs in January 1998
- analysis of existing data
- impact assessment, mitigation, and monitoring.
The first version of Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) for the ongoing
Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project was prepared in
the beginning of the Preliminary Design Phase of Vietnam - Sanitation Project,
Haiphong Component (lB Project) in September - October 1998 and revised in
December 1998 at the end of preliminary design phase.
1.3     Environmental Impact Assessment of Additional Works
Draft Environmental Impact Assessment for Additional Works was prepared during
the conceptual design phase of the Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project -
Haiphong Sub-Project in December 2002 and the final draft EIA report during the
feasibility study phase in February - March 2003. The final EIA report has been
updated in February - March 2004. This final report can be considered as
addendum to the Environmental Impact Assessment report prepared for the
Vietnam - Sanitation Project, Haiphong Component in December 1998.
This Environmental Impact Assessment is based on the following:
- Vietnam - Sanitation Project, Haiphong Component reports:
- Environmental Impact Assessment, December 1998
- Environmental Management Plan, December 1998
- Resettlement Action Plan February 1999
April 2004



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project                4
- Resettlement Action Plan -Report 3A and additional Resettlement Action
Plan - Report 3A2, July 2001
- Vietnam Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project reports:
- Final Engineering Design Report, Volumes 1 - 4, September 2001
- Bidding Documents Contract No. HPSANP-C1C Construction and Operation
of Landfill, Rehabilitation of Lakes and Channels, Construction of Workshop
and New Combined Sewers, Volume 5, September 2000
- Terms of Reference for Consulting Services for the Design of Additional
Works for Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project, Haiphong Sub-Project,
November 2002
- Feasibility Study for Additional Works, April 2003
- HPSANP-C1D Bidding Documents Volume 5 Environmental Management
Plan, November 2003
- HPSANP-C1D Bidding Documents, Volume 2 Section VI Part 2 Summary of
Geotechnical Investigations, December 2003, updated in January 2004
- HPSANP-C1B Bidding Documents Volume 2 Section VI Part 1 General
Specifications, February 2004
- The Study on Sanitation Improvement Plan for Haiphong City in the Socialist
Republic of Vietnam reports: Summary, Main Report Volume 1 Sanitation
Master Plan, Volume 2 Feasibility Studies for the Priority Projects, Supporting
Report, Data Book, July 2001
- Haiphong Water Supply and Sanitation Programme: Dong Quoc Binh
Wastewater Stabilisation Pond, November 2000
- Water Supply, Drainage, Sewerage and Sanitation Management Support
Programme in Haiphong:
- Environmental Monitoring System, December 2001
- Drainage and Sewerage Development Hydraulics Study - Year 2002, Study
Report, June 2002
- Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project, Additional
Works, Volume I: Draft Main Report, Volume II: Preliminary Drawings,
VIWASE, February 2003
- Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project, Feasibility
Study on Additional Works Part: Phuong Luu Regulation Lake, Haiphong
Communication Construction Investment Consultant Company, January 2003
- Vietnamese Environmental Standards, 1995, 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001, MoSTE
- Site visits
- Discussions with DONRE, PMU, CMS-consulting team and Additional Works
design team
- Review of documents and project overview
1.4     Background, Objectives, Scope and Location of Additional Works
Background of Additional Works
During the World Bank Review Mission on April 15-16, 2002 and the
subsequent Wrap-Up Meeting in the Ministry of Planning and investment
(MPI) on April 26, 2002 it was agreed that the Project Management Unit
April 2004



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project               5
(PMU) of Haiphong Sewerage and Drainage Company (HPSADCO) would
submit their proposal how to utilise the savings to the World Bank by May 31,
2002. It was further agreed that the proposal would be sent to the Government
by June 30, 2002. The proposal has been submitted to the World Bank, to the
Prime Minister's Office and to the Haiphong People's Committee (PC) for
approval. No objection from the World Bank was received on October 24,
2002, and the Prime Minister approved the proposal on February 27, 2003
(Decision No 220/CP-CN) with statement that further decisions concerning
additional works will be made by Haiphong People's Committee. The
Supervisory Board Meeting on December 12, 2002 agreed that the CMS
Component of the Water Supply, Drainage, Sewerage and Sanitation
Management Programme in Haiphong would prepare a Feasibility Study for
Additional Works for Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project, Haiphong Sub-
Project.
Objectives of Additional Works
The objective of Additional Works is to provide additional priority investment
components for the sewerage and storm drainage services in Haiphong, which were
not included in the Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-
Project, and to assess the costs and impacts of the proposed additional works. The
additional investment components discussed in this study follow the proposal of the
Project Management Unit of HPSADCO for utilising the savings.
Scope of Additional Works
The project formulation is based on the problem tree and objectives presented in
Feasibility Study. The proposed Contract HPSANP-C ID: Construction and
Rehabilitation of Regulation Lakes and Interceptor Sewers consists of the following
components:
- Interceptor sewers along the North-East and South-West channels
- Construction a new Phuong Luu Regulating Lake
- Rehabilitation Cat Bi regulating lake
- Construction of new office building for the Employer
- Supply and maintenance of minor office equipment and vehicles for the
Employer and the Engineer
Interceptor Sewers along the Channels
Civil works, supply and installation of plant and equipment for about 14.5 km of
interceptor sewers and seven wastewater pumping stations along North-East and
South-West Channel Systems including construction of about 6 km of maintenance
roads and about 12 km collector sewers and construction of a 200 m long drainage
culvert.
It is proposed that interceptor sewers will be constructed on both sides of the South-
West (SW) and North-East (NE) Channels. The proposal is made to improve the
water quality in the channels and prepare for the future treatment of sewage.
April 2004



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project               6
Construction of Phuong Luu Regulating Lake
The main objective for Construction of Phuong Luu Lake is to provide additional
storage capacity for the North-East drainage system during hide tide and storm
conditions. In addition to its primary function, Phuong Luu Lake will function as
recreational area.
The location of the lake is based on Haiphong City Master Plan and Haiphong
Sewerage and Drainage Plan. Land is available at the proposed location in the Dong
Khe phuong as the area consists mostly of agricultural land.
Works proposed to be included in the lake construction comprise: construction of
the new about 22.7 ha Phuong Luu Lake including its outlet channel as dry
excavation of about 510,000 m3 earth and construction of 2.7 km of maintenance
roads along the Phuong Luu Lake and its outlet channel.
Rehabilitation of Cat Bi Regulation Lake
Reduction of pollution load of the Cat Bi Lake is an urgent task from the urban
sanitation point of view. The construction of interceptor sewers around the lake will
reduce the pollution load to the Cat Bi Lake. In addition, rehabilitation of the lake is
needed.
The proposed works comprise of: rehabilitation of Cat Bi Lake of about 6 ha area
including dredging and disposal of about 46,000 m3 sludge and earth, civil works,
supply and installation of plant and equipment for about 1.1 km interceptor sewers
and one wastewater pumping station and construction of about 1.1 km of
maintenance roads.
Dredging is required to be done as dry excavation. Sludge removed from the lake
will be transported to and treated in SADCo's Trang Cat composting facility.
Project Area
Location of components of Additional Works is presented in Annex 1.
April 2004



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project               7
2      ENVIRONMENTAL POLICIES AND LEGISLATION
2.1     Environmental Management
The National Assembly approved the government's proposal to create the Ministry
for Natural Resources and Environment (MONRE) by decision 02/2002/QHI 1 on
August 5, 2002. Decree No 86/2002/ND-CP on November 5, 2002 provides in
general functions, tasks, powers and organisation structure of the ministry and
ministerial agencies. Decree No 91/2002/ND-CP on the functions, tasks, powers
and organisational structure of the Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment
was promulgated on November 11, 2002. The new ministry will co-operate with the
General Department of Land Administration, the General Hydro-Meteorology
Department and environmental offices that now operate under the Ministry of
Science, Technology and Environment.
MONRE is the government body to exercise the state function of management over
the land, water resources, minerals, environment, meteorology, hydrogeography,
measuring and mapping in the national scope; exercise the governance over the
public services and represent the owner of state capital in enterprises using state
budgets relating to natural resources of land, water, minerals, environment,
meteorology, hydro-geography, measuring and mapping in accordance with the
legislation.
Concerning the environment the tasks and powers are as follows:
- Direct and supervise the implementation of the regulations and measures for the
protection of the environment, the programs and projects on the prevention of
combat and overcoming the degradation and pollution, environmental break-
down as assigned by the government
- Uniformly manage the national environmental monitoring system; summarise
and process data from environmental monitoring and regularly assess the
environment; forecast the environmental changes
- Appraise the environmental impact assessment reports of the projects and
business and production units; regulate environmental standards and uniformly
manage the licensing, restoring the environmental standards satisfied certificates
according to the regulations of the laws;
- Mobilise the donor resources, receive the investment capital from the State to
support programmes, projects, activities and tasks to protect the environment
and manage the utilization of Vietnam Environmental Protection Fund.
On the provincial level DONRE is the legal body with responsibility for
environmental regulation. DONRE has the overall responsibility that the
Vietnamese environmental regulations are followed during the construction.
DONRE carries out environmental monitoring as follows:
- Inspect execution of regulations, norms of the prevention and overcoming of
environmental degradation caused by the pollution and environmental problems
during the project implementation
- Co-operate with the PMU to inspect execution of relevant environmental law,
regulations and standards to be followed
April 2004



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project                   8
- Determine and report all environmental pollution and problems, which occur in
project area and submit the inspection report to the People's Committee for
consideration and decision
On the project level PMU has the main responsibility for the implementation and
monitoring of the EMP and will ensure that the necessary sampling, analysing and
reporting is carried out. PMU follows that the contractors will follow and
implement the mitigation measures and monitoring mentioned in EMP. PMU will
submit all monitoring reports to DONRE.
2.2     Environmental Law, Decree and Standards
In Vietnam, the basic national environmental policy is based on the Law on
Organisation of the Government (September 30, 1992), the Law on Environmental
Protection (December 27, 1993) and the Decree No. 175-CP (October 18, 1994).
According to the Decree 91/2002/ND-CP under MONRE has been established
among many other departments Environmental Impact Assessment and Appraisal
department. The EIA can, however, be appraised by the local DONRE based on
their knowledge of local conditions and further be delivered to PC for approval, if
delegated so by MONRE. There are no specific stipulations in the law and decree
concerning the approval of EMP.
MOSTE has published in 1995, 1998, 1999, 2000 and 2001 Vietnamese
Environmental Standards, and standardisation work is in progress. From now on
MONRE will continue the standardisation work. In such cases, where the
applicable Vietnamese standard is inadequate, not regulated or applicable, project
agencies must obtain MONRE's approval for the use of equivalent standards of the
countries that have provided the technology and equipment to Vietnam, or apply
equivalent standard from a third country.
The most relevant environmental related laws, standards and regulations are listed
as follows:
Table 2.1 Vietnamese environmental standards (MOSTE 1995, 1998, 1999, 2000,
2001)
Number of standard  Name of standard
TCVN 5998-1995      Guidance on sampling on marine waters (ISO 5667-9:1992)
TCVN 5999-1995      Guidance on sampling of wastewater (ISO 5667-10:1992)
TCVN 5298-1995      Requirements to the use of wastewater and their sludge for
watering and fertilising purpose
TCVN 5524-1995      General requirements for protecting surface water against
pollution
TCVN 5525-1995      General requirements for protection of underground water
TCVN 5942-1995      Surface water quality standards for raw water supply and general
use
TCVN 5944-1995      Groundwater quality standard
TCVN 6772:2000      Water quality - Domestic wastewater standards
TCVN 6774:2000      Water quality - Fresh-water quality guidelines for protection of
aquatic sites
TCVN 6982:2001      Water quality - Standards for industrial effluent discharged into
rivers using for water sports and recreation
April 2004



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project                      9
TCVN 6983:2001       Water quality - Standards for industrial effluent discharged into
lakes using for water sports and recreation
TCVN 6984:2001       Water quality - Standards for industrial effluents discharged into
rivers using for protection of aquatic life
TCVN 6985:2001       Water quality - Standards for industrial effluent discharged into
lakes using for protection of aquatic life
TCVN 6986:2001      Water quality - Standards for industrial effluents discharged into
coastal waters using for protection of aquatic life
TCVN 6987:2001      Water quality - Standards for industrial effluents discharged into
coastal waters using for water sports and recreation
TCVN 5937-1995,     Monitoring system for the air quality
5940-1995
TCVN 5948-1999      Allowed limitation values for road motor vehicle noise
TCVN 5949-1998      Allowed limitation values for noise in public and residential
areas
TCVN 6962:2001       Vibration and shock - Vibration emitted by construction works
and factories - Maximum permitted levels in the environment of
public and residential areas
The standard TCVN 5298-1995 defines the requirements for use of wastewater and
sludge for watering and fertilising purposes. According to the requirements in the
standard, the wastewater and sludge should not content any harmful and toxic
matters and the sludge can only be used for fertilising purposes after treatment of
toxic matters.
2.3      World Bank Guidelines
The environmental impact assessment study for the sanitation project was designed
to evaluate its status with respect to all applicable World Bank environmental and
social policies and guidelines.
During the EA process for this project, a review of World Bank environmental and
social policies was carried out with respect to their relevance to this project. The
policies directly relevant to this project are Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01),
Cultural Property (OP 4.11) and Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.30). The specific
World Bank guidelines that were identified as being applicable to this project are
Environmental Assessment Sourcebook, Volume I and II (1991) and Pollution
Prevention and Abatement Handbook 1997.
For all Category A projects proposed for IBRD or IDA financing, during the EA
process, the borrower consults project-affected groups and local nongovernmental
organisations (NGOs) about the project's environmental aspects and takes their vies
into account. For Category A projects, the borrower consults these groups at least
twice: shortly after environmental screening and before the terms of reference for
the EA is finalised; and once the draft EA report is prepared.
For meaningful consultations between the borrower and project-affected groups and
local NGOs on all Category A projects for IBRD or IDA financing, the borrower
provides relevant material in a timely manner prior to consultation and in a form
and language that are understandable and accessible to the groups being consulted.
April 2004



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project                      10
For a Category A project, the borrower provides for the initial consultation a
summary of the proposed project's objectives, description, and potential impacts;
for consultation after the draft EA report is prepared, the borrower provides a
summary of the EA's conclusions. In addition, for a Category A project, the
borrower makes draft EA report available at a public place accessible to project-
affected groups and local NGOs.
Once the borrower officially transmits the Category A EA Report to the Bank, the
Bank distributes the summary (in English) to the executive directors (EDs) and
makes the report available through its InfoShop. If the borrower objects to the
Bank's releasing an EA report through its InfoShop, Bank staff (a) do not continue
processing an IDA project or (b) for IBRD project, submit the issue of further
processing to the EDs.
April 2004



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project                 11
3      BACKGROUND
3.1     Environmental Setting
Many of the environmental problems in Haiphong are widely spread over most of
the city area, some are more localised and act mostly as point-source polluters. The
coastal delta area has been populated for hundreds of years, because it is favourable
for cultivation and the sea is located nearby. Population density is high, with almost
no uncultivated or unbuilt area. Even the area of regulation lakes is decreasing
because of encroachment for housing purposes.
Air emissions in Haiphong mainly originate from industry, traffic, burning of coal
bricks that are used in households for cooking and uncontrolled burning of solid
waste. The monitoring of air emissions in Haiphong is not systematic, and no action
has been taken to reduce air pollution. However, in Haiphong there are still plenty
of green areas, which improve the local air quality.
All surface waters around the city centre, except some lakes and ponds and
constructed irrigation channels, are saline as the rivers are affected by tidal
fluctuation.
The poor sanitation and drainage cause the most significant environmental and
public health risks in Haiphong. There are no operating wastewater treatment
facilities (except a small package treatment plant in Bong Sen village). Two
treatment plants have been constructed for hospital effluent, at Children's Hospital
and Viet Tiep hospital. These treatment plants have been out of operation for
several years. Domestic and industrial wastewater and effluents  are mainly
discharged directly to the channels, lakes, or rivers, where the aquatic ecosystem
provides the only wastewater treatment. The system of lakes and channels also
stores storm water during high tide. The sea is the ultimate recipient of the city
effluents.
The lakes and channels are already overloaded with sewage and their natural
cleaning capacity has therefore drastically decreased. They have turned to smelling,
heavily polluted and inaestethic water bodies creating amounts of mosquitoes,
which cause a public health risk.
Although the collection of recyclable material at the source of generation is quite
efficient in Haiphong, the waste collection, recycling, treatment and disposal need
further improvements. The main streets in Haiphong are mainly clean of waste, but
the alleys and open areas are in many places covered by garbage. Dumping of waste
in the ground in urban areas, where it remains for considerable time before being
collected, if at all, clogs the drainage system and causes risks to the environment
(contamination of soil, surface and groundwater) and to public health. No proper
treatment or storage of industrial and hazardous waste exists so far. One serious
problem is the common habit to throw garbage straight to channels and lakes.
The public awareness on environmental problems has risen in Vietnam during the
past few years. However, the complexity of the problems and lack of financial
resources have retarded this positive development.
April 2004



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project               12
3.2     Previous and Ongoing Sanitation Projects and Studies
Additional works is part of the ongoing Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project -
Haiphong Sub-Project, and all the information and procedures related to that
Project is concerning also the additional works.
The content of The Study on Sanitation Improvement Plan for Haiphong City in the
Socialist Republic of Vietnam had been discussed in Chapter 3.3.3.
Haiphong Green Park Company is constructing, as a part of the rehabilitation of the
Mam Tom and An Bien lake area, interceptor sewers around the lakes, a DN 400
mm pressure pipeline and a pumping station with a capacity of 120 1/s. After
completion of construction the sewers and pumping station will be handed over to
Haiphong Transportation and Urban Public Works Services (TUPWS). TUPWS
will decide the organisation to be in charge of operation and maintenance of the
facilities in the future.
Haiphong Urban Upgrading Project is one of four sub-projects of the VUUP in the
framework of the National Urban Upgrading Program supported by the World
Bank. The project is located mainly in the inner city areas. In Phase 1 the project
will be carried out in 20 residential areas in eight low-income areas belonging to
four urban districts and An Hai commune.
Objectives of the project are: poverty alleviation in urban areas by improvement of
living conditions and living environment of the urban poor; promotion of
participatory planning methods for urban upgrading to better respond to the
people's demand; and multi-sectoral approach with communities' consultation in
implementation process of upgrading works
Primary and secondary infrastructure have been determined and proposed to be
constructed for low-income communities according to master plan or already
formulated project proposals. All primary and secondary infrastructures are to be
constructed in phase I of the project in order to meet urgent needs and connect
upgraded tertiary infrastructure.
To Component 1: Tertiary Infrastructure Upgrading belong new construction and
upgrading of roads, drainage, sewerage, water supply, street lighting and solid
waste collection in low-income areas, which are all degraded, lack of investment
and are poor quality impacting on living and environmental conditions of
communities. Another part of component is upgrading of social infrastructure such
as kindergartens, schools, health clinics, sites for cultural activities, services etc.
The main items of Component 2: Primary and Secondary Infrastructure are as
follows: construct roads such as Chua Hang road from To Hieu road to Highway
No. 5 to the direction of South- East and road on top of An Kim Hai Channel;
upgrade the drainage of An Kim Hai channel in the section from Luon culvert
(Thuong Ly canal) to Cau Vuot in Lach Tray street with the length of 5.1 km; and
secondary water supply systems in Kien An and Le Chan district about 8.5 km.
Other components of the urban upgrading project are: resettlement housing; land
and housing management; housing improvement loan programme; and capacity
building.
April 2004



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project
Final Envirbnmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project               13
3.3     Haiphong Master Plans
3.3.1    Haiphong City Master Plan
The Urban and Rural Planning Institute and Haiphong Planning Institute have
prepared the Haiphong City Master Plan in 1993 under the guidance of Haiphong
People's Committee. The Master Plan was approved by the Prime Minister
Decision No 608/TTg on 20 December 1993. According to the Master Plan,
Haiphong should be developed to an economically "open city". The development is
planned to be based on utilisation of the advantages of the port, sea, industry and
tourism. The revised Master Plan of Haiphong City is extended to the year 2020
and it has been approved by Government Decision No 04-2001/QD-TTg on 10
January 2001.
3.3.2    Haiphong Sewerage and Drainage Master Plan
Haiphong Planning Institute and VIWASE have prepared Haiphong Sewerage and
Drainage Master Plan 1998 - 2010 in consistent with the City Master Plan 2010.
The targets of the master plan are as follows:
- Settle flooding situation in City area and reduce pollution caused by wastewater
- Be consistent with short-term and long-term technical and infrastructure
development plans, environmental protection and socio-economic development
-  Utilize existing network and regulation lakes for drainage during low tide
-  Apply advanced technology to improve drainage capacity and reduce pollution
caused by wastewater
- Formulate feasible sewerage and drainage investment projects funded by local
and international financiers
Drainage and Sewerage planning criteria for urban area includes determination of
sewerage and drainage system; and principles of drainage planning for combined
sewers and for the area with separate sewers; and for sewerage planning.
Sewerage and drainage system in City area has been divided to: combined system
in the North of railway (old city), Cat Bi, Thuong Ly and Ha Ly; and separate
system in the South of railway. The drainage system planning in the old city area
(north of the railway) is based on the rehabilitation and extension of existing
network, prevention of tide intrusion to the drainage system and construction of
tidal gates.
Master plan provides a comprehensive drainage scheme for the drainage areas
associated with the North-East and South-West channel and lake systems. In these
areas the emphasis is not on rehabilitation, but construction of new sewers in
conjunction with new roads. Therefore, the focus on reducing flooding in the two
prioritised areas is suitable for long-term and sustainable development of the urban
drainage system in Haiphong.
Several options are discussed for the north and south drainage area. In the long run
it is proposed to have combined drainage catchment area, but for the time being is
proposed to have the existing drainage basins including construction of Phuong Luu
Lake and storm water pumping stations.
April 2004



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project               14
3.3.3    The Study on Sanitation Improvement Plan for Haiphong City in the Socialist
Republic of Vietnam
General
To improve the environmental condition in Haiphong City, the Government of
Vietnam requested the Japanese Government to prepare a sanitation improvement
plan for Haiphong in September 1997. After negotiations and decision the field-
work for the Study commenced in March 2000, and Final Report was published in
July 2001.
The objectives of the Study on Sanitation Improvement Plan for Haiphong City in
the Socialistic Republic of Vietnam comprises the following three main
components: to formulate a sanitation improvement plan for Haiphong City,
Sanitation Master Plan covering water supply, drainage, sewerage and solid waste
management system; to conduct a feasibility study of priority projects related to
drainage and sewerage and/or solid waste management; and to transfer technology
to the counterpart personnel in the course of the Study.
The Sanitation Improvement Master Plan consists of five sectors for the target year
2020. These are: water supply; drainage; sewerage; water quality improvement for
lakes and channels; and solid waste management.
System and Facility Measures for Storm Water Drainage Improvements
The planning objectives for storm water drainage are as follows:
- Main objective is to improve and upgrade the storm water drainage system to
promote a healthy living environment and favourable urban development
- Improvements in storm water drainage are directed to flood areas where flood
reductions have greatest socio-economic impacts
- Selected measures for storm water drainage should be sustainable and
compatible with local standards and practices
Flooding problems are associated with the incidence and depth of flooding as well
as flood duration. Highest priority is given to areas, which experience frequent
flooding with deep flood water and long flood durations.
Socio-economic benefits derived from improvements in storm water drainage for
living areas experiencing flooding include the following:
- Risk of faecal contamination of water supply facilities is reduced
- Occurrence of water borne diseases is reduced
- Damage to road infrastructure is reduced
- Disturbance to traffic is reduced
- Property values and property tax levies will increase
- Inconvenience of flooding is reduced
- Attraction for investors will increase
System Facility Measures for Sewerage Development
Planning objectives for sewerage management are as follows:
- Main objective is to provide healthy living environment and to promote
favourable urban development
April 2004



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Proiect
Final Environtnental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project                15
- Development objective is to provide sewerage in areas with high population
densities generating high pollution loads
- Environmental objective is to reduce wastewater discharges to highly polluted
surface water bodies
- Selected measures for sewerage should be sustainable and compatible with local
standards and practices
According to the planning strategy in areas with high population density, more than
40 person/ha, the sewer system should be developed so that sewage from each
household can be collected and treated.
Sewerage development is defined according to the following technical factors, with
testicular emphasis on the quantities of sewage, pollution loads, and geographic
conditions:
- Drainage basins
- Land use and population density (present and future)
- Wastewater and pollution load generation
- Configuration of wastewater collection systems
- City development plans
Water Quality Improvement Plan for Lakes and Channels
Among the various functions of lakes and channels the focus is on the improvement
of environmental and recreational conditions, including water quality, sediment
quality, odour, amenity, and aesthetic aspects. The ultimate target was the
attainment of water quality standard TCVN5942-1995 by 2020.
The main pollution mechanism of lakes and channels in urban Haiphong is the
inflow of untreated sewage. Hence, the most effective measure to improve water
quality of lakes and channels will be development of the sewerage system.
Considering the complex nature of the pollution problems in Haiphong and the
multiple-functionality of lakes and channels, no single measure would be able to
solve all water quality problems. Hence, the combination of measures was
considered based on the following criteria:
- Effectiveness of measures
- Time required to implement the measure
- Technical, financial, and institutional/organisational requirements to implement
the measure
- Availability of land
- Existing and/or planned measures to improve water quality
- Related measures proposed in other sectors of Master Plan, including sewerage
and drainage
April 2004



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project                   16
4      BASELINE DATA
4.1     Location
Haiphong City is located on the southern part of the Bac Bo plain in the coastal
triangle delta of Red River. It is bordering with Gulf of Tonkin of South China Sea
in the east, and with provinces of Thai Binh in the south, Hai Hung in the west and
Quang Ninh in the north and north-east.
Haiphong is the third largest city in Vietnam and is one of the cities in Vietnam
having a status comparable with provinces. The urban centre consists of three
districts namely Hong Bang, Ngo Quyen and Le Chan. Kien An is also upgraded to
be urban district. The urban districts are further divided into smaller units called
phuongs.
4.2      Climate Condition
The climate of Hai Phong City is dominated by the monsoons with two clear
seasons: the rainy season coincides with the hot season (from March to October),
and the dry season coincides with cold season (from November to March).
The annual average temperature is about 230. The average temperature in winter is
190C, in summer 260C. The coldest month is January (> 11C) and the hottest
month is July (28C).
The annual average precipitation varies between 1,100 - 1,850 mm mean being
1,754 mm. The rainfall concentrates from May to September, accounting for 77%
of the total rainfall in the year. During rainy season maximum rainfall can reach
100 mm/day, while in other months it is only 10-15 mm/day. The highest average
rainfall is in August and the lowest average rainfall is in December.
Table 4.1    Montlily Precipitation, Evaporation (mm) and Humidity (%) in Phlu
Lien Meteorological Station in 1957 - 1997
Month       1    2      3     4     5    6     7      8     9    10    11    12
Rainy days  9     14    18    14    12    15    14    17    13    10    6     5
lain (max)  68    37    54   184   184   167   224   362   182   343   149    35
lain (avg)  33    37    54    99   187   244   214   377   232   154    42    16
Evaporation  55   35    32    39    62    66    71    56    64    76    75    68
I / -      -22   +2   +22   +60   +125  +178  +143  +321  +168  +78    -33  -52
umidity %  84    88    91    90    87    86    86    88    85    81    77    77
Rainy days: Average number of rainy days per month
Rain (max): Average highest rainfall of month
Rain (avg): Average monthly rainfall
The annual average evaporation is 698 mm, representing 40% - 45% of the total
annual precipitation. In the dry season (especially from February to April),
evaporation rate accounts for only 15% of the total annual evaporation. About 30 %
of evaporation occurs from September to November. The humidity in Haiphong is
quite high, the average humidity being 85% and it's at its highest in February-April.
April 2004



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project                 17
The wind velocity varies between 2.3mi/s - 3.1m/s, averaging 2.6m/s. The average
maximum wind velocity are in the south-east monsoon period 20 - 24 m/s and in
other months 10 - 16m/s. Typhoons originated outside the region, but have great
importance on the coastal area. Several typhoons with a wind velocity of over
40m/s have occurred. In 1992-1994, wind velocity varies from 0 to 30m/s with
average wind velocity of 6.0m/s.
There are two main wind directions in the project area, north-eastern wind in winter
and southeast in summer. The measured wind directions in 1992-1994 are mainly
northwest and northeast in October-February and south and southeast in February-
October.
4.3     Topography and Soil Conditions
The topography in Haiphong is mostly flat and very gently sloping due to the
deltaic character of the area. The terrain slopes slightly from northwest to southeast.
Ground elevation varies mostly between 0 to 4 meters above the sea level. The
highest areas are in Kien An, south-west of the city, where hills reaching a
maximum height of 140 meters can be found. Other hills are located in Do Son and
Thuy Nguyen. These landforms are subject to intensive weathering and erosion
processes.
The soil in Haiphong area consists of alluvial and marine sediments. According to
general geological studies of Haiphong City, the total thickness of clay layers is
about 25-30 meters. Hard stratum of sandstone or siltstone has been found at the
depth of 50-70 m from ground surface.
The soil is unstable due to the upper soft organic clay sediments. Average soil
resistance is 0.3-0.5 kg/cm2. According to the soil investigations in Trang Cat in
1995 and 1998 the permeability of surface soil, silty clay layer, varies from k = 4.3
x 10-5 to 2.2 x 10- cm/s. The permeability of mud clay from depth 7.5 to 13.5
meter is in average 7.7 x 10-7 cm/s. Groundwater level is generally high, dry season
values varying from 0.5-3 m from ground surface.
4.4     Flora and Fauna
The vegetation in the urban area consists mainly of planted trees and greenery. In
the sub-urban areas there are also grassland plants' and bushes along the roads. The
variety of sparsely distributed natural vegetation is very poor and has no economic
or environmental value. There are no endangered plants in the study area. The
arable land is used effectively to cultivate paddy, vegetables and fruits.
Water plants, of which the most common are water hyacinth, duckweed and water
spinach, cover partly or wholly water bodies. Aquatic weeds are commonly grown
and they are mainly used to feed fish and animals, for human food, paper and fibre
production, soil additives, etc.
The most common fishes in the lakes and ponds in urban area are natural species
such as different species of carps and tilapia. Shrimps, crabs, clams and snails are
collected or cultivated on ponds and paddy fields around the city.
April 2004



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project                 18
4.5     Rivers, Lakes, and Channels
4.5.1    Major Hydrological Network and Flow
The Bac Bo plain, the Red River delta, has a dense network of rivers. The main
rivers in the Haiphong area are the Da Bach River (the Bach Dang River), the Kinh
Thay River (the Cam River), the Lach Tray River, the Van Uc River and the Thai
Binh River. Besides these main rivers, there are several small rivers like An Kim
Hai system, (also called the Sai River, the Re River and the Tam Bac River) and the
Da Do River. These two are the raw water sources to water treatment plants, and
are separated with tidal gates from other river systems. Therefore the changes in
water level and impact of tide on these rivers are very limited.
Cam River is separating the city centre and Thuy Nguyen district. The width of the
river is 500 to 600 m and the depth is 6 to 8 m. The following hydrological data is
available: Qma,x= 5,215 m3/s, during flood tide Qmax= 2,240 m3/s, maximum velocity
Vmax= 2.58 m/s, minimum velocity is Vmin= 1.05 m/s, maximum water level Hmax=
452cm (in the year 1986) and minimum water level Hmin= 20cm (in the year 1969).
The average content of suspended solids is 3.9 kg/mi3 and during flood tide it is 2.5
kg/m3. Maximum salinity is 2.88%. The estuary becomes fast shallower due to the
high amount of suspended solids and because the channel between the city and
Dinh Vu island has been closed.
Lach Tray River starts from the Rang River, runs through Kien An and discharges
through Lach Tray gate. In the city centre the Tam Bac channel connects the Lach
Tray River and the Cam River. The width of the river is 100 to 200 m and the depth
is 4 to 7 m. In Kien An is recorded the following data: Qnax= 252 m3/s, Hmax= 253
cm, Hmjn= 8cm, suspended solids in dry season 0.3 - 1.5 kg/m3, and salinity 2.85%.
An Kim Hai channel system is originally complex irrigation system to serve Hai
Duong and Hai Phong provinces. The An Kim Hai channel receives water from the
Rang River by Bang Lai channel and Quang Dat channel. At the lower section of
the river it receives more flow from Kinh Mon River by the Kim Son channel.
Along the last ten kilometres section through the Haiphong City the An Kim Hai
channel is nowadays in practice open sewer, partly blocked by solid waste and
water plants.
From the hydrological point of view the rivers are not independent. A large number
of channels for irrigation and drainage and new connections between rivers have
been built during centuries. Thus the main rivers have several mutual connections,
both natural and man-made, making the whole concept of a catchment an ill-
defined one. Due to the numerous interconnections between the rivers, it is
impossible to define a basin area for most of rivers. The total drainage area can be
estimated to be 17,000 km2.
Characteristic to Bac Bo plain rivers is low gradient, which is on average 2 to 5
cm/km. This and wide riverbeds lead to low flow velocities in the rivers. The water
levels vary strongly in the main rivers due to the morphological parameters of the
river reach and do not directly correspond to the flow regime. In dry periods typical
monthly level variations are less than one meter. During flood peaks water level
April 2004



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project                  19
rises at some sites by only I to 2 meters, while at some sites the increase can be up
to 6 to 8 meters.
The mean specific flow in upper Thai Binh river system is over 20 I/s/km2. It
decreases downstream, both due to lower precipitation and due to water intake for
irrigation. Over 80 % of the flow occurs in June - September, only 5 % in
December - March.
During the highest floods, the maximum specific flow exceeds 1,000 I/s/km2 at the
headwater stations. In the main streams flow is smaller. The high flow usually
occurs in July or August, but it may occur in any month from May to October. The
minimum specific flows vary considerably from station to station. At some stations
the minimum flow is below I l/s/km2, while at the others the extreme flows are over
2 I/s/km2. This variation is partly due to water use for irrigation and other purposes.
The time of minimum flow is also variable: it usually occurs in January - April. But
even some rainy season occurrences have been observed.
The distribution of the flow rate in the year is uneven. The year is divided into two
seasons: the flood season and low water season. The flood season usually lasts four
months, from June to September. The flood flow is high, can account for 85 % of
the total flow in the year. The low water season lasts from October to May next
year.
4.5.2     Tide Regime
The tides in the Bac Bo Gulf have both regular and ir-egular diurnal regimes. The
tide amplitude in the Gulf varies from 0.5 to 0.6 meters, tending to decrease
southwards. Tide is the main cause of water changes in river around Haiphong City.
It also affects the hydrological condition, water quality and water discharge at tidal
gates. The highest tide amplitudes observed in Hon Dau observing station in Do
Son are presented in Table 4.2.
Table 4.2 Maximum Amplitude (cni) Measured in Hon Dau Monitoring Station
|Month| 1       2    3     4  l 5     5    7     8    9  |10 |11      12
Cm      375   360  329   318  354   370  372   347  327   363  370 l 394
Source: Hon Dau monitoring station- North-eastern Meteorological Station, Meteorological Bureau, 1998.
The Cam River and the Lach Tray River are affected by diurnal tide regime, the
rising time and falling time of the tide are approximately equal. In average a tide
cycle is 14 - 15 days. The tidal regimes within a tide cycle are different and a tide
cycle can be divided into three stages:
1. The low tide stage: usually covers the first and last 2 - 3 days of the tide cycle,
with small tide amplitude, about 50 cm
2. The medium tide stage: from the fourth day to the seventh day of the tide cycle
3. The high tide stage: from the eighth to the twelfth day of the tide cycle. The tide
amplitude is rather large, may reach 3 m
The high tide has no clear seasonal fluctuation, although it occurs mainly in June -
July or December - January. Its main influence is the change of tide level and
salinity. The flow velocity at the upstream (18 km/h in the Red River) is higher than
April 2004



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project                 20
at the downstream (10 km/h in the Red River). At the high tide level, the saline
water intrudes up to the upstream of rivers. However, the distance of this intrusion
is very much less than the maximum distance of tide fluctuation. The time when
occur ebbs and flows also varies.
- Diurnal tide fluctuationi cycle: Most of the time, about 25 days in a month,
occurs diurnal tide fluctuation. The tide cycles are equal, bout 24 h 24'. During
this period there may be 2 ebbs and flows in a day, but this occurs maximum
only 2 - 3 days a month.
- Semni-monthly cycle: High tide usually occurs during 2 - 3 days when the moon
reaches the highest latitude in the North and the South. The water level change
rapidly (may be at the rate of 0.5 rn/h).
- Low tide usually occurs during 2 - 3 days when moon passes across the equator
plane. The water level fluctuation is inconsiderable, sometime stands still.
- Seasonal cycle: The tides also have semi-annual cycles. The highest tide occurs
at the summer solstice (23 June) and winter solstice (23 December), whereas the
lowest tide occurs at spring equinox and autumn equinox (21 March and 21
September respectively).
- Lontg-term cycle: Among long-term tide cycle, only the 9-year cycle has
considerable impacts on the characteristic of the tide.
- Influe7tce of tides: Tides influence on the hydro-environmental characteristics
and water quality of the lower part of all rivers. The two main impacts are the
tide current and saline water intrusion.
- Tide currenit: Tidal movements of the rivers in the area are different.
- In the Red River the rising tide current velocity is 18 km/h and the falling tide
current velocity is 10 km/h. In the Thai Binh River the rising tidal current
velocity is 12 - 15 km/h.
4.5.3     Water and Sediment Quality Data of Rivers
To receive additional baseline data from the river water quality in the Cam River
and the Lach Tray River, the An Kim Hai channel and the Dong Quoc Binh drain,
HPWSSP ordered water sampling and analysis from the Haiphong fnstitute of
Oceanology. A total of six sampling points were addressed upstream and
downstream of the Cam River and the Lach Tray River plus altogether three
samples from the channel and drain. The sampling and analysis were carried out in
January 1998 during ebb tide. The water in the rivers was turbid. The sampling was
carried out both in the surface and bottom water layers.
The water analyses from the Cam and the Lach Tray rivers in January 1998 are in
general as follows:
- BOD5 values were low, only 2 - 4 mg/l
- values of ammonium NH4+ (0.165-0.352 mg/I) and sulphate s042- (186-730
mg/I) were high
- values of oil and grease were generally over the Vietnamese limitation value
(0.3 mg/l)
- E. coli bacteria value was extremely high in most of the samples
The BOD5 value seems to be too low for the river water regarding the discharge of
untreated wastewater. This can be due to the analysis method used in the
April 2004



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project                 21
laboratory. The samples have been filtered before analysis. If the analysis were
carried out without filtration, the result could have been even ten times more.
Unpolluted waters typically have BOD values of 2 mgll or less, whereas those
receiving wastewater may have values up to 10 mg/I. Raw sewage can have a BOD
value of about 600 mg/I.
Total ammonia concentrations measured in surface waters are typically < 0.2 mg/l,
but may reach values of 2-3 mg/I. Higher concentrations can be an indication of
organic pollution such as from domestic sewage, industrial wastewater and fertiliser
run-off. The sulphate concentrations in natural waters are usually between 2 and 80
mg/I, although they may exceed 1,000 mg/l near industrial discharges. High
concentrations > 400 mg/I may make water unpleasant to drink.
The permissible concentration of mineral oils and petroleum products in water
depends on the intended use of the water. The recommended maximum
concentrations for drinking water supplies and fishery production are between not
detectable - 0.3 mg/l. The heavy metals were not analysed from the surface water
samples.
Based on the scattered water analysis data of the Cam River water, the analysis
results indicate that there were already anthropogenic impacts in the upstream river
water before it passes the city centre. The untreated wastewater from the city, which
is discharged to the river is, however, clearly visible in the analysis results, for
example the oxygen in the river water decreases, while the values of ammonium,
sulphate and mineral oils increase. The impacts of wastewater discharge are
concentrated in the main city area.
Downstream from the city, the effects of the sea on the quality of river water can
also been seen in the results. Seawater intrudes into the Cam River, diluting the
concentrations.
The same features are also visible in the Lach Tray River. The water upstream Lach
Tray has already anthropogenic impacts of population, but the discharge of
wastewater from the city can be seen as higher concentrations of ammonium,
sulphate, mineral oils and extremely high amount of E. coli bacteria.
The analysis of the water from the An Kim Hai channel and the Dong Quoc Binh
Drain show similar properties as the river water. The BOD5 values show, however,
higher concentrations e.g. from 4.1 mg/I to 10.1 mg/I.
The ammonium value is higher in the channel and drain water than in the river
waters, but the sulphate value is much lower. Also total dissolved carbohydrates are
higher in the channel and drain waters. The amount of E.Coli bacteria in the
channel and drain water is extremely high, between 110,000 to 240,000,000
pcs/100 ml.
4.5.4     Water and Sediment Quality Data of Lakes and Channels
In Haiphong there are several artificial ponds and lakes fed from the network of
rivers and channels. Total surface area of the regulating lakes is about 45 ha and
effective water volume about 463,000 m3 (H=2.5 m) and 636,000 m3 (H=3.0 m).
April 2004



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project               22
The two main drainage channels serving the centre of Haiphong are the North-East
(Dong Khe) channel discharging to the Cam River and the South-West channel
discharging to the Lach Tray River. The total length of the two channels is about
6.2 km. The present water volume in the North-East channel is 337,000 m3 and in
the South-West channel 110,000 m3. Additional discharge and rainfall to the
channels will result in flooding.
The lakes have been planned for the following functions: to store storm water and
wastewater (during high tide when the tidal gates are closed); to treat wastewater
biologically; to raise fish; and to create a recreational area.
The area of lakes, ponds and channels has reduced considerably in recent years due
to sedimentation, dumping of solid waste, and reclamation of the banks for housing
purposes. Based on the results of the water and sediment analyses in 1995, the
status of the lakes is generally very serious and most of them are overloaded. The
greater An Bien Lake seems to be in a better condition. The biological oxygen
demand is very high in all lakes, in some lakes approaching the values of raw
sewage and the high ammonia values is most probably caused by the organic
pollution of sewage. The lake waters have only small amounts of heavy metals. All
analysed lakes and channel waters have very high values of mineral oils.
The sediment analyses from the lakes and channels show that the lakes and
channels are severely overloaded by organic material and nutrients. The values of
heavy metals in the sediment are mainly within quite reasonable limits, except the
high values of cadmium, lead and zinc. Also chromium, mercury and nickel
contamination has been considerable especially during 1990's.
Into the SADCo has been established Environmental Monitoring System, which is
including also water and sediment quality monitoring. Results of five sampling
rounds are available. Based on the previous surveys and this information the inner
city lakes and channels have serious organic pollution, see Annex 2. The latest
heavy metal concentrations in sediment are on reasonable level (Annex 2). The
variation of the lowest and the highest maxima 2002 - 2003 and international
standards is presented in the Table 4.3. The heavy metal results of the first sediment
sampling round in November 2001 were much higher than the results from other
sampling rounds. Most probably there was some inaccuracy in analysing and the
results are not comparable.
Based on the analysing results from the other inner city lakes in Haiphong in 2002
- 2003 it can be estimated that the sediment quality of the Cat Bi Lake is the similar
than in the other lakes. According to the latest results analysed concentrations of all
heavy metals are well below the international standards (Table 4.3 and Annex 2).
Although in general the results are not very alarming it is recommended that the
estimated amount of about 20,000 m3 dredged sludge from Cat Bi Lake would be
transported and disposed at already existing Trang Cat composting facility
constructed for the needs of Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong
Sub-Project, and disposed in the same way than other dredged material of the
project. At Trang Cat there is enough place and facilities to dispose this amount of
sludge.
April 2004



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project                      23
Table 4.3 Maximum concentrations of heavy metals (mg/kg) in ten Inner City Lakes
in Haiphong 2002 - 2003 compared with sludge quality limits according to
the international standards
mg/kg    Variation of  Sludge     Sludge         Sludge        Sludge
D.W.     maximum      NL 1)       NL 1)          Utilisation in  Utilisation for
values of ten  Target value  Intervention  Agriculture  Landscaping
inner city lakes 2)      value 3)        EU limits 4)  5)
in Haiphong
As      0.28- 1.99      29           55
Cd      0.20 - 9.36     0.8          12             3.0          10
Cr3+__    18 -163       100          380
Pb       11 - 209       85           530            150          300
Hg      0.01 - 0.65     0.3          10             1.0          5.0
Zn       89 - 425       140          720           1500
1) Dutch Soil Cleanup Guidelines, 1995. Standard soil 25 % clay and 10 % organic matter. Average
value.
2) Soils demanding use exceeding Target Value should be cleaned up.
3) Soils exceeding Intervention Value should be cleaned up.
4) European Union limits, 1997
5) Finnish Environmental Ministry Guidelines, 1998
Excavated earth from the Cat Bi Lake will be transported to Trang Cat composting
yard and stockpiled for future use in Trang Cat area. The excavated earth is not
contaminated and can be used as cover material at Trang Cat area.
More detailed water and sediment quality data is presented in EIA report of
Vietnam - Sanitation Project, Haiphong Component (1998), in the reports of the
Study on Sanitation Improvement plan for Haiphong City in the Socialist Republic
of Vietnam (2001), and Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-
Project Semi-Annual Reports.
4.5.5     Water Quality Data from Phuong Luu Area
For the needs of the Study on Sanitation Improvement Plan for Haiphong City were
taken water samples from drainage ditch and pond and two groundwater samples,
one from drilled well and one from shallow well in Phuong Luu area.
The surface water quality in Phuong Luu area was still ensured, all indicators were
lower than permissible level. Compared to TCVN 5944-1995 the groundwater in
this area indicated biological pollution. The number of coliform bacteria was 83 -
126 times higher than the permissible level, and number of faecal coliform 100 -
180 times higher than the standard limits (Annex 3).
4.6      Population and Socio-economic Environment
4.6.1      Population Forecast
The following population forecast includes the urban area of Haiphong and the
rural communes in the An Hai district, which are located next to the urban areas.
The population figures received from the Population and Planning Steering
Committee (April 1999) have been used as the starting point for the forecasts. The
annual population growth during the past years has been around I %/year in the
April 2004



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project                           24
urban areas, and the same growth rate is used for the future projection. In the urban
centre, the growth is anticipated to concentrate mainly on the fringe of the centre,
since the central phuongs are already nearly fully built.
Table 4.3   Populatioii forecast in Haiphong (Haiphong Water supply and
Environment Project, Stage 2A / Feasibility Study, 2000)
Area            1999        2005        2010        2015       2020
Urban Centre
Hong Bang ')             93 600      99 300      104 400    109 700   115 300
Ngo Quyen               171400       181900      191 200    201000   211200
Rural communes 2)        39 100      41 500       43 600     45 800   48 200
Le Chan                 143 200     152 100      159 800    168 000   176 500
Rural communes 3)        33 400      35 500       37 300     39 200   41 200
Total urban centre      480 700     510 300      536 300    563 700  592 400
Other Urban
Kien An                  71 500      76400        80 800     85 600   90 800
Vat Cach area 4)         51 500      55 100       58400      61 800   65 500
Do Son                   30 000      32 300       34 000     35 700   37 400
Total other urban       153 000     163 800      173 200    183 100  193 700
Total urban             633 700     674 100      709 500    746 800  786 100
1) The An Dong area is included in the Hong Bang figures and the Quan Toan and Hung
Vuong phuongs are excluded (the population of the Hong Bang district is 95 600 in 1999,
including Quan Toan and Hung Vuong and excluding An Dong).
2) Includes the Dong Hai, Dang Hai, Nam Hai and Dang Lam rural communes in the An
Hai district, which are partly included in WSCo's service area.
3) Includes the Du Hang Kenh and Vinh Niem rural communes in the An Hai district, which
are partly included in WSCo's service area.
4) Includes the Quan Toan and Hung Vuong phuongs and the rural communes of An Hong,
Nam Son, Tan Tien and An Hung, and the Re town in the An Hai district.
4.6.2      Economic Structure
Haiphong has been one of the fastest growing areas in Vietnam in recent years,
owing largely to its location and role as a major port for Hanoi and the Red River
Delta area, and in view of the gradual opening up of the Vietnamese economy to
international trade.
Table 4.4 shows that Haiphong's gross regional product (GRP) increased by 30% in
real terms over the four-year period 1995-1998. Services continue to be the most
important general sector, but only grew at a rate of 23 % over the period. Within the
services sector, the most important, in 1998, were transport and communications
(32 percent of all services); commerce, land development and consulting, 31
percent; public administration 12 percent and education and training 8 percent.
April 2004



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project                                    25
Table 4.4     GRP by Ecoiiomic Sector 1995-98 (Billion Dong, 1994 Prices)
Year                  |  % of       %
1998     change
Total     1995-
Economic Group     1995      1996      1997     1998                1998
Agriculture, Forestry,           957.1    1027.8    1083.1    1129.0      16.4     17.9
Aguaculture
Agriculture                     799.3    848.1     894.7     932.5
Forestry                        24.3      25.8      26.7      26.0
Aguaculture                     133.5    153.9     161.7     170.5
Industry                         1526.9   1698.7    2126.7    2414.4      35.0     58.1
Exploitation, Mining             32.3     40.1      43.6      42.5
Manufacturing                   929.8   1028.2    1441.9    1730.0
Power and Water Supply          95.3      95.2     125.3     107.0
Construction                   469.5     535.2     515.9     534.9
Services                        2542.7    2837.1    2961.2    3129.7      45.3     23.1
Commerce, land development,     864.0    941.6     972.1     975.6
consulting
Hotels, restaurants             154.5    160.7     152.4     154.0
Transport, warehouses,         710.0     843.9     866.2    1000.4
communications
Finance, credit                 126.2    129.7      94.0      80.1
Scientific Research               8.0     11.3      12.8      14.1
Public administration           333.2    345.1     395.6     394.4
Education, training             173.1    193.5     237.0     258.3
Health and social services       82.6     92.0     104.6     108.4
Culture, sports                 20.3      43.5      38.1      51.9
Associations                     5.5       5.6       8.7       9.5
Individual and community        61.8      64.9      73.3      74.8
services
Household services               3.5       5.3       6.4       8.2  1        1
Import taxes                     284.7     257.9     215.2     230.7       3.3    -19.0
TOTAL                            5311.4   5821.5    6386.2    6903.8     100       30.0
Source: Statistical Abstract Haiphong City 1995-1998, 1999
The fastest growing sector was industry, which increased by 58 per cent over the
period, and which accounted for 35 per cent of GRP in 1998. By far the most
important of this general sector was manufacturing. The agriculture sector grew by
about 18 per cent over the period, accounting for 16 percent of GRP in 1998.
Of major policy interest is the fact that the contribution of import taxes fell from 5
per cent to about 3 percent of the total, representing a reduction in revenues of 19
percent over the period. This is explained by trade liberalization policies that are
being gradually introduced by the Vietnamese government.
The industry in Haiphong is diversified from big size basic industry owned by the
Central Government, to medium and small size industry controlled by local
authorities, and to small-scale private enterprises. The most important industrial
sectors include machinery manufacturing, shoes and garment manufacturing,
production of construction materials, food processing and production of chemicals,
fertilisers and rubber.
According to Haiphong City Master Plan, new industrial areas will gradually
develop outside the city centre and the industrial production in the city centre will
move to these industrial areas. Development is ongoing in the Vat Cach area,
where the Nomura joint-venture company has established an industrial zone.
April 2004



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project               26
Another industrial area is the Dinh Vu Economic Zone, east of the urban centre.
The first phase of the project is anticipated to comprise an industrial park of 164
hectares. Currently, only few enterprises are operating in Dinh Vu. The road from
Haiphong to Do Son is also potential area for industrial development, several shoe
and garment factories have recently been established there. Construction of the
Vinh Niem Industrial Zone for small and medium size enterprises has also started
along the new ring road.
4.6.3    Household Economy
Vietnam has undergone a long history with many different development periods. In
1986, after an economic crisis, the Government of Vietnam  provoked the
renovation (doi-moi) policy. The implementation of the policy has rapidly
increased the economic growth and development. The new economic reform will
open new economic opportunities for the private sector, which is rapidly growing.
The economy of Vietnam will strategically develop from the State subsidiary
system towards a market economy system.
According to the household survey carried out in 1995 by the National Urban
Wastewater Collection and Sanitation Strategy for Vietnam (NUSS), the average
number of people in the households in Haiphong is 4.9. There are usually two
earners in the households. According to the NUSS household survey the monthly
income in 1994 was about 1,000,000 VND. Similar results have been got from
socio-economic surveys made for the Study on Sanitation Improvement Plan for
Haiphong City along the An Kim Hai Channel, Vinh Niem and Trang Cat in 2000.
The official figures area somewhat lower. According to the Statistical Yearbook
1998, the average monthly income in Haiphong in state sector (under local
government management) was about 433,000 VND/month in 1998 and 378,000
VND/month in 1997.
According to information received from Haiphong People's Committee (Board for
Poor Households), the percentage of poor households in Haiphong is (in May
1999) about 2.1 % in the urban districts of Haiphong (0.5 - 1.3 % in the urban
centre, 5.5 % in Kien An and 10.4 % in Do Son) and 9.7 % in the rural districts.
April 2004



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project               27
5      DRAINAGE AND SANITATION STATUS
5.1     Drainage Areas and Capability of Drainage and Sewerage System
The urban area of Haiphong is served by a combined gravity sewerage and
drainage system. The area covered by the existing sewerage and drainage network
and channels is about 2,000 hectares, which comprise the urban districts of
Haiphong. The urban area of Haiphong can be divided into three major drainage
areas, which are: old city centre (north of the railway) drainage area; northeast
drainage area, and southwest drainage area.
The sewerage service area covers approximately the same area as the water supply
network. The operation and management of the sewerage and drainage system
(including the drainage channels, regulating lakes and tidal gates) is the
responsibility of SADCo.
Sanitation facilities in the City have been inadequate, and the hygienic condition is
poor. Surface waters in and around the city are heavily polluted, particularly due to
the discharge of wastewater. During the rains the unsatisfactory hygienic situation
in the city is worsened by poor drainage. Flooding has been determined to be the
most critical sanitation problem in the urban areas of Haiphong. Several basic
problems of the sewer system have been identified which combine to cause
flooding in the urban areas of Haiphong.
The drainage capacity of the sewer system will be improved by ongoing Vietnam:
Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project.
5.2     Flooding
The flat delta topography with almost no gradient together with the climate and
high tides put pressure to the drainage system. Many areas in the city centre are
flooded during heavy rafn (>50 mm/h) and storms, and a mixture of solid waste,
excreta from septic tanks and bucket latrines, oil and grease, toxic substances,
wastewater and storm water flow to the streets. There is a serious risk of drinking
water contamination through the poorly protected public and private water tanks,
damaged water pipes and private wells. Possible spread of diseases either by direct
contact with the flooded water or indirectly through drinking water, is a serious
public health risk. Moreover, flooding causes damages to structures.
Three operation and maintenance teams of SADCo have provided the data of the
flooding situation. The flood records represent the worst flooding situation,
meaning estimated intense rainfall >100 mm during high tide. For the same rainfall
occurring at low tide, the flood is estimated to be shorter. Flood depth is estimated
as the difference between the road centre line and the water table.
Flooding in residential areas and on streets in the Hong Bang district is one of the
most severe in Haiphong. Flooding is at its worst in the Ha Ly phuong and in part
of Thuong Ly phuong, where flood depth can reach 30-40 cm (Thuong Ly) to 40-
80 cm (Ha Ly). The duration of the flood can be between 24 to 51 hours. This is
April 2004



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project               28
due to the low area and inadequate sewers that are in poor condition. The Ha Ly
area was heavily bombed during the war and the infrastructure was badly damaged
and the budget for the rehabilitation work has been very limited.
The flood depth on the streets of the greater Hong Bang district varies between 15-
20 cm to 30-40 cm and the duration respectively 5-6 hours to 6-8 hours. The
flooding on the streets of Ngo Quyen district varies from about 20 cm to 30-40 cm
and the duration from few hours to maximum 18-24 hours.
The flood depth and duration is quite severe in Dong Xuan lowland area in the Le
Chan district, where the flood depth can be between 20-30 cm and the duration 24
to 48 hours. This is due to poor outlet pipe to irrigation channel. Similar flooding
problems are also in An Duong collective quarter, but the duration is usually few
hours. Flooding on the streets is severe for example along part of Hai Ba Trung and
Cat Cut streets, where the flood depth can reach 30-40 cm and the duration of the
flooding up to 12 to 18 hours.
During the first public hearing meetings in the phuongs of the three districts, people
complained about the flooding problems and the health and environmental
consequences of the flooding. The odour of wastewater was striking in some of the
phuongs without any rainfall.
5.3     Sanitation Facilities
Septic Tanks
During the last ten years sanitary conditions in Haiphong have improved
considerably. Part of this improvement has been due to old houses being renovated
and new houses built in the city. The typical toilet in the newly constructed or
renovated buildings is the pour-flush or flush toilet with a septic tank. The
estimated number of existing septic tanks is around 50,000.
Septic tanks in Haiphong are underground structures with one, two or three
chambers. Private septic tanks are generally sited directly underneath toilets and
shared septic tanks just below ground in the back of block of flats. The tank is made
of relatively watertight materials built with brick and cement and concrete. The
tanks usually receive only wastewater from toilets and most of them have sewer
connection.
At the moment SADCo's septage management and desludging programme is
demand based. However, it has been agreed that scheduled emptying of septic tanks
will be established in Haiphong and the cost included in the wastewater charge. The
improved septage management will help Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project -
Haiphong Sub-project reach its targets: sustained improvements to public health (a
reduction in the incidence of water-related and vector-borne diseases) and reduced
pollution of drains, rivers and the sea.
The plan for periodic emptying of septic tanks introduces SADCo's proposal for the
implementation of the first circle of septic tank emptying program. Schedule of
emptying, cost estimate, actions prior to and during the implementation, and
April 2004



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1B Additional Project                29
background information are presented. The plan will be updated in the annual plans
and elaborated in the monthly action plans. Transportation Team, instructed by
Planning Department, will implement the septic tank emptying plan. Special feature
in Haiphong is that houses are located along narrow alleys and traditional vacuum
tanker solution cannot be used but alternative desludging methods and equipment
have to be utilized.
Table 5.1 Estimated number of septic tanks and septage volume in Haiphong 2005
Type of septic tank    Number of septic  Average size  Total volume
tanks
Private                         44 000            1.1        48 400
Shared (toilet)                  2 700           4.0         10 800
Communal (state own houses)      1 000           15.0        15 000
Total     47 700                       74 200
Septage treatment will be arranged to the Trang Cat disposal site including to the
Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project.
Bucket Latrines
Haiphong Water Supply and Sanitation Programme (HPWSSP) started replacement
of bucket latrines with pour-flush toilets and septic tanks in 1995, and the
programme is continuing. At the beginning of the programme there were about
14,000 bucket latrines in the three urban districts. The number of bucket latrines
has reduced remarkably and for the time being there are only some hundreds left in
the city centre. URENCo collects nightsoil from 200 bucket latrines. Approximate
nightsoil generation is about 2 tons/day.
Revolving Fund
As a part of Water Supply, Drainage, Sewerage and Sanitation Management
Programme in Haiphong (WSDSSMP) there is Revolving Fund to upgrade existing
bucket latrines into pour-flush toilets with septic tanks. Money for construction will
be loaned from a revolving fund and borrowers have to repay that along with
interest. This sanitation improvement portion allocation is 1 Million USD. The loan
will be given to each member of a credit group and the group as a whole will be
responsible for each individual's loan. Each family will receive around 2 Million
VND, the repayment time is two years and the interest rate is 0.5% per month.
Around 6,500 loans, of which 5,800 sanitation loans and 700 income generation
loans, have been disbursed at the end of 2003. Women's Union is responsible
management organisation of revolving fund.
5.4     Wastewater Quality of Dong Quoc Binh Pumping Station
For the needs to select wastewater treatment technology for Dong Quoc Binh area
wastewater quality was studied in May 2001 from DQB pumping station, Cat Bi
Lake and the Lach Tray River at Cat Bi tidal gate. In the samples taken from the
DQB pumping station BOD5 varied from 204 to 360 mg/l and COD from 314 to
April 2004



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project                                   30
494 mg/I, see details in Table 5.2. Dilution capacity of the Lach Tray River is good
enough to receive the wastewater.
Table 5.2      Water Quality in Dong Quoc Binli Pumping Station, Cat Bi Lake and
the Lacli Tray River at Cat Bi Tidal Gate in May 2001
Parameter       DQB       DQB      DQB       DQB       DQB        DQB      Cat Bi   Lach Tray  TCVN
pumping   pumping   pumping  pumping    pumping   pumping    lake    river, Cat  5945-
station   station   station  station    station   station             Bi gate    1995
9 am      11 am     2 pm    8:30 am   10:30 am   1:30 pm   9 am       9am
3.5.2001  3.5.2001  3.5.2001  8.5.2001  8.5.2001  8.5.2001  8.5.2001  8.5.2001
PH                6.8       7.0       7.1      6.9       6.8        6.8      6.6        6.9      5.5 - 9
BOD5 (mg 02/l)    268       284      204       360       307        344      320        36        50
COD (mg 02A)      438       496      314       498       416        448      480       53.6       100
Ammonium         42.9      46.8      48.7      56.2      59.3      81.1      7.8        1.2
(mg N/l)
Total N (mg/l)   79.6       108       112      92.8       113       137      18.7       1.9       60
Total P (mg/I)   22.0      22.3      28.2      23.5      30.6      32.1      15.7       5.5        6
Sulphide (mg/I)   6.5       6.8       8.3      11.9      10.8       11.0     10.2       1.9       0.5
Suspended         323       335      298       492       467        413      648        145       100
solids (mg/1)
Total coliform  230 000   240 000   160 000  260 000    280 000   240 000   290 000    2 400     10 000
(MPN/I100ml)
Source: Ministry of Construction, Vietnam Consultants on Water Supply, Sanitation and
Environment (VIWASE), May 2001
Note: Pumping station in operation 7:30 - 10:30 am and 4:00 - 19:00 pm
5.5       Wastewater Quality according to the Sanitation Improvement Plan for Haiphong
City
For the needs of the Study on Sanitation Improvement Plan for Haiphong City was
conducted in 2000 Source-wise Unit Pollution Load Study, which major findings
are presented in the following. The industrial wastewater standard, which was in
valid during the study, has been used as reference.
Domestic Source
Samples were taken from multi-story and private houses. The pollution loads from
the Multi-Story Apt.1 were consistently higher than the expected ranges (BOD 30-
50 g/c/d, SS 25-50 g/c/d) for unknown reason. The per capita pollution loads from
Multi-Story Apt.2 and Private House were closer to the expected ranges
considering the facts that these represented samples after treatment by septic tank or
grey water only.
Table 5.3     Calculated Unit Pollutioii Loads from Domestic Sources
Name          Wastewater      BOD       COD          SS           Remark
I/c/d       g/c/d      g/c/d      g/c/d
Multi-Story Apt. 1          128       176        304        401    raw wastewater
Multi-Story Apt. 2           90       30          62          24   after septic tank
Private House               100        15         75          12   gray water only
Commercial and Institutional Sources
April 2004



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project                      31
The concentrations of pollutants were generally lower than the typical values, in
part because the samples were taken after pre-treatment.
Table 5.4 Average Concentrations of Pollutaiits from Commercial and Institutional
Sources
Name          Wastewater   BOD      COD       SS         Remark
m day      mg/l     mg/I      mg/l
Hotel (City)               300      62       155       99  after septic tank
Residential Complex         48      63       106       68  after pretreatment
Electricity Co. (office)    15      52        109      29  after septic tank
Hotel (Do Son)              38     111        178      25  after septic tank
Hospital                   500     122       215       98   after pretreatment
Typical in Japan*      variable  120-5 10     -     60-240 raw wastewater
* based on Japan Sewerage Association (1997)
Industrial Sources
It was noted that the effluent quality varied highly from factory to factory. Also it
depended strongly on the operating condition of the factory. For example, the batch
of raw materials processed at the seafood factory on the day of the sampling was
somewhat smaller than usual because according to a factory operator the
availability of the raw material was low. Samples from the seafood factory and the
paper factory were taken after the pre-treatment. These specific factors had to be
taken into account in order to interpret the results.
Table 5.5   Average Conceiitrationis of Pollutants from Iiidustrial Sources
Namne       Wastewater    BOD      COD         SS         Remark
m3/day      mg/l     mg/l      mg/I    _______
Seafood Factory         333      31         65        80   after pretreatment
Paper Company           700       36       178       148   after pretreatment
Enamel Factory          233       46       130       197   raw wastewater
Brewery                 500      772       895       194   raw wastewater
Nutrient Levels
The concentrations of nutrients are generally within the expected pollution load
ranges.
Table 5.6  Coiicentratioins of Nutrients
Location          NH4-N        T-N         T-P            Remark
mg/l        mg/l        mg/l
Multi-Story Apt. 2        55.6        57.0        2.97    after septic tank
Residential Complex       43.9        49.5        2.85    after pretreatment
Seafood Factory           3.2         6.5         0.65    after pretreatment
Hospital                  23.4        34.5        0.84    after pretreatment
Electricity Company       77.6        85.0        0.46    after septic tank
Hotel (Do Son)           42.7         56.0        2.39    after septic tank
April 2004



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project                   32
Toxic Substances
Table 5.7 below summarizes the measured concentrations of selected heavy metals
and other pollutants.
Table 5.7   Conceiitrationis of Heavy Metals aiid Otlier Pollutaiits
Pollutant   Seafood    Paper   Enamel    Viet Tiep  TCVN 5945 Japanese
CCompany   ompany   Factory   Hospital   -1995    Standard
Mn (mg/I)        0.15     0.68       1.0      0.28          1       10
Fe (mg/l)         5.5     6.62      0.31      0.82          5        10
As (mg/I)       0.035   0.0021    0.0057    0.0058        0.1       0.1
Hg (mg/I)    < 0.0001  < 0.0001  < 0.0001  < 0.0001     0.005     0.005
Cd (mg/I)      0.0006   0.0003     0.007    0.0001       0.02       0.1
Total-Cr (mg/I)  0.0068  0.007     0.008     0.007          -        2
Cr (VI) (mg/l)  0.0028.  0.0025   0.0015    0.0024        0.1       0.5
Cu (mg/I)      0.0112   0.0276     0.032    0.0012          1        3
Cn (mg/l)       0.008    0.008     0.005      0.01        0.1        1
Pb (mg/1)      0.0093    0.023     0.004    0.0031        0.5       0.1
F (mg/l)         0.42     0.18      1.75       0.7          2        15
Cl (mg/l)       1595    301.32    23.412     65.08          -
The concentrations of heavy metals and other pollutants were generally lower than
the discharge standard, TCVN 5945-1995, at Seafood Company, Paper Company
and Enamel Factory. The exceptions were iron and manganese, which were found
at levels slightly higher than the TCVN 5945-1995. However, these substances are
not as toxic as other heavy metals and they did meet the Japanese discharge
standard. Hence, immediate health threat was not anticipated.
5.6     Wastewater Flow Projections according to Feasibility Study of lB Additional
Project
5.6.1     Wastewater Flow Projections
No data is available of the exact number of sewer connections in Haiphong.
Currently WSCo collects wastewater fee from about 102,650 customers
(connections), which means about 80 % of the house connections. WSCo estimates
that the wastewater fee currently covers about 70 % of the population served by
WSCo. The collection of the wastewater fee is applied only in the urban centre.
For the wastewater projections it is assumed that 80 % of the total water
consumption (domestic and non-domestic consumption) will finally end up to the
sewers. The sewerage coverage is estimated to reach 100 % in the urban centre by
2020. The total specific wastewater flow is estimated to be 136 I/capita/day by
2020.
Groundwater infiltration and unexpected surface water intrusion is taken into
account when designing the capacity of the sewer system. Groundwater infiltration
including unexpected surface water intrusion is assumed to be 10 % of the average
dry weather wastewater flow.
April 2004



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project- Haiphong Sub-Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project               33
The following figure presents the projected water demand and wastewater flows in
the urban centre (Hong Bang, Ngo Quyen and Le Chan districts and the adjacent
rural communes). The population served in the urban centre is estimated to grow to
588,000 people by 2020 (492,000 people in 2010 and 545,000 in 2015). The
population estimate is based on the Haiphong Water Supply and Environment
Project, Stage 2A (Feasibility Study, December 2000).
140000 -
120000 -
100000
E 80000-
60000-
40000-
20000 -
0                                      I
2002        2010        2015         2020
Year
-   Avrage water production (m3/d)  Awerage wastewater flow (m3/d)
Figure 5.1    Projected Water Demaiid and Wastewater Flows in Haiphong
Urban Centre in 2002 - 2020 (Source: Vietnam Three Cities -
Sanitation Project, Haipliong Sub-Project Feasibility Study for
Additional Works, April 2003)
Construction of interceptor sewers does not increase the total amount of
wastewater, because there are already sewers in the concerning areas. There will be
only the change of the discharging points from lakes, ponds and channels to the
main rivers, thus decreasing the pollution in the inner city area.
In general Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project does
not have very big impact on flow or water quality of recipient water bodies
although the amount of effluent is increasing (Figure 5.1), because the dilution
capacity of the recipient rivers is very good. It can be estimated that during rainy
season the dilution capacity of the Cam River is 17,000:1 and dilution capacity of
the Lach Tray River is 840:1.
The ongoing effective construction of septic tanks through revolving fund managed
by WSDSSP and Women's Union has positive impact on effluent quality. The
increased effluent quality compensates the impact of increased effluent flow on
recipient waters. It has been estimated that there will be about 47,000 septic tanks
in Haiphong in 2005. In this phase the wastewater treatment done via septic tanks is
considered to be enough to fulfil the standard class B TCVN 5942-1995, but more
advanced wastewater treatment is proposed to be implemented in the future.
Pollution loads to water bodies according to the Study on Sanitation Improvement
Plan for Haiphong City are presented in Annex 4. In the proposed Sanitation master
April 2004



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project               34
Plan is proposed construction of two wastewater treatment plants. More detailed
data is available in Final Report Main Report Volume 1: Sanitation Master Plan.
5.6.2    Dimensioning Basis of Interceptor Sewers
The dimensioning of the interceptor sewers in this study is based on the estimated
peak wastewater flow in 2020. The dimensioning principles are the same, which
were used for the sewer design in the Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project,
Haiphong Sub-Project (lB Project).
The following principles are used for the dimensioning of the interceptor sewers in
the proposed additional project components:
- Specific wastewater flow 136 I/capita/day (= 0.8 x total water consumption)
- Seepage water (infiltration): 10 % of the average wastewater flow
- Daily peak flow coefficient: 1.3
- Hour peak flow coefficient: 1.5
The peak flow coefficients are based on the information received from the
Haiphong Water Supply Company concerning the water demand variations in 2002.
In 2002 the maximum daily water production in Haiphong was 1.3 times the
average water production. The maximum hour demand was about 1.5 times the
demand of an average hour.
North-East Channel
The total sewerage area of the North-East channel is about 340 hectares (excluding
the An Bien and Mam Tom lakes) and the estimated population in the area is about
60,000 in the year 2020, which is the dimensioning year for the interceptor sewers.
The projected average wastewater flow from the sewerage area is about 9,000 m3/d
at the discharge point in 2020. In addition, the Mam Tom and Tien Nga pumping
stations will be taken into account in the dimensioning.
Dimensioning flows for interceptor sewers:
- Estimated population in 2020: 60,200 inhabitants
- Average wastewater flow in 2020 (including seepage water): 8,958 m3/d
- Average flow 103.7 l/s, daily peak flow 132 I/s, hour peak flow 193.2 1/s
- Additional flow from Mam Tom pumping station: 120 1/s (dimensioning flow)
- Additional flow from Tien Nga pumping station: 27.3 I/s (dimensioning flow)
South-West Channel
The total sewerage area of the South-West Channel is about 228 hectares and the
estimated population in the area is about 67,500 in the year 2020, which is the
dimensioning year for the interceptor sewers. The projected average wastewater
flow from the sewerage area is about 10,000 m3/d at the discharge point in 2020.
Dimensioning flows for interceptor sewers:
- Estimated population in 2020: 67,500 inhabitants
- Average wastewater flow in 2020 (including seepage water): 10,038 m3/d
- Average flow 116.2 l/s, daily peak flow 147.9 I/s, hour peak flow 216.5 I/s
April 2004



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project               35
Cat Bi Lake
The total sewerage area of the Cat Bi lake is about 129 hectares and the estimated
population in the area is about 40,000 in the year 2020, which is the dimensioning
year for the interceptor sewers. The projected average wastewater flow from the
sewerage area is about 5,900 m3/d at the discharge point in 2020.
Dimensioning flows for interceptor sewers:
- Estimated population in 2020: 40,000 inhabitants (including Cat Bi and Dong
Quoc Binh phuongs)
- Average wastewater flow in 2020 (including seepage water): 5,949 m3/d
- Average flow 68.9 I/s, daily peak flow 87.6 I/s, hour peak flow 128.3 I/s
- Additional flow from Dong Quoc Binh pumping station: 38.9 I/s (dimensioning
flow)
5.6.3    Wastewater Treatment
In the 1B project, the selected wastewater treatment method is wastewater treatment
via septic tanks. Parallel to the implementation of the 1B project septic tank
coverage will increase and the O&M improve. Sewage is discharged from the septic
tanks into sewers and further on into the lakes, channels and the Cam River and the
Lach Tray River, which flow directly to the sea. The existing regulation lakes have
provided partial sewage treatment, but are heavily overloaded at present.
Stabilisation ponds would be a suitable solution for wastewater treatment in the
conditions of Haiphong. They would need only limited maintenance and do not
require special operation skills, moreover the operation costs are very reasonable.
The only disadvantage of stabilisation ponds is the high demand for land. To
provide effective sewage treatment (reduction of bacteria and helminths) by a pond
system, about 30 days retention time would be needed. This would lead to need for
substantial land areas. The estimated need for land in the north-eastern catchment
basin would be about 14 - 20 ha. In the south-western catchment basin the land area
needed would be about 15 - 23 ha. The land available in the centre is needed for
storm water regulation and on the other hand, wastewater treatment ponds in the
centre of the city are not considered suitable from the environmental point of view.
Advanced wastewater treatment, like activated sludge or other methods, will not be
affordable for Haiphong in this stage. In addition to the high construction costs
treatment would cause considerable operation costs and would require skilful
operators. It is not considered realistic to implement large-scale wastewater
treatment in this stage, due to the great volume of water and related high costs.
Wastewater treatment alternatives have been studied in the Study on Sanitation
Improvement Plan for Haiphong City (Nippon Koei, July 2001), and wastewater
treatment is proposed to be implemented in the future.
The construction of interceptor sewers, which is proposed as a part of the additional
works for the lB Project, will enable the implementation of wastewater treatment in
a later stage in the future. The proposed locations and discharge points of the
interceptor sewers will support the implementation of centralised wastewater
treatment in the future and are consistent with the Haiphong Sewerage and
Drainage Master Plan.
April 2004



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project               36
6      ALTERNATIVES OF THE PROJECT
6.1     Without Project Situation
The without project alternative is to leave the project unimplemented. In that case
the current environmental pollution will increase as follows:
- If there will be no interceptor sewers, the untreated wastewater will flow as for
the time being direct to the just rehabilitated channels and Cat Bi Lake; the
environmental improvement gained by rehabilitation will not be sustainable; and
the living conditions of the people living along rehabilitated channels will
increase only partially.
- However, no significant impact on the water quality of the Cam River and the
Lach Tray River due to big flow, dilution capacity and tide of the recipient rivers
- Phuong Luu Lake does not have any significant impact on drainage system, but
it would have big recreational value in the area
6.2     Selection of Alternatives
Interceptor Sewers and Pumping Stations
Two alternatives were calculated concerning number of needed pumping stations
and capacity for the North-East channel to prevent the need of too deep and
unstable trench and to optimise the use of energy. Alternative with four pumping
stations turned out to be the optimal selection. Three pumping stations are needed
for South-West channel interceptor sewers.
In the selection of location of discharging point of the interceptor sewers has to be
considered the dilution capacity of recipient water body, the prevention of back
flow of wastewater to channels, the location of tidal gates and boat traffic.
Lake Construction
Construction of the Phuong Luu regulation lake has been considered in the
Haiphong Sewerage and Drainage Master Plan and the concept has been further
developed in the Study on Sanitation Improvement Plan for Haiphong City. The
main objective for construction of the Phuong Luu Lake is to provide additional
storage capacity during hide tide and storm conditions. In addition to the primary
function, the Phuong Luu Lake will function as a recreational area.
The operation of the Phuong Luu Lake and the impact on the existing lake and
channel system has been calculated with a hydraulic simulation model in the Study
on Sanitation Improvement Plan for Haiphong and in Drainage and Sewerage
Development Hydraulics Study. The hydraulic simulations include different flow
and tide conditions. The most important planning criteria for construction of the
Phuong Luu Lake include the surface area of the lake, which defines the storage
capacity of the lake. As calculated in the Study on Sanitation Improvement Plan for
Haiphong, the total site area for Phuong Luu is 28 ha and the lake surface area
about 23 ha. The maximum and minimum water levels for the lake design criteria
are +2.7 m and +1.5 m, respectively. These design criteria are based on the
Haiphong Sewerage and Drainage Master Plan.
April 2004



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project               37
The area of the planned lake is mainly flat agricultural area, with a ground level of
about +2.8 - +3.1 m. There are some aquaculture and fish ponds as well as
graveyards in the area. Electricity lines and some ditches and irrigation channels
cross the site. A new road from Haiphong city centre to the Cat Bi airport is under
construction on the western side of the proposed lake, and new housing and roads
are planned in the vicinity of the area.
The Study on Sanitation Improvement Plan for Haiphong has studied four
alternative layouts for the lake. The issues affecting the location and layout of the
lake include: location of electricity lines in the site area, location of the new Cat Bi
road (currently under construction), relocation of graveyards, and possibilities to
connect the lake to the An Kim Hai channel. The selected alternative is located on
the eastern side of the electricity lines. The location of the lake is based on
Haiphong Sewerage and Drainage Master Plan. Land is available at the proposed
location in the Dong Khe phuong as the area consists mostly of agricultural land.
The Haiphong Planning Institute has determined the final location of the proposed
lake (Annex 1).
The new lake is proposed to be connected to the North-East channel and to the
rehabilitated An Kim Hai channel. In the Study on Sanitation Improvement Plan for
Haiphong, different alternatives were compared for connecting the lake to the
existing channels. An open channel was proposed for connecting the Phuong Luu
Lake to the North-East channel, and a closed conduit connection to the An Kim Hai
channel.
It is proposed that a new office building will be constructed in the vicinity of the
Phuong Luu Lake. Currently SADCo's office space is limited and more space
would be needed for SADCo's Project Management Unit and for the Construction
Management Consultant. After completion of the lB Project the office will remain
for the use of SADCo's operation and maintenance units.
Lake Rehabilitation
Prior to lake improvements the sewage discharge has to be reduced. Therefore,
interceptor sewers will be constructed around the lakes to prevent the wastewater
discharge. It was decided during the Feasibility Study Phase of the original
Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project with the city
authorities that the interceptor sewers are essential to improve the condition of the
most heavily polluted lakes.
One option is to leave the polluted sediments in the lakes in situ and possibly cover
them with for example with sand or clay to separate the polluted sediment from the
lake water and improve the water circulation in the lakes, etc. Another option is to
treat the sediment with chemicals. However, this option is considered too costly and
there is not enough data of the long-term success of this kind of lake renovation
methods in Vietnamese environmental conditions.
The rehabilitation of Cat Bi Lakes will improve the environmental and hygienic
conditions of the lake and decrease the smell.
April 2004



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project                 38
Dredging Methods
The dredging method to be used depends on the quality of the sediment, the
accessibility to the dredging site and the stability of the lake embankment. In
general, the dredging along lake banks in densely populated urban areas is very
difficult. The method to be used must therefore be selected very carefully to allow
access to the site, but at the same time be efficient. The access to the lake must also
be prepared, which will in places include construction of maintenance and access
roads.
The water content of the sludge is high and it will increase during the dredging
operation. The content of solids in the sludge is very low between 10 to 20 %. If
suction method is used, the content of solids can be about 10 %. The sludge must be
de-watered before transportation to the disposal site. There will be a need of
temporary storage for sludge drying before transportation. Options for sludge
drying are loading on the lake bank (less preferable due to environmental and health
risks), sludge lagoons or to use covered skips lined with geotextile. The skips could
be transported to the disposal site after drying. If suction dredger is used, the sludge
disposal site should locate close to the dredging area to avoid booster pumping.
During dredging works, there will be a strong odour nuisance to the public as long
as the dredging works will take place. The nuisance is of local character. The
dredging works will be carried out during dry season when the nuisance of odour
will be minimised comparing to rainy seasons when also the sewers are flushed and
the odour level is extremely high. It is extremely important to inform the local
people in advance about public nuisances during the rehabilitation works. After
clean-up measures of the sewers, channels and lakes, the air quality is expected to
improve considerably due to sewage removal
Dry dredging is recommended for the environmental and hygienic reasons. Due to
the big demand of land, double handling of sludge and possible foul odour during
drying of sludge, it is proposed that lakes are de-watered before dredging and
dredged material transported directly to the treatment site.
A
April 2004



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project               39
7      IDENTIFICATION OF IMPACTS
7.1     General Impacts
All kind of construction works as well as activities related to these, will lead to
certain cause (activity) and impacts on the environment. In this ETA-study will be
analysed and specified both the negative and positive environmental impacts on the
physical, biological and human environment caused by the rehabilitation and
construction of sewerage and drainage system.
The environmental impact assessment adopts a concise format, where the linkages
between environmental issues (or potential impacts), management measures (or
mitigation), net effects (or residual impacts) and management information (or
monitoring) are made explicitly. A comprehensive summary of these factors and
their linkages is presented as tables in Annex 5. These tables provide the basis to
develop and implement a detailed Environmental Management Plan (EMP) dealing
with all phases of the project.
The main impacts in the proposed project area will mainly affect the human and
aquatic environment, in lesser amount the atmospheric and terrestrial environment.
The atmospheric and terrestrial impacts are mainly temporary during construction,
rehabilitation and O&M works and therefore of short duration.
The improvement of urban sanitation, which is currently badly hampered by
frequent flooding, towards a clean and healthy environment for the population of
Haiphong city is essential. The overall impact of the on going project and the
proposed additional works is positive and it is an important step in improvement of
sanitation in Haiphong. This lB Additional Project includes additional works to the
first sanitation project aiming at the rehabilitation and improvement of the existing
sewerage and drainage system of the city.
Improvement of the wastewater collection and prevention of flooding will improve
considerably the living and environmental conditions in the City area. However,
untreated wastewater will partly still flow in the open channels, which cross the
residential areas. The discharge of untreated wastewater to the rivers will continue
the contamination of the river water. The negative impacts of untreated wastewater
are mainly concentrated in the city area. However, the concentrations of
contaminants will be downstream diluted by the seawater, which enters to the river
during high tides. In the next phase the treatment of wastewater should be
considered, once the rehabilitation works of the sewerage and drainage system have
been carried out.
The water use will increase in the city (new water connections, more household
facilities, conversion from bucket latrines to flush toilets, etc.), which will increase
wastewater amounts. This shall be taken into account in the designs and in
dimensioning the improvements in flood prevention. The installation and regular
de-sludging of septic tanks connected to sewers will improve the wastewater
quality.
The cause and effect relationship of different activities are discussed below in detail
according to the project components.
April 2004



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project               40
7.2     Impacts of the Components of 1B Additional Project
7.2.1    Construction of Interceptor Sewers and Pumping Stations along the Channels
For the time being to and through the North-East channel is discharged a big
amount of untreated wastewater to the Cam River and to and through the South-
West channel to the Lach Tray River. Construction of interceptor sewers to the both
side of the channels will minimise the direct discharge of untreated wastewater to
the channels and hence reduces the deterioration of water and sediment quality in
the channels, but does not increase the total amount of wastewater, because already
now all the related areas are connected to the sewer network or discharge directly to
channels. Reconnection of numerous existing sewers will increase the hygienic and
aesthetic conditions along the channel. The stinking odour of wastewater will be
also decreased.
The quality of wastewater to be collected and discharged through interceptor sewers
to the rivers will be improved in the near future when more and more septic tanks
will be constructed with the help of revolving fund and private financing.
According to the surveys the impact of discharged wastewater on the river water
quality is not significant due to the high dilution capacity. It can be estimated that
during rainy season the dilution capacity of the Cam River is 17,000:1 and dilution
capacity of the Lach Tray River is 840:1. In particular, the impact on the Cam River
is negligible, because the Cam River has sufficiently big flow, Qrnax = 5,215 m3/s,
compared to the sewage volume of the interceptor system, with the estimated peak
flow of 0.3 m3/s in 2020. Although the flow is smaller in the Lach Tray River, Qmax
= 252 m3/s, even there the impact is small and even there the limits of class B
TCVN 5942-1995 can be reached.
The ongoing effective construction of septic tanks through revolving fund managed
by WSDSSP and Women's Union has positive impact on effluent quality. The
increased effluent quality compensates the impact of increased effluent flow on
recipient waters. It has been estimated that there will be about 47,000 septic tanks
in Haiphong in 2005. In this phase the wastewater treatment done via septic tanks is
considered to be enough to fulfil the standard class B TCVN 5942-1995, but more
advanced wastewater treatment is proposed to be implemented in the future.
The water level in the channels will be high enough also after intercepting
wastewater due to operation of tidal gates. Besides that the annual mean surplus
between precipitation and evaporation is positive and it not possible to stop all
surface runoff to the channel. Discharging points have been designed taking into
consideration the boat traffic in the Cam River and the Lach Tray River.
7.2.2    Construction of Phuong Luu Lake
The area of the planned Phuong Luu regulation lake is mainly flat vegetable and
paddy fields. There are some aquaculture and fishing ponds and graveyards in the
area. Power lines and a telephone line as well as some ditches and irrigation
channels cross the site in the middle. In the north the area borders the Northeast
channel and in the south Highway No 5. At western and eastern sides there are
residential areas.
April 2004



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project               41
The construction of Phuong Luu Lake provides system improvements for storms of
high intensity (5 year ARI, average-recurrence-interval, and greater), high tide
conditions, and water levels regulated at minimum levels. These are conditions,
where the additional storage capacity of the lake is most effective. System
improvements for storms of less intensity and low tide conditions are not as
significant.
If urban development continues in the North-East Channel drainage basin, which is
expected, then more rainfall runoff will occur. The increased amounts of rainfall
runoff will require additional storage capacity in the system, which would be
provided by the new lake. The marginal benefits from an improved urban
environment, provided by the additional recreational value of the new lake, can be
greater than the marginal costs.
Excavation of lake will possibly break the geological structure and contamination
of the upper aquifer is possible, if mitigation measures are not followed. The
thickness of topsoil layer varies from 0.1 to 0.7 metres. Groundwater table was
observed during the geotechnical investigations at the depth of 0.3 - 0.4 metres and
the excavation of the lake and channel will require dewatering. The construction
will affect the use of upper aquifer and the use of water from shallow wells for
cooking and drinking during construction is not recommended. However, currently
many households in the area use water from 30 - 40 m deep wells, which will not
be disturbed due to the construction.
The amount of excavated earth during the construction of the Phuong Luu Lake and
outlet channel is estimated to be about 510,000 m3. The earth under the topsoil
consists mainly of silts and there is no need for treatment of the earth or for any
special disposal arrangements. The earth can be used as backfilling material and on
the proposed area there is enough place for the all excavated earth.
SADCo has made arrangements with a developer of industrial areas for the tipping
of the excavated earth on a 45 ha plot located between the old and new main roads
to Do Son in Tan Thanh Commune, Kien Thuy rural district and Ngoc Xuyen
Phuong in Do Son town about 15 km from the City. The location of this tip ("Do
Son 96") is shown on Annex 1. The development of the site as a proposed industrial
area was started in mid 1990's, the works implemented during that time include
some general back fill and partial fencing of the site. Since late 1990's tip area has
been used mainly for aquaculture. There are some temporary houses or huts within
the tip site. According to the available information Haiphong Export Processing
Zone Joint Venture Co. plan to develop the tip site as part of Haiphong '96 Export
Processing Zone. In accordance with HPPC's decision No. 3697QD-UB dated
08.02.2002 the future investors will be supported partially for the site levelling
costs. It is proposed that in particular case the support should be in kind instead of
monetary contribution.
The tip sites are already existing sites for this kind of land use and will not cause
significant long-term environmental impacts on the surrounding areas. However,
transportation of excavated earth will cause temporary serious nuisance along the
transportation routes by increasing dust, noise and possibility of traffic accidents,
although most of the transportation can be done via the main streets.
April 2004



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project               42
The permanent environmental impact is the change of land use from agricultural
land to lake and recreational area. However, the area is in the vicinity of Highway
No 5, new road to Cat Bi airport and development area, and in the long run the land
use change in inevitable.
The location of the Phuong Luu Lake has been selected so that the need of
relocation of graveyard is minimised. However, removal some existing tombs
might disturb spiritual feelings of people and needs attention from local authorities.
7.2.3    Rehabilitation of Cat Bi Lake and Construction of Interceptor Sewer
For the time being wastewater from Dong Quoc Binh pumping station and from Cat
Bi area is discharged through Cat Bi Lake and tidal gate into the Lach Tray River.
Population of Cat Bi area has increased and the area has developed remarkably in
the recent years. All of this has increased pollution of Cat Bi Lake, which has
caused public nuisances and health hazards (low hygienic level, odour, mosquito
swarms, contaminated aquatic plants and fishes, inaesthetic view, etc.).
After construction of interceptor sewer wastewater will bypass the lake and
decrease significantly the pollution load into the small lake.
Due to the limited storage capacity and bad condition of the small lakes, dredging
has been considered as one major efficient method together with other
improvements (improvement of water tumnover, etc.) to improve the volume for
temporary storing of storm water during heavy rain and to improve the overall
environmental condition of the lakes.
The Contractor shall dredge the Cat Bi Lake as dry excavation. The amount of the
dredging and disposal is about 46,000 m3 sludge and earth, of which half is
estimated to be sludge and half earth. The works shall be carried out during the dry
season, October - April. The Contractor shall transport and dispose all excavated
sludge, about 20,000 m3, to Employer's Trang Cat composting facility for the
Employer's dewatering and treatment operations. At already existing Trang Cat
composting facility constructed for the needs of Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation
Project - Haiphong Sub-Project there is enough place and facilities to dispose this
amount of sludge.
The excavated earth will be transported to SADCo's Trang Cat composting yard
and stockpiled for future use in Trang Cat area. The excavated earth is not
contaminated and can be used as cover material at Trang Cat area without any
treatment.
Transportation of the sludge from the Cat Bi Lake to Trang Cat will cause
temporary nuisance along the transportation routes by increasing dust, noise and
possibility of traffic accidents, although most of the transportation can be done via
the main street.
April 2004



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project                   43
7.2.4     Impacts during Operation
Operation of interceptor sewers will improve the water and sediment quality in the
North-East and South-West channels, and hence improve the health situation on the
area. Due to the strong tidal effect the dilution capacity in the discharging point of
North-East channel into the Cam River at May Den and South-West channel into
the Lach Tray River at Vinh Niem is so good that in practice there will no
deterioration of water and sediment quality of recipient water bodies.
The construction of Phuong Luu Lake and the rehabilitation of Cat Bi Lake will
increase the reservoir capacity of the drainage system and hence reduce floods.
Phuong Luu Lake will also improve aesthetic value of the area, which will be used
also as recreational area.
April 2004



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project                                        44
PART 2 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
April 2004



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project                 45
8      MITIGATION MEASURES
8.1     General
The main mitigative measures are summarised below according to measures during
the design, rehabilitation and operation phases. The mitigative measures, which are
outlined in this EIA, will be further developed in a separate Bidding Document
Volume 5 Environmental Management Plan (EMP) of each contract.
A project's EMP consists of mitigation, monitoring, and institutional measures to
be taken during implementation and operation to eliminate adverse environmental
and social impacts, offset them or reduce them to acceptable levels. The plan also
includes the actions needed to implement these measures.
The EMP provides details on proposed work programme and schedules. The EMP
helps to ensure that the proposed environmental actions are in phase with the design
and construction work. After discussing and agreeing with the project design
engineers, the recommendations will be translated into a simple, practical and action
oriented EMP.
The EMP identifies feasible and cost-effective measures that may reduce
potentially significant adverse environmental impact to acceptable levels. The EMP
also includes monitoring and reporting procedures to ensure early detection of
necessary mitigation measures and the progress of these.
The EMP estimates any potential environmental impact of the above-mentioned
measures. Moreover, the EMP provides linkage with any other mitigation plans
required for the project (e.g. involuntary resettlement). The EMP covers also the
Occupational Health and Safety issues.
Costs for all environmentally related mitigation have been developed and included
in the EMP report. Moreover, the plan also includes compensatory measures if the
proposed mitigative measures are not feasible or cost-effective.
The EMP addresses institutional issues. The main focus is on how to strengthen
SADCO so that it not only can run the system in an environmentally sound manner,
but also helps in building up community awareness and participation.
For the mitigation, monitoring and capacity development the EMP provides an
implementation schedule for the measures and the capital and recurrent cost
estimates and sources of funds for implementing the EMP.
April 2004



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project                  46
8.2     Mitigation Measures during Detailed Design
8.2.1     Generic Design Instructions
Environmental matters shall be integrated in all the design work and planning of the
project. The designing shall be done by minimising the adverse impacts on
environment using as much as possible existing facilities and selecting the location
of new facilities in areas where the disturbance to environment, people and existing
structures is the smallest. Where possible existing rights-of-way should be used
rather than create new ones.
According to the Vietnamese Construction Regulation Standard Article 3.3
Protection of Natural Resources and Environment construction projects should:
- Not cause adverse effect to environment, and technical regulations on scenery
and environment protection should be observed
- Protect the natural preservation areas, and historical, cultural and architectural
places
- Extracting natural resource must ensure the rationality and cause no obstacle to
the next exploitation
- Respect traditional customs, practices, religions of people living in and around
the construction area.
In Construction Regulation Standard there are instructions especially for master
plan including general instructions for designing sewerage and drainage system.
Urban drainage system should be assured:
- To discharge all types of urban waste water
- To have suitable solution for treating wastewater so that the urban area is not
flooded, and environment and water sources are not polluted
In Standard Branch Sewerage and Drainage System and Works, Standard Designs
there are more detailed design instructions. However, also international design
standards shall be applied and used in design work.
8.2.2     Interceptor Sewer and Pumping Stations Design Instructions
To prevent the possibility of contamination water supply system a special attention
shall be paid to the crossing of water pipes and collectors and other sewers. It is not
allowed to install water pipes going through the sewer manholes or box culverts. If
possible the sewers should be designed in the lower level than water pipelines.
Discharging points of the collectors shall be selected so that the dilution will be
maximised and the back flow of wastewater to channels shall be prevented. The
discharging points shall have adequate distance from the tidal gates. However, the
impact of busy boat traffic shall be considered, too.
Synergy of the impacts of tide, flow of the river and flow from interceptor sewer
shall be considered and erosion has to be minimised. One possibility would be to
discharge the sewage from interceptor sewer along the North-East channel at first to
the existing small pond next to the pier and grow in there durable species of
mangrove. Screening of the wastewater will be done in pumping stations and there
April 2004



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project                  47
will be no garbage to be stuck to mangroves. Discharging through the pond would
be not only as biological treatment system but also prevent erosion and abrasion of
pier structures. However, according to the decision of the Haiphong People's
Committee the construction of primary settling lagoon with mangroves is not
included in the scope of work of Contract HPSANP-C1D.
8.2.3     Lake Construction and Dredging
Excavation of the Phuong Luu regulating lake will most probably break the
geological structure and contamination of the upper aquifer is possible without
mitigation measures. Special attention shall be paid to prevent contamination of
groundwater by oil, petrol and lubricants and the like during the construction
works. Transportation of excavated material shall be arranged in the proper way.
Loads shall be covered properly to avoid spills and dust. The eartlh under the topsoil
consists mainly of silts and there is no need for treatment of the earth or for any
special disposal arrangemenits. The earth can be used as backfilling material and on
the proposed area there is enough place for the all excavated earth.
During the excavation of the Cat Bi Lake has to be prevented the release of heavy
metals and possible organic micro-pollutants and loose sediments to surrounding
areas shall be prevented. The dredging works shall be car-ied out during the dry
season. The works shall be done as dry excavation. Because there are no rar-e or
valuable species of animals or plants in the lakes, at least the small lakes can be
drained completely. This will decrease the need of de-watering of dredged material
and decrease the need of transportation. The excavated sludge and other possibly
contaminated material shall be transported to SADCo's Trang Cat composting
facility for further treatment and disposal. At already existing Trang Cat
composting facility constructed for the needs of Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation
Project - Haiphong Sub-Project there is enough place and facilities to dispose this
amount of sludge.
The excavated earth will be transported to SADCo's Trang Cat composting yard
and stockpiled for future use in Trang Cat area. The excavated earth is not
contaminated and can be used as cover material at Trang Cat area without any
treatment.
8.3     -Mitigation Measures during Construction Works
All works including to the project have to be implemented following the appropriate
standards, specifications and working methods given in the Contract Document. The
following table covers the main subjects, which need mitigation measures during the
construction phase.
Table 8.1 Mitigatioii Measures during Construction
Impact       Mitigation Measures
Noise, Odour,  -  The maximum permitted noise level is given in the Vietnamese standard TCVN
Litter and      5949-1998. The strongest limitations are fiom 10 pm to 6 am in the vicinity of
Dust            hospitals, libraries and kindergartens where maximum noise level is 40 dB
-  Air quality and dust emissions are mitigated tlhrough dust suppression measures
compliance with TCVN 5937-1995
-  To minimise the odour nuisance especially the dredging works shall be carried out
during dry season.
April 2004



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for I R Additional Project                        48
- Appropriate equipment shall to be used to prevent overloading of trucks. Accidental
spills, sludge, oils and lubricants from equipment etc. shall to be absorbed and
collected immediately.
-   In the construction site dust, litter and public inconvenience shall to be minimised
by good construction management and site supervision. It is recommended to
sprinkle the street in the vicinity of construction sites to minimise dust.
-   Solid and liquid wastes should be collected to transfer stations established to the
construction sites and transported to the landfill.
-   Waste and disposal of excavated mater-ial are disposed at the sites, whichl are agreed
with URENCO and Halong Construction Company
Health and     -  The Contractor is responsible to provide appropriate equipment, tools and protective
Safety            clothing to the workers and ensure that appropriate working methods are applied.
-   During dredging and transpor-tationi of dredged material the Contr-actol- shall follow
strictly safety and health regulations. The dredging shall be organised so that the
need to go to the water is miniiimised. Special attentioni shall be paid to avoid the
direct contact with sludge. The Contractor shall provide protective clothing includilng
at least overall, Wellington boots and gloves.
-  A possibility to proper washing with clean water shall be arranged during and after
the working. Clean water and first aid kit shall be available to wash and treat the
possible cuts and wounds.
-   The Contractor shall follow the safety and health regulations during the use of
selected earth stabilisation method in the foundation works. Proper protection
againgst possible dust shall be provided to the workers.
Traffic and    -  All works shall carried out so that not to interfere unnecessarily the public and
Transportation    prevent the access to use public or private roads and footpaths to or of properties.
Arrangements   -  The Contractor shall select transportation routes, choose vehicles and distribute
loads so that the transportation from and to the site shall be limited as far as
reasonably possible.
-   The Contractor shall use every reasonable means to prevent any of the roads and
bridges from being damaged by the works.
Transportation  -  The nuisance caused by transportation of 510,000 m3 excavated earth from the
of Excavated      Phuong Luu Lake to "Do Son 96" tip site and 46,000 m3 material from the Cat Bi
and Dredged       Lake, of which about half is dredged sludge and half excavated earth, to Trang Cat
Earth and,        treatment and composting site shall be minimised by arranging transportationi and
Sludge            construction on busy main streets only outside rush hours and in narrow streets in
residential areas only during the day. The tranisportatiotn shall be avoided between 10
pm and 6 am and is allowed only onl the request of traffic police.
-   Careful planning of dredging, excavation, construction and transportation schedules,
and planning and selection of routes, as well as choice of transportation vehicles will
minimise dust. Loads shall be covered tightly to minimise spread of dust and
preventing dropping of material from the loads to the roads.
Do Son 96      -  The excavated earth from new Phuong Luu Lake is mainly silt and there is no need
Tip site         treatment of the earth nor any special disposal arrangements, the earth can be used as
backfilling material
-   During the performanice of his works the Contractor shall trim and level the tip site
as required for his works and shall maintain his internal access roads within the
boundaries of the tip. The contractor is not required to carry out other compaction of
the tipped earth than needed for the internal roads.
April 2004



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project                      49
Trang Cat      -  The dredged sludge, about 20.000 m3, from the Cat Bi Lake shall be disposed at
composting       Trang Cat composting facility in the same way than the other dredged material in
facility         Vietnan: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project. The non-
contaminated excavated material, about 20,000 mi, from the Cat Bi Lake shall be
stockpiled for the futul-e use at the Tranig Cat area. Ther-e is no need for treatment of
this earth.
Working        -  In all construction works local working time and site arrangements and instructions
Time and Site    concerning site clearance, fencing, watchinlg and lighting, working at night etc. given
Arrangements     in Contract Documents shall be followed up.
Public         -  The district PMU shall announice the construction works and new traffic
Relations        arrangements during constructions works to the public regionally in newspapers, TV
and radio. Locally the announcemenit is given to the ward representatives who will
inform the residents. Loudspeakers can be used during the construction works to give
the latest informationi in concer-ning areas.
8.4      Mitigation Measures during Operation and Maintenance
-  regular inspection of the condition of sewerage and drainage system
-  prevent solid waste disposal into the channels and lakes
-  prevent illegal housing in the lake and channel embankments
-  regular monitoring of wastewater and surface water quality (lakes, discharge
points) shall be standard operating practices of SADCo and DONRE
- - meet operational and safety standards
8.5      Summary of Mitigation Measures
Table 8.2   Summary of Mitigatioin Measures
Phase         Main mitigationi meastires                          Responsible
organisatioi
Design        - International and Vietnamese design criteria and  Design
standards to be used                              Consultant
- Interceptor sewers and lakes designed so that need for  Design
resettlement is minimised                         Consultant
- Works designed to implemented during dry season
Construction  - Minimise dust, odour, litter, noise and traffic emissions  Contractor
by good operation managemenit and site supervision
- Appropriate working methods shall be followed     Contractor-
- Sites shall be kept clean and safe during and after the  Contractor
work
- Safety and healtlh regulationis shall be strictly followed  Contr-actor
- Protective clothinlg and operational training for workers is Contractor
essential
- Transportation shall be minimised and routes selected to  Contractor
avoid public nuisance
- Transportation during rush hours and night shall be  Contractor
avoided
- Tight and proper equipment to transport sludge shall be  Contractor
used to avoid accidental spills and odour nuisances
- Construction sites and time shall be informed to the local  Contractor
people in advance
April 2004



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project                          50
O&M            - Minimise dust, odour, litter, noise and traffic emissions  SADCo
by good operation management and site supervision
- Appropriate working methods shall be adopted and    SADCo
followed                                            SADCo
- Sites shall be kept clean and safe during and after the
work                                                SADCo
- Safety and health regulations shall be strictly followed  SADCo
- Protective clothinig and operational training for workers is
essential                                           SADCo
- Transpor-tationl shall be minimnised and routes selected to
avoid public nuisanice                               SADCo
- Transportationi durinig rush hours and nights shall be
avoided                                              SADCo
- Tight and proper equipment to transport sludge shall be
used to avoid accidental spills and odour nuisanices
April 2004



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project                 51
9      ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING AND REPORTING
9.1     Generic Environmental Monitoring during Construction and Operation
Generic
Environmental monitoring will be done during construction in three levels; namely
as monitoring of development of project performance indicators done by PMU;
monitoring of implementation of mitigation measures done by the Contractor; and
overall regulatory monitoring of the project done by DONRE.
Proiect Performance Indicators
The PMU will prepare to the WB semi-annual report, which includes among other
things reporting of the pi-ogress of the project also environmental project
performance indicators, which are the same than in the original Vietnam: Three
Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project. Project performance indicators
are as follows:
- Water and sediment quality data
- Flooding data
- Groundwater level
- Health indicators
-  Household sanitation improvements
Monitoring of Implementation of Mitigation Measures
Monitoring duties of the Contractor are specified in the Contract Documents and
are related to the impacts during construction.
Monitoring during the construction shall concentrate on safety aspects. Special
attention shall be paid to the protection of excavations, open manholes and cleaning
of the streets. During the sewer cleaning the Contractor shall utilise gas detectors
when opening and entering to manholes. The Contractor shall measure noise at the
construction sites.
The Contractor prepares monthly repor-ts, which PMU compiles to quarterly reports
to the WB. The Contractor monitors the implementation of the main mitigation
measures listed below i.e. the quantity of dredged and transported material, number
of loads, type of transportation, measures to keep streets clean, fencing etc.
The quarterly reports include the flowing:
- List of priority identified in last quarterly monitoring report
- List of progress, which the Contractor has made to solve the problems
- List of issues, which have not been adequately resolved and give
recommendations how to solve the problems and explain force majeure
All reporting of 1B Additional Project will be done through 1B main project
including Semi-Annual Progress Report to WB, monitoring of implementation of
mitigation measures done by the Contractors and all other relevant reports already
in use.
April 2004



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project                   52
Main mitigation measures during constructioni                     Responsible
organisatioll
- Minimise dust, odour, litter, noise and traffic emissions by good operation  Contractor
management and site supervision
- Appropriate working methods have to be followed                Contractor
- Sites have to be kept clean and safe during and after the work  Contractor
- Safety and health regulations has to be strictly followed      Contractor
- Transportation has to be minimised and routes selected to avoid public  Contractor
nuisance
- Transportation during ruslh hours and night has to be avoided  Contractor
- Tight and proper equipment to trainspor-t sediment and garbage has to be  Contractor
used to avoid accidental spills and odour nuisances
- Construction sites and time has to be informed to the local people in  PMU
advance
Overall Regulatory Monitoring
DONRE is monitoring that Vietnamese environmental regulations are followed
during the construction.
During the operation SADCo, to wlhom the facilities have been handed over,
continue related water and sediment quality monitoring reporting to the WB.
Copies of monitoring reports will be sent to DONRE, which has the overall
responsibility of the regulatory environmental monitoring.
The monitoring for the sanitation project is mainly based on the environmental
standards of Vietnam (1995, 1998, 1999, 2000 and 2001). There are no specific
standards for the contamination of soil, except the limits for maximum
concentration of pesticides and fertilisers. Water and sediment analyses should be
carried out in experienced and authorised laboratories.
9.2     Updated Present Monitoring
Into SADCO has been established Environmental Monitoring System in November
2001 to monitor impacts of Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong
Sub-Project. The Environmental Monitoring System    includes the following
performance indicators: water and sediment quality data; flooding data; monitoring
of groundwater level; health indicators; and household sanitation improvements
The responsibilities have been agreed with PMU and SADCO. SADCO is in charge
of sampling and analysing and collected data is entered in the PMU's computer and
filed in environmental archive.
Summary of the monitoring programme of the whole Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation
Project - Haiphong Sub-Project including monitoring of the end product of
composting at Trang Cat disposal site is presented in Table 9.1. Water and sediment
samples are taken from North-East channel system from five points and from
South-West channel system from five points twice per year starting from November
2001 (Annex 2).
April 2004



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project                   53
Table 9.1    Summary of Monitoring Programmes of Vietnam: Three Cities
Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project
Type of.       Number of    Frequency / Pliase  Needed      Responsible
monitorinig   samples                        equipmenit     organisation
supply
Safety during  Lot          During the work /               Contractor
construction                Construction
Safety during  Lot          During the work /  Gas detector  SADCO
operation                   operation        Decibel meter
Lakes and      4 in lakes   2 / year                        SADCO / Hired
channels       6 in channels  operation                     laboratory
End product of  I from end  2/ year                         SADCO / Hired
coinposting in  product     operation                       laboratory
Trang Cat
Leachate in    I from pond  I / month                       SADCO / Hired
Trang Cat      I effluent   operation.                      laboratory
Groundwater in  Borehole    2 / year                        SADCO / Hired
Trang Cat                   operation                       laboratory
Hydrological   Lot          I / day during dry  Water level  SADCO
Monitoring                 season / operation  gauges
1 / hour during
rainy season /
____ ____ ___ __   _ ___ ____ ___ o p eratio n_ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Flooding indicators are as follows: rainfall, tide, level of floodwater and water level
in lakes and channels in the including to the project area. Planning department of
SADCO is measuring flood depth and time from 20 locations in Hong Bang
district, 14 locations in Ngo Quyen district and 8 locations in Le Chan district.
Hydrological monitoring includes water level measurements at totally eleven points
of which seven are in North-East Channel system and four in South-West Channel
system. There are already now water level gauge boards at all tidal gates and it has
been agreed that WSDSSMP will install the water level gauges to the proposed
locations along lakes and channels. The installation time schedule depends on the
construction of LB Project and other lake improvement projects.
Groundwater level monitoring will be done according to the need before and
during construction of big sewers. No groundwater level monitoring is needed for
the Additional Project.
Health indicators: SADCO PMU is collecting basic disease data fiom six
phuongs. More detailed health indicator survey was done according to the
WSDSSMP Workplan 2003.
Household sanitation improvements: Sanitation conditions have been surveyed in
five phuongs. Women's Union will update the results annually.
9.3     Water and Sediment Monitoring of 1B Additional Project
Totally three new water and sediment monitoring points should be added to the
present environmental monitoring programme of SADCo: 1) at May Den for the
April 2004



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project                     54
Cam River and 2) Phuong Luu Lake and 3) Cat Bi Lake. There is already a
sampling point at Vinh Niem for the Lach Tray River. Samples will be taken twice
per year and due to the possible industrial contamination and lack of old data
parameters to be analysed at May Den are the same as from channels and lakes
already including to the present monitoring programme There is no need to analyse
heavy metals from the sediments of Phuong Luu Lake and Cat Bi Lake.
Table 9.2    Analytical Parameters of Water and Sediment Monitoring in
Sampling Points of Additional Project
Water analyses         Sediment analyses     Heavy nmetals front sedimnemit
May Den, Plhuong Luu   May Den, Phuong       May Den
Lake, Cat Bi Lake      Luu Lake, Cat Bi
Lake
Temperature            Moisture content      Arsenic
pH                     Volatile solids       Cadmium
Conductivity           Total solids          Total Cihromium
Turbidity              Density               Mercury
BOD5                   Total Nitrogen        Lead
COD                    Total Phosplhorus     Zinc
Total Nitrogen         Sulphate (SO42-
Total Phosphorus
Suilphate (SO42)
Oil
Faecal coliform
April 2004



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project                  55
10     CAPACITY DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING
10.1    Overall Environmental Management
Organisation responsible for Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong
Sub-Project is Haiphong Sewerage and Drainage Company (SADCo). SADCo as
the statutory provider of the sector services in Haiphong will be implementing
agency of the Haiphong Sub-Project, advised and supervised by Haiphong People's
Committee (HPPC). For practical day-to-day work of this Project SADCo has set
up a Project Management Unit (PMU).
Management Team has been established to take the matters to the Steering
Committee and Supel-visory Board to decide. The issues discussed in the
Management Team meetings should include the following: design situation;
progress of the works; payment situation; work permits; and connections to the
owners of the utilities, like water, power, telecommunication etc.
SADCo will be the Employer, on whose behalf PMU will monitor and control the
contractor and suppliers and efficiency and adequacy of the work of the Engineer.
SADCo shall pay attention to protection of environment and implement EMP
during construction. SADCo shall observe and follow resettlement rules and pay
resettlement compensations. Technical assistance will be used to improve
management systems.
HPPC's role will be advisory and HPPC will supervise that agreed procedures are
followed.
Figure 10.1 Eiivironniiieiital Imnplemdentation Organisation
p(    Haiplhong People's Committee
|DONRE2             l            TPW                 1         Assista[
> s ~~Haipliong Sewevrage anid Dr-ainage 
> 4 ~~~Company (SADCo) 1 
Management          0.     i-Poject Maniagemeiit Unit 
Team                       Pr-oject Manager|
Construction Management
Consultants (Engineer)
(Foreign Experts)
(Local Experts)
Contractors
Suppliers
Apnil 2004



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project               56
In order to ensure compliance with national policies, strategies and regulations
Ministry of Planning and Department (MPI), Ministry of Construction (MOC) and
Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment (MONRE) are expected to
participate in  controllinlg  the  project implementation  by  sending  their
repr-esenitatives for periodic evaluation missions.
The local Departmenit of Natural Resources and Environment (DONRE) is
responsible for setting technical standards, for promotion of new environmentally
sound  production  technologies and  for monitoring  of compliance  with
environmental regulations. The Haiphong Hygiene and Epidemiology Institute
monitors the quality of water in rivers and lakes.
Several city organisations e.g. City Planning Committee, Investment and
Development Department, Constrctioll Service, Transpor-tation and Public Works
Service, Electrical Service, Departmenit of Science, Technology and Environment,
Land Management Service and Haiphong Water Supply Company have a critical
role as issuers of various permits needed for the execution works. The post office,
railway and the Army will issue the permits related to their- utilities and participate
in the field supervisioni of the works. PMU shall keep close relations with these
organisations in order to avoid any delays in receiving appropriate permits.
Street excavation, dust, noise cuts in services etc. will cause nuisance to the
population. PMU shall be responsible for ensurinlg that the contractors follow
exactly the environmental mitigation measures specified in the Environmental
Management Plan and in the bidding documents for minimisiiig nuisan1ces to
public. PMU shall also take care of adequate public informationi concer-ning the
project objectives and progress of the works.
SADCo should work closely with phuong authol-ities to promote community
participation in the planning, management and operation of investments. The
population shall be educated to understand the problems of sanitatioln and their- role
in overcoming the problems like regular de-sludging of septic tanks, regular
cleaning and maintenance of the network, proper in-house plumping and
connection to the sewer system, and conservation of assets like manhole covers and
lane paving.
Technical assistance thlough Water Supply, Drainage and Sewerage and Sanitation
Management Progr-amme in Haiphong comprises institutional strengthening of
SADCo including development of the organisationi, relevant studies, human
resources development and institution,al support for commercialisation.
Along witlh the implementation of the 1B Project the need for communication with
the public and the need for the informnation sharing have considerably increased.
For that purpose SADCo would need a permanenit Information Officer in chalge of
public relations and community participation.
One engineer of PMU has been in char-ge of environmental monitoring of IB
Project from 2001.
April 2004



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project                       57
10.2     Training
The requirements for training included in Contract HPSANP-CID are set out in the
General Technical Specifications as follows:
The training of the Employer's staff of the facilities to be installed shall be
performed by the Contractor during the erection, commissioning and testing of the
facilities. The training shall be divided into two different level groups and into
practical and theor-etical training periods. The training programmes shall be
submitted for the approval of the Engineer 28 days prior the scheduled start of the
training.
The operation and maintenance (O&M) staff of the Employer shall be trained
during the construCtioll. The total number of the trainiees is 30 persons, the traininig
shall be ai-anged for two glOUps. The Enginieer shall advise the edLucat0ion,al level
and thie training requir-ements. The dulation of the training shall be not less than
theoretical training 2 working days and practical trainiing on the field 3 working
days. The theoretical instruction in the facilities and the component operation and
maintenance activities shall be provided by a professionlal trainer employed by the
Contractor.
The other- environmenital traininlg is given and financed thl-ouglh the original
Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphonig Sub-Pioject ancd teclhnical
assistance  thl-ougLh  Water Supply, Drainage  and  Sewerage   and  Sanitation
Management Programme in Haiplong.
Apiil 2004



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project                   58
11     COST ESTIMATES OF ENVIRONMENI'AL MANAGEMENT
Most of the costs for mitigative measures created by environmental demands are
already included in the investment costs of the proposed project, or they should be
part of normal operation and maintenance procedures. The biggest separate
mitigation costs are the extra length of interceptor sewers along the channels to
have suitable discharging point; and protection of groundwater- in Phuong Luu area.
Monitoring costs are included to the costs of present Environmental Monitoring
System, which is financed from SADCOo's Operation and Maintenance budget.
The existing annual 70 MVND environmental monitoring budget of SADCO
should be increased at least to 90 MVND to cover also the monitoring of the three
new sampling points of 1B Additional Project and project perfor-mance indicatol-s
twice per year.
Table 11.1 Annltual Monitorinig Costs of Additional Water aid Sedimelnt Analysis
Type of       Frequency  Unit cost    Total        Responsibility
Monitorinig                          Aniiual Cost
Water and         Twice per  6 MVND     18 MVND      Duritig constructioll
Sediment Quality  year                               PMU hir-es laboratory
Monitorin1g                                          Durinig operation
(3 water quality                                     SADCo hires
and 3 sediment                                       laboratory
sampling points)
Other Project     Twice per   I MVND    2 MVND       PMU collects
performance       year
indiicators
Sub-total including                     20 MVND
repor ting
Monitorin1g of    Montlhly             Includes to   Contr-actor observes
implementation of                      the contract
Imitigation
measures
Granid total                     20 MVND
Monitoring of the safety aspects during the constr-uction includes to the Contract.
Financing of the training related to the IB Additional Project is including to the
Contract HPSANP-CID. The Employer will pay the salaries of the Employer's
staff assigned for training for the training period. The Contractor shall report the
attendance of the trainees to the Engineer.
April 2004



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project                                       59
PART 3 PUBLIC CONSULTATION AND DISCLOSURE
April 2004



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project                   60
12     PUBLIC INVOLVEMENT ANl) CONSULTATION
12.1    General
The World Bank's Operational Policy (OP 4.01) on Environmelntal Impact
Assessment requil-es that affected groups and local NGOs to be informed and
consulted as a part of the EIA preparation during at least two stages of the EIA-
process: shortly after the EA category has been assigned and after the draft EIA-
report has been prepared. Proper consultation is a requirement for EIA category A
projects. Participation should be enabled during project prepar-ation under certain
conditions and is generally recommended as part of implementation. Projects that
require involuntary resettlemiient (OP 4.30), consultation on social issues should be
included.
12.2    Key principles
The overall goals of the public consultation and disclosure are to infolm all
stakeholder-s (interested and project affected parties) about the importanlt aspects of
the proposed project and solicit their comments, ideas and concerns. Fur-ther-
objectives include:
- Commence consultations at the earliest stages of the project, in order to
establish an open and pa)rticipatory process
- Take care that groups being consulted are representative including
representatives of womeni and youth associations, ethlnic and religious minor-ities
- Enhllance previously acquired knowvledge of stakeholdel- concerlls
- Employ culturally and socially appropriate consultationi methods and provide all
written materials and repor-ts and orally in Vietnamese
- Utilise several differenit, complementary metlhods of receivinig public input such
as individual and public meetings, opinion surveys and document review
- Document the comments of the stakelholder-s
- Communicate informationi received fromii the stakeholder-s to the
technical/designi team members, and ensul-e that legitimate concernls are
addressed appropriately
- File the EIA document in the communities affected by the project for public
review and comments
- Continue to consult the public prioI to, and durinllg the construction, operation
and maintenance phases of project development
12.3    Disclosure
The World Bank, like other- donors, lender-s and gover-mmenits al-oUnd the world,
have recognised that many planned inter-ventions in the past have led to undesirable
impacts, often exacerbating economic ineqUtalities and socio-political injustices. As
such, these agencies have, for the past few years, been developing guidelines to
ensure that meaningful consultation occurs, whereby relevant infolmation is
provided to the stakeholders and their inputs ate encouraged. The World Bank's
guideline entitled Policy on Disclosure of Information requires both public
Apr il 2004



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub-Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project                     61
consultation and public disclosure by the project sponsors ill the preparation of an
environmental assessment.
The Vietnamese versioni of the executive summary of dralt EIA repor-t was
disclosed in all districts inclUdinig to the project in February 2004. At the same time
the full text of the draft EIA repor-t was available at PMU office and informed to the
project affected households. The final EA documents will be disclosed in InfoShop
and VDIC at the World Bank office in Hanoi.
12.4     Public Consultation Meeting
Duiing the preparationi of Environmental Impact Assessment for Vietnam    -
Sanitation Project, Haiphong Component was arr-aLnged public hearinigs in six
phuonigs would be included in the project. Therefore, seven phuongs were chosen
as sample ar-eas; five in i'looding areas (Cau Dat, Ha Ly, Tranl Nguyen Ilan, May To
and Le Loi) and one in noni-floodinig areas (Pham -Hong! Thai). The ward autilol-ities
were contacted and asked to distr-ibute houselhold questionnair-es and organise a
public hear-inig wher-e the questioinaires were retuL-necl.
The EIA-team   and SADCo represeitative alianged the public heai-ings in the
different phuongs during Januar-y 12-23, 1998. The main issues discussed during
the fii-st rounid of public meetings were as follows:
-  informilig of the presenit sewerage and drainage situatioll in the city area
-  appiise the people of the ploject and its general plants e.g. intforiniig of the
proposed sanitation project
-  informing of the EIA-procedul-e ancl the studies i-elated to the EIA
-  advise them of the public meetings
-  time schedule of the project
SADCo has implemented public awareness campaigins in 2002 conceli-ing the
Vietnam: Thli-ee Cities Sanitation  Project - Haiphong Sub-Pi-oject, and the
campaigns will continue in 2003.
Public consultation meetinig for additional works was organiised on 4 Februllry 2004
and there were repr-esentatives from Ngo Quyen disti-ict, An Hlai disti-ict, Cat Bi,
Dong Hai and Dong Khe phuongs totally 17 paiticipants and 6 participants from
SADCo.
In the meeting the participants supported the project and were ieady to co-operate
with PMU and contr-actors. It was agreed i.e. that PMU will inform well in advance
the constructioni time; the graveyard in Phuonig Luu area will be remiloved; PMU has
to co-operate closely with districts and phuolIgs concer-ninig land acquisitioni and
compensationl; and PMU has to co-operate closely with othet- projects in the same
area. The minutes of the meeting and the lists of pam-ticipanlts are pi-eselited in Annex
6.
Apri l 200K)4



i.DL!  SKEN           -- H      P. AV  H A;
`1 3                    P. E)XN  LAM.
ii~~~~~~~~S
, ~~~~~~~~~~~T no  Txnh yg SanhX)' 
iTh'n<          i/ _ 
P. TH, E,t,4m,- 
ThonVu'\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Lin h
<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
N ,   I
OANH DLaoNG
phg~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~DV
.4K~~~~~~~~~~r



- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~  ~   ~~~~~~~~~~~~M
iTiv                                         I .            CHU GIAI (LEGEND):
\ ~~~~~~For detailed drawing of
N T H iiJl                           P        tip site ref drw PD-0002          ... DV AJN
/ \\ Chi tiet xem ban ve PD-0002   L   kw.
/                                      K < ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I '  U')  -|----~--.  B _.T
St-~~~~~NGOC                  Ltr 5piongH 0     Do so"                  m6scss6
1     i                                                                                 P O - -  e



~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-'-\--' -\,,. R---:::::R::R:::-'--' / lI
. . . .                             - -   -   -   - -R                                                                             -   :-:A  -- - - - - - -- :-
.-R--'.-.-.        '         -- ' -:---'f-,:, :--::-                                                   ..........-':--- '-':-- --:-:-:---:\ ,---- I
X                                                                                                                   /  -  L  .  .  :_  ,,.,>  -  _:, \ t f ^@Xv t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A N# 4 TW M CA S SA T DO   AQ C   C L .  C A.B   ! N ,''   v   A
.. ..         ....Z ,
W / ~~~~~~~~~~~---------                                                                             -- -'--\- D@
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                     :- ,- X /- - -   - ,- - - - - - - ==>. 1 
---------- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~   ~   ~    ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   ~  ~   ~   ~~~~~~~A N ----------
.                                                                                                                     .  g  tlL  0  I  NOTE  GHICHU~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CA W~wnT C .'(  O  E ~ W~ O M
<'--i~~~~~~~~~~~~- - ---------''~
\                                                                                                          \  <-  \  /  /  / l NORTH - EAST  CHA'NNEL _ _ - _.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GE*~LMA  A   OAIO  OAwNS  ATAN   A  IMNA 
S                                                                                                                                            s    a   ~~ PHUONG LUU LAKE TM
.,,,, ,""''-'---  ------------
. .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                              - .- . - - - - - D - -
/                                                                                                                           /   1  =  CAT  BI>KE  1M-  *-  ,t - 1 v. 5N21 1N ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N O E   G I   H
. . . . . .\                                                                      /   - - ';  z-- S D--40
---.-:- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~   ~   ~   ~   HAPHN     SEERG AN DRANAG COMAN ___ADCo



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub- Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project
ANNEX 2
WATER AND SEDIMENT QUALITY DATA 2001 - 2003



HAIPHONG SEWERAGE AND DRAINAGE COMPANY
WATER QUALITY REPORT
DATE           28.11.2001
LABORATORY     Haiphong Institute of Oceanology HIO
North-East Channel            _             l                     South-West Channel
lake      channel      channel    channel   channel    lake     channel     lake      lake     channel
Parameter         Unit    Tien Nga  from Tien Nga from An Bien Intersection  May Den  Sen  fr Du Hang Lam Tuong  Du Hang   Vinh Niem
l_____  1        2           3           4         5         6         7          8         9         10
Temperature        oC          22.2         21.8        25.1       25.9     21.4       21.1       21.5      22.0      21.1       21.5
Dissolved oxygen  mg/l          0.9          0.3         4.9        0.2      0.3        4.3       0.2        0.3       2.9       4.5
pH                              7.2          7.3         7.9        7.6      8.1        8.0        7.3       7.7       7.5        7.2
Conductivity     mS/m          1,200        1,200      1,200      1,200    1,300      1,100      1,400     1,100     1,100       600
Turbidity         mg/l           68          152         81         99       111        58        102         96       103       106
BOD5             mg 02/l         29           93          71       100        58        71        196        151       121        73
COD              mg 02/         122          181         151       402       115       146        416        174       167       101
Total Nitrogen     ng/i          33           90          75        77        55        71        158         86        89        17
Total Phosphorus  mg/l          1.95        2.60        2.60       2.45     3.10       2.85       2.20      2.05      2.15       0.95
Nitrate           mg/l         0.20         0.04        0.05       0.05     0.09       0.15       0.03      0.05      0.10       0.31
Ammonium          mg/l           23           70          53        61        27        63        100         67        69        11
Sulphate          mg/l           44           29          50        53        60        49         40         30        51        26
Oil                            0.26         trace       0.85       0.25     0.73       0.97      trace      0.49      0.80       1.10
Faecal coliform  pcs/lOOMI  430,000        4,300    21 x 10 7  93 x 10 1  11 x 108    4,300   21 x 10 9    9,300  24 x 10 9    15,000



HAIPHONG SEWERAGE AND DRAINAGE COMPANY
WATER QUALITY REPORT
DATE           23. - 24.4.2002
LABORATORY     Haiphong Institute of Oceanology HIO
North-East Channel                          |                     South-West Channel
lake      channel      channel    channel   channel    lake     channel     lake      lake     channel
Parameter         Unit    Tien Nga  from Tien Nga from An Bien Intersection  May Den  Sen  fr Du Hang Lam Tuong  Du Hang   Vinh Niem
_____________  1          2            3          4         5         6          7         8          9        10
Temperature        oC           28.5         29.5       30.8       30.8     30.1                  26.9      26.4      26.2       27.0
Dissolved oxygen  mg/l          0.7          1.8         0.4        0.8      0.6                  0.2        0.1       1.1        4.6
pH                              8.1          8.4         8.2        8.3      8.5                  8.1        7.5       8.3        8.3
Conductivity      mS/m         1,800        1,500      2,600      2,500    2,500                 1,900     1,300     1,200     11,900
Turbidity         mg/l           53          135         172        94       108                  260        125       105        30
BOD5             mg 0211         60          110         147        82        91                  161        100      160         33
COD              mg 0211        101          163         177       126       145                  223        174      202         65
Total Nitrogen    mg/l           97          107         155        103      110                  201        112       137         5
Total Phosphorus  mg/l          1.85         2.72       2.99       2.11     2.61                  5.15      2.87      3.18       0.80
Nitrate           mg/l         0.23         0.11        0.07       0.16     0.14                  0.03      0.10      0.05       0.36
Ammonium                         96          104         106        101      104                  105        101       106         2
Sulphate          mg/l         0.82          1.45       1.34       1.41     1.49                  1.43      1.38      1.48       1.43
Oil               mg/l         0.56         trace       0.37      trace     0.09                  0.10      0.17      0.81       0.03
Faecal coliform  pcs/100ml  430,000        9,100     17x 10 6  21 x 107   60,000 _           27 x 10 10    5,700  lo x 10       4,000



HAIPHONG SEWERAGE AND DRAINAGE COMPANY
WATER QUALITY REPORT
DATE            19.11.2002
LABORATORY      Haiphong Institute of Oceanology HIO
North-East Channel                                                  South-West Channel   _
lake       channel     channel     channel   channel    lake      channel     lake       lake     channel
Parameter          Unit    Tien Nga  from Tien Nga from An Bien Intersection  May Den  Sen   fr Du Hang Lam Tuong   Du Hang   Vinh Niem
.      l         l _______  1     2            3          4         5          6          7         8          9         10
Temperature        oC           21.5          21.3       21.4       21.6      22.0                  22.0       22.8      21.6       22.7
Dissolved oxygen  mg/i           0.2          0.3         2.0        0.6       0.2                   0.2        0.6       0.6        2.1
pH                               6.4           6.6        6.8        6.5       6.8                   6.8        6.7       6.9        6.8
Conductivity      mS/m           800         1,400      1,200        900     1,300                 1,000      1,000     1,100      1,600
Turbidity          mg/l           63          104         130        130                             49         87        87         42
BOD5             mg 02/l         61           162          85         96       188                  143        136       118         47
COD              mg 02/l         186          291         157        273      401                   285        303       267         94
Total Nitrogen    mg/l            91          191          54        123       125                  234        111       120         36
Total Phosphorus   mg/l         1.37          4.01        1.85      3.13      3.59                  4.77       2.45      2.60       0.69
Nitrate           mg/l          0.17         0.01        0.03       0.09      0.07                  0.01       0.15      0.13       0.38
Ammonium           mg/l           77          151          41        100       107                  181         88        96          8
Sulphate           mg/l         56.1          71.1       60.8      101.6     100.9                  49.9       70.0      89.6      110.1
Oil                mg/i         0.13          0.21       0.08       0.89      2.89                  1.13       0.44      0.59       0.89
Faecal coliform  pcs/100ml    11x106       23x10 8     24x104     95x1 06   24x107        _       11 x1o8    33x1 06   41x1 06    11x104



HAIPHONG SEWERAGE AND DRAINAGE COMPANY
WATER QUALITY REPORT
DATE           31.03.2003
LABORATORY     Haiphong Institute of Oceanology HIO
North-East Channel                  |                 South-West Channel
lake      channel      channel    channel   channel     lake     channel     lake      lake      channel
Parameter         Unit     Tien Nga  from Tien Nga from An Bien Intersection  May Den  Sen  fr Du Hang Lam Tuong   Du Hang  Vinh Niem
1           2           3           4         5         6          7         8          9         10
Temperature        oC           29.0         27.3        29.6       29.2     28.4                  26.3      26.3      27.3       26.3
Dissolved oxygen  mg/l           0.6          0.6         0.5        0.5      0.5                   0.6       0.7       0.7        3.0
pH                               7.3          7.2         7.1        7.2      7.2                   7.2       7.1       7.4        7.3
Conductivity      mS/m         1900          1400       2400       2300      2800                            1200      1100      2900
Turbidity         m/l            63            64        102         77       338,                  90        130       111        51
BOD5             mg 02/i         91           47          28         20        34                   56         77        60         13
COD              mg 02/l        153           189        278        304       398                  227        181       274        83
Total Nitrogen    m              50            77         81        115        99                   24        107       194        39
Total Phosphorus  mg/l          0.93         1.97        2.97       4.03     3.61                  4.54      2.98      5.11       1.21
Nitrate           mg/l          0.25         0.21        0.16       0.09    0.053_                          0.313     0.008      0.287
Ammonium          mg/l           17           28          16         22        19                   15         23        14        3.7
Sulphate          mg/l          0.06         0.06        0.08       0.09     0.10                  0.05      0.07      0.04       0.12
Oil               mg/l          0.08         0.37        0.37       1.03     1.98                  0.67      0.54      1.77       1.00
Faecalcolif:rm  pcs/lOOmI     15x103       10x10       1u1x00     7x109    9X1012                9x1012    11|X06 1    =1X09        03



HAIPHONG SEWERAGE AND DRAINAGE COMPANY
WATER QUALITY REPORT
DATE            11.11.2003
LABORATORY      Haiphong Institute of Oceanology HIO
North-East Channel                                                  South-West Channel
lake       channel     channel     channel   channel     lake      channel     lake       lake     channel
Parameter          Unit    Tien Nga  from Tien Nga from An Bien Intersection  May Den  Sen     fr Du Hang Lam Tuong  Du Hang   Vinh Niem
l_______       1           2            3          4          5         6          7          8          9         10
Temperature        oC           26.0          26.7        28.2       26.1      26.4       26.9                  26.7      28.1       27.9
Dissolved oxygen   mg/l          0.2           0.2         0.3        0.3       0.7        5.6                   3.3       0.5        5.1
pH                               6.6           6.2         8.0        8.4       8.2        9.2                   9.0       8.1        8.4
Conductivity      mS/m          1200          1200        1100       1300     1400        900                  1200        700       1100
Turbidity          mg/l           68            86         206        130      145          33                    52       255         37
BOD5             mg 0211          57           95          189        168       72         52                   127        136        54
COD              mg 02/1         150           419         431        309      189         110                  361        230         69
Total Nitrogen     mg/l           59            79         116         97       70         42                    128       183         34
Total Phosphorus   m/l           1.98         2.99        4.67       4.01      2.58       1.17                  3.73      2.85       0.49
Nitrate            mg/l          1.00         0.30        0.35       0.35      0.25       0.15                  0.20      0.20       0.15
Ammonium           mg/l           47            43          42         43       43         31                    42         42       0.07
Sulphate           mg/l           4.9          0.4         0.8        3.3       4.9        7.8                   6.8       3.1        7.2
Oil                mg/l          0.10         0.35        0.40       0.95      2.25       0.15                  0.50      0.57       0.88
Faecal coliform  pcs/l OOml   1 9x104       27x1 04      7x108      5x1 05   1 9x1 04   17x1 03 1_            1 x107    1 Ox1 07   25x1 03



HAIPHONG SEWERAGE AND DRAINAGE COMPANY
SEDIMENT QUALITY REPORT
DATE           28.11.2001
LABORATORY     Haiphong Institute of Oceanology HIO
North-East Channel                                                South-West Channel   _
lake      channel      channel    channel   channel    lake     channel     lake      lake     channel
Parameter         Unit    Tien Nga  from Tien Nga from An Bien Intersection  May Den  Sen  fr Du Hang Lam Tuong  Du Hang   Vinh Niem
1           2           3          4         5         6          7          8         9         10
Moisture content   %           74.0         82.1        70.7       75.7     65.6       78.0      63.9       75.5      72.5      54.6
Volatile solids    %            2.8          4.0         4.0        3.3      3.7        4.9       5.2        6.3       4.3       3.8
Total solids       %           26.0          17.9       29.3       24.3     34.5       22.0       36.1      24.5      27.5      45.4
Density          kg/m3        1,096         1,076      1,186      1,083    1,139      1,094     1,180      1,096     1,193     1,374
Total Nitrogen   mg/kg         1,142      28,793       2,582      2,518    2,307      2,434     2,939      2,685     2,786      1,889
Total Phosphorus  mg/kg         108          141         137       119       150       128        116        110      115         31
COD              mg/kg       27,007       44,288      34,976     51,477   26,769     29,058    57,244     36,566    35,155    23,199
Ammonium         mg/kg          286          687         507       446       293       509        680        559      561         30
Sulphate         mg/kg          112           78         170       197       208       122         97         80      189         16
Arsenic          mg/kg         18.04        9.20        6.66       7.35     8.51      21.32       5.56      4.69      3.46      8.48
Cadmium          mg/kg         5.70        30.11        4.98       8.81    11.41      12.42      5.48      11.30      7.12      2.40
Total Chromium   mg/kg          407 _        362 _       117       150       165       204        169        545      362        111
Chromium (6+)    mg/kg         40.4         25.1        10.6       23.9     18.0       14.6        9.7      40.4      24.7       15.0
Lead             mg/kg          309         1193         164       251       243       551        177        958      218        105
Mercury          mg/kg         2.39          1.35       0.31       0.40     0.61       2.88      0.94       1.90      0.49      0.51
Nickel           mg/kg           75          153          51        71        66       106         53        108       75         50
Zinc             mg/kg         2,151        4,546      1,516      2,038    1,372      3,167      1,668     2,814     2,072       600



HAIPHONG SEWERAGE AND DRAINAGE COMPANY
SEDIMENT QUALITY REPORT
DATE            19.11.2002
LABORATORY     Haiphong Institute of Oceanology HIO
North-East Channel                                                 South-West Channel
lake      channel      channel    channel   channel     lake      channel    lake       lake     channel
Parameter         Unit     Tien Nga  from Tien Nga from An Bien Intersection  May Den  Sen   fr Du Hang Lam Tuong  Du Hang   Vinh Niem
l___________   ________ 1  2            3          4         5         6          7          8         9         10
Moisture content   %                         84.7        52.1       67.8     64.21                 37.4                           38.8
Volatile solids    %                          2.6         2.6        3.8      3.1                   3.1                            4.4
Total solids       %                         15.3        48.0       32.3     35.8                  62.6                            61.2
Density          kg/m3                     11,200       1,490      1,260    1,320                 1,650                          1,930
Total Nitrogen    mg/kg  ;                  2,900       1,801      2,152    1,914                 2,021                           1,791
Total Phosphorus  mg/kg   _    _              412         36        324        79                   164                             80
COD               mg/kg
Ammonium          mg/kg                     2,273         20        301        98                     8                              1
Sulphate          mg/kg                    91,939      24,292     30,437   27,233                 4,080                           1,523
Arsenic           mg/kg                      1.15        0.72       0.69     0.76               _  1.07                            0.62
Cadmium           mg/kg                      9.36        1.21       1.70     3.83                  1.68                            1.29
Total Chromium    mg/kg                        82         36         51        57                    70                             47
Chromium (6+)     mg/kg
Lead              mg/kg                       209         52         61        92                    79                             43
Mercury           mg/kg                      0.10        0.05       0.07     0.07                  0.05                            0.07
Nickel            mg/kg
Zinc              mg/kg                       166          99        106      106                   108                             92



HAIPHONG SEWERAGE AND DRAINAGE COMPANY
SEDIMENT QUALITY REPORT
DATE            11.11.2003
LABORATORY      Haiphong Institute of Oceanology HIO
North-East Channel                            l                      South-West Channel             l
lake       channel      channel    channel   channel     lake      channel     lake       lake     channel
Parameter          Unit    Tien Nga  from Tien Nga from An Bien Intersection  May Den  Sen     fr Du Hang  Lam Tuong  Du Hang  Vinh Niem
1           2            3           4         5         6          7           8         9         10
Moisture content _                            50.8        67.2       80.4      59.3       66.8                  45.4      81.6       40.3
Volatile solids     %                          3.5        4.60       3.80      3.93       3.30                  3.80      4.40       2.10
Total solids    _                             45.7       28.20      15.80     36.80      29.90                 50.80     14.00      57.60
Density           kg/m3                      1,444       1,321      1,182     1,418      1,338                 1,602     1,200      1,740
Total Nitrogen    mg/kg                      1,865       5,345      4,041     6,233      1,443                13,767    12,902      1,277
Total Phosphorus  mg/kg                         98         707        407       119       499                    198       768         72
COD               mg/kg                                                          _                                                                .;
Ammonium          mg/kg                         79         140        326        66         53                   107       361         24
Sulphate          mg/kg __        _          1,138      31,365     36,293    24,531      8,668                 7,827    23,878     12,052
Arsenic           mg/kg   ___                 1.38        0.95       0.96      1.01       0.38                  0.86      1.99       0.73
Cadmium           mg/kg                       4.11        1.78       2.02      2.13       0.24                  1.31      3.43       0.41
Total Chromium    mg/kg                         55          42         43        51         18                    61       163         34
Chromium          mg/kg
Lead              m/k                          123         130         85        82         27                    70       183         39
Mercury           mg/kg                       0.07        0.04       0.05      0.04       0.03                  0.03      0.12       0.04
Nickel            mg/kg
Zinc              mg/kg                                    346        346       258        141                   237       422        117
__                                                                                             S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



HAIPHONG SEWERAGE AND DRAINAGE COMPANY
SEDIMENT QUALITY REPORT
DATE           23. - 24.4.2002
LABORATORY     Haiphong Institute of Oceanology HIO
North-East Channel                          |                     South-West Channel
lake      channel      channel    channel   channel    lake      channel    lake       lake     channel
Parameter         Unit    Tien Nga  from Tien Nga from An Bien Intersection  May Den  Sen  fr Du Hang Lam Tuong   Du Hang  Vinh Niem
1           2           3          4         5         6          7          8         9         10
Moisture content   %           76.9         76.4        78.7       70.5     61.5                  59.8      66.7      77.0       58.9
Volatile solids    %            2.5          3.8         2.6        2.4      4.0                   4.5       4.4       4.6        3.3
Total solids       %           23.1          23.6       21.3       29.5     38.5                  40.2      33.3      23.0       41.1
Density          kg/m3        1,239         1,191      1,220      1,217    1,355                 1,333     1,291     1,157      1,360
Total Nitrogen   mg/kg        3,495         7,466      3,356      5,347    2,716                 2,985     3,553     7,128      3,350
Total Phosphorus  mg/kg         151          158         167        178       72                  219        172       247       174
COD              mg/kg       53,774        54,822     28,807     29,015   76,493                28,832    34,257    87,962     17,299
Ammonium         mg/kg         1,302        1,219      1,464        797      340                  786        889     1,333        47
Sulphate         mg/kg       30,887        33,331     42,712     30,922   26,241                22,951    22,080    45,270     15,125
Arsenic          mg/kg         3.26          2.64       1.94       2.01      1.92                 3.39       2.94     4.99       1.16
Cadmium          mg/kg         0.34          0.52       0.20       0.22     0.21                  0.23      0.24      0.52       0.25
Total Chromium    mg/kg          33           24          29         24       26                   18         51        80        27
Chromium (6+)    mg/kg          6.8          4.5         5.5        2.8      3.3                   3.8        5.3      8.5        5.9
Lead             mg/kg           68           61          27         16       36                   62         33       154        49
Mercury          mg/kg         0.17          0.27       0.29       0.18     0.10                  0.15       0.14     0.35       0.20
Nickel           mg/kg           20           14          18         18       15                   13         13        22        20
Zinc             mg/kg          301          420         239        184      163                  265        285       425       241



HAIPHONG SEWERAGE AND DRAINAGE COMPANY
SEDIMENT QUALITY REPORT
DATE            31.03.2003
LABORATORY      Haiphong Institute of Oceanology HIO
North-East Channel                                     South-West Channel       _
lake       channel      channel    channel   channel     lake      channel     lake       lake     channel
Parameter          Unit    Tien Nga  from Tien Nga from An Bien Intersection  May Den  Sen     fr Du Hang Lam Tuong   Du Hang  Vinh Niem
_____________  1           2            3           4         5          6          7          8         9         10
Moisture content    %           26.9          4.7         45.8       37.0     53.5                  64.6       69.4       40.2       49.2
Volatile solids     %            6.2         65.0         5.1         2.6      3.5                   6.9        7.0        2.9        3.2
Total solids        %           66.9                      49.1       60.4     43.0                  28.5       23.6       56.9       47.6
Density           kg/m3        1,740         1,720       1,580      1,660    1,500                 1,290      1,250      1,680      1,490
Total Nitrogen    mg/kg         510           619         664        711     1,116                 6,596      7,313      1,350       670
Total Phosphorus  mg/kg          24           307          77         15        21                    40        121        69         25
COD               mg/kg           _          __             _
Ammoniuum         mg/kg          153           349         348        359       732                   967       1990       354        211
Sulphate          mg/kg         2771                      1740       8056     18241                 51645     40385       6105      19873
Arsenic           mgkg           1.12         0.53        0.28       0.77      1.41                  0.91       0.65                 1.33
Cadmium           mg/kg         0.75          0.37        1.25       0.45      1.88                  1.63       1.55      1.25       1.05
Total Chromium    mg/kg           29            34          35         29        43                    78        120        27         32
Chromium          mg/kg                                                                                                        _ _                 .,
Lead              mg/kg           91            64          11         31       76                    169        146        28         64
Mercury           mg/kg          0.15         0.01        0.02       0.07      1.41                  0.08       0.02      0.43       0.65
Nickel            mg/kg
Zinc              mg/kg          106            98         112         89       105,          f       112        113        90        102



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub- Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project
ANNEX 3
SURFACE WATER AND GROUNDWATER QUALITY IN PHUONG LUU LAKE AREA



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub- Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project
Annex 3.1 Surface Water Quality in Phuong Luu Lake Area, Source: CCET, 11/2000
STT            Indicators            AKH 12         AKH 15         TCVN 5942 - 1995
1     Temperature (0C)                19             20
2     Dissolved Oxygen (mg/1)        6.64            6.59                > 2
3     PH                              7.6            7.9               5.5 - 9
4     EC (1tsIcm)                    1785            621
5     Turbidity (NTU)                347.8           55
6     Salinity (%o)                  0.761          0.234
0      Odor
8     BOD5 (mg/i)                     6.3            5.8                < 25
9     COD (mg/I)                      17.6           15.2               < 35
10     SS (mg/l)                       11             5                   80
11     Total N (mg/l)                  1             8.1
12     NH4 - N (mg/l)                < 0.01          7.12
13     NO2 (mg/i)                    0.033          0.015                0.05
14     NO3 (mg/I)                    0.205          0.053                 15
15     Total P (mg/l)                 0.28           0.15
16     SOJ2- (mg/i)                  104.55          10.9
17     Coli form (MPN/100ml)          120             15                10000
18     Fecal Coli (MPN/lOOmi)         64             Nil
19     Cd (mg/l)                     0.0006         0.0004               0.02
20     CN (mg/i)                     0.007           0.005               0.05
21     Pb (mg/I)                     0.0054         0.0045               0.1
22     Zn (mg/i)                     0.0072         0.0018                2
23     Cu (mg/I)                     0.0028         0.0048                 1
24     Cr (mg/i)                     0.009           0.002
25     Cr "' (mg/i)                  0.002           0.001               0.05
26     As (mg/i)                     0.006           0.003                0.1
27     Hg (mg/I)                     0.0002         0.0002              0.002
28     Fe (mg/I)                      3.25           0.16                 2
29     Oil. grease (mg/I)             0.22           0.13                 3



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub- Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project
Annex 3.2 Groundwater Quality in Phuong Luu Lake Area, Source: CCET, 11/2000
No            Indicators           AKH 13        AKH 14          TCVN 5944 - 1995
1    Temperature (0C)                19           18.5
2     Dissolved Oxygen (mg/1)       5.72          6.42
3    PH                              7.3          7.55               6.5 - 8.5
4     EC (jis/cm)                   2760          4390
5    Turbidity (NTU)                89.7          85.3
6     Salinity(%o)                  1.113         1.347
0     Odor
8    BOD5 (mg/i)                    14.8          14.8
9     COD (mg/I)                     32            32
10    SS (mg/I)                       3             5
11    Total N (mg/i)                 5.2           2.84
12    NI14 - N (mg/I)               4.813          2.46
13    NO2 (mg/I)                    0.855         0.345
14    NO3 (mg/1)                    0.0023        0.177              0.1 - 0.5
15    Total P (mg/I)                 0.35          0.09
16    S04 (mg/l)                     5.1           78.5              200-400
17    Coliform (MPN/lOOml)           250           380                   3
18    Fecal Coliform (MPN/lOOml)     100           180                  No
19    Cd (mg/I)                     0.0007        0.0004               0.01
20    CN (mg/I)                     0.003         0.003                0.01
21    Pb (mg/I)                     0.0033        0.0015               0.05
22    Zn (mg/l)                     0.0114        0.0015                5.0
23    Cu (mg/I)                     0.0035        0.0027                1.0
24    Cr (mg/I)                     0.008         0.009
25    Cr '' (mg/I)                  0.002         0.0026               0.05
26    As (mg/I)                    < 0.001        0.005                0.05
27    Hg (mg/I)                    < 0.0001       0.0002               0.001
28    Fe (mg/I)                      3.5           2.6                 1 - 5
29    Oil. grease (mg/I)             0.15          0.16



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub- Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project
ANNEX 4
POLLUTION LOADS TO WATER BODIES ACCORDING TO THE STUDY ON SANITATION
IMPROVEMENT PLAN FOR HAIPHONG CITY
Source: The Study on Sanitation lImprovement Plan for Haiphong City in the Socialist Republic of
Vietnam: Volume I Sanitation Master Plan, July 2001



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub- Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1B Additional Project
Pollution Loads to Water Bodies According to the Study on Sanitation Improvement Plan for
Haiphong City
The following information from     year 2000 is based on the Study on Sanitation
Improvement Plan for Haiphong City. More detailed data is available in Final Report
Main Report Volume 1: Sanitation Master Plan.
Anticipated Pollution Loads to Lake and Channels
The pollution load estimations to the following channels and lakes were made:
-North-East channel system: An Bien, Mam Tom, Tien Nga lakes
-South-West channel system: Sen. Du Hang, Lam Tuong lakes, south of Sen lake area
-An Kim Hai channel system: direct flow to An Kim Hai channel, Dong Hai lake
These lakes and channels in the city centre are the most heavily polluted water bodies and
it was of interest to estimate the reduction of pollution loads by the Master Plan.
Table 1 summanises the anticipated increases of pollution loads to these lakes and
channels without and with the implemented Master Plan including two wastewater
treatment plants.
Table 1       BOD (kg/day) Pollution Loads to Channels and Lakes Without and With
Master Plan
Channel      Sub-basin                1999         2010              2020
Present  Without    With   Without   With
MP       MP       MP       MP
NE Channel   An Bien and Mam Tom        1402      1533     154     1969     197
lakes                    100 %      109%     11%      140%    14%
Tien Nga lake              459       510      51       516      52
100%      111%     11%      113%     11%
Other                     3093      4091    2072      5059     534
100%      132%     67%      164%     17%
Total                     4954      6134    2277      7544     782
100%      124%     46%      152%     16%
SW Channel   Sen Lake                   598       675      68       802      80
100%      113%     11%      134%     13%
Du Hang and Lam Tuong     1071      1233      123     1459     146
lakes                     100%      115%     12%      136%     14%
Sen Lake South Basin       572       872      86      1254     122
100%      152%     15%     219%     21 '7
Other                       194      496      176      753      63
100%      255%     90%      388%    32%
Total                      2436     3276     453      4268     411
100%      134%     19%      175%     17%
An Kim Hai An Kim -lHai Chaninel        659      1094     429      1394     108
Channel                                100%      166%     65%      211%     16'7
Dong Hai Lak-e             400       645      65       977      98
100%      161%,    16%     244%     24%
Total                      1059      1740    494      2371     206
100%7,    164%     47%      224%     19Z



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub- Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project
The results of the analysis can be summarised as follows:
If the proposed Master Plan were not implemented, the pollution loads to these lakes and
channels would increase considerably in the next 20 years, although the rates of increase
vary from sub-basin to sub-basin. Pollution loads would increase 100 % or more in the
south and east of the existing urban area, e.g. Sen Lake South Basin area, Dong Hai lake
area, west of Ngo Quyen District, where the population is expected to grow rapidly. On
the other hand increase in pollution loads in already developed area e.g. Sen lake area and
An Bien - Mam Tom lake area, will be limited.
The proposed Master Plan would reduce the overall pollution loads to the lakes and
channels to approximately 10 % of the "Without Master Plan" case for BOD, T-N and T-
P, and 20 % of the "Without Master Plan" case for suspended solids. In the catchment
areas for these channels and lakes there will be mainly combined sewers, and the
pollution loads to the lakes and channels are overflow from the Combined Sewer
Overflow control structures. The levels of pollution loads correspond to roughly 10 - 30
% of the present level for BOD, T-N and T-P, and 20 - 50 % of the present level for
suspended solids. When the interceptor sewers are built around the lakes and channels
and wastewater is diverted from these water bodies, the pollution loads will be even
smaller.
Anticipated Pollution Loads to Major Rivers
The overall pollution loads to the following water bodies were analysed: the Cam River,
the Lach Tray River, the Da Do River, the An Kim Hai Channel, the Bac Bo Bay (direct
inflow), and the Bach Dang River.
The following factors complicated the basin-wise analysis of pollution loads:
-Complex hydrological characteristics, which in the area is strongly affected by tidal
fluctuation
-Alteration of catchment area by the proposed project including to the proposed priority
projects. For example wastewater from Old City Centre is currently discharged to the
Cam River. However, in the future, if the area will be serviced by combined sewers the
wastewater will be discharged to the Lach Tray River.
Table 2 summarises the estimated total pollution loads to major water bodies without and
with Master Plan.
Table 2 Total Pollution Loads to Major Rivers Without and With Master Plan
Pollutant  Unit     1999            2010                    2020
Case             Present  Without MP   With MP   Without MP    With MP
BOD        Kg/day    23,300      36,200     26,200       48,300      21,000
%          100         155        112         207          90
SS         Kg/day    50,900      74,900     64.700       98,000      70,000
%          100         147        127         193          138
T-N        Kg/day     5,550       8,160      7,820       10,620      11,160
C/         100         147        141         191         201
T-P        Kg/day       890       1,430       1,400       1,940       2,020
%          100         161        157         218         230



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub- Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project
If the proposed Master Plan were not implemented, the anticipated levels of pollution
loads to major rivers in 2020 would be nearly doubled from the present levels: 207 % for
BOD, 193 % for suspended solids, 191 % for T-N and 218 % for T-P. The Master Plan
would significantly reduce pollution loads of BOD and suspended solids from the
"Without Master Plan" case. If the Master Plan were implemented, the pollution loads in
2020 will be 90 % of the present level for BOD, 138 % of the present level for suspended
solids, 201 % of the present level for T-N and 230 % of the present for T-P.
The proposed Master Plan would not significantly affect the pollution loads of T-N and
T-P. In fact, the pollution loads of T-N and T-P may be increased by the Master Plan for
the following reasons:
-Sewer network, which will efficiently collect and transport wastewater to wastewater
treatment plant will reduce the chance of wastewater to be treated "naturally" in lakes,
channels and soil
-Removal efficiencies of T-N and T-P by the proposed treatment processes will be
limited
Removal of nutrients, such as nitrogen and phosphorous, is very costly, and is not viable
option for time being. However, if the removal of nutrients becomes desirable in the
future, more advanced treatment process should be introduced.
Table 3 BOD Loads (kg/day) to Major Rivers Without and With Master Plan
Basin        Unit      1999           2010                  2020
Present   Without   With MP     Without   With MP
MP                    MP
Cam River       kg/day     11,600    17,300      13,100     20,600     4,800
%           100       149         113       178        41
Lach Tray Rivef  kg/day     7,300    12,000       8,100     15,900     9,200
%           100       164         111       218       126
Da Do River     kg/day        700       900        900       1,500      500
%           100       129         129       214        71
An Kim Hai      kg/day      1,100     1,700        500      2,400       200
Channel           %           100       155         45        218        18
Bac Bo Bay      kg/day      2,100     2,800       2,300     5.400      4,200
% .         100       133         110       257       200
Bach Dang       kg/day        500     1,500       1,300      2,500     2,100
River             %           100       300        260        500       420
Total           kg/day     23.300    36,200      26,200     48.300    21,000
%           100       155         112       207         90
If the proposed Master Plan were implemenited, the pollution loads to the Cam River will
be reduced drastically, in part because the pollution loads from the Old City Centre (Hong
Bang District) will be tranisported to Vinh Niem wastewater treatment plant and
discharged to the Lach Tray River. On the contrary, the Lach Tray River will receive
more pollution loads, though the amount of BOD and suspended solids discharged to the
Lach Tray River will be still smaller than the "Without Master Plan" case.



., -~~-          s  . -..-5.M-.. rv
Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub- Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project
Impacts of Master Plan on Water Quality
In order to assess the anticipated change in water quality with and without the Master
Plan, simple calculations of anticipated water qualities were made by dividing the
estimated pollution load by discharge. Because the analysis of pollution loads indicated
that the pollution loads to the Cam River and the Lach Tray River are considerably larger
than to other rivers, these two rivers were selected for further analysis.
Table 4     Anticipated Water Quality of the Cam River Without and With Master Plan
Pollutant  Unit     1999           2010                 2020         TCVN 5942-
Present   Without   With MP   Without  With MP       1995
MP                  MP     ____
BOD         mg/l        5.3       5.5       5.4      5.6        5.1       25
%          100        95        95      105         96        -
SS          mg/l       22.4      22.7      22.5     23.0       22.4       80
r  %       100        102      101      103        100        -
T-N         mg/I       0.57       0.60     0.58      0.62      0.54      15*
%          100       105       101      109         95        -
T-P         mg/I       0.61       0.62     0.61     0.62       0.61
%          100       101       101      102        100
*as Nitrate
Table 5       Anticipated Water Quality of Lach Tray River Without and With Master
Plan
Pollutant  Unit     1999           2010                 2020         TCVN 5942-
Present   Without   With MP   Without  With MP        1995
MP                  MP
BOD         mg/I       10.4       12.0     10.7      13.3      11.1       25
%          100       115       103      127        106        -
SS          mg/l      121.8      124.3    123.2     126.6     124.5       80
_______    100       102       101      104        102        -
T-N         mg/l       1.25       1.59      1.83     1.88      2.83       15*
%          100       127       147      151        227
T-P         mg/I       0.60       0.66     0.70      0.70      0.84
SO        100        109       115      117        140
*as Nitrate
It is clear that the impacts of the pollution loads from the Study Area of Master Plan to
the water qualities of these rivers are not large. In particular, the impact to the Cam River
is negligible even if the proposed Master Plan were not implemented. This is because the
Cam River has a sufficiently large flow compared to the sewage volume. The water
quality would easily satisfy the TCVN 5942-1995.
The impact is larger on the Lach Tray River, which is roughly 1/10 in discharge, and the
treated water from the proposed western wastewater treatment plant, which would cover
most of the urban centre of Haiphong, will be discharged to it. Nevertheless, the impact is
still small, and the TCVN 5942-1995 will be satisfied expect for suspended solids, which
is high in the background.



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub- Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project
ANNEX 5
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS OF THE PROJECT COMPONENTS



It; U I W   [I.  sJL-   4-1  ICIFU 1I  I IjJ   IL  -   C,,
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project
Annex 5.1 Identirication, Management and Monitoring of Impacts related to Construction of Interceptor Sewers and Pumping Stations
along the Channels
ISSUE              EXTENT             POTENTIAL                                MANAGEMENT MEASURES                             NET EFFECTS                        MONITORING,
IMPACTS                                                                                                                      FOLLOW-UP
Air Emissions      Vicinity of        Minimal emissions of NOx, CO, C02 and    Check regularly specification (related to emission  Short-term impacts.             Not requlued.
construction       particulates from the engines of the     and noise) of vehicles
equipment          construction equipment and traffic will have
a small and a short-term effect on local air
Local              quality and an infinitesinial effect on global
greenhouse gases.
Dust emissions from traffic related to
construction works.
Water quality      Local              Overall positive impact on water quality.  Circulate water from bigger lakes to the smaller  Decrease of wastewater odour,   Regular monitoring of water
and quantity                          Risk of decrease of lake water level during  lakes or lead water from rivers channels to lakes by  improvement of water quality and  quality and water level in lakes
changes in lakes                      dry season if compensating water is not  tidal gate operation. However, annual precipitation  overall environmental condition.  and channels.
and channels                          available.                               is much higher than evaporation.                Improvement of hygienic situation in
the City area.
Water quality      Regional           Possible additional increase in pollution  Operation and maintenance guidelines for      Minimal additional impacts compared  Regular monitoring of river
and quantity in                      level is small due to the good dilution   interceptor sewers and pumping stations have to be  to existing situation,          water quality.
rivers                                capacity of the recipient rivers. No impact  prepared and followed. Annual O&M budget has to
on water quantity.                        be sufficient.
Continuous power supply for pumping stations has
to be guaranteed.
Screening of wastewater will be done in pumping
stations.
Wastewater is recommended discharged to rivers
through mangrove ponds to stabilise the discharge,
to minimise combined adverse impact of tide, river
water flow and wastewater flow. and to prevent
additional erosion.



vieml=TT  1 H  e U   I -iIIILdItII r-iOJiUL -                                                                                                                                                            _Il   -
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project
Annex 5.2 Identification, Management and Monitoring of Impacts related to Construction of Phuong Luu Lake
ISSUE             EXTENT            POTENTIAL                                    MANAGEMENT MEASURES                                        NET EFFECTS                 MONITORING,
Air Emiissions     Vicinity of       Minimal emissions of NOx, CO. C02 and        Check regularly specification (related to emission and noise) of  Minimal impacts.    Not required.
rehabilitation    particulates from the engines of the rehabilitation  vehicles
equipment         equipment and traffic will have a small and a short
term ef fect on local air quality and an
Local             infinitesimal effect on global greenhouse gases.
Noisc             Vicinity of       Short-term noise associated with rehabilitation  Avoid working in residential areas during the night between 10  Short-term impacts.  Not requircd
rehabilitation    works. Short-term noise effect in populated areas.  p.m. to 6 a.m. (TCVN 5949-1998)
equipment.
Minimise construction noise by using anti-vibration mountings
Local                                                          and noise insulation on equipment whenever possible. Contractor
has to provide ear protectors for workers when noise level in the
working place exceeds 85 dB and train how to use them.
Construction of   Local              Increased storage capacity during rainy season.  Construction during dry season.                       Permanent change of land use  Regular monitoring of
Phuong Lu Lake                       Increase of recreational value of the lakes.                                                          in Phuong Luu area            lake water quality
Change of land use in Phuong Luu area.       Transportation routes and times of 51 0,000 m' of earth to "Do Son
96 ' tip site in Tan Thanh commune in Kien Thuy district have to  Major positive impact on the
he agreed with traffic police.                            water (quality and overall
elvironnitct ial hygienic antd
rccrcational conditions.
Shor-t-term negative imnpacts
dunng construction
Potentially       Local soil         Risk of soil contamination and groundwater  Choice of appropriate working methods is essential.        Short term impacts           Regular monitoring ot
Contarninating    contamination.    during construction of Phuong Luu lake.       Protective clothing and operational training for workers is                           lakcs and rivers
Substances                                                                        essential. Avoid transportation of excavated material and sludge
during rush hours.
Grotindwater pollution has to be prevented during excavation of  Long term impacts if  Strict supervision of
Phtiong Luu Lake.                                         mitigation measures arec not  rchabilitation works Is
followed                    rcquired from the
contractor



Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project
Annex 5.3 Identification, Management and Monitoring of Impacts related to Rehabilitation of Cat Bi Lake
ISSUE             EXTENT            POTENTIAL                                    MANAGEMENT MEASURES                                       NET EFFECTS                  MONITORING.
IMPACTS                                                                                                                            FOLLOW-UP
Air Emnissions    Vicinity of       Minimal emissions of NOx, CO, C02 and        No measures necessary.                                    Minimal impacts.             Not required
rehabilitation    particulates from the engines of the rehabilitation
equipment         equipment and traffic will have a small and a short
term effect on local air quality and an
Local             infinitesimal effect on global greenhouse gases.
Noise             Vicinity of       Short-term noise associated with rehabilitation  Avoid working in residential areas during the night between 10  Short-tern impacts.  Not rcquircd.
rehabilitation    works. Short-term noise effect in populated areas.  p.m. to 6 a.m. (TCVN 5949-1998)
equipment.
Minimise construction noise by using anti-vibration mountings
Local                                                          and noise insulation on equipment whenever possible. Contractor
has to provide ear protectors for workers when noise level in the
working place exceeds 85 dB and train how to use them.
Rehabilitation    Local             Increased storage capacity during rainy season.  Dredging during dry season.                           Major positive impact on the  Regular monitoring of
and Dredging of                     Increase of recreational value of the lakes.                                                           water quality and overall    lake water quality
Cat Bi Lake                                                                      Dredging has been considered as most efficient and cost effective  environmental, hygienic and
Construction of interceptor sewer and bypassing  method to improve the environmental condition and somewhat the  recreational conditions.
of wastewater will improve remarkably        hydraulic conditions and storage capacity of the lakes. Dry
environmental condition of Cat Bi Lake.      dredging of Cat Bi Lake is recommended to minimise the nccd of  Short-term negative impacts
extra drying beds for sludge.                             during dredging.
OL'dour during dredging. Temporary drying of
lakes. However, there are no valuable or     Transportation route and time of 46,000 m' of excavated sludge
endangered plants or animals.                and earth to Trang Cat disposal and composting plant has to be
agreed with traffic police.
Potentially       Local soil        Risk of soil contamination during sludge removal  Choice of appropriate working methods is essential.   Short term impacts          Regular monitoring )f'
Contaminating     contamination.    in unpaved areas around Cat Bi Lake.         Protective clothing and operational training for workers is                            lakes and riscrl
Substances                                                                       essential. Avoid transportation of excavated material and sludge  Health hazards (parasitic
during rush hours.                                        infections from sludge, etc.)  Strict supervision ofi
may cause long-term impacts.  rehabilitation works is
Short term impacts          required from the
contractor



Vietnam: Three CN1es Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub- Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project
ANNEX 6
MINUTES OF THE PUBLIC CONSULTATION MEETING
...
-r.
'4
.



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub- Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project
Ti-an slationl
NMinutes of meeting
Consultation with public community
Regar(Iing environment issue of IB sewerage and sanitation project - Additional
wvork
,imiie         2p.m 4"' February 2004
\`enue : Offlice of Hai Phon_ Sewera(_e and Sanitation Pro'ject
No. I. Ly Tu Trong - Hai Phong
I/ particijation : Representative of
1- Hai Phong Sewerage and Sanitation Project Mlanagement Unit:
Mr Do TTrong Dat     - Director of SADCo / Director of PMU
Mi Nguven Canh Giap - Vice Director- of SADCo I Vice Director of PMtH
Mr Trinh Van Dan     - Manager of Planning Division
Mr. Do Truong Trinh   - Manager of Technical Division
Mr. Nguyen Minh Tuan - Vice Director of PMU
Mr. Ngo Ba Tinh       - PMU staff
2 - PC of Ngo Quyen district:
Ms. Nouven Thi Kim Lien - Deputy Mlanager of Urban Management Division
Mr. Vu Quang Hung    - Staff
3 - PC of An Hai district:
Mr. Nguven Anh Tuan - Manager of Urban Management Division
Mr. Nguven Van Tuan - Staff
4 - PC of l)ong Khe phuong:
1\r. Tr.lan Duc Tuong  - Chairman
Mr. PhalL Dinlh Duc  - Party's Scr-etMary of phuong
Mr. Tran \,iet Dat   - Head oi' Agricult rul cooperative
lr. Tr-L;n Van Duvet  - Head of KS HT,X
M r. Tran V'an Than-i  - Head of prodLction1 learii No. 4
MIr. Train Doan Nhat  - Head of residentm rioup) No.3
5 - I'C of, )ong IIlai phuonlg:
Ir. H1ia Phonoa Czanh  - [lead of t 'rhan iage ment teaiml
N   T r. Traill \'Van 1I  - \ ic C 11a11n111an
\Mi-. NLaivcn \ `Nan Ky  - 11CHead otf A-riclttiwe cooperati\c
N1s. Nguvcn nTi Det   - I lcad of residlelnt (roilu
6 - l'C ol (.at Bi l)hluoli:
Mr.   u \'u \"n) lo'   Still olt o 'and Ad1In ll 'sInision
N1 NLL\Ce Na111 SunL  - -1ad of residet "'-"1 C
N ir. Ph1m11 V'ili I loain  - Ile,dol ,csi,et1c  -rouip D



Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation Project - Haiphong Sub- Project
Final Environmental Impact Assessment for 1 B Additional Project
II/ content:
The participants listened to Mr. Do Trong Dat, Director of Hai Phong Sewerage and
Sanitation Project, who introduced the Project including: rehabilitation of Cat Bi lake,
construction of Phuong Luu lake, service roads on both sides of the channels and their method
statement. He also emphasized that this meeting purpose to discuss on environment issue of
the project, its impact during implementation, completion and operation, monitoring measure
and plan to minimize bad impact of the project to the environment.
All parties discussed and consented to following matters:
+ All parties agreed on the works of the Project and support its implementation
+ The Project will affect to living of the resident in the area of the Project
+ PMU will inform on time execution plan of the Project, especially plan of land acquisition
and compensation
+ PMU and concerning parties need to pay attention to life of the households, whose
production land is revoked.
+ PMU need to cooperate closely with districts and phuongs in land acquisition and
compensation
+ Minimize land acquisition and removal of tombs
+ Cooperate closely with other projects in the same area
+ The graveyard in Phuong Luu park should be removed to other place
The minutes is accepted and signed by all parties.
The meeting finished at 3.30 p.m of the same day
HP Sewerage & Sanitation   PC of Ngo Quyen district  PC of Hai An district
Project Management Unit             (Signed)                 (Signed)
(Signed and stanped)
PC of Cat Bi phuong           PC of Dong Hai phuong           PC of Dong Khe phuong
(Sigzed)                   (Signed)                      (Signzed)



CONG HOA XA H1I CHUJ NGHIA VICT NAM
Mc lap - Tu do - Hanh phic
-oOo-|
BlVN BAN CUOC HOP
Tham kh'ao j kien c6ng d6ng
ve v6n de noi trirong Dir an Thloat nuic 1B - Hang muc bo xung
Th6i gian  :    14" Ngay 4 thAng 2 nam 2004
Dia Mim   :    BaL quan 19 Dur ain Thoat nr6dc va V@ sinh HIai ph6ng
s6 1 IDtT)ng Ly9 Tur Trong - Thillh ph6 Hai Phong
1/T IHANII Pl'lN IIIAM DUF:
1- Dai dien BQLDA Tnoat nut6c va Ve sinli Hai phong:
Ong D6 Trong Dat    - Giam d6c Cong ty Tihoat nudc / Giam d6c BQLDA
Ong Nguyen C'alh Gkip - Ph6 Giam d6c C6ng ty / Ph6 Giam d6c BQLDA
Ong Trinh Van Dan   - TrLr&ng ph6ng K6 hoach
Ong D0 Tnr6ng Trinh  - Tru1ng phong Ky thuat
Ong Nguy^n Minih Tuaul - Ph6 Giam doc BQLDA
Oiig Ng6 Ba Tinh    - Can bQ BQLDA
2 - Dai din UBND quain Ngo Quy6n:
Ba Nguy@n Thi Kimi Lien - Ph6 phbng Quan 1 do thi
Onig Vu Quanig HLrng  - Chuy@n vien
3 - Dai dien UBND quan H'ai An:
Onlg Nguy@n Aniii Tuanl - TrLr&'ng phong quan Iy1 d6 thi
Ong Nguyen Van Tuan - Chuy6n vi6n phong quan ly do thi
4 - Dai dien UBND phtong DOng Khe:
Ong TirAl DCrc Truncg  - Chu' tich
O1g llhal DiUnh Dcrc  - Bi thlr DAng u' phlur6g  ;
O11g TIAn Viet Dat   - Chli nhiem HTX Nong nighiep
On1g Tranl Vanl Duyet  - Trtr&ng banl KS HTX
O9ug TIAn Vadl TlianIng  - Doi trtr6ng D6i sain xuati so 4
Oulg TrlAn Do-an Nhat  - Cum trufng Danl ctr so 3
5 - Dai dien UBND phu6ong DOng HAii:
Ong Hai Phlong CanuI  - To trLnuo1g QLDT
Ong TI-An Van NlM    - Ph6 Chiu tich UBND phla6ng
Onig Nguy6n Van1 Ky'  - Cli6 nhi@m HTX N61ng nghiep
Ba Nguy6n Tlli Det  - Tn-u6n1g khu dan cir
6 - Dai dien UBIND phu4ng Cat Bi:
O9giiVU Vain L6c     - Can b6 dia chfinii
Onlg NguyEti Vanl Siru  - Trtr&ng khu dan cir C
Onig Plhan Vie`t -loaTh  - T-tr6tig khlu dai cii D



11/ NOI D)UN(-
H6i nighii ddi nglie o6ng Do Trong Dat giam d6c Ban quain 1I dur ain Thoat
nIr6c va Vye siih Hai ph6ng gi6i thieu v6 dur an va hang muc b6 xung cua d,r an.
bao g6m: cai tao ho Cait Bi, xay du.ng h6 Phirong Luru, xay d ,ing dtr6ng quan 1y
hai bb mu'cng tlhoMt nr6c, ciing nhur bidn phip thi c6ng. D6ng th6i neu muc dich
cua cuoc hop lii thAo Iuta,n ve van de moi truang cua dir an. Va'n d6 anh htr&ng c'ua
dir ain trong quai trinih thuc thi xay d rng d,r aLn cung nhLr giai doan hoan thanh
dura dir in vao khai thic s r dung. Cac bien phip cong nhir k hoach giam sat kiem
tra de glAm thieu toi da Anh hurang xau cua dir ain v6 van de m6i tiru6ng.
CAc ben thamii dur da thao luAxn va th6ng nhat cAc diem chinh nhu' sau:
+ Gic ben holiii toan nhlat tii v6i n6i dung dL! ,un va u'ng h6 thtrc thi du din
+ Dur in se inli1 htrdLg 6i. sinh hoat cua nhan dAn khu viuc du! an dulcf xay dui,ng
+ BQLDA se th6ng tin kip thMi k' hoach trien khai dir an dac biet Ia c6ng tac d6n
bu giAi ph6ng nimat bang
+ BQLDA va cic ben lien quan cAn quan tam t6i 661 s6ng ccua nhan dan khi thu
h6i dat san xuat cua cac hM.
+ Can k6t hop chat che v6i quan va phuoing v6 COng tae d6n bu GPMB
+ Han ch6 t6i da viec di chuydn m6 ma ciung nhur viec giai phong mat bang
+ CUn k6t hcp chat che v6i cac dur an khac trong cUiig khu vu.c
+ Nghia trang troiig cong vien Phuacng Luu neni chuydn sang vi tri khac
N6i dung bieln ban cuQc hop da dicrqc cc ben th6ng nhgt va ky ten.
CuQc hop ke6t thdic hlic 15h30 cbiig iigAy
BAN QLDA TiiOXT NUlO(     UBND QUAN NGO QUYRN     UBND QUAN IIAI AN
I1 l IIA Pl'O'N(;
- W GIAM DOC
UiJSNI) PIRIIONG C .V I ISI  IBIINI) I'IUlO6NG DONG IAll  UBNI) I'IIlfNG DONG Kl1
I                                                                  -     :.i/  -



