Document of
The World Bank
ReportNo: 18374UR
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$64.5 MILLION
TO
REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY
FORA
SECOND TRANSPORT PROJECT
AUGUST 26, 1998
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure
Country Management Unit (LCC7C)
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 19, 1998)
Currency Unit = Peso Uruguayo
U$= US$10.445
US$1 = 0.0957
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                           Country Assistance Strategy
CREMA                         Contracts for Rehabilitation and Maintenance
DINAMA                        National Directorate of the Environment
DNV                           National Directorate of Highways
EIA                           Environmental Impact Assessment
FIMTOP                        MTOP's Investment Fund
GOU                           Government of Uruguay
GTZ                           German Agency for Technical Cooperation
HDM                           Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model
IDB                           Interamerican Development Bank
IERR                          Internal Economic Rate of Return
IPTI                          Institute of Transport and Infrastructure Planning
IRI                           International Roughness Index
JEXIM                         Japanese Export/lnport Bank
Mercosur                      Regional Trade Agreement (Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay)
MMS                           Maintenance Management System
MTOP                          Ministry of Transport and Public Works
NPV                           Net Present Value
OPP                           Office of Planning and Budgeting (Ministry of Presidency)
PCU                           Project Coordination Unit
TOR                           Terms of Reference
Vice President: Shahid Javed Burki
Country Manager/Director: Myrna Alexander
Sector Manager/Director: Danny Leipziger
Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Jose Luis Irigoyen



Uruguay
Second Transport Project
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators .......................................2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project ....................................................... 2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy . ......................................................2
3.  Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ..................                              ................8
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components .......................................................9
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ..........................                             ..............9
3. Benefits and target population ......................................................                                            10
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements ......................................................                              11
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ................................................  11
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ............. 12
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design ............................................... 13
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ...................................................... 14
5. Value added of Bank support in this project ......................................................                               14
E. Summary Project Analyses
1. Economic ......................................................                                                                 14
2. Financial ......................................................                                                                 15
3. Technical ......................................................                                                                 16
4. Institutional ......................................................                                                             16
5. Social ......................................................                                                                    17
6. Environmental assessment ......................................................                                                  17
7. Participatory approach .............8........ 18
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability ....................                                                                                              19
2. Critical risks ....................                                                                                              20
3. Possible controversial aspects ....................                                                                             20



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness conditions .........................................                                                         21
2. Other .........................................                                                                            21
H. Readiness for Implementation ...............................................                                                           22
I. Compliance with Bank Policies ...............................................                                                          22
Annexes
Annex 1. Project Design Summary .23
Annex 2. Detailed Project Description .26
Annex 3. Estimated Project Costs .31
Annex 4. Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary .32
Annex 5. Financial Summary .39
Annex 6. Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .40
Table A.         Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements ...............................................                            41
Table Al.   Consultant Selection Arrangements                                   ............................................. 42
Table B.         Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review ........................................... 42
Table C.   Allocation of Loan Proceeds ...............................................                                                43
Annex 7.    Project Processing Budget and Schedule ...............................................                                        44
Annex 8.   Documents in Project File ...............................................                                                      45
Annex 9.    Statement of Loans and Credits ...............................................                                                47
Annex 10. Country at a Glance ...............................................                                                             49
Annex  11.  Regional Integration and Economic Competitiveness ...............................................     51
Annex  12.  Road Network Statistics and Maintenance Policies ...............................................                                53
Map No. 29688 ........................................................................................................................... 61



Uruguay
Transport II Project
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
LCC7C
Date: August 26, 1998                                Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Jose Luis Irigoyen
Country Manager/Director: Myrna Alexander            Sector Manager/Director: Danny Leipziger
Project ID: UY-PE-49267  Sector: Transportation      Program Objective Category: Economic Management
Lending Instrument: Sector Investment Loan           Program of Targeted Intervention:   [  Yes  [X1 No
Project Financing Data                [X] Loan       [  Credit      [I Guarantee     [  Other LSpecify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): 64.5
Proposed terms:                         []   Multicurrency    [XI Single currency, specify U.S. Dollar
Grace period (years): 5          []  Standard Variable  []  Fixed         [X]  LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 15
Commitment fee: .75%
Front End Fee:   1.00%
Service charge:   - %
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                             Local             Foreign           Total
Government                                                   72.5                0.0            72.5
IBRD                                                          2.1               62.4            64.5
Total:         74.6               62.4            137.0
Borrower: Republica Oriental del Uruguay
Guarantor: ---
Responsible agency(ies): Ministry of Transport and Public Works (MTOP), National Directorate of Highways (DNV)
within MTOP, and Departnental Intendencias
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):                   1999    2000    2001       2002      2003
Annual                     8.8     33.3    19.4       2.7      0.3
Cumulative                    8.8      42.1    61.5      64.2     64.5
For Guarantees:                                 []  Partial credit    [  Partial risk
Proposed coverage:
Project sponsor:
Nature of underlying financing:
Terms of financing:
Principal amount (US$)
Final maturity
Amortization
profile
Financing available without guarantee?:             [    Yes              [    No
If yes, estimated cost or maturity:
Estimated financing cost or maturity with guarantee:
Project implementation period: 4 years Expected effectiveness date: 9/30/98    Expected closing date: 9/30/02
OSD PAD Form: July 30, 1997



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
*  Overall Goal. The overall purpose of the project is to increase efficiency in the provision of transport
services and the maintenance of road infrastructure to enhance the competitiveness of Uruguay's
products, especially within Mercosur, and rationalize sector expenditures.
*  Specific Objectives. Project specific objectives are to: (a) rehabilitate and upgrade to Mercosur
standards selected national roads and bridges to permit transit of larger and heavier vehicles and reduce
transport costs between Uruguay and its Mercosur trading partners; (b) support MTOP's policy of
increasing private sector participation in the maintenance and rehabilitation of national roads through
performance-based contracts; and (c) strengthen road sector management through the carrying out of
(i) DNV's renewal program, (ii) the transfer of technology to the Departments to maintain gravel
roads, and (iii) a road safety program.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: (16642-UR)      Date of latest CAS discussion: June 25, 1997
*  The project is consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy discussed by the Board on June 25,
1997. The overall objective of the CAS lending strategy is to support investments in key sectors to
enhance the competitiveness of Uruguay's economy in the context of Mercosur, increase private sector
participation, and accelerate the rationalization of public expenditure needed to sustain macroenomic
stability. Infrastructure was identified as one of the key sectors in the CAS for two reasons. First, past
infrastructure neglect has translated into high costs for private sector producers, which in turn has
constrained the competitiveness of Uruguay's economy and the realization of benefits from Mercosur
integration. Infrastructure has lagged as macroeconomic difficulties limited public investment, while
inefficient operation by public entities raised intermediation costs. Second, the Bank has a knowledge-
based comparative advantage in the transport sector in Uruguay, because of its long-standing
involvement and its ability to access global experience to help accelerate the reform process in the
sector.
*  The proposed project is part of the base case lending scenario in the CAS. The project was identified
and designed based on analytical work carried out in 1996. The project meets the above mentioned
CAS objectives by: (i) arresting deterioration of the road network to reduce transport costs and
removing constraints to international traffic to enhance integration with Mercosur economies; (ii)
modernizing the National Directorate of Highways (DNV) to improve road management and permit the
rationalization of road expenditures; and (iii) increasing private sector involvement in road maintenance
to enhance quality and responsiveness of maintenance services at a lower cost to taxpayers. The CAS
envisages a follow-on operation, a Third Transport Project to deepen and expand reforms in the
transport sector.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
* This section discusses issues in connection with regional integration, road network deterioration, and
road management at both national and departmental levels, road maintenance practices, road financing,
and user-charges.
*  Regional Integration. The volume of international freight transport by road has increased rapidly in
recent years as the composition of Uruguay's foreign trade has changed and regional imports and
exports have increased in importance. The total value of international trade among Mercosur members



Page 3
has grown from about US$5 billion in 1991 to about US$18 billion in 1997. Similarly, road transport
across Uruguayan borders has grown at an annual average rate of around 12 percent since 1991 and
reached 1.8 million tons in 1996. Nearly 90 percent of tradable goods entering or leaving Uruguay are
now transported by truck. An emerging class of dynamic exporters in Uruguay has cited bureaucratic
obstacles and infrastructure bottlenecks as possible factors that may restrain the current accelerated
pace in the growth of tradable goods.
Uruguay Road Trade with Mercosur Countries
(Source: MTOP 's annual statistics)
2500                                          .
2000
*1500
=
0
1987             1990             1993            1996             1997
*  To address these concerns, MTOP has made significant investments to improve coastal highway
corridors in the past decade, notably Route 1, whose capacity expansion was partially funded under
Loan 3021-UR. Through IDB support, MTOP has started upgrading other strategic road corridors
serving international traffic, which presently do not meet the higher operating conditions required to
sustain the increased demand stemming from regional trade integration. Mercosur members agreed in
January 1995 to increase the maxirnum load on triple axles from 22 to 25 tons and the maximum load
per truck from 42 to 45 tons, to harmonize freight transport limits among member countries. Uruguay
has restricted the application of this agreement because its road infrastructure, especially bridges, lacks
the functional and structural characteristics for handling heavier loads. An inventory of bridges
illustrates that on international corridors alone there are about 69 bridges that cannot handle the larger
loads without further strengthening, and another 55 bridges with speed and/or passing restrictions
* Road network deterioratlon. Road transport is the dominant mode of transport for both freight and
passengers traffic. Uruguay benefits from a relatively extensive road network, which consists of: (i) an
estimated 8,629 kmn of national roads (86% paved) managed by the National Directorate of Highways
(DNV); and (ii) about 67,000 kn of mostly gravel and earth roads managed by the Departnents. With
one of the highest density of roads in the region, this network provides all-weather accessibility to
almost any location in the country. However, a great portion of this road system, which was built long
ago, lacks adequate service standards. The national road network alone has about 778 bridges, of
which 56 percent are more than 50 years old, and 80 percent are more than 25 years old. Although
traffic levels are relatively low (high-traffic roads are concentrated in coastal areas and around
Montevideo), traffic in the last five years has grown at rates two or three times greater than traditional
growth rates. This increase in traffic has heightened demand for better roads.'
Historically, trafflic on the national road network grew at an average annual growth rate of three percent.



Page 4
* The aging of Uruguay's road stock was further compounded by a shortage of public fimds for periodic
maintenance due to tightened fiscal policies in the early 90s, and the high cost of DNV maintenance
interventions. The end result was maintenance neglect and substantial deterioration of the national
road network as evidenced by the percentage of roads in poor condition, which increased from about 10
percent in 1990 to about 44 percent in 1996.2 Based on a network analysis using the HDM-II model
without budgetary constraints, DNV that an estimated US$320 million will be needed to eliminate the
existing rehabilitation and maintenance backlog. In recent years MTOP has curbed this trend by
increasing the level of funding for rehabilitation and periodic maintenance, giving priority to the roads
with the heaviest traffic. To achieve appropriate service levels in a sustainable manner and at a
reasonable cost, MTOP needs to improve efficiency in the delivery of more responsive road
maintenance operations and ensure stable financing for their timely execution.
* Road Management at National Level. DNV has been operating as a traditional public-sector oriented
organization, with its focus placed on administering inputs rather than performance and management of
results. Highway agencies worldwide, with few exceptions, have demonstrated their inability to
effectively manage the numerous activities, personnel and equipment required for maintaining a road
network. The inadequate level of road maintenance performed stemming from DNV's reliance on
internal low-productivity force account arrangements led to the high cost in the delivery of these
services. Until 1996, all routine maintenance and a significant portion of periodic maintenance were
planned and executed by DNV staff. Overstaffing (3,700 employees in 1995 for a network of 8,700
kIn) overburdened DNV's maintenance budget during the early 1990s, absorbing between 60 to 70
percent of the maintenance budget for personnel and administrative costs and left little room to respond
to periodic surges in maintenance and rehabilitation needs. The recent implementation of the
Maintenance Management System (MMS) under the Transport I Project (Loan 3021-UR) has become
a valuable tool for the systematic monitoring of performance standards and resource use in the 10
DNV maintenance districts. The MMS is expected to increase accountability in the delivery of
maintenance services. However, one of the biggest challenges to increasing efficiency is the low
productivity of the work force, resulting from the labor regime (wages in relation to market value,
reduced work hours, lack of performance incentives). Thus, there are clear advantages for outsourcing,
as long as there is a sound retrenchment plan for DNV to reduce staff in coordination with this policy.
* With the assistance of GTZ, DNV began implementing a pilot project to contract out maintenance
activities during the last two years. Three contracts were awarded to microenterprises formed by
previous DNV staff to carry out routine maintenance of about 285 km of national roads and sign
maintenance of 422 km. Under an 1DB project, another contract was recently awarded to a private
contractor to rehabilitate and maintain a network of about 360 km of roads for a period of four years.
Rehabilitation works designed by DNV will be carried out during the first 18 months and paid for on
the basis of unit prices, while lump-sum payments will be used to pay for subsequent maintenance
works. Considering DNV's traditional full involvement in maintenance activities, this pilot is a
promising start. DNV's goal is to contract out at least 50% of the road maintenance works along the
national road network by the year 2000.
* In parallel, a retrenchment program has allowed DNV to reduce the number of staff from about 3,700
employees in 1995 to about 2,276 in 1997, through a combination of non-renewal of personnel
contracts, incentives for early retirement, and the creation of microenterprises consisting of former
DNV employees. The reorganization underway will enable DNV to increase the efficiency of
Based on DNV's Pavement Condition Index, which combines several parameters (roughness, cracking, potholes, ruting and raveling) to estimate
service condition and future maintenance/rehabilitation needs. An evaluation performed byAsociacion Uruguaya de Caminos in 1994 concluded
that because of insufficient maintenance a high percentage of roads were in poor condition, resulting in an increase of road transportation costs along
the road system.



Pae 5
maintenace operations under force account while gradually replacing these arrangements with more
cost-effective contracts with the private sector. Constitutional job guarantees and the fiscal costs
related to inducing voluntary retirement constrain more rapid reforms, but the current program may set
the stage for accelerating the reform agenda.
* Road Maintenance at Departmental Level. The departmental road network comprises about 66,000
km of unpaved roads, of which less than half are mostly gravel roads with year-round accessibility,
with the remainder earth roads. The institutional capacity of the departments in charge of managing
the large departmental road network varies significantly. MTOP has established a mechanism, the
Departmental Roads Maintenance program, to assist departments in coping with the maintenance
backlog of their networks and building up institutional capacity in the Intendencias. MTOP provides
technical assistance to the Intendencias in support of the maintenance program. Building institutional
capacity is a long-term effort that expands far beyond the three-year period (1998-2000) covered under
the project. The program entails annual routine and periodic maintenance of about 9,500 and 1,500
k1c, respectively, of roads per year to gradually increase the year-round accessibility of the network
and reduce the size of the deferred maintenance backlog. The quality of the maintenance provided is
higher than what Intendencias would provide in the absence of the program. Furthermore, the
Intendencias are required to extend quality maintenance services to a larger portion of the network, as
the program covers only a portion (about 15 percent) of the departmental road network.
*   The Bank started financing the Departmental Roads Maintenance program under the Transport I
Project (Loan 3021-UR), with promising results. Under Transport I, DNV assisted the Intendencias in
building up technical skiUs within the departmental units responsible for roads, establishing road
laboratories for systematic quality control of materials and works, and improving maintenance
programming, execution and control. Departmental compliance with the targets agreed under this
program increased over time- from an average of 60 percent in 1989 to about 95 percent in 1997.
This program demonstrated that the Intendencias were able to respond well to the program incentives
and close monitoring exercised by DNV through its Direcci6n de Apoyo Infraestructura Vial
Departamental (DAIVD). Nevertheless, further scope exists for strengthening the Intendencias,
especially in regard to network-wide maintenance planning, resource usage and control, and increased
accountability through stakeholder involvement. DAIVD is in good position to assist the Intendencias
in carrying out the maintenance and techical assistance programs, and the proposed project would
support such initiative.
*   Road Financing and User-Charges Issues. Road user charges exceed sector expenditures. In 1996,
actual road expenditure amounted to about US$180 million, while road users paid about US$580
million in charges (or 2.2 times the funds allocated to the sector). The latter amount represents about
13.8 percent of the general revenues collected by GOU in 1996, making the sector an important
contributor to government revenues from a fiscal viewpoint.3 On average, heavy vehicles are
responsible for about 80 percent of the costs associated with road damage, while light vehicles pay
more than 10 times their share of these costs. Although there are no general subsidies to road users,
there are cross-subsidies from private cars to trucks. This structure entails a myriad of instruments,
most of which are at the nationa level.4 Streamlining and restructuring the system of road user charges
3   Athough taxes on road trasport sector are about 20% higher than those levied in Uruguay on other sectors, the fiscal pressure on the road sector
is greater conpared to a global sample, but lower in relation to other Mercosur countries. A recent IPTI study on Regional Integration of Freight
Transport concluded that the current level of user charges has not curtailed the competitiveness of transport services. However, some sustainability
issues for the trucking industry (e.g., aging of fleet) will be analyzed through a study under the Forest Products Transport Project (La 4204-UR).
4   The Study on Uruguay's System of Road-User Charges, recently completed under Loan 302 1-UR estimated that 76 percent of highway revenues
were colleted through IMESI fees. This amount includes: fuels and lubricants (32%); value-added-tax (27%); vehicle ales (9%); import duties on
vehicles and spare parts (7%); truck axles (1%), and passenger fares for interdepartmental bus services (0.1%); and tolls collected on trunk roads (less
than 1%). In addition, departmental vehicle registration fees, accounting for about 22 percent of total revenue in 1996.



Page 6
in line with the recommendations delineated in the Road-User Charges study funded under the
Transport I Project would bring efficiency gains to the sector as some charges suffer from high
collection costs and significant evasion. In addition, this action would enable users to better connect
road usage with cost, an important step toward establishing roads on a fee-for-service basis and could
be used as an opportunity to improve the system of transfers between levels of government. However,
due its fiscal implications, any revision of the road users charge structure would likely require an
extensive review of the whole system of government revenues.5
Road User Charges by Vehicle Type
12.00
10.00
E  8.00
600
IL 6.00
.4 4.00
a  2.00
0.00
Car     LRy   S9 tnal    Medk,nbuck  Larpe uck    Bus
Source: Study on Road User Charges, December 1997
*   The mechanisms for channeling funds to the sector are evolving. For national roads, until 1995 most
of the financing consisted of distributing the taxes, fees and duties earmarked for MTOP use through a
dedicated Fund (FIMTOP), established in 1957 to finance public works and roads at both national and
departmental levels. The revenues assigned to FIMTOP are periodically adjusted through legislation.6
In the last few years, the transfer of FIMTOP funds to MTOP's budget decreased from around 78
percent in 1994 to about 52 percent in 1997, as more financing has come from general treasury funds
to speed up the recovery of the road system. Funding for maintenance of departmental roads and most
other departmental expenditures comes from revenues generated from the issuance of vehicle licenses.
Although information on actual or needed expenditures on departmental roads is difficult to obtain and
unreliable, it is clear that revenues from vehicle licenses were greater than actual expenditure in roads,
but insufficient to cover the needs of the departments. In addition, departments undertake expenditures
on items that are the responsibility of the national government (e.g. schools and health facilities
maintenance) and expect some sort of compensation by the national government. This compensation is
usually in the form of supplemental expenditures on maintenance of departmental roads.
*   The GOU's sector financing strategy is set in the Plan Quinquenal (Five-Year) Investment Plan,
prepared at the beginning of each administration and approved by Congress. During implementation,
the plan may be revised upward or downward to reflect emerging priorities and fiscal considerations. In
general, it provides a frame of reference for the entire five year period. The current administration's
adherence to the Five-Year Plan forl995-1999 has reduced some of the volatility in the availability of
funds for the sector in general, and counterpart funds for externally funded projects, in particular. In
the last decade the funds appropriated for road investments and maintenance ranged between US$60.0
to US$89.0 million per annum, with the lowest amounts during the 1991-1993 fiscal crisis. For
The IDB Third Municipal Development Project, approved in 1997, includes a study for formulating a national policy on administrative
decentralization which will analyze, inter alia, issues related to the distribution of responsibilities and resources, and recommend options for
sustainable finding sources at the departmnental level.
6   In 1996, revenues were generated from 14 sources, including some not associated with the road sector, such as irrigation fees, quany operating
fees, port service fees in MTOP managed facilities, concession fees, etc.



Page 7
maintenance activities, fiscal allocations remained stable at around US$23-28 million, as a large
portion was earmarked to cover payroll and other administrative costs under DNV force account
arrangements. However, this situation forced DNV to reduce periodic maintenance and rehabilitation in
favor of the capacity expansion program delineated in the Plan Quinquenal 1990-1994.
DNV Budget - Historical & Projected
140.0
120.0
100.0 -    talDWBudget
1 80.0
60.0
40.0                             ennne   d  eeitto
20.0                             wo~o
0.0
1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  2002  2003
* Context of Government Strategy in Transport Sector. In the last two years, the Uruguayan transport
system has witnessed significant changes in regard to its institutional, regulatory and operational
frameworks, which have led to the redefinition of the role of the public sector. These reforms are part
of a broader Government effort to reduce the size of the central administration, redefine the areas where
government participation is required, rationalize public expenditures, eliminate monopolies, and
enhance the competitiveness of the national economy. The areas of action adopted by MTOP for
modernizing the transport sector fall into three general categories: (i) reorganizing transport agencies
by reorienting their functions towards policy making, planming, regulation and control rather than
execution activities; (ii) improving regulatory, institutional and financial frameworks to allow for
increased private sector participation and better access to sustainable sources of funding; and (iii)
incorporating greater private participation through outsourcing and long-term concessions to improve
efficiency and quality in the delivery of transport services.7
* Within this context, the main tenets of the government strategy in the road sector are to: (i) arrest the
deterioration of road infiastructure by increasing investment in rehabilitation and maintenance of the
core road network; (ii) support growth of regional trade by removing existing physical, operational and
regulatory constraints to international transport; (iii) strengthen road sector management by supporting
the modernization of DNV and staff reduction; (iv) expand the role of the private sector by outsourcing
road operations and concessioning the finance and management of road projects to private operators
under long-term concessions; and (v) gradually develop a system of road-user charges that permits
more efficient mechanisms for collecting among vehicle types and earmarking revenues from road
sector activities to varying administrative levels to assure more stable sources of funding.
7 Since 1994, MTOP granted several concessions, most notably those for expansion and opeation of the Montevideo-Punta del Ease Inlerbalearia
highway, construction and operation of a bus terminal for suburban/interdepuatmental passeng sAervices in Montevideo, operation of fmeigbt tminals
at the Carrasco Airport in Montevideo, expansion and operation of Laguna del Sauce Airport (Punta del Este), and opertion of facilities and service
in Port of Montevideo. Other projects under consideration include the development of a new terminal containers at the Port of Montevideo, expansion
of Route I between Montevideo and Libertad, and rehabilitation and operation of AFE's railway infastructure (the latter is under Loan 4204-LTR).



Page 8
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project would assist MTOP in implementing the agreed road sector strategy with an emphasis on the
following aspects:
*  Reducing the Rehabilitation and Maintenance Backlog. The project would finance key investments
delineated in the Five-Year Investment and Maintenance Plan for 1995-1999 to complement those
being undertaken under the on-going projects funded by IDB and the Bank. These projects would
contribute to: (i) attaining adequate service standards and maintaining the core road network in a
satisfactory condition over time; and (ii) removing infrastructure bottlenecks that constrain
international road transport. The current financial plan provides for about 80% of the road
rehabilitation and maintenance needs estimated under a stable budget scenario.
*  Strengthening Management Capacity in the Road Sector. The Transport Project I supported the
gradual renewal of DNV, which entailed gradually changing its role from the direct implementation of
maintenance programs to contracting out these activities to the private sector and delegating the force
account programs to field districts. Since 1995, the renewal process has also focused on streamlining
business practices, reducing staff, becoming more linked to user demand, developing a results-oriented
culture, reviewing user charges, and improving cost recovery. Due to these measures and increases in
MTOP funding, DNV has reversed the trend of maintenance neglect and deteriorating road conditions.
DNV intends to analyze and evaluate options for its renewal and modernization, which includes, inter
alia, the retention of qualified staff, and introducing a sound commercial and user-oriented approach to
managing the national road system. To achieve the latter objective, DNV intends to create staff
working groups, supported by international and local consultants in organizational and institutional
reform.
* Increasing Private Sector Involvement in Road Maintenance. The project would support the DNV
policy of increasing private sector participation to enhance efficiency and responsiveness in its road
maintenance operations. DNV has set the goal of having at least 50 percent of the primary road
network maintained by private contractors by the year 2000. This policy objective would be achieved
by: (i) concessioning the 500 km Colonia to Chuy corridor located near the border with Brazil and
along Routes I and 9; (ii) awarding four or five-year CREMA contracts for the rehabilitation and
routine maintenance of specific portions of the road network; and (iii) contracting out the maintenance
of specific roads to private contractors and microenterprises established by former DNV staff.
Consistent with this outsourcing policy, MTOP is also seeking private sector participation in the
collection of traffic statistic and control of truck overloading through long-term contracts. The latter
builds on recommendations of a study funded under Loan 3021-UR.



Page 9
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost breakdown):
Component                       Category   Indicative    % of    Bank-      % of
Costs     Total  financing   Bank-
(US$M:)             (US$M:)  financing
* Road Rehabilitation and Bridge Reconditioning, including   Physical  23.3  17.0%     16.3     25.3%
(i) rehabilitation of about 146 km of sections along Routes
2, 27 and 30; and (ii) widening and reinforcement or
replacement of 13 bridges located along Routes 3, 8 and 26.
. CREA'A Performance-based Contracts, for combined   Physical      26.5      19.3%     18.5     28.7%
rehabilitation and maintenance of about 635 km of roads in
DNV's maintenance districts II-X, VII, and III.
. DNV's Road Maintenance Program, which includes: (i) a    Physical  45.1    32.9%     0.0       0.0%
program of contract maintenance with microenterprises
comprised of former DNV staff and private contractors for
about 1,855 km, and (ii) maintenance works on the portion
of the national road network which is not maintained by
private contractors (incremental operational costs of force
account works, excluding salaries, administration, and
DNV's equipment).
, Departmental Roads Maintenance, including annual routine  Physical  33.0   24.1%     23.1     35.8%
maintenance programs for about 9,500 km of selected gravel
roads in participating departments and annual periodic
maintenance programs for about 1,500 km of gravel roads to
be carried out by participating departments between 1998
and 2000;
- (A) Road Sector Management and Institutional Building,    Institut.  3.1   2.3%      2.2       3.4%
including: (i) provision of technical assistance to DNV to    Building
monitor and supervise project implementation; (ii)
preparation of MTOP's transport infrastructure plan for
years 2000-2004; (iii) strengthening MTOP's technical
capacity to carry out road sector fiscal policy analyses; (iv)
carrying out DNV's renewal program to strengthen its
institutional and operational capacity; and (v) carrying out a
program to transfer technology and strengthen road
maintenance management practices of the Intendencias
participating in the Departmental Roads Maintenance
component;
* (B) Road Safety Program, consisting of: (i) pavement  Physical   5.3       3.9%       3.7      5.8%
markings and road signs for about 2,500 km of national  &
roads; and (ii) a pilot to test the effectiveness of low-cost    Institut.
measures to increase road of routes passing through urban
areas, including an evaluation of the pilot.
Subtotal    136.3     99.5%      63.9     99.0%
Front end Fee                                                     0.645      0.5%      0.645      1.0
Total:    137.0     100.0%     64.5     100%
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
* Rationalize highway expenditures and programs based on technical and economic criteria by
emphasizing maintenance and improving cost recovery.



Page 10
* Support DNV's renewal and modernization process to create a user-oriented agency with clear goals,
integrated infornation systems and strategic planning tools, systematic use of performance
management systems, and ability to plan, contract out and monitor road operations.
*  Increase private sector participation by contracting out routine maintenance to private contractors and
microenterprises formed by former DNV staff, and fostering the use of long-term, performance-based
contracts, in parallel with DNV's gradual staff retrenchment program.
*  Strengthen the capacity of departmental road agencies by improving the management of maintenance
equipmentlworkshops, introduce standards and streamline procedures for planning, operations, and
maintenance, and install management systems for urban roads and streets, and provide staff training.
*  Support the activities of a Steering Group comprised of representatives from MTOP and each
participant Intendencia to assess the performance of the Intendencias under the departmental road
maintenance programs, coordinate the training programs for departmental staff, and facilitate technical
and professional contracts between DNV and the Intendencias.
3. Benefits and target population:
*  Benefits. The project would help to reduce road transport costs and preserve the road stock in
Uruguay in an efficient and sustainable manner at both national and departmental levels. The proposed
investments in rehabilitation and maintenance is expected to: (i) reduce road-user costs by lowering
vehicle operating costs, accidents, and travel time; (ii) remove physical constraints to international road
transport of goods and people in the Mercosur region; and (iii) allow the provision of more reliable and
safer transport services. Aside from safety regulations, the structure and composition of the road
transport industry in Uruguay is largely unregulated and highly competitive. Thus, the net reduction in
transport costs brought about by the project should translate into freight rate reductions, ultimately
reducing the price of the transported goods and stimulating higher levels of productivity and economic
activity at local, national and Mercosur levels.
*  The restructuring of road sector management and outsourcing policies adopted under the project would
create efficiency gains to the road agencies, reduce road agency costs, and rationalize future road
sector expenditures. Improved contract maintenance would enable DNV to achieve higher road quality
standards at lower costs, shorten response times between the detection of problems and execution of
corrective measures, and ensure government commitment to maintenance funding through long-term
contracts. A preliminary assessment of the contract maintenance program found that these policies
have led to an estimated 20 percent savings in maintenance costs. An analysis of current policies under
the departmental roads maintenance program performed by DNV using the HDM-III model suggested
that better planning policies could increase the Net Present Value (NPV) of the program beyond the
estimated US$211.0 million without increasing current funding levels in real terms.
*  Target Population. Project benefits would accrue to three main groups. First, road users would benefit
from traveling over a well-maintained network, especially buses and trucks, which account for an
estimated 70 percent of total road users. Truck operators involved in long-distance transport of
tradable goods traded with Argentina and Brazil and regional producers of forest products in the
northem part of Uruguay would benefit from lower per ton-km operating costs and travel times,
thereby increasing the competitiveness of six-axle trucks in transporting tradable goods. At present,
six-axle trucks can not operate at full capacity due to existing bridge restrictions along the Uruguayan
road network. Second, the general population would benefit from the increased economic activity and
trade between the economic and consumption centers served by the improved road corridors. Tax-
payers would benefit indirectly from DNV's increased efficiency, making it possible to free funds to
further enhance the quality of roads and/or finance other non-sector priorities. Third, the construction
industry would benefit from greater private sector participation in the delivery of maintenance services
by creating a new industry segment (e.g., small and medium size road enterprises) and generating new
employment opportunities. To date, the outsourcing policy of DNV has led to the formation of 11



Page 11
microenterprises. This number is expected to grow as a larger portion of maintenance activities is
contracted out to the private sector.
4. Instfitutional and implementation arrangements
*  Sector Policy Responsibility. The Ministry of Transport and Public Works (MTOP) has the overall
responsibility for the transport sector and the policy framework for project implementation. MTOP has
established a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) responsible for coordinating and executing all Bank-
funded projects. The PCU has been strengthened in the context of the Forest Products Transport
Project. The PCU would liaise with the PCU for IDB projects (as these are units within the same
department) to ensure adequate coordination in implementing both IDB and Bank projects. MTOP
would lead the development and implementation of the reforms and oversee the execution of the
institutional component. A specialized unit within MTOP (currently the Institute of Transport and
Infrastructure Planning, IPTI) would provide support for the analysis of fiscal policies in the road
sector.
*  Project Implementation. MTOP, through its Directorate of National Highways, would have overall
responsibility for most of project execution. DNV established at negotiations the working group to
carry out DNV's renewal program and designated a professional within the group to liaise with senior
officials in the various governmental agencies involved in reforming the state and the Bank, and
facilitate decision making and the timely execution of the program. The Intendencias will carry out the
Departmental Roads Maintenance component within their respective departments, through agreements
with MTOP that establish the requirements for the respective annual road maintenance plans to be
carried out, technical specifications to be met, and conditions for the approval and payment of the
works. The program to transfer technology and strengthen road maintenance practices in the
departments has been developed in consultation with the Intendencias. The specific areas to be
covered under this program were agreed upon during appraisal. These activities include the creation of
a Steering Group comprised of three members of DNV and representatives from each Intendencia
participating in the program, to coordinate the planning, execution, evaluation and dissemination of the
results achieved under the program. In this manner, the Steering Group would provide permanent
advisory and accountability mechanisms.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
*  Project scope. The approach adopted under the Transport Project I to finance investments in roads,
railways and ports was discarded at the beginning of project preparation, in favor of limiting the scope
of the project to road sector investment and reform. Several factors were taken into account in making
this determination. A more comprehensive approach would have: (i) limited the Bank's ability to
respond swiftly to the GOU's request for a quick new transport operation; (ii) diverted MTOP's focus
on reforming the road subsector, which accounts for the largest portion of MTOP investment, and
where reform can bring substantive efficiency gains during fiscal tightening; (iii) become more difficult
to structure as sufficient time was needed to assess the outcome of the reforms in the port and railways
subsectors initiated under Loans 3021-UR and 4204-UR, respectively. A possible follow-up operation,
planned in the CAS for FY00, would cover these subsectors, if needed, together with other road
investments postponed because of budgetary constraints or the complexity of preparatory studies,
which would have required longer implementation periods. The construction of new roads and bridges
to expand capacity or improve access was rejected to focus the project in assisting DNV to reduce the
existing road rehabilitation and maintenance backlog.
*  ContractMaintenance Strategy. About 500 km are presently operated by the private sector under long
term concession contracts; the strategy followed by MTOP has encouraged private investment in



Page 12
projects that need capacity expansion and have robust upside revenue potential to attract investors.
The alternative of granting a concession to the private sector for rehabilitation and maintenance of the
selected roads was discarded in favor of the CREMA type contracts as much of road network is not
suitable for full concessions-the varying conditions (pavement types, investment needs) and low
traffic levels would make such concessions financially unviable without excessively high tolls.
Although a concession could still be structured on the basis of shadow tolls, high traffic risk would
translate into reduced competition for the project and ultimately increased costs to the agency. The
CREMA type contracts make use of some typical elements found in concession arrangements. Notably,
the responsibility for planning and managing all maintenance interventions is shifted to the contractor,
the risk of cost overruns is minimized through the financial incentives built in the contract, and the
contractor finances part of the initial investments. The use of unit-price, short-term contracts for
maintenance was also discarded. The CREMA approach was preferred over other methods because it
optimizes the choice of technology, shortens response times, and reduces design and supervision
demands. The payment schedule, based on performance standards, ensures that the network is
maintained after rehabilitation for the full duration of the contract. In a country where procurement
often takes a long time due to the number of steps necessary, this approach is desirable. Long term
contracts also ensure the stability and availability of maintenance funding.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
and planned):
Sector issue                            Project           Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed plDects only)
Implementation    Development
Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
a Intermodal integration for forest products; institutional  Forest Products       S                S
restructuring of AFE and private sector concessions of  Transport Project (Ln.
AFE's operations; rehabilitation of key road and rail  4204-UR)
infrastructure used by forest products; expansion of Fray
Bentos port to handle surge of forest products exports.
* Rehabilitation and capacity expansion of basic road and  Transport Project I (Ln  S               S
port infrastructure; institutional building in road sector at    3021-UR) closed on
both national and departmental level; reform of port sector,  December 31, 1997
feasibility and preparation studies for the Buenos Aires-
Colonia Bridge under a possible BOT with private
financing.
* Stabilization of road network condition; funding road  Argentina Road            S                S
maintenance; strengthening DNV; and increasing private    Maintenance and
participation in road rehabilitation and maintenance  Rehabilitation Project.
through performance-based contracts.                (Ln. 3611-AR)
Other development agencies: IDB
* Upgrading road corridors and removing constraints to  Corridor Integration
international traffic and strengthening DNV's       and National Roads
environmental, safety, and engineering capabilities.  Improvement (0113-
OC-UR). July 1997.
* Strengthening the system for concessioning works and  Technical Cooperation
public services; design of concessions for Container  ATN/MT-5533-UR
Terminal in Montevideo, and two roads.              FOMIN, April 1997.
* Reforming the State for increased efficiency, strengthening   Reform of the State
Uruguay's Customs Agency                            Project (995-OC-UR)
* Supporting Municipal development and decentralization.    Third Municipal
_  Development Project
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)



Page 13
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The project design builds on lessons learned from the implementation of the Transport Project I (Loan
3021-UR), and Bank experience in Uruguay and in the region. The resulting lessons learned for project
design are summarized as follows:
* Limit Project Scope to Emphasize Specific Sector Priorities: It is important to keep project design
simple by focusing investment objectives to a specific sector (e.g. roads), to facilitate project execution,
improve coordination among sector agencies and increase the overall effectiveness of Bank supervision.
The complex nature of the Transport I Project, which financed rehabilitation and maintenance works
within the road, and ports as well as supported extensive institutional and policy reforms within the
transport sector, resulted in limited institutional coordination, implementation lags, administrative
problems, and procurement delays. Inadequate linkages among works within an integrated national
transport strategy minimized the potential efficiencies from a multimodal approach. The disconnect
between subsectors in project implementation was also illustrated by the fact that the first Bank
multimodal supervision mission (e.g. staffed with road and port specialists) did not take place until
nearly three years into project effectiveness. There are situations where an integrated multimodal
approach is the very essence of a project, such as when the project has limited objectives, requires
coordinated policy changes, or addresses the transport needs of commodities with multiple transport
modes (e.g. Uruguay Forest Products Project (Ln. 4204-UR)).
*  Link Project Objectives to Budget Allocations to Enhance Counterpart Fund Availability: To avoid
the shortage of counterpart funds that plagued the implementation of the Transport Project I (Loan
3021-UR) between 1990-1995, civil works need to be aligned with budgetary appropriations approved
under the present Plan Quinquenal 1995-1999. The implementation of the proposed project would
support investments under the ongoing Five-Year Plan and preparation of the Plan Quinquenal 2000-
2004."
*  Procurement Delays: It is necessary to avoid delays in the procurement of project works and services,
which slowed down implementation of the first Transport Project (Loan 3021-UR). The project
preparation plan has been designed as a continuum, covering both preparation and implementation
aspects, such that a significant part of the investment progran will be "bid ready" prior to
effectiveness. To advance the procurement of works planned for implementation, standard bidding
documents for NCB and specific provisions for turnkey contracts under the bridge component have
been prepared. The project would also retroactively finance expenditures incurred under the
departmental road maintenance programs, which began in January 1998. These measures would
ensure that the project meets its physical targets within the target four-year implementation period.
The shorter timeframe for project implementation and the exclusive focus on the road sector are likely
to avoid the delays that were experienced under the Transport Project I.
*  Reform Slippage: Previous projects have demonstrated the importance of obtaining an early
commitment for institutional reforms and encouraging change by showing results. Institutional
strengthening components have often fallen short of achieving their stated objectives. Two common
underlying factors are: (i) changes of administration or top sector management leave reform programs
without the necessary leadership to implement these reforms or result in shifting agency priorities away
from the reform agenda; (ii) the scope and timetable for implementation are often too ambitious and not
commensurate with the expected changes in organizational and institutional behavior. Project scope
was scaled down in favor of a shorter implementation period to be in sync with the country's political
cycle, while institutional strengthening objectives will be directed at capacity building rather than
*  According to budgetary procedurm the appropziations for year 2000 are the same as hos set in the Plan Quinquenal for 1999.



Page 14
merely responding to sector policy issues. The institutional component of the project would emphasize
a few essential items and set strategic directions for institutional reform in response to the dramatic
changes presently taking place in global and Mercosur economies. The project works are aligned with
key policy and institutional reforms to ensure that their implementation would have a noticeable
demonstration effect, enabling MTOP and DNV to learn by doing and build the needed capacity to
improve performance.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
* MTOP requested that the proposed follow-up project complement other externally funded projects in
the transport sector under implementation. From identification onward, MTOP agreed to scale down
project scope to streamline preparation and strengthen its focus on road sector issues. Despite the
political costs, the current administration has sought to continue structural reform efforts within the
boundaries established by popular defeat of previous privatization initiatives. The need to be
competitive within Mercosur, clearly perceived by GOU, is a driving force for further reform.
* DNV prepared and furnished to the Bank, a policy paper on its strategy to improve overall
performance of the agency, in general, and road maintenance, in particular. The policy paper sets forth
a vision for the modernization of DNV operations and the strategies to pursue to attain the long-term
goals agreed with MTOP. These strategies undergird project design, and include the outsourcing of
maintenance operations, preferably under long-term contracts, reducing in-house workforce, and
increasing commercialization within DNV's management of the national road network.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
* Bringing worldwide knowledge on best practices. Bank assistance would bring global experience and
best practices to help accelerate institutional reforms and put in place a sound road maintenance policy
based on increased outsourcing. This area is where the Bank has accumulated considerable knowledge
and experience as a result of its extensive worldwide involvement in the transport sector. The use of
CREMA-type contracts was pioneered in Argentina with the assistance of a Bank Loan 361 1-AR, and
now DNV wants to bring that experience to Uruguay. Bank involvement would also assist MTOP in
consolidating planning and maintenance management tools developed under the Transport I project, so
that their systematic use is internalized throughout the organization and aligned with new business
practices.
* Stable Financing for Reforms. The proposed project is part of GOU's strategy to consolidate
financing for the 1995-1999 Five-Year Investment and Maintenance Plan. The plan sets ambitious
targets to eliminate the rehabilitation and maintenance backlog and attain conditions needed to sustain
economic growth. The financing strategy relies on the continuation of external funding started under
two previous Bank projects (i.e., Loan 302 1-UR, closed in December 1997, and Loan 4204-UR,
approved in June 1997) and the IDB UR-01 13 Project (approved in July 1997). Steady multilateral
support is an essential element of MTOP's program of contracting out rehabilitation and maintenance
activities to the private sector.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (See Annex 4)
Economic evaluation methodology:
[a/] Cost benefit   [ ] Cost effectiveness  [ ] Other [specify]
Cost-Benefit Analysis:     NPV = US$257.9million;            IERR =25.8%



Page 15
* The roads and bridges selected for rehabilitation or replacement, respectively, were chosen on the basis
of their poor condition and their relative importance to the functioning of the transportation system. In
identifying investments under the Five-Year Investment and Maintenance 1995-1999 Plan, priority was
given to improving roads linking Uruguay wNith Argentina and Brazil, upgrading feeder traffic to
international corridors, and restoring bridges along international corridors whose structural and
functional conditions limit the level of international traffic. The road sections to be rehabilitated and/or
maintained under the project were evaluated using the HDM model based on a survey of road
characteristics, traffic, and agency and user costs. Shadow prices for agency and user costs were
estimated by applying to financial costs conversion factors of 0.83 and 0.77, respectively. This analysis
yielded a net present value of $257.9 million at 12 percent discount rate. The sensitivity and switching
value analyses demonstrated that the economic return is robust with agency costs to increasing by 387
percent or user benefits decreasing by 79 percent to yield a zero net present value. The worst case
scenario of increasing agency costs by 20 percent and decreasing user benefits by 20 percent, which
has a low probability of occurring, yields a net present value of US$ 179.7 million.
*  The overall 1998-2001 maintenance and rehabilitation program being undertaken by DNV will
increase the percentage of roads in good condition, with roughness levels of less than 3.5 IRI, from the
current 75 percent to 87 percent. The program will also decrease the percent of the network below an
optimal level of service from the current 15 percent to 8 percent. If the program is not implemented, the
percentage of roads in good condition will decrease to 62 percent and the percent of the network below
an optimal level of service will increase to 36 percent. Thus, users will save US$20 million per year in
transport costs during the program period alone. The road agency will also benefit from the program as
it will help it meet future capital investment requirements for maintenance, estimated to 63 percent of
capital expenditures.
2. Financial (see Annexes 4 and 5): NPV=US$341.2 million
  The proposed project is aligned with budget appropriations already approved under the Five-Year Plan
for 1995-1999, and by extension, for the year 2000. According to national budgetary procedures, the
appropriations for year 2000 are the same as those set in the Five-Year Plan for 1999. This linkage of
project investments with the current five-year plan, and the current administration's adherence to a
five-year budget plan, ensure the timely availability of counterpart funds for project implementation.
Over the last decade, the funds appropriated for road investments and maintenance ranged from
US$60.0 to US$97.0 rnillion per year, with the lower amount corresponding to the 1991-1993 fiscal
crisis and the higher ones to 1996-1997. The projections for MTOP's overall program for 1998-2000
envisions an increase to about US$115 million per year, which is manageable given the current Plan.
* The current financial plan provides for about 80 percent of the road rehabilitation and maintenance
needs estimated under an unconstrained scenario. Thus, it is expected that by year 2000 the network
would achieve an adequate and stable condition. This would gradually reduce future rehabilitation
expenditures and stabilize them around US$25 million per annum by year 2005, as a result of the
improved condition of the road network and the slower pace of deterioration that DNV's continuous
reliance on performance-based contract maintenance would bring about this result.
*  The project supports part of DNV's over.ll maintenance and rehabilitation program for years 1998-
2000. The program is being financed through external borrowings (mainly IDB, IBRD, and JEXIM),
which provide for about 50 percent of the funding on average, and domestic funds assigned from
FIMTOP and Treasury. In the last few years, the incidence of FIMTOP in DNV's budget has been
declining (from about 78 percent in 1994 to about 52 percent in 1997) as more funding is coming from
other sources. However, this is the result of current government policy with respect to apportioning of
financing sources rather than a decline in revenue collected through FIMTOP.



Page 16
*  Fiscal impact. Road users pay in excess of what Government actually spends in the sector. In 1996
road users paid US$580 million in charges or 2.2 times the funds allocated to the sector. This amount
represents 13.8 percent of the general revenues collected by GOU in that year. The revenue collected
on gasoline and lubricant fees (out of general taxes), one of the main sources of FIMTOP for example,
has grown continuously from about US$61.0 million in 1994 to about US$74.6 million in 1997. These
figures exceed the amount actually allocated to DNV under the current Five-Year Plan. For year 2000
and beyond, the financial projections are consistent with this trend and require less external borrowing,
in line with the expected reduction in total expenditure. Project expenditures represent about 30 percent
of DNV's budget when MTOP transfers to departments under the Departmental Roads Maintenance
component are excluded (as they are not part of DNV's budget). This percentage is about 17 percent
lower, if expenditures under DNV's maintenance program are not taken into account. Project funding
requirements are within the approved Five-Year Plan 1995-1999 (and by extension, year 2000).
External borrowing is also within the amounts authorized by OPP for the sector under the Plan.
*  Despite of some short-term difficulties in the early 1990s, DNV budgets have been effective in funding
road maintenance activities. With the current rehabilitation backlog cleared and the road network
deterioration arrested, future rehabilitation and maintenance expenditures are expected to decline after
year 2000 to around 75 percent of current levels. Problems related to financing capacity expansion are
unlikely to reoccur as this activity will mostly be funded through private concessions. The proposed
multiyear contracts for road maintenance should benefit from the high budget priority given to on-going
contracts. For this reason, it is not necessary at this time, to consider implementing a road maintenance
fund.
3. Technical:
* DNV has the necessary technical capacity to undertake road investments, as demonstrated by previous
projects. The proposed project works are simple in their conception and their designs were reviewed at
appraisal. The project supports CREMA-type projects that have been used in Argentina and are being
piloted in Uruguay. DNV is developing cost estimates, bidding documents and technical standards
taking into account the experience gained so far in Argentina.
4. Institutional:
* Executing Agencies. DNV would be responsible for carrying out most of the activities related to
project execution. Since 1995, DNV embarked on a gradual yet substantial restructuring of its
organization and its business processes, which included increasing private sector involvement in the
delivery of maintenance services. In line with this agenda, DNV reduced its workforce from about
3,700 employees to about 2,276 employees from 1995 to 1997, and is planning to decrease staff to
about 1,800 employees by the year 2000. Increased private sector participation would enhance DNV's
capacity to maintain the national road network in a sustainable manner. The Intendencias have also
gained experience as a result of their execution of the Departmental Roads Maintenance program, and
DAIVD within DNV is in a good position to assist and monitor the program execution. The project
will further strengthen institutional capabilities by assisting in the transfer of appropriate road
maintenance technologies to the departments. The involvement of the participating Intendencias
through a Steering Group is intended to increase ownership and accountability at the departmental
level. MTOP is in a good position to analyze the fiscal policy implications of the road financing and
user-charges study that was completed under Loan 302 1-UR, as one of its units (IPTI) participated in
the execution of the study. The preparation of fiscal analyses would be supported by the data compiled
and models developed, as part of this study, and their application would be broadened according to the
inputs from the departmental institutional programs and the domestic trucking industry study planned
under Loan 4204-UR.



Page 17
*  ProjectManagement. The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) that was established within MTOP for the
execution of the Transport Project I and the on-going Forest Products Transport Project will remain in
charge of coordinating project activities. The PCU is being strengthened under the latter project. A
consultant is already working on the design of an improved project financial management system,
which is expected to become fully operation by December 15, 1998. This improved financial
management system (planning, budgeting, accounting and reporting) will ensure that project
management is in full compliance with the revised Bank requirements (OD 10.02) and progress
reporting systems (both physical and financial) can support the Bank's LACI- compatible disbursement
procedures.
5. Social:
*  The impact of the project on the local population will be minimal, as most the proposed roadwork will
consist of the rehabilitation and maintenance of interurban highways and departmental roads passing
through sparsely populated areas. No resettlement is expected under the project.
*  The design of the road safety pilot followed consultations with the affected population. The surveys
conducted among households, schools and businesses in the pilot area has helped to identify resident
concerns regarding road safety problems and potential disadvantages resulting from the proposed
improvements, e.g., lane and interconnecting streets closures, parking restrictions, etc. The proposed
investments were then presented to the residents and discussed in public hearings held by the local
councils. The section selected for the pilot, the Punta de Rieles area along national Route 8, has no
controversial aspects. However, safety improvements on other sections outside the project, such as the
section of Route 8 passing through the town of Pando, would need to build on the demonstrated success
of the pilot to overcome some opposition by affected groups (mainly business people). Similar surveys
will be conducted after implementation to assess the results of the pilot before extending its
recommendations to other locations. DNV's Environmental Unit was actively involved in this
consultation process.
6. Environmental assessment: Environmental Category [ ] A [,(I B [ ] C
*  Project Environmental Impacts. No significant negative impacts are foreseen. The project supports
rehabilitation and maintenance of existing roads, either paved (national road network) or unpaved
(departmental road network). The roads selected for rehabilitation are not be located in or near critical
natural habitats that may justify detailed Environmental Impact Assessments (ELA). DNV's technical
specifications for execution and control of these road works minimize the risk of negative direct
impacts on the environment. Changes to existing standards (such as widening, alignment
improvements or paving) that could cause involuntary resettlement or substantial increases in traffic
flows through rural communities are not considered under the project. Hence, no indirect impact on the
life-styles of the population is expected from the road works financed under the project. Illegal
occupation of right-of-ways is non-existent in Uruguay.
*  In Uruguay, it is common for many road sections to pass through urban areas. DNV and the
participating municipalities have systematically implemented various measures to reduce traffic speeds,
avoid safety hazards, and minimize disruption of local traffic patterns. The project would pilot cost-
effective measures to improve safety along roads passing through urbanized areas by implementing the
recommendations of a study completed under the Transport I Project.
*  Road Sector Environmental Procedures. In the context of preparation of two externally funded
projects (Bank/JEXIM's Forest Products Transport, and IDB's Road Corridor Improvement),
consultants reviewed the existing environmental legislation in Uruguay. The assessment concluded that
the legislation provides an appropriate framework to implement environmental mitigation measures. In
particular, the legislation requires that prior to executing any major civil independent consultants must
conduct detailed EIAs before DINAMA, the national environmental agency, can issue the necessary



Page 18
environmental licenses. DNV recently adopted an Environmental Manual that sets guidelines and
specifications to be followed during execution of works to avoid or mitigate any potential adverse
environmental impact. The Bank reviewed the Manual and found it satisfactory. The Manual also
incorporates procedures requiring: (i) consultations with DINAMA in dealing with works in or near
actual or proposed protected areas or other sites of high conservation value. This consultation must
take place at two stages, by the design engineer early in the engineering design phase, and later on by
the supervisor prior to commencing the works; (ii) the use of ecologically friendly policies for
vegetation management along rights-of-way. In general, vegetation control is restricted to about 15
meters from each side of the roadway allowing for a safety area and proper functioning of drainage
systems. On occasion, grass is kept short throughout the right-of-way along roads serving urbanized
and tourist areas where often gardens have substituted natural vegetation; and (iii) the use of low toxic
herbicides to control weeds declared national plagues such as abrojo grande/chico (xanthium
cavanillesii/spinosum) and margarita de piria (coleostephus myconis). All project works carried out
under the project must comply with the Environmental Manual.
DNV's Environmental Management Capacity. DNV has established a formal unit charged with the
oversight of all environmental aspects for road projects and the enforcement of DNV's Environmental
Manual. With the help of consultants financed under an on-going IDB project, the unit is further
refining its assessment procedures and organization of environmental responsibilities in order to
identify and internalize best practices within the agency. This continuous process is being nurtured
through implementation of the following initiatives also funded by the IDB project: (i) technical
assistance to strengthen the unit, provided by international consultants; (ii) training courses for DNV
staff on environmental assessment of road projects; (iii) a survey of Uruguay's environmental heritage
along the national road network; (iv) a study on the transport of hazardous materials by road, within
the context of related Mercosur guidelines. The proposed Bank project would monitor the
environmental impact of on-going DNV initiatives.
7. Participatory approach:
e Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups. The specific areas covered under the institutional
strengthening program for the Intendencias were based on consultations with the beneficiaries to make
the program more demand-driven and prioritize needs. An ad-hoc Steering Group comprised of three
members of DNV and representatives of each participating Intendencia will oversee and periodically
assess the performance of the Intendencias during project implementation. This participatory approach
is expected to increase accountability among departmental governments, promote the dissemination of
best practices to the Intendencias, and provide a forum to review results and exchange experiences.
The design of the road safety pilot was also developed on the basis of consultations with affected
groups.
*  Other key stakeholders: At project identification, the project team met with representatives from
Uruguayan transport companies to obtain their views on the road sector and identify issues in
government policies that may affect their competitiveness. The private organizations consulted
included, inter alia, CUTA (Confederaci6n Uruguaya Transporte Automotor); AFLECOM
(Asociaci6n Fleteros Combustible); ANETRA (Asociaci6n Nacional Empresas Transporte Carretero
por Autobus). Other organizations associated with production or shipment of forest products were
consulted in the context of preparation of the Forest Products Transport Project. Several private
organizations were also interviewed in an effort to assess the extent that current border facilities and
procedures delay road transport at border crossings, international road transport, and raise export and
import costs. International road operators, their clients (e.g., Uruguayan Chamber of Industries), and
other groups part of the international transportation chain (e.g., Association of Custom Dispatchers),
were also interviewed. MTOP has established two permanent committees with representatives of the
road and transportation industries to discuss sector issues and assess policy implications.



Page 19
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
*  Project sustainability in the long run depends on implementing the planned cost-effective rehabilitation
of the network, transforming DNV into a high-performance organization, and ensuring stable funding
for more responsive maintenance programs. The project would address sustainability concerns though
a three-pronged approach: (i) furthering key institutional reforms; (ii) reducing future maintenance and
rehabilitation costs, and (iii) exploring mechanisms to enhance road sector funding.
* Furthering reforms. DNV is an organization in transition. The project supports the continuation and
deepening of the reforms already started to make the organization more efficient and responsive to
customer needs. The prospects are good, since MTOP has shown strong leadership throughout the
process. In addition, there is support at national and organization levels to emphasize user orientation
and bring their concerns to sector management. GOU's political commitment to Mercosur is an
advantage in that it effectively locks in past reforms and bolsters further reform efforts.
* Reducing future agency costs. The proposed project in conjunction with other externally funded
initiatives presently underway would allow DNV to reduce the rehabilitation backlog, improve the
condition of roads, and maintain an affordable and stable flow of funds. The project is expected to
reduce DNV overhead and operational costs through increased reliance on private contractors to carry
out maintenance operations, thereby improving the performance of both force account and private
contracting, and build capacity for managing contracts.
-  Exploring mechanisms to enhance road sectorfunding. The project would assist MTOP in devising
mechanisms to ensure efficiency and transparency in the way funds are allocated to programs, and
strengthen accountability. The use of road concessions and long-term contracts for rehabilitation and
maintenance minimizes the risk of future funding shortfalls due to the reliance on independent sources
of funding, and by requiring minimum contractual commitments from the Government. With project
support, MTOP will analyze the best options for ensuring a stable flow of funds for maintenance in the
context of the planned reforms and the political environment. This objective may entail improving the
structure, quality, and periodic updates of MTOP's Five-Year Investment and Maintenance Plans,
restructuring the system of road user charges and FIMTOP, and/or enhancing and strengthening
funding mechanisms to meet DNV's emerging mandate and responsibilities.



Page 20
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                     Risk                  Risk Minimization Measure
Rating
Annex 1, cell 'from Outputs to Objective"
Lack of institutional capacity (e.g., inability to  M    The projects will have adequate benchmarks and performance
retain qualified staff) may prevent MTOP/DNV      indicators to monitor progress. Annual reviews will include
from achieving physical and institutional         consultations with IDB to ensure an adequate level of
targets planned for the road sector under on-     coordination among projects. DNV's renewal process will
going projects financed by the GOU, 1DB, and      explore options to improving the incentives for retaining
the Bank.                                         qualified staff, and strengthening institutional capacity and
financial management systems.
Insufficient leadership on the part of MTOP  M    Implementation of institutional components has substantially
and DNV may slow down or even hamper              improved during the last two years. Mercosur integration has
implementation of reform processes. Internal      bolstered Government reform efforts, and the policy changes
resistance to institutional change is a common    sought under the project are in line with regional change drivers.
occurrence in restructuring large organizations.  MTOP has taken a cautious position in defining the pace and
DNV's staff may oppose outsourcing policies       targets for reforms due to several factors (e.g. current political
and other aspects of the renewal process. While   context). The project would support a gradual agenda, based on
MTOP seems committed to outsourcing the           what MTOP believes can be accomplished and rely on the success
provision of services, rationalizing the          of early experiences to lay the foundation for an accelerated
organization and reducing the cost of DNV         program in the future. The project aims to build and strengthen
operations, implementation of institutional       analytical and management capabilities within DNV and MTOP
components has often lagged in the past          in support of the reform process.
Annex 1, cell 'from Components to
Outputs"
Project implementation delays due to (i)    M    The following safeguards have been incorporated: (i) project is
insufficient or untimely release of counterpart   aligned with the on-going Five-Year Plan 1995-1999 and
funds, (ii) procurement delays, (iii) lack of final  counterpart funds requirements are supported by budgetary
engineering and designs to expedite works         allocations approved under the plan; (ii) significant parts of
execution. Uruguay has traditionally been a       proposed investments will be "bid ready" prior to loan
good but rather slow executor of Bank projects.   effectiveness; (iii) design requirements of works under the project
are quite simple, and were reviewed during appraisal. DNV has
good experience with turnkey contracts for bridge reinforcement
or replacement.
Intendencias are unwilling to participate in the  M    Intendencias have shown interest in a reinforced program to
institutional program. The weakness of certain   transfer technology and best practices, and have participated in
Intendencias, high turn over of local staff, or   identifying priority areas for strengthening under the project.
lack of program ownership at the local level,     Involvement of the Steering Group is expected to facilitate
may hinder dissemination and sustainability of    dissemination of practices, develop ownership at the local level,
the project institutional strengthening activities.  and increase accountability by creating an Intendencia
stakeholder group. The Departmental Roads Maintenance
Program carries performance incentives, which will be linked to
participation in the institutional program.
Private contractors not responsive to new forms    N    The experience gained in Argentina in the use of CREMA-type
of maintenance contracts.                         contracts will encourage private contractors to respond to this
initiative with competitive bids.
Overall Risk Rating    M    I
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
* No controversial aspects are envisaged.



Page 21
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
There are no additional conditions for loan effectiveness other than those set forth in the General
Conditions. The following arrangements were confinned at negotiations:
* MTOP established a Steering Group comprised of three members of DNV and representatives from
each participating Intendencia to coordinate the planning, execution, evaluation, and dissemination of
results achieved under the program to transfer technology and strengthen road maintenance practices of
the Intendencias participating in the Departmental Roads Maintenance component.
*  MTOP through DNV established a working group and designated within the working group a
professional, with qualifications, functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, to serve as
liaison with the Bank in the carrying out of DNV's renewal program.
2. Other [classi.fy according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]:
*  Implementation. Not later than March 31 of year of Project implementation, starting in 1999, prepare
and furnish to the Bank: (a) DNV's annual national road maintenance plan for the corresponding
calendar year, satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) a report with respect to the expenditures incurred and
the results achieved by DNV during the preceding calendar year.
*  Not later than March 31 of each year of Project implementation, starting in 1999: (a) prepare and
furnish to the Bank an annual plan, satisfactory to the Bank with the road sector fiscal policy analyses
to be carried out by MTOP during the corresponding calendar year; and (b) ensure that the databases
and models developed under the study on road user charges carried out under the Transport Project I
are updated in a manner satisfactory to the Bank for purposes of enabling MTOP to carry out fiscal
policy analyses.
* Not later than January 31, 2000, cause DNV to prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, satisfactory
to the Bank, with the analyses and evaluation of the options carried out under DNV's renewal program.
* Not later than March 31 of each year of project implementation, starting in the year 2000, prepare an
annual report on DNV's operational and financial performance during the preceding calendar year; and
immediately thereafter disseminate the corresponding report to the public.
*  Prior to the initiation of the works under a Departmental Maintenance Subproject, enter into an
Arrangement with the Eligible Intendencia (which has jurisdiction over the corresponding
Departmental Maintenance Subproject) under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
*  The annual review to be held by April 30, 2000 (the mid-term review), will focus, inter alia, on the
progress made by the Borrower in preparing MTOP's transport infrastructure plan for 2000-2004,
carrying out the programs for renewal of DNV and transfer of technology to the Intendencias, and the
road safety pilot. The Borrower will be represented at the mid-term review meeting by representatives
of MEF, MTOP and OPP.
* Financial. Not later than December 15, 1998 establish within the PCU, and maintain thereafter, a
financial management system satisfactory to the Bank.



page 22
H. Readiness for Implementation
[/] The engineering design documents for the first year's activilies are complete and ready for the sa
of project implementation.
f 1 The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
r] The Project Implementatioa Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
( ] The following items are lacling and arm discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
L Compliance with Bank Policies
Ml T'is project complies with ll applicable Bank policies.
( ]   lThe following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval.  The project
complies with all other applicable Bank policies.]
Jos6 Luis Irigoyen             yany Leip:g                       m wyma Alexander
Task Manager              Director SMU (C   )         Country Director CMIU (LCC7C)



Page 23
Annex 1
Second Transport Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summar                     Key Performa ce  dicators                 M onitorg a            ritical
W ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--          Qr8C#.:  - : ir:.::.i.:-:               Dr- .g-:, n  an-----. i-
______________________                                      E vaIuati~~~~~~~~~~~~n   A~ssum   ptio nis
Sector-related CAS Goal:    By year 2001...
* Support investments in key   * Average network roughness remains below an IRI of 3.2,   * Statistics on  * Macroeconomi
sectors to enhance the      and the percentage of national roads with IRI above 4.5  international  cs conditions
competitiveness of          not to exceed 25 percent.                             trade and         stay favorable
Uruguay's economy in the    * Transit of freight vehicles meeting Mercosur standards  border       * Integration in
context of Mercosur         enabled on three main international road corridors.   crossings issued    Mercosur
integration, increase private  * Maintenance of not less than 50 percent of the national  by MTOP.  continues
sector participation, and   road network carried out by the private sector under  * Annual          bolstering
rationalize public          various contract arrangements.                        statistics from   Government
expenditures.                                                                     DNV's road        reform efforts.
inventories.
Project Development         At project end.
Objective:
* Rehabilitate and upgrade to   * Share of national roads exceeding permissible roughness   * Annual  * Uruguay
Mercosur standards selected   levels lowered from 15 percent in 1997 to 8 percent.  statistics from  restructures
national roads and bridges.   * Transit of trucks loaded up to Mercosur standards (45  DNV road     customs
* Increase private sector    tons) permitted along Routes 2, 3, 8 and 17.           inventories.      procedures and
participation in the      * Use of performance-based maintenance contracts       * Implementation    harmonizes
maintenance and             extended from about 620 km in 1997 to about 2,840 km.  Completion       transport
rehabilitation of national  * Working groups established within DNV will have     Report.           regulations
road systems.               evaluated options to modernize DNV's institutional                      across borders,
* Strengthen road sector      structure and its operations, strengthen DNV's human                    implementing
management.                 resources, and adopt conunercial and user- oriented                     actions
practices.                                                              contemplated
* Preparation and public dissemination of an annual report                under IDB-
on DNV operational and financial performance.                           funded Reform
* At least 66 percent of all-weather gravel roads in the                  of the State
departments receive quality maintenance regularly.                      Project (995-
L~~~_              _  _  _  _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _                       OC-UR)
Outputs:                    At project end...
* Selected national roads and   * About 96 km of Route 2 between Palmitas and Mercedes,   * Biannual  * MTOP/DNV
bridges meet Mercosur       and about 50 km along Routes 30 and 27 rehabilitated.  progress reports   achieve
standards.                * 13 bridges constraining international transport widened,  on project    physical and
* Performance-based          reinforced or replaced.                                implementation    institutional
contracts with            * About 635 km of roads rehabilitated and maintained to  issued by        targets
microenterprises and private   specified performance standards under multiyear    Project           planned for
firms used for maintenance  CREMA-type contracts.                                 Coordination      road sector
and rehabilitation of     * About 1,855 km of roads maintained to specified       Unit within       under other
national road systems.      standards through contracts with microenterprises and  MTOP.            projects
* Road sector management      private firms funded by DNV.                        * Reports on        underway with
strengthened by carrying  * Strategic planning tools (MMS, HDM) and integrated    productivity      financing from
out (i) the institutional   information and performance systems fully operational  and              GOU, IDB,
renewal program of DNV,     within DNV to manage road maintenance by contract and    effectiveness  and the Bank.
(ii) the transfer of        force account and prepare five-year plan.             prepared with    * MTOP and
technology to the         * Systematic performance monitoring under MMS,          MMS.              DNV remain
departments to maintain     resulting in at least a 10 percent increase in the  * Reports issued    committed to
gravel roads, (iii) a road  productivity of four selected force account activities from  by Steering  the reform



Page 24
i,g,.,.. ...,,i  i,i........... ...  f_.          . . ...   .......                    . .-  .    , ...  ..-!W    T'!fd'STDC''tS S '
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.   ....................... .........                 . ......
NarrativeSmmar                       e PerorancIdicatr                          -Montrigad            Critca
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ......   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _E       a u  i oA       s s u p o n
safety program.              average targets in 1997.                                 group.             process and
* Working groups have carried out related studies, study  * Supervision      are willing to
tours, and technical assistance programs, and analyze and    Reports by    exercise the
evaluate options for DNV renewal.                       Bank missions.    leadership
* Annually 1,500 km of departmental roads regravelled and                    needed to
9,500 km maintained to satisfactory standards.                             carry it out
* Standards and procedures for planning, operation and                       through the
maintenance of departmental roads recommended for                          organization;
each department, and implemented in at least two                           DNV staff
departments.                                                               remains not
* Detailed inventory of road maintenance equipment and                       opposed to the
actions recommended for each department to improve                         outsourcing
management and productivity of equipment fleets and                        policy and
organization and operation of workshops.                                   other change
* Road maintenance staff in the departments trained to                       management
carry out improved processes.                                              implications.
* Guidelines designed for departments to maintain urban
roads and streets.
* Steering Group established with the participating
Indentencias to monitor and evaluate the transfer of
technology to the departments.
* 2,500 km of roads to have pavement markings and road
signs that meet Mercosur standards.
* Pilot for road safety improvement of routes in urban areas
carried out and evaluated.
Project Components:          Inputs: (budget for each component)
* Road rehabilitation and    * US$23.3 million                                        * Project          * Timely release
bridge restoration;                                                                   Implementation    of counterpart
* CREMA performance-based  * US$26.5 million                                            Plan agreed        funds,
contracts;                                                                            between            procurement,
* Road Maintenance Program   * US$45.1 million                                          MTOP-DNV           and
funded by DNV;                                                                        and the Bank.      availability of
* Departmental roads                                                                  * Biannual           designs needed
maintenance;                * US$33.0 million                                         progress reports   for work
* Road sector management                                                                and annual         execution.
and institutional building.    * US$3.1 million                                       audits furnished  * Departments
* Safety improvement                                                                   to the Bank by     eager to
program;                                                                              the PCU            participate in
* US$5.3 million                                        * Bank               the
supervision       institutional
reports           program;
* Private
contractors are
responsive to
new forms of
maintenance
contracts.



Page 25
Progress Indicators to Evaluate Project Implementation and Achievement of Development Objectives
Performance Indicators                               Cumulative Progress by end ofyear
1998           1999           2000          Project end
Output Indicators required to achieve Development Objectives:
* Km of national roads rehabilitated under the Project:  0 km          35 km          146 km           146 km
* Number of bridges reinforced and widened, or replaced  0 bridges    5 bridges      12 bridges       13 bridges
under the Project
* Km of roads rehabilitated under CREMA-type contracts:  0 km           0 km           84 krn          84 km
* Km of roads rehabilitated and/or maintamed to standards  0 km        635 km         635 kn           635 km
under CREMA-type contracts:
e Km of roads maintained through performance-based     1,152 km       1,740 km        1,855 km        1,855 kn
contracts funded by DNV:
* Km of departmental roads regravelled under the Project:  1,500 km   3,000 km        4,500 km        4,500 km
* Km of departmental roads maintained to satisfactory  9,500 km       19,000 km      28,500 kmn       28,500 km
standards under the Project:
* Km of roads that have pavement markings and road signs  650 km      1850 km         2,500 km        2,500 km
improved to Mercosur standards:
* Pilot for road safety improvement implemented in Route 8          Works completed by August 31, 1999
at Punta de Rieles:                                                Pilot evaluated by March 31, 2000
* Strategic planning tools (MMS, SIPLA) and integrated  Consultant contracts for MMS/SIPLA extended by September 30, 1998
information and performance systems fully operational  MMS/ SIPLA improved and fully operational by September 30, 1999
within DNV:
* Increase in the productivity of selected force account
activities: (i) Patching with premixed asphalt      207 US$/m3    190 US$/m3      180 US$/m3       180 US$/m3
(ii) Surface sealing:                      1.3 US$/lt    1.2 US$/It      1.1 US$A/t       1.1 US$/It
(iii) Vegetation control:                 69.3 US$/ha   65.0 US$/ha    60.0 US$/ha       60.0 US$/ha
(iv) Crack sealing:                        1.7 US$/It     1.6 US$A/t     1.5 US$/It       1.5 US$/It
* Establishment of working groups within DNV and               Groups and liaison designated by loan negotiations
implementation of related studies, study tours, and
technical assistance programs for the renewal of DNV:
* Standards and procedures for planning, operation and           Consultants selected by December 31, 1998
maintenance of departmental roads recommended for each           Study completed by December 31, 1999
department, and implemented in at least two departments:
* Detailed inventory of road maintenance equipment and           Consultants selected by December 31, 1999
actions recommended for each department to improve         Technical Assistance completed by December 31, 2000
management and productivity of equipment fleets and
organization/operation of workshops:
* Road maintenance staff in the departments trained to carry  Training Program completed by December 31, 2000
out improved processes:
* Guidelines designed for departments to maintain urban             Consultants selected by June 30, 1999
roads and streets:                                                  Study completed by June 30, 2000
* Establishment of Steering Group with participant              Steering Group established by loan negotiations
Intendencias to monitor and evaluate the transfer of  Program results evaluated by Steering Group by end-1999 and 2000
technology to the departments:
Outcomes to be achieved by the canying out of the Project
* Share of national roads exceeding pennissible roughness  15 percent    -               -            8 percent
levels, not greater than:
* Transit of trucks loaded up to Mercosur standards (45            Traffic permitted by December 31, 2000
tons) permitted along corridors linking Montevideo with
Fray Bentos (Route 2), Paysandu (Route 3), and Rio
Branco (Route 8/17/18):
* Use of performance-based maintenance contracts on    1,500 km      2,725 km        2,840 km         2,840 km
national roads extended to not less than:
* Evaluation of options to modeniize DNV's institutional
structure and its operations, strengthen DNV's human
resources, and adopt commercial and user oriented   Evaluation report submitted by DNV to Borrower and Bank, by January
practices, completed and reported by DNV:                                     31, 2000
e Preparation and public dissemination of annual report on
DNV operational and financial performance:                        Starting not later than March 31, 2000
* Percentage of all-weather gravel roads in the departments   33 percent   40 percent  66 percent  66 percent
that receive quality maintenance regularly:



Page 26
Annex 2
Second Transport Project
Project Description
The project comprises five components, namely: (i) road rehabilitation and bridge restoration; (ii) CREMA
performance-based contracts for road rehabilitation and maintenance; (iii) DNV's Road Maintenance Program, to
be funded entirely by DNV; (iv) departmental roads maintenance; and (v) road sector management and institutional
building. A brief description of each component is listed below:
Project Component 1 - US$ 23.3 million (Road Rehabilitation and Bridge Restoration)
This component entails carrying out: (a) rehabilitation works consisting of reinforcing the pavement structures of
(i) about 96 km of the Palmitas-Mercedes section on national Routed 2; (ii) about 30 km between Kilometer 192
and the town of Masoller on national Route 30; and (iii) about 20 km between Kilometer 36.4 and Kilometer 56.4
on national Route 27; (b) carrying out of reconditioning works consisting of strengthening, widening or replacing
the existing structures of 13 bridges located on national Routes 3, 8 and 26.
The above works are key to restoring the service levels of strategic sections whose critical condition constrain the
efficient provision of transport services, and in particular, the transit of heavier and larger trucks loaded up to
Mercosur standards. These roads were selected for their respective relevance in achieving the project objectives and
complementing the works underway under other externally funded projects (IDB, JEXIM and Bank-funded Forest
Products Transport Project).
The road sections along Route 2 have developed early signs of distress due to a combination of defective
construction materials and substantial increase in Mercosur heavy traffic, thereby requiring urgent rehabilitation to
prevent further deterioration. Route 2 forms part of the Montevideo-Fray Bentos corridor, the main border crossing
between Uruguay and Argentina. The road sections along Route 30 and Route 27 are deteriorating rapidly and
cannot accommodate the surge in heavy traffic expected from the exploitation of forest products in the respective
areas. Thus, the sections complement others being rehabilitated under the on-going Forest Products Transport
Project.
The 13 bridges selected for restoration lack the minimum functional (too narrow) and structural (low bearing
capacity) requirements to allow safe transit of the larger and heavier trucks permitted under the Mercosur transport
agreements, which due to their greater efficiency dominate the transport of tradable goods. The proposed works
include widening and reinforcing existing structures, and replacing three obsolete bridges to meet Mercosur
standards. These investments would enable increasing load limits over the bridges, permitting the circulation of six-
axle trucks with a total weight of 45 ton per truck (presently limited to 42 ton) and 25.5 ton per triple axle
(presently limited to 22 ton). Work procedures and cost estimates permit the accommodation of traffic during
construction. The bridges were selected to ensure that all existing constraints are removed from three strategic
exportlimport corridors, linking Montevideo with Fray Bentos, Paysandii and Rio Branco, and providing a safe and
reliable access to the town of Melo, in the northern part of the country. In this manner, the project would avoid the
current practice of large and heavy trucks taking long detours or carrying only a fraction of their capacity when no
detours are possible. There is ample experience in Uruguay with traffic handling in work sites during bridge
widening and reinforcement initiatives. For new bridges, the designs include minor adjustments to existing
alignments within rights-of-way, which will allow to use the existing structures during construction.
Project Component 2 - US$ 26.5 million (CREMA Contracts)
This component entails carrying out rehabilitation and maintenance works of three road networks covering an
estimated 635 kmn of national roads through performance-based CREMA contracts. A CREMA contract is a
multiyear (four to five-year) performance-based contract between DNV and a private contractor. The contract



Page 27
obligates the latter to undertake all phases of road rehabilitation and maintenance works as a single package from
the design and programming of works, through the execution of such works.
The networks under each contract comprise different pavement types and service conditions. The contracts to be
financed under the project cover three networks located in DNV's maintenance districts nI and X (about 240 k1m), II
and IH (about 242 kIn), and VII (about 153 kIn). The location of these networks was selected by taking into
account the ability of DNV to outsource maintenance activities in the districts in question and in districts where
DNV has experienced shortages of skilled personnel or maintenance equipment. Annex 4 lists the specific road
sections, their current physical condition, and the scope of the works planned. The Bank loan will partially finance
the expenditures incurred during the project implementation period, covering the first two years of the CREMA
contracts.
The works under each contract include: (i) rehabilitation of about 50 to 60 km of selected road sections, which do
not meet the level of service stipulated in the respective contract within the first year of the contract. The bidding
documents specify the location and engineering designs required for the mandatory initial works. The initial works
will be measured and paid on the basis of unit prices determined through bidding. Upon completion of the initial
works, the contractor will be compensated between 50 to 100 percent of the cost depending on contract length,
while the remaining amount will be paid in equal monthly installments spread over the remaining contract period;
and (ii) routine maintenance activities (e.g., patching potholes, sealing cracks, clearing roadsides, vegetation
control, cleaning drainage structures, renewing signs) on the entire road network for the five-year duration of the
contract. The contracts stipulate the levels of service to be met and the procedures used to survey the condition of
each road segrnent as well as daily penalties for non-compliance with the stipulated standards, and the maxiinum
period of time for undertaking corrective measures after non-compliance was detected. Typical standards used in
CREMA contracts are described in greater detail in Annex 12. Each month, DNV staff will survey a random
sample of the road network to assess the service levels attained on each road section. Maintenance works will be
paid in monthly lump sums throughout the contract period, subject to deductions for non-compliance with stipulated
standards.
The requirement to maintain the network throughout the duration of the contract serves as an incentive for the
contractor to ensure the proper execution of the rehabilitation works to minimize future maintenance expenditures.
Similarly, the deferred payment of initial works serves as an incentive to keep the firms interested in the contract
upon completing the rehabilitation phase. In addition to the initial mandatory works, the contractor will be
responsible for planning and carrying out all needed periodic maintenance work to ensure that the entire road
network under the contract meets the performance standards stipulated in the contract. The execution of the
CREMA contracts will enable DNV to preserve the overall quality and structural integrity of the road networks
covered, maintaining a good level of riding quality equivalent to about 2.8 average International Roughness Index
(RI) throughout the next five years. 9 In the future, only periodic maintenance consisting of thin bituminous
overlays and resealing will be needed every 5 to 10 years to maintain a satisfactory and similar level of service.
Project Component 3 - US$ 45.1 million (DNV's Maintenance Program)
This component consists of the road maintenance program for years 1998-2000 directly funded by DNV, and
includes: (i) a program of contract maintenance for about 1,855 km of national roads to be undertaken by private
contractors and microenterprises comprised of former DNV staff; and (ii) incremental operational costs of force
account maintenance activities (excluding salaries, administration, and DNV's equipment) managed by its field
districts. Details on DNV's overall maintenance plan, including physical targets and estimated costs are shown in
9   For asphalt concrete pavements with average daily traffic (ADT) greater than 600 vehicles/day. The maximum average roughness levels pamitted under
the contracs vary by road class and traffic level. For asphalt concrete pavement with ADT < 600 vehicles/day the maximum IRI is 3.5, while for roads with
bituminous surface treatment the limits are 3.4 (ADT > 600 vehicles/day) and 4.0 (ADT <600 vehicles/day). Roughness thresholds were defined on the basis of
technical-weconomic considerations and can be achieved by implementing the rehabilitation and the following routine maintenance works under the contract



Page 28
Annex 12. The Maintenance Management System (MMS) recently designed and implemented under the Transport I
Project provides the tool to develop annual maintenance plans, control the productivity and effectiveness of DNV's
maintenance operations, and through continuous monitoring, increase accountability of field management units and
crews. Through a combination of periodic and routine maintenance activities, this component is designed to
preserve the condition of that portion of the national road network not rehabilitated or maintained under externally
funded projects. The program, in conjunction with the rehabilitation works planned or underway under other on-
going externally funded initiatives, will contribute to achieving the performance indicators set for the national road
network in Annex 1.
Project Component 4 - US$ 33.0 million (Departmental Road Maintenance)
This component consists of carrying out departmental maintenance subprojects over the project period in the
participating departments. The departmental road maintenance program under the project entails routine
maintenance of about 9,500 km of gravel roads per year, and periodic maintenance of about 1,500 km of gravel
roads per year. With the exception of Montevideo, all departments in the country are expected to participate in the
program.
To implement this component, MTOP will enter into an annual "Arrangement" with each participating Intendencia,
which has jurisdiction over the corresponding departmental road network. These arrangements build on the
experience gained under Loan 3021-UR and include, inter alia, the obligation of each Intendencia to carry out the
works over a predefined network and the implementation of improved road management practices.
The eligibility criteria for selection of roads to be funded under this component require that: (i) not less than 75
percent of road subprojects conform to the departmental "core network" that received maintenance during the
previous year, including all roads that received periodic maintenance (to avoid a quick erosion of the benefits
brought by such intervention) and all roads transferred from DNV to the respective Department in previous years
(former national roads); and (ii) up to 25 percent of road subprojects may be chosen by the Intendencia on the basis
of road and traffic conditions. During project implementation, the DNV unit charged with designing and
monitoring the departmental programs will review the periodic maintenance standards to define variable
intervention levels (based on traffic and road conditions) to further enhance the economic impact of the program.
Project Component 5 - US$ 8.6 million (Road Sector Management, Institutional Building and Safety)
(A) Road Sector Management and Institutional Building. This subcomponent would entail: (i) provision of
technical assistance to DNV to monitor and supervise project implementation; (ii) preparation of MTOP's transport
infrastructure plan for years 2000-2004, including engineering and economic studies as needed; (iii) strengthening
technical capacity within MTOP (through its IPTI unit) to carry out sector fiscal policy analysis with a special
emphasis on road financing and updating and revising road user charges; (iv) carrying out of a renewal program to
strengthen DNV's institutional and operational capacity; and (v) carrying out of a program to transfer technology
and strengthen the maintenance management practices of the Intendencias participating in the Departmental Roads
Maintenance program.
DNV's renewal process. DNV is gradually changing its role from direct execution of maintenance programs
through force account arrangements to planning and monitoring of the national road network through various
contract arrangements and delegating the management of force account programs to field districts. The project
would support this renewal process in the following two ways:
First, the project would provide consultant services to consolidate and further improve the highway planning and
maintenance management systems developed under the Transport Project I. DNV has established an integrated
system for highway planning (SIPLA) in its Department of Investments to consolidate a variety of planning



Page 29
databases and activities (e.g. traffic counts, road condition surveys, bridge inventories), and analytical tools (e.g.
HDM-II) into a comprehensive highway planning system. The ongoing consultant support for SIPLA will be
extended under the proposed project to make this GIS-based planning system fully operational. This system will
help to internalize the use of performance indicators and enhance accountability and transparency across DNV's
operational activities. Information generated by SIPLA will also be used to prepare DNV's annual report on its
financial and operational performance. In addition, DNV will use a computerized maintenance management system
(MMS) to plan, control, and monitor its force account maintenance operations. MMS coverage will be extended to
include preparation maintenance programs for the entire network and monitoring of maintenance performance under
private contractual and force account arrangements. The project will also finance an extension of the ongoing
consultant services for the further development of MMS.
Second, advisory services, training, and study tours to analyze and evaluate options to modernize DNV's
institutional structure and its operations, improve DN V's human resource management, and introduce a sound
commercial and user-oriented approach to managing the national road system. To ensure support for DNV's
renewal program in the context of the Reform of the State, DNV intends to mobilize staff working groups to
formulate options for DNV reform. These working groups would be supported by international and local
consultants in organizational and institutional reform and will participate in exchange programs with leading
highway organizations around the world that have implemented similar renewal programs. hitially, three working
groups will be formed to: (i) review and propose legal and policy changes necessary to modernize DNV; (ii) assess
change implications outside the agency, such as mobilizing legislative and executive support for achieving financial
sustainability, creating a new operational relationship with MOTP and OPP, and utilizing external agents and user
groups to monitor performance and control results; and (iii) assess change implications within DNV and other
MOTP directorates, such as the organizational structure, staffing, incentives for improved performance and
increased accountability, and human resource management. Each working group will include a representative
cross-section of DNV staff and will be led by a senior DNV manager. The Director of DNV will oversee the overall
process and will also appoint a senior DNV manager as coordinator. DNV will be required to submit to the Bank, a
report containing the analyses and evaluations not later than January 31, 2000
Strengthening the road maintenance management capacity of the Intendencias. The objective of the technology
transfer program is to improve road maintenance practices at the departmental level and strengthen the technical
capabilities of the road maintenance personnel in the Intendencias. The specific objectives and areas of the program
were selected in consultation with the participating Intendencias to enhance responsiveness to priorities perceived
by the departments and encourage their ownership. The program will provide consultant and advisory services to:
(i) improve management of road maintenance equipment and the organization and operations of workshops to repair
such equipment; (ii) adopt standards and procedures for the planning, operation, and maintenance of departmental
roads; (iii) design a maintenance program for urban roads and streets; (iv) provide training to departmental staff on
road maintenance activities. The program will also entail the coordination of departmental staff training programs,
monitoring of performance of departmental road maintenance programs, and facilitating technical and professional
contacts between DNV and the Intendencias.
During negotiations, MTOP established an ad-hoc Steering Group comprised three representatives from MTOP and
one from each Intendencia to coordinate the planning, execution, evaluation and dissemination of results achieved
under the program. The Steering group will report back to the departments on the performance achieved under the
various areas of the program to establish a permanent accountability mechanism rooted in existing government
organizations at the subnational level.
(B) Road Safety Program. This subcomponent entails: (i) improving pavement markings and road signs along
2,500 km of highways. The proposed works are part of the continuous improvement of road safety features along
major highways; and (ii) implementing a pilot program to test the effectiveness of low-cost measures to increase
road safety along routes passing through urban areas, including studies to assess the results and recommend the
expansion of the pilot to other critical sections of the national road network.



Page 30
The pilot would take place along the Punta de Rieles section of Route 8, a 1.4 km road segment that runs through a
heavily trafficked urban area and ranks very high in tenns of number of accidents. Specifically, the pilot would
examine, inter alia, the effectiveness of following measures: (i) channeling vehicles to reduce operating speeds; (ii)
the number of conflicting points; (iii) construction of segregated lanes for slow-moving and turning vehicles; (iv)
bus bays for public transport vehicles to provide clearly marked passenger pick-up points off through-traffic
carriageways; and (v) construction of foot/bike paths to segregate and protect pedestrian and non-motorized traffic.
Specialized consultants funded under the Transport Project I have undertaken the preparatory itudies needed for
implementing the pilot. The proposed improvements are expected to reduce the number of accidents per year-
about 13 in 1996 prior to the start of the pilot to around 5 after its implementation.'" The results of the pilot will be
assessed in early 2000 before expanding their use to other critical spots on the national road network.
The road safety program complements other on-going efforts. With IDB support, MTOP is undertaking several
institutional actions aimed at improving coordination with other Ministries on road safety issues and developing a
long-term strategy for road safety improvement. These actions include: (i) implementing a system for collecting and
analyzing road accident data; (ii) implementing a unified system at the national level for registering drivers,
vehicles, traffic violations and violators, and road accidents (created by Law 16.585 of 1994); (iii) carrying out a
study on the transport of hazardous materials, in the context of Mercosur transport agreement signed in September
1995; (iv) providing training to road safety staff in DNV, Intendencias, Police and other private/public institutions.
In September 1994, a road safety council (CNPCAT, Comisi6n Nacional de Prevenci6n y Control de Accidentes
de Tr6nsito) was established under MTOP leadership to raise road safety awareness and coordinate efforts among
the various Ministries involved.
10 Accident statistics compiled over an 18-month period indicated tat there were 19 accidents, 15 people injured, and 4 fatalities along the selected road
section.



Page 31
Annex 3
Second Transport Project
Estimated Project Costs
Proiect ComDonent                                         Local           Foreign       Total
------h---------US$ million --------- ----------
Road Rehabilitation and Bridge Reconditioning             11,327          9,267        20,594
CREMA Performance-based Contracts                         12,848         10,512        23,360
DNV Road Maintenance Program (incremental costs)          24,808         20,298        45,106
Departments Road Maintenance                              19,800          13,200       33,000
A. Road Sector Management and histitutional Building       1,200           1,800        3,000
B. Road Safety Program                                     1,185          3,555         4,740
Total                                                     71,168         58,632       129,800
Total Baseline Cost
Physical Contingencies                                  2,557           2,353        4,910
Price Contingencies                                       841            777          1,618
Front end Fee                                              0.00             645          645
Total Project Cost                                        74,566         62,406       136,972



Page 32
Annex 4
Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary
Net Benefits at 12% Discount Rate
Economic Analysis    Financial Analysis
Users                  324.5                   421.5
Agency                 -66.6                    -80.3
Society                257.9                   341.2
Project Objectives and Main Benefits. An economic analysis was done for each rehabilitation and maintenance
program being financed under the project consisting of: (i) road rehabilitation; (ii) CREMA contracts; (iii)
departmental road maintenance; and (iv) bridge reconditioning. The project main objective is to reduce road
transport costs and preserve the road network in an efficient and sustainable manner at both national and
departnental levels. The proposed investment in rehabilitation and maintenance would: (i) reduce road-user
transport costs by lowering vehicle operating, accident and travel time costs; (ii) remove physical constraints to
international road transport of goods and people in the Mercosur region; and (iii) allow for the provision of more
reliable and safer transport services. Net benefits were evaluated using the Highway Design and Maintenance
Standard Model (HDM-IU) which simulates life cycle conditions and costs and provides economic decision criteria
for multiple road design and alternatives.
Main Assumptions. DNV estimated maintenance and rehabilitation costs in financial and economic terms (net of
taxes), economic costs being on average 83 percent of financial costs; and defined vehicle fleet characteristics and
unit costs for six vehicle classes, economic road user costs being on average 77 percent of financial costs. Typical
economic road user costs as a function of roughness (IRI), road user costs composition, and traffic composition are
given below; as well as relationship between the average vehicle fleet economic road user costs and road roughness.
Car     Pickup       Bus    Medium Heavy Truck   Articulatec
Truck                Truck
User Cost per Roughness ($/vehicle-krn)
21RI                      0.24       0.21       0.90       0.56       0.74       1.11
3 IRI                     0.24       0.21       0.90       0.57       0,75       1.12
411R                      0.25       0.22       0.92       0.60       0.79       1.17
5 IRI                     0.26       0.23       0.94       0.64       0.83       1.22
6 IRI                     0.27       0.24       0.97       0.68       0.87       1.28
71RI                       0.28      0.25       1.00       0.72       0.92       1.34
8 IRU                     0.29       0.26       1.04       0.76       0,96       1.40
9 IRI                     0.30       0.27       1.08       0.81       1.01       1.46
10 IRI                    0.32       0.29       1.13       0.85       1.06      1.53
Road User Costs Composition for 2 IRI (percent)
Fuel & Lubticants         13%        17%         9%        15%       17%        14%f
Tires                      1%         3%        14%        22%       36%        39%
Maint Parts&Labor          8%        16%        21%        19%       25%        31%
Crew Time                  0%         0%        10%        13%       11%         7A
Depreaiation &Inerest     60%        40%        11%        32%        11%        Sf%
Passnger Time             18%        24%        35%         0%        0%         0%
Average Daily Traffic Composition per Road Class (percent)
<300 ADT                  44%        19%         6%       19%         6%         6%
300< ADT <1000            47%        20%         5%        15%        5%         8%
1000< ADT <3000           52%        22%         6%        11%        4%         6%
>3000 ADT                 59%        25%         6%         6%        2%         2%.
Fleet road user costs, $ per vehicle-km = 0.3889 - 0.0215*IRI + 0.0061*IRIA2 - 0.0003*IRJA3
Traffic growth rate is defined based on recent growth rate of gross domestic product (3.7 percent growth from 1991
to 1995) and fuel consumption (4.5 percent growth from 1991 to 1995), and is set to 4 percent for the duration of
the analysis period which was set to fifteen years. The discount rate used is 12 percent. The value of time for car
passengers is $1.25 per hour and for bus passengers is $0.54 per hour based on the consideration that 28 percent of
car passengers and 70 percent of bus passengers earn income and are on work trips, and the value on non-worldng
time is zero.



Page 33
1996-1999 Five-Year Investment and Maintenance Plan. The roads covered under the road rehabilitation and
CREMA programs are key investrnents of the Five-Year Investment and Maintenance Plan for 1996-1999, with the
exception of the Rodo - Palmitas and parts of the Mercedes - Palmitas and Rodo -Cardona sections that were not
included in the plan because they were in good condition in 1995 but have developed critical rut depths (40 mm in
some areas) in recent years due to bad quality asphalt mix. DNV defined the 1996-1999 plan in 1995 by evaluating
all the national road network (8,629 kIn), defining 415 homogeneous sections, and classifying them into 88 road
classes based on pavement type, daily traffic, traffic composition, and road condition. Each road class was
evaluated using the HDM-III model and 15 possible investment/maintenance altemative operations were considered
ranging from reseals to upgrading. Based on the HDM-IlI results and the optimization of the Expenditure
Budgetary Model (EBM-HS), priority sections were defined as well as the recommended investment/maintenance
operation and timing for each section as a function of the perceived budged constraints for the 1996-1999 period
(US$201 million). The 1996-1999 plan yielded a rate of return of 37.6 percent and net present value of US$111
million
Road Rehabilitation Program. DNV evaluated each section to be rehabilitated under this program, using the
HDM-III model, with current data for road, vehicle fleet, and rehabilitation characteristics, and costs. The with
project alternative includes the rehabilitation in year 1 as well as routine maintenance, 100% patching and 5 cm
overlay when roughness reaches 4.0 IRI; and was compared to a without project alternative consisting of routine
maintenance, 100% patching and the rehabilitation occurring in year 10. The table below presents the main section
characteristics and corresponding results.
Daily Rehabilitation  Financial Financial
Section       Length Width Surf Roug Defle Traffic Type    Cost    Cast IRR      NPV
ace hness ction
(km)  (i)    (IRI) (mm) (ADT) (text)    (IJS$M) (000$/KM) (%)   ($USM)
Ruta 2: Rodo -  35.0  7.2 AC 2.5*  1.2  1504 12 cm Overlay    6.00  171 19.3     3.0
Palmitas
Ruta 2: Mercedes-   12.3  7.2 AC 2.5*  1.2  1504 12cmOverlay    2.10  171 19.3   1.1
Palmitas / Rodo-
Cardona **
Ruta30: km 192-   30.6  7.2 ST  4.8  1.5  618 DST          3.14     102 15.4     0.5
Camp. Masoiler                              Reconstruction
Ruta27:Km36.4-   20.0  6.0 ST  5.1  2.1  305 DST           1.90      95 16.4     0.5
km 56.4                                     Reconstruction
** parts ofthe  97.9         high                         13.14         18.2     5.2
overall 61.0 km              rut depths
section
The overall rate of return of the rehabilitation program is 18.2 percent with a net present value of US$5.2 million
Assuming that there is an increase in 20 percent in agency costs, the rate of return reduces to 16.0 percent and the
net present value to US$3.9 million. A 20 percent reduction in benefits reduces the rate of return to 15.5 percent
and the net present value to US$2.8 million. To have a net present value equal to zero, agency costs have to be
increased by 79 percent or benefits decreased by 44 percent.
CREAMA Contract Program. There will be three CREMA contracts financed under the project: (i) region VII, (ii)
regions II and III, and (iii) regions II and X. DNV determined the economic justification of each section to receive
periodic maintenance or to be rehabilitated under the CREMA contracts, using the BDM-HI model, with current
data for road, vehicle fleet, and rehabilitation characteristics and costs. Sections to receive only recurrent
maintenance were evaluated to assess if the road condition over time will always be below the allowable limits. The
paved sections to be rehabilitated or resurfaced were compared to the works taking place in year 10 and the
unpaved roads to be regravelled and maintained with gradings every 120 days were compared to a maintenance
policy of gradings every 270 days. The evaluation was made to ensure that all proposed works are economically
justified and that all roads will not exceed the maximum roughness levels stipulated on the CREMA contracts
during the first five years. The tables below present the main section characteristics, the financial costs of the
estimated periodic and rehabilitation works, and the corresponding results.



Page 34
Surf Roug Defle  Daily Rehabilitation  Financial Financial              IRI
Section                   Length Width  ace hness ction Traffic Type              Coat    Coat IRR      NPV   Year
(km)   (i)       (IIU) (mm) (ADT) (text)         (USSM) (000S/km) (%)  (USSM)   Five
CREMA II and X
Ruta IO/3 (R104-J.IgrL)      18.1   7.0  ST   2.9         1898 4mmnSeal          0.12       6.8 53.2     0.52    3.5
RutalO/4(J.Ign.-lgGarzon)    7.5   7.2  GR                 150 UnpavedRehab.    0.18      23.33  na      0.20
Ruta 10/5 (gGar...Caracol)    18.1   7.0  GR               150 Unpaved Rehab.    0.41     22.71  na      0.49
Ruta O/6 (Cara. - LRocha)    10.3   7.0  GR                 76 Unpaved Rehab.    0.23     22.72  na      0.14
Ruta 12/17 (Portozz.-Ruta9)  18.2   7.0  ST   2.8          381 Paved Maint                                       3.2
Ruta 39/2 (San Carlos-Ruta9)    1.2   7.0  AC   1.7       1405 Paved Maint                                       2.0
Ruta39/3 (Ruta9-48k600)     28.9   6.4  ST   2.1            80 Paved Maint                                       2.2
Ruta 39/4 (48k600-71k600)    23.0   6.0  ST   2.1           80 Paved Maint                                       2.4
Ruta 39/5 (71k600-Aigua)     18.2   6.5  ST   2.1           80 Paved Maint                                       2.4
Ruta93:Tramo41rr(Piri.-93)    7.2   7.0  AC   3.2  1.5  1958 9cmOverlay          0.93    129.44 18.0     0.33    1.7
Ruta 104: Ti (Ruta 10-Ruta9)   16.0   7.0  ST   3.3        413 Paved Maint                                       3.6
Ruta 99: Tramo I (R10-R200)    2.2   7.0  ST   4.0        2611 5cm Overlay       0.20     90.00 37.1     0.52    2.6
Ruta 10:Tramno 1 (E SolisPir.)   11.6   7.2  AC   1.9     2611 Paved Maint                                       2.6
Ruta 37: Tramo 1 (Piriap.-R9)    9.7   7.0  ST   3.8  1.8  1958 11 cm Overlay    1.19    122.68 31.3     1.46    2.0
Ruta 60/1 (P.Az.-A.P.Azuc.)    16.5   7.0  ST   2.1        430 Paved Maint                                       3.0
Ruta60/2 (A.PAzucar-LD.)    13.0   7.0  ST   3.9  1.2   430 DSTReconstr.         0.92     70.46 14.0    0.10    2.9
Ruta 60/3 (L.Deptal - R12)   8.5   7.0  ST   3.0           430 Paved Maint                                       3.3
Ruta 9/ 52rr (R9 - Caracol)  11.5   7.0  GR                150 Unpaved Rehab.    0.26     22.70  Na     0.29
240.0                                                4.44           31.0     4.05
Surf Roug Defle  Daily Rebabilitation  Financial Financial              IRI
Section                   Length Width  ace hness ction Traffic Type              Cost    Cost IRR    NPV    Year
(km)   (m)       (HU) (mm) (ADT) (text)          (US$M) (000$/bnm) (%) (USSM)    Five
CREMA 11y III
RutaS Ao Corrales-A.Sarandi   16.2   7.2  AC   1.7        1659 Paved Maint                                       2.1
Ruta 8 Ao Sarandi - Ruta 17  13.9   7.2  AC   1.7         1659 Paved Maint                                       2.1
Ruta 14 Averias - RutaS     26.9   6.6  ST   3.0           310 Paved Maint                                       2.1
Ruta 14lascano-Averias       13.1   5.5  ST   3.0          310 Sluffy            0.15     11.45 26.6   0.19      3.7
Ruta 15 Lascano-LaCoronilla   14.0   7.2  ST   3.5         420 SlurTy            0.21     15.00 12.4   0.01      3.8
Ruta 15 LaCoronilla-Ruta 19   18.7   6.7  GR               136 Unpaved Rehab.    0.44     23.32  Na    0.91
Ruta 15 Rutal9-Cebollati    31.3   6.5  GR                 136 Unpaved Rehab.    0.75     24.15  Na    1.42
Ruta 17 Treinta Tres -       12.3   7.2  AC   1.8          833 PavedMaint                                        2.1
RutalS
Ruta 17 Ruta 18- 314K000     14.0   7.0  ST   3.0          427 4mm Seal          0.10      6.79 17.1   0.04      3.7
Ruta 17314K000-G Martinez   35.5   6.5  ST   3.0           427 4mm Seal          0.22      6.31 23.1    0.29     3.7
Ruta 18 Ruta 17- Ao de Oro    18.2   7.2  ST   3.8  1.5   660 12 cm Overlay      3.38    185.71 12.3   0.06      1.9
Ruta lSAodelOro-Vergara    21.9   7.2  AC   2.0            660 PavedMaint                                        2.8
Ruta lBypass Vergara         5.9   7.1  AC   4.0  1.7   660 12cmOverlay          1.12    191.11 12.2   0.02      1.9
241.9                                                6.38           21.3   2.94
Surf Roug Defle  Daily Rehabilitation  Financial Financial               IRI
Section                 Length Width  ace hness ction Traffic Type              Cost    Cost IRR    NPV        Year
(cmn)  (i)       ( RI) (m) (ADT) (text)          (USSM) (000$lkm) (%) (US$M)         Five
CREMA VII
Ruta 21 Colonia - Ruta 22    30.4   7.0  ST   4.0        523 Reconstruction.   5.80    190.79 14.7   0.83       2.5
Ruta22Ruta21 -Tarariras   26.0   7.0  ST   3.0           586 4mmnSeal          0.19      7.12 36.3   0.16       3.3
Ruta 22 Tarrairas -         8.0   7.0  ST   2.5         1023 Paved Maint                                        3.1
36K000
Rura22 36K000 - Ruta 1     6.3   7.0  ST   2.5          1023 Paved Maint                                        3.1
Ruta 50 Ruta 1- C.        20.5   7.2  ST   3.7  1.7   313 Reconstruction       1.12     54.57 12.9   0.05       2.9
Tarariras
Ruta 50C Tarnras-          2.0   7.0  ST   2.8           193 Paved Maint.                                       3.4
Tarariras
Ruta 54JuanLacaze-Ruta      4.1   7.2  AC   2.2         1056 PavedMaint                                         2.8
1
Ruta54Ruta -Barker         11.4   7.2  ST   3.0          132 4mrnSeal          0.08      7.02 88.6   0.11       3.6
Ruta 54 Barker-ArroyoS    26.7   7.2  ST   3.1           132 4mn Seal          0.18      6.78 39.2   0.16       3.8
Juan
Ruta54ArroySJuan.          17.3   7.2  ST   3.1          132 4mmSeal           0.12      6.99 27.6   0.07       3.6
Rutal2
152.6                                                7.48           15.7   1.38
The overall rate of return of the CREMA program is 21.1 percent with a net present value of US$8.4 million. All
sections are economically justified with a net present value greater than zero. Assuming that there is an increase in
20 percent in agency costs, the rate of return reduces to 18.5 percent and the net present value to US$7.0 million. A
20 percent reduction in benefits reduces the rate of return to 17.9 percent and the net present value to US$5.3



Page 35
million. To have a net present value equal to zero, agency costs have to be increased by 119 percent or benefits
decreased by 54 percent.
If this rehabilitation and maintenance program is implemented, all sections will not achieve, during the first five
years, roughness levels higher than the following allowable roughness stipulated by the CREMA contracts that
were set based on a study done by DNV on defining optimal levels of services for different road classes based on
economic considerations.
CREMA Proegm Maximum Allowable Rouglmes
Surface              Traffic        Roughness Limit
Asphalt Concrete    ADT < 600          3.5 IRI
Asphalt Concrde     ADT > 600          2.8 IRI
Surface Treatment   ADT < 600          4.0 IRI
Surface Treatment   ADT > 600          3.5 IRI
Departmental Roads Maintenance Program. The economic evaluation of the Departmental Roads Maintenance
Program was done through the analysis of a matrix of road classes. DNV collected road characteristics for the
maintenance program network and defined sixteen road classes based on road traffic and visually estimated road
condition. The table below presents the network statistics and a mission estimate of the traffic breakdown of all
unpaved departmental roads.
l____ _  /Departmental Maintenance Program                DepNewttn) D ental Roads
_  IRI<5  5<RI<10  10<RI<15  IR>15    Total  Percent        Total   Peroent
ADT<30       159.4      755.1      745.4   270.3  3630.2     40      23090.1      79
30<ADT<70    1729.1    1042.7       367.0   137.1  3275.9     36       5261.0      1S8
70<ADT<150    947.4      595.7      175.4   198.7  1917.2     21        584.6       2
ADT>150        106.9     40.9        28.9      0    176.7      2        292.3        1
Total         4642.8    2434.4     1316.7   606.1  9000.0             29228.0
Percent          52        27         15       7                                    I
The base maintenance activities, defined for the phase of budget allocation among municipalities, consisting (for all
road classes) of routine maintenance, regravelling every 5 years and two gradings per year were evaluated using the
HDM-IlI model and compared to a without project option of routine maintenance and one grading per year. The
proposed maintenance program ensures all-weather accessibility and, as shown on the table below, is economically
justified for each road class yielding a network net present value of US$211 million. Assuming that there is an
increase in 20 percent in agency costs, the net present value reduces to US$201 million. A 20 percent reduction in
benefits reduces the net present value to US$159 million. To have a net present value equal to zero, agency costs
have to increase by 450 percent or benefits decrease by 82 percent.
Gmding Frequency (days) / NPV (USSM)
IRI<5    5<RI<10  10<R1<15  1R>15        Total NPV
ADT<30      180/4      180/2     180/3    180/1       USSM211
30<ADT<70  180 /35    180 /25    IS0 /10   180/4       RecwTent
70<ADT<150  180 /48    180 /34    1S0 /11   180/14     Resources
ADT>150    1S0 /11    180 / 5    180 /4               US$ nillion
I                         I    I   ~~~~~~~~~~~~4.1/year  
The economic analysis suggests that a more flexible maintenance program, varying the frequency of gradings and
regravellings thickness as a function of road class, yields higher economic benefits without increasing the level of
funding. Therefore, on the phase of programming the activities of each municipality, DNV adjusts if necessary the
base frequency of gradings and regravellings thickness by identifying the maintenance needs of each road; making
sure that all roads are graded at least once a year.
Bridge Reconditioning. The bridge reconditioning component was evaluated by DNV estimating the road user
benefits of the bridge improvements in terms of savings in vehicle operating costs and time costs. The base case
without project considers weight restrictions on the bridges implying that only light vehicles, with gross vehicle
weight less than 15.0 tons can circulate. In contrast, heavy vehicles, corresponding to an average of 13 percent of
the total traffic, are forced to use alternative routes with an average increase in travel distance of 30 percent, or



Page 36
reduce their loads by transferring some of the cargo to other vehicles, which results in an estimated 40 percent
increase in truck traffic. The with project case considers structural strengthening and widening or construction of
new bridges that eliminates travel restrictions and allows the passage of 45 tons trucks as mandated by the
MERCOSUR accord of 1993. The economic evaluation results are given on the table below.
Daily  Reconditioning                   Financial
Brdges                              Traffic Type                               Cost   IRR       NPV
(ADT) (text)                            (US$M)    (%/o)  (US$M)
R3 - Guaviyu                         803  New Bridge                            1.30    35.7    2.31
R3-ChapicuyGrande                    803  Strengthening&wideningto8m           0.30    35.7     0.53
R3-Carpinchury                       803  Strengthening&wideningto8m           0.30    35.7     0.53
R3-Ao.Grande                         882  Strengthening&wideningto8m            1.50    34.7    15.40
R3 - San Gregorio                   1260  New Bridge                           0.19    19.8     0.35
R3 - Ao Sauce                       1260  Strengthening & Widening to lOm       1.05    19.8     1.92
R8 - Ao. Gutierrez I                1660  Strengthening & Wideningto Sm        0.33    21.2     1.28
R8-Ao Gutierrezll                   1660  Strengthening&Wideningto8m           0.33    21.2     1.28
RS-Ao. Marmaraja km 150              623  Strengthening&WideningtoSm           0.35    47.8     1.17
RS - Ao.Marnaraja km 173             623  Strengthening & Widening to Sm        0.75    47.8    2.52
RS - Ao. Sauce                      1660  Strengthening& Widening to lOm        0.25    69.8    2.21
RB- Ao. Sarandi                     1660  Strengthening & Widening to lOm      0.25    69.8     2.21
R26 - Ao. Conventos                  666  New Bridge                            0.63    43.3     1.68
7.53    32.3    33.39
Program Consequences. The project is a component of an overall maintenance and rehabilitation program
undertaken by DNV. With local and external financing (IBRD, LADB, OECF and FONPLATA), the program has
an estimated budged of around US$55.0 million per year for 1998-2001 to finance rehabilitation works for a
network of 8,629 kmn (83 percent paved), representing $6,300 per km-year. An analysis of the current paved
network condition indicates that 53 percent of the network has a roughness less than 3.5 IRI, 75 percent of the
network users (vehicle-km) travel on roads with roughness less than 3.5 IRI, and 15 percent of the network has
roughness above an optimal roughness threshold (optimal level of service) defined, for each traffic class, as a
function of an economic evaluation. The tables below present the current network condition and traffic and the
optimal levels of service found for each traffic class.
Current Paved Network Trffic (1997)             Optimal
Traffic                      Asphalt Concrete       Surfac Treatment       Total      Level of Service
ADT<150                           0%                     12%                8%           6.01RI
150 < ADT < 300                   6 %                    30 %              22 %          6.0 IRI
300 < ADT < 600                   13 %                   35%               28%           4.5 IRI
600 < ADT < 1000                  29%                    17%               21 %          3.5 IRI
1000 < ADT < 3000                 47%                    5 %               19%           3.5 IRI
3000 < ADT < 6000                 6 %                    0 %                2 %          3.0 IRI
ADT > 6000                         1 %                   0 %                0 %          3.0 IRI
Current Paved Network Condition (1997)
Condition          Roughness         Percent of Network Length, km  Percent of Network Utilization, vehicle-
km
Good                < 3.5 IR1                  53 %                             75 %
Fair             3.5 < II < 4.5                31%                               16%
Poor                > 4.5 MI                    15 %                             9%
Percent ofthe network below optinal level of service = 15 %
An economic evaluation of the network indicates, based on the network and vehicle fleet characteristics and road
agency unit costs, that the proposed level of expenditures for the 1998-2001 period is appropriate and can be
considered to be a progran without budget constraints. It is estimated that in 2001 the percent of roads with
roughness less than 3.5 will increase to 60 percent, 87 percent of the users will travel on roads with roughness less
than 3.5 IRI and 8 percent of the network will have roughness above the optimal roughness threshold level. Thus,
there will be an overall improvement on the network condition. The table below presents the expected condition of
the network in 2001 with the project.



Page 37
Estmated Paved Network Condition witn the Projct 2001)
Condition         Roughmess        Percent ofNetwork Langdb, km  Percent ofNetwork Utihzgton,
vehicle.hn
Good              < 3.5 IRI                  60 %                         S7
Fair            3.5 < IRI < 4.5              1S%                          S %
Poor              > 4.5IRI                   22%                          5%
Percent ofthe network below optimal level of service = 8 %
If the program is not implemented, the network condition will deteriorate. It is estimated that in 2001 the portion of
roads with roughness less than 3.5 will decrease to 36 percent, 62 percent of the users will travel on roads with
roughness less than 3.5 IRI and 36 percent of the network will have roughness above the optimal roughness
threshold level. The table below presents the expected condition of the network in 2001 without the project.
Estimated PavedNetwork Conditionwithoutthe Proect (2001)
Condition         Roughness        Percent of Network Length, km  Percent of Network Utilization,
vehicle-km
Good         ~< 3.5 IRI                 36 %                         62 %
Fair            3.5<1IRI <4.5                17%                          12%
Poor              > 4.5 IRI                  47 %                         26 %
Percent of the network below optimal level of service = 36 %
The graph below shows the average network roughness, weighted by vehicle-km, over the years with and without
the project indicating that in 1997 the average network roughness is 2.9 IRI and in 2001 with the project is
estimated to be 3.0 IRI and without the project to be 3.7 IR.
3.9
A 3                       Wthout Project         "
,3.5                                 000-
-3.3-                 -     '-
3A .                                Wth Project
2.9
!2.7
2.5
1997       1998       1999        2000        2001
Year
Distribution of Benefits. An evaluation of a typical rehabilitation project in Uruguay indicates that: (i) 95 percent
of the project benefits are due to a reduction on vehicle operating costs and 5 percent due to time savings; (ii) 30
percent of the road user benefits go to cars and pickups, 5 percent go to buses and 65 percent to trucks; (iii) vehicle
operating costs are reduced by 5 percent and time costs are reduced by 3 percent with relation to the without project
case; and (iv) cars and pickups save 5 percent on their road user costs with relation to the without project case,
buses 3 percent, and trucks 6 percent.
Overall Project Benefits. The table below presents a summary of the overall project benefits. The net present value
of the capital works of the rehabilitation, CREMA and bridge restoration programs is US$47.0 million and the rate
of return is 25.7 percent. Including the net present value of the departmental roads maintenance program, total
project net present value is US$257.9 million. A 20 percent increase in agency costs reduces the net present value
to US$244.6 million; a 20 percent reduction in benefits reduces the net present value to US$193.0 million, and a
combination of these two scenarios yields a net present value of US$179.7 million. To have a net present value
equal to zero agency costs have to be increased by 387 percent or benefits decreased by 79 percent. These events
have a very low probability of occurrence indicating that the project economic viability is very robust.



Page 38
Switching Values
Net        Intemal      Increase      Decrease
Present Value   Rate       in Agency      in User
@ 12 percent   of Return   Costs to Yield Benefits to Yield
L(US$ Million)    (%)       NPV = O        NPV =0
Users  Road Rehabilitation   11.7
CREMA Contracts       15.4
Bridge Restoration    39.1
Departnental Roads    258.3
Subtotal             324.5
Agency Road Rehabilitation   -6.6
CREMA Contracts      -7.0
Bridge Restoration    -5.7
Departnental Roads    -47.3
Subtotal             -66.6
Society Road Rehabilitation   5.2        18.2%         79%           44%
Bridge Restoration    33.4        32.3%        587%           85%
CREMA Contracts       8.4         21.1%        119%           54%
Departmental Roads    211.0        NA          450%           82%
Overall              257.9        25.7%        387%           79%



Page 39
Annex 5
Second Transport Project
Financial Summary
DNV Financial and Investment Plan
Historical data and projections for project implementation period (1998-2000)
Years Ending December 31
DNV Financing Plan - Historical and Projected (US$ nill.) (
Sources            1993   1994   1995   1996   1997  IR                     2001   2002   2003
FIMTOP                      56.2   59.4   40.6   51.4   50.5   p         1 X          40.0   40.0   40.0
Treasury                     0.0    0.0   15.3   16.3   20.9  '#O               1     8.0    8.0    8.0
Sub-Total Dornestic Funds  562   59.4   55.9   67.7   71.4 A        A              48.0   48.0   48.0
IBRD - Transporta           12.6   13.6   10.4   129   10.5              |.  8.1    0.0
I BRD - Transport II ~0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0 0H0 istocal0.0    0.0    0.0
IDB                          0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   10.9                          0.0    0.0    0.0
Other donnors                0.0    2.7    5.9    8.5    4.3      _0.0    0.0 
New lending (Plan 2000-2004)                                                          4.      91 3.
Sub-Total Foreign Funds  12.6 1  6.3 1  6.3   21.4   25.7                        4372  1 4 39.1   37.5
Grand Total 68.8 | 75.7 | 72.2 | 89.1 | 97.1    l_                     91.6 | 87.1   85.5
DWV Budget - Historical and Projecte (US$ nuill.)
HPem             1993   1994   1995   199s on1budget                      2001   2002   2003
Maintenance (4)             23.9   23.0   25.6   286   31.3 a f y                     32.9   32.9   32.9
Adrnistrathon               6.6    6.3    8.3    8.3   10.9                           72 7a2    7ad
Sub-Total 0pative Exp.  30.5   29.3   33.9   36f9   42a2 o  o the40.1   40.1   40.1
Newconstrin    wotherks      7.3   13.2   11.2   14f4 9a5                             0.0    0.0    0.0
Rehablitatin works          21.2   24.0   21.8   30r6   29r8                          36io   31du   30u3
Ekidges             ~~8.2    7.6    4.0    4.5   10.7  ~                  # 10.1   10.1   10.1
Safety12                            04       5    19     4030                                 30
Inst Strengthening           0.4    1.2    0.7    0.8 0f9 a not                       2.0l20e2.
Sub-Total Investment Exp.  38.3   46.4   38.3   52c2   59t51.5   47.0   45.4
Grand-Total 68.8   75.7 172.2  89          71 1          2 ~1.~ffM 916 8.1 8.
Notes
(1) Projections forl1998-2000 are based on budgetallocations authorized under Five-YearPThanl1995-1999 (theannual budget
allocation for year 2000 is the sarme as for year 1999). Projections beyond year 2000 are not supported 1ty authorized
plans; the figures are based on Banik estimates based on a forecas of the future condition of the road netvuki
(2) The actuall arnmoit of fees on fuels and lulxncants, one of the tmai sources of FIMrOP, amnply exceed total allocations
sho,%&n in the Table; the amount of fees actually collected mncreased fromn about US$61m in 1994 to about USS74m in 1997,
(3) Figures exclude funds and expenditures allocated to the Departmiental Roads component, since such transfers are funded
outside DNVs budget. For same reasons, read rehabilitation expenditure under the Forest Products Transport Projert
and the respective Bank loan financing are not included.
(4) From 1998 and on includes contract maintenance.



Page 40
Annex 6
Second Transport Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Procurement methods (Table A). Works (other than those under DNV's Maintenance Program) will be
procured in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and
September 1997. Works estimated to cost US$3,000,000 or more will be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures. Works estimated to cost
less than US$3,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$13,000,000
equivalent, may be procured following National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures, using standard
bidding documents acceptable to the Bank. Works to be carried out under Departmental Maintenance
Subprojects may be carried out by force account; MTOP will pay to departments for the work done based
on unit prices set by MTOP for each activity under the program.
Consultant services will be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the
"Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, published by the Bank
in January 1997 and revised in September 1997. Table Al shows the selection arrangements. Services for
the provision of technical assistance to DNV to monitor and supervise the carrying out of the project and
the preparation of MTOP's transport infrastructure plan for years 2000-2004, will be procured under a
fixed budget. Services that are estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract may be
procured by using the following procedures for selection based on Consultants' Qualifications. Services
for expanding the maintenance management and planning systems, which are estimated to cost less than
US$ 100,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured on the basis of single source selection; the
consultants retained by MTOP to develop such systems during implementation of the Transport I Project
(Loan 302 1-UR) were selected following Quality-Based Selection procedures satisfactory to the Bank, and
MTOP will continue with the same consultants to expand the systems under the proposed project.
Prior review thresholds (Table B). Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts or of any
requests for proposals to consultants, the proposed procurement plan for the Project will be furnished to the
Bank for its review and approval. For civil works, all bidding packages to be procured under ICB
procedures, and the first two contracts to be procured under NCB, will be subject to Bank prior review of
advertising, bidding documents, bid evaluation and contract award. For consulting firms, services estimated
to cost US$100,000 equivalent or more, and all single-source assignments will be subject to prior review of
contracts, terms of reference, and selection procedures. For individual consultants, services estimated to
cost US$50,000 or more but less than US$100,000, will be subjectto prior review. For consultant services
(firms and individuals) under the above limits only the terms of reference will be subject to prior review.
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C). Table C sets forth the categories of items to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Bank loan, the allocation of the amounts of the loan to each category and the percentage of
financing in each category. Retroactive financing not exceeding US$6.1 million would be provided for
eligible expenditures incurred after January 2, 1998 in respect of Departmental Road Subprojects.
Use of statements of expenses (SOEs): The use of Statement of Expenditure (SOEs) will be permitted for
withdrawal from the loan account in respect of (i) contracts for works estimated to cost less than
US$3,000,000 with the exception of the first two contracts for works to be awarded under NCB, and (ii)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms and individuals costing less than US$100,000 and



Page 41
US$50,000 equivalent, respectively. It is anticipated that the project will develop LACI compatible
disbursement procedures. Until then, the use of SOEs will be permitted.
Special account: A special account of up to US$6 million, will be opened in the Central Bank under terms
and conditions acceptable to the Bank. The Authorized Allocation will be limited to US$3 million until the
aggregate amount of withdrawals plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments is equal to
or exceed US$13 million.
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements"1
(in US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                      Procurement Method                       Total Cost
____  (including
ICB          NCB         Other b      N.B.F"    Contingencies)
1. Works
a) Road Rehabilitation and        10.3         13.0                                       23.3
Bridge Restoration             (7.2)        (9.1)                                     (16.3)
b) CREMA contracts                26.5                                                    26.5
(18.5)                                                  (18.5)
c) DNV's Road Maintenance                                                 45.1            45.1
Program                                                                (0.0)           (0.0)
d) Road Safety Programn                         5.3                                        5.3
(3.7)                                      (3.7)
e) Departmental Road                                         33.0                         33.0
Subprojects                                              (23.1)                        (23.1)
2. Servicesv
Technical Assistance,                                         3.1                          3.1
Studies and Training                                        (2.2)                         (2.2)
3. Front End Fee                                                 0.645                        0.645
(0.645)                      (0.645)
Total                             36.8         18.4          36.7         45.1           136.9
(25.7)       (12.9)        (25.9)        (0.0)          (64.5)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
i/ Other = Force account, three quotations and national shopping
Cl N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed (includes expenditures under DNV's road maintenance program).
'v Bank Guidelines for Selection of Consultars by World Bank Borrowers dated January 1997 and revised in September 1997, and Front-end Fee.
" For details on presentation of Procurement Methods refer to ODI 1.02, "Procurement Arrangements for Investment
Operations." Details on Consultant Services can be shown more easily in the Table Al format (additional to Table A,
where applicable).



Page 42
Annex 6, Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(in US$ million equivalent)
Consultant Services Expenditure                      Selection Method                         Total Cost
Category                                                                           (including
QCBS    QBS        SFB       SS       CQ      N.B.F.    contingencies)
Institutional Strengthening of        0.4                                   0.1                     0.5
Departments                          (0.2)                                 (0.1)                   (0.3)
Technical Assistance in Planning and                              0.2                              0.2
Maintenance Management Systems                                    (0.2)                            (0.2)
Analysis and Evaluation of Options                                          0.9                     0.9
for DNV's Renewal Program                                                  (0.6)                   (0.6)
Institutional Strengthening of                                              0.1                    0.1
MTOP (fiscal policy)                                                       (0.1)                   (0.1)
Studies and Supervision                                  1.4                                        1.4
(1.0)                                     (1.0)
Total    0.4                1.4      0.2      1.1                     3.1
(0.2)             (1.0)    (0.2)    (0.8)                    (2.2)
Notes: Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
L,CS = Least-Cost Selection
SS = Single Source
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications, including individuals
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review"
Expenditure                Contract Value        Procurement             Contracts Subject to
Category                   (Threshold)            Method          Prior Review / Estimated Total
Value Subject to Prior Review
US $ thousands                                  US S millions
1. Works
a. Road Rehabilitation, Bridge               >=3,000             ICB                     AllV10.8
Reconditioning and Safety Program           <3,000             NCB            First Two Contracts/2.5
b. CREMA Contracts                           >=3,000             ICB                     AIV21.1
c. Departmental Roads                               -        Force Account
Subprojects
2. Services
Consultant Firms                             >=100      QCBS, CQ, SFB,SS                AIV12.1
Individuals                                   >=50              CQ
Firms and Individuals              Under limits above           CQ                 TORs only
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:        36.5
12 Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement Documentation" and
contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.



Page 43
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category              Amount in US$    Financing Percentage
million
(1) Civil Works
a)  Road Rehabilitation, Bridge Restoration         17.8              70%
and Road Safety Program
b)  CREMA Contracts                                 16.4              70%
c)  Department Road Subprojects                     23.1              70%
(2) Consultant Services and Training                  2.1              70%
(3) Front end Fee                                     0.645
(3) Unallocated                                       4.5
Total                              64.5



Page 44
Annex 7
Second Transport Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                       Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
153.6                138.8
B. Project Schedule                              Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      11 months            11 months
First Bank mission (identification)             10/07/1997           10/07/1998
Appraisal mission departure                     05/26/1998           06/30/1998
Negotiations                                    06/15/1998           08/10/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  09/30/1998              / /19
Prepared by: Ministry of Transport and Public Works (MTOP) - Directorate of National
Highways (DNV)
Preparation assistance: DNV's own budget
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     SPecialfv
Jose Luis Irigoyen                          Task Manager
Asif Faiz                    Sector Leader, Institutional Development
Gustavo Ranalli                          Highway Engineer
Robin Carruthers                        Transport Economics
Rodrigo Archondo-Callao                     Economic Evaluation
Juan David Quintero                    Environmental Engineering
George Ledec                         Environmental Specialist
Albert Amos                            Transport Specialist
Livio Pino                       Financial Management/Auditing
Colin Gannon                    Peer Reviewer, Transport Economics
Cesar Queiroz                   Peer Reviewer, Highway Engineering
Orville Grimes                           Quality Assurance
Reynaldo Pastor                               Counsel
Morag Van Praag                          Disbursement Officer



Page 45
Annex 8
Second Transport Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
DNV. 1998. Detailed Project Cost and Implementation Plan. August
DNV. 1998. Terms of reference for: (i) Technical Assistance in Institutional Strengthening of
Intendencias; (ii) Technical Assistance in Implementation and Expansion of the MMS and SIPLA; and (iii)
DNV's renewal program. June.
DNV. Bidding Documents and Engineering Studies for CREMA Contracts. June.
DNV. 1998. Economic Analysis with HDM for Road Rehabilitation and CREMA Programs. June
DNV. 1998. Economic Feasibility Bridge Restoration Program. Prepared by Ing. Krugman. June
DNV. 1998. Engineering Designs for Bridge Restoration Component (Ao. Conventos, Ao. Chapicuy
Grande and Ao. Carpincury). Prepared by Division of Structures.
DNV. 1998. Environmental Manual. Prepared by Environmental Unit. April.
DNV. 1998. Policy Paper on Restructuring DNV and Maintenance Strategies. February.
DNV. 1997. Maintenance Plan for the Departmental Road Network and Standard Arrangement for Work
Execution. Prepared by Divisi6n de Apoyo Infraestructura Vial Departamental. December.
DNV. 1996. Technical and Economic Evaluation of the National Road Network for the Five-Year Plan
1995-1999. Prepared by Ings. Krugman, Anzalas and Bermudez.
Hidrosud-CSI Consultants. 1997. Maintenance Management System: Annual Performance Evaluation.
December.
Presidency of the Republic. 1997. Decree on the Restructuring of MTOP/DNV. March.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1998. Economic Assessment
1998. Implementation Completion Report on a (First) Transport Project (Loan 3021-UR). June.
Rebelo, Jorge. 1996. "A Reform Agenda for the Uruguayan Transport Sector". Country Departnent I,
Latin America and the Caribbean Region. August.
C. Other
Ariel Nieto & Consultores Asociados. 1997. Study for road safety improvement of highway passing
through urban areas. Final Report. November.
BCEOM, 1997. Executive Summary of a Feasibility Study for the Southem Cone Road Axis - Uruguay.



Page 46
For the Trinational Commission Argentina-Brazil-Argentina. September.
Cardozo, Javier. 1998. Study on Regional Integration of Freight Transport. Final Report prepared for
IPTI-MTOP. Funded by OAS. March
Ceiter, Luis. 1997. The Road To Decentralization in Uruguay. March.
Hidrosud-CSI Ingenieros. 1997. Study for Inplementation of a Planning System within DNV. Progress
Report. September.
IDB. 1997. Program for Inprovement of Integration Corridors and National Roads. Staff Appraisal
Report. June
MTOP. 1995. Statistical Summary of the Transportation Sector in Uruguay.
Weiss, Joseph. Study on Uruguay's Road-User Charges System. Final Report. March 1998.
*Including electronic files.



Page 47
Annex 9
Statement of Loans and Credits
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 30-Jun-98
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                         Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval         Company         Loan    Equity  Quasi  Partic  Loan  Equity . Quasi  Partic
1980/88/96         Surinvest              0.00    1.79    5.28    0.00   0.00    1.79    5.28    0.00
1985/92            Azucitrus              2.88    3.45    0.00    0.00   2.88    3.45    0.00    0.00
1989               Migranja               3.30    2.00    0.00    0.00   3.30    2.00    0.00    0.00
1991               Granja Moro            1.78     .75    0.00    0.00   1.78      .75    0.00    0.00
1993               Banco Comercial        1.09    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.09    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995               Consorcio Aerop.       3.73    0.00    4.00    9.09   3.73    0.00    4.00    9.09
Total Portfolio:              12.78    7.99    9.28    9.09  12.78    7.99    9.28    9.09
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan     Equitv  Oua  Partic
Total Pending                   0.00     0.00  0.00    0.00
Commitment:



Page 48
Status of Bank Group Operations in Uruguay
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference
Between expected
Original Amount in USS Millions          and actual
Loan or    Fiscal                                                                                                             disbursements at
Project ID   Credit No.   Year              Borrower                        Purpose
IBRD     IDA   Cancellations  Undisbursed   Orig Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Loa/s/credits: 54
AcxLtv
UY-PE-8138   IBRD2921A             GOVERNMENT OFURUGUAY    WIR SUPPLY RHB                             .89    0.00          0.00          .89      .88     0.00
UY-PE-8146   IBRD3221S             ADMINNACIONALDEUSINAS   POWERMODERNIZATION                       43.75    0.00          0.00         2.89    2.92      0.00
UY-PE-8161   IBRD3S55A             REPUBLIC OFURUGUAY               HLTHSCTRDEVT                    13.02    0.00          0.00         12.52    8.03     8.03
UY-PE-8171    IBRD3729A            REP OF URUGUAY                   BASIC ED QUAL IMPRV             13.19    0.00          0.00        12.69    5.02      0.00
UY-PE-S173   IBRD3697A             GOVTOFURUGUAY                    IRRG NAT RES MGMT               21.34    0.00          0.00        20.41   15.97      0.00
UY-PE-41994  IBRD43810    1999  GOVERNMENT                          EDUCATIONII                    28.00    0.00           0.00        28.00    0.00      0.00
UY-PE-39203   IBRD42040    1997  GOVERNMENT OF URUGUAY    FOREST PROD.TSP                           76.00    0.00          0.00        68.36   14.66      0.00
UY-PE-8177   IBRD39490    1996  GOVT OF URUGUAY                     POWER TRNMSN & DISTR           125.00    0.00          0.00        123.03   44.63     0.00
Total                                                                                             321.19    0.00          0.00        268.79   92.11      8.03
Active Loans         Closed L sTo
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                           52.40                1,136.62               1,189.02
ofwhich has been repaid:                                0.00                 692.65                 692.65
Total nowheld by lBRD and IDA:                           321.19                 446.84                 768.03
*Amotnotsold         :                                      0.00                   4.62                   462
Ofwhichrepaid      :                                     0.00                    4.62                   4.62
Total Undisbursed     :                                  268.79                   2.87                 271.66
a   Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appral.
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. AnnexD2. Preparation of Implamentation Sunimay (Form 590).
Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performnance (ARPP), a letter based system will be used (HS =bighly Satisfwtory, S  satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory. HU = highly
unsatisfactory): see proposed Improveme  intProjectandPortfolio Perfonnanos RatingrMethodolon, (SecM94-901), August 23,1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated athe end of the first week of the montiL



Page 49
Annex 10
..... ...............  ...  ................  ............................................................................... .............................  ................. ..........  ..........  ....... .................
Uruguay at a glance
Latin   Uppar.
POVERTY  and SOCIAL                                                         Amnies  mididle.
Uruelea    * Carib.  intomu                D velopmentdiamond'
Population mid -1980 millionth                                        3.2         485         479                    Lifo expectancy
GNHP percepits 19S6/USJtI                                           5.910        3.710      4,540
GNP 1998 (billions US S)                                             18.9        1,799      2.173
Average anneal rewtk, 1110.S
Population /XJ                                                        0.8           1.7        1.5       GNP                                       G ross
Iaber force (XI                                                        1.0         2.3         1.8       pio                                     p rim ary
Meet recent estim ate flaitstyeareavilahle since 1901                                                        t                   /
Poverty:hoadcountind rx (S ofpaoplatienJ
Urbon populotien /X ofto WppapatiornJ                                  so           74         73
Life expectancy atbirth (years)                                        73           88         69
Infantm ortality (par 100fiveh births)                                 1            37         35                   A ccess to safe water
Child malnutrition (/  ofchildren under5)
Access to safe water(  of population)                                  83           88         88
Illiteracy (s ofpopolation ago 15.)                                     3           13          13                   Uxe  ry
Gross primary enrollment(% of shool-ag popula60on                     109           110        107                   U ruguar
Moule                                                               110Uperoiionco,gou
Femal                                                              109
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1875       1J85         1395        1938
E onuom it ratios'
GODP (tillions US$1                                       3.5         4.7          17.9       19.5
GroandomesticinvestmentICDP                               10.9        11.4         11.7       13.1                 Openosns of economy
Exporb of goods end servicoslG DP                         18.8       26.8         20.8        21.7
Grosa  domestic savingsIGOP                               15.4       17.0         13.7        13.5
gross nationalsavingsGODP                                 13.0        9.8          12.0       14.0
Currontaccountbalancal  OP                                -5.4       -2.1          *1.2       11.5
IntorostpaymonlsODP                                        1.5        8.2          2.3         2.0       Savings                                es Invoctment
TotaidabtiGOP                                            25.7        83.1         29.7       30.8                               A 
TtotI dobtsorviceIaxports                                59.0        42.8         23.0       20.8
Presantvolu  of debtlG DP                                                         28.7
Prosentvaluc ofdobti xports                                                      138.7                                   Indobto dnass
1975.85  186- Be          1J35          1918    1937.05
(average annualgrowt)                                                                                        -       1 U rrg ay
soP                                            0.1      J32          .2.4          4.3         3.8                   UprmdloIcm     re
GNP per capita                                 -1.1        3.0       -2.8          8.8         2.5                   Upee  iddl-inoruCgou
Exports of goods and cervices                  4.4        5.1        .4.7          7.0         4.0
STRUCTURE of thO ECONMO MY
(s of aOlP)                                             1175        l9S 1JtS                 11J          C rowth rate  of output and  invnstm  nti
Agriculture                                               15.2       13.8          9.9        10.1       30
Industry                                                 33.8        3S.9         25.7       28.8       2I
Monufactaring                                          25.8        29.4          17.7       17.8              /
Services                                                  5t1        50.5         64.3        83.9
Privet. consumpion                                       70.8        88.5         73.4       73,7        .G1       01 e    2      a3     a4             00
Gsneralgovornmentconsumption                              14.0       14.4         12.0        12.8
Import of goods and servicos                             20.3        21.1          18.8       21.3                        0DI              D P
1875 85  1SOa.1            1385        1838
(savrage annialgreowti                                                                                   C rowth ratee of exports and  Imports 1X)
Agriculture                                                1.0       3.1           2.4         8.2       0x
Industry                                                  -0.8       0.6 e2.8                  4.2
Mnufoactaring                                               1.1   e0.6          -2.8         4.5       20           0
Services                                                   0.4       4.6           .17         3.8       1o      /\
Private consumption                                       .1.0       4.9          d3.8         8.4
On esral Iovonm entconsum  ption                          2.9        L.            0.2          1.1                s1    e2       I0     *4             I s
Groet domoati Investeont                                  .3.7       7.5           3.3        .0.8       Ax
Imports ofgoods and services                             *0.5       11.2           -1.7       10.5                         Exporl            p    rt
Gross notioel product                                     .0.G        3.5         .2.2         74
Noate: 1098  dato are preliminaor ystimrotis.Figures in Italics are foryearo  otherthan those specified.
* The diem ends show four koy indicsatrs In the country (in held) comparod wilh Its Incm e-group overae. If dote er missing, the diem  nd will
be Inoampiets.



Page 50
Uruguay
PRICES and 60 VE RIME NT FINANCE
1975     ls5          15s5       139o
(N aeattat) @                                                                                       Iulo i      X
Conosume prices                                        814       72.2         35.4       24.3      tr
loplicit80p deflator                                  880        740          388        283
Gevera. eat f/ieee.                                                                                 40
2 0
IX ef 60PJ                                                                                           a
Cerrentrovenus                                                    1.0         38.2       38.8                 a1    II     *3      a4    Is      It
Curt,nthodgetbglance                                     .         14          3.2        3.8                        CD_P___f__    -d..    I
C tv r1 *I rp lu/I flIcit                                         -3.1        -tO        -0.3
TRADE
1i75     1l85         1s5       1s9
I,i/lfinU S$)                                                                                       Expert ea.  imp ort lavel, maIll. US I)
Toblexport Ifob)                                       384        854        2.108      2.397      o4.o0
W al                                                  105        184         241        283
Most                                                  97         111         252       244        2000
Manufactros                                                     260          838      1,033
Tefel Imports (cilt                                    556        708        2,802      3.301       2,00 0
Food                                                   11        22          201        232
Foil and energy                                        ..       224          272        341        Loo
Capital goods                                           ..       8          384         502
Expertprioe index (1897-100)                                       78          131        139              so   I    *2    93   24   is   I 
Importpric index (1987-100)                                        el 81        81        97                       oxE,a,          Imhp srts
Turms of trad e1*87-100)                                          127          144        142
BALANCE uf PAYMENTS
1975      198S         1195       lSos
(mfiilien, lis                                                                                      CFrro.toaeaathal          a ae ta DP ratl (%
Experts of Seds and servhcs                            551       1,257      3,504      3.729        4
ompert of geds and serviess                             78       1.015      3,585       4,117
Rcsersrc  buhonos                                     -125        242          B61      -388
hNtincom s                                               71      *351         -227         18
Notcurronttros.fors                                      7          11         78         74
CurrontaeIunotbalanc.                                                                                  to    51  92 102    04           s50[ 0
bsfara official caplibl transfers                    -180 l      88         .212       -298       -2
Fincan oin itsme (na                                   120        184            3        152
Chingos in notrorsrvos                                  89        .88         209         144      .4
Roscrve sIncluding gold Im ill VliStJ                  555       1,031       2,101      2,305
Convirslen rab floeaINS 1                          2.3E 03         0.1         8.3        7.2
EXTER NAL   8E IT  anid RESOURCE  FLOWS
18i75     1985         188S       18BS9
I, Xli/Onn, Ussj                                                                                    Cam polie of tetel dot, 1815 (mill. US1
TXatldubtautstanding  nd dlsburisd                     804      3,910        5,307      5,994
18R0                                                  8s9       182         513        448                                  A
IDA                                                    0          0           0          0                                  1 sa
Tutoldidltservice                                      327        588         800        847               1338                                      I
IBR60                                                  11        30          117       103                                           748
IDA                                                               0 D                    0
CompoiluSn  t of trs,urcs flows
O fficil Itran                                         0          2           15         .\                                          338
0 ffical orvditors                                   8         la           9
Privab creditrn                                       44         17          88
Forlgn dilrctinisotmnalt                               0          0         124
Pertoioe ql tiy                                        0          0           4                                     2.F
23853
W  rld Bank pr.ltgoo
CGmmi oatmIt                                          52          4           U          0        A - EfRO                          E BIll teral
Dlohsrcomnts                                          5         23          32         38        I - iA      8- Otharmuiilstgrl   F. P rivats
Principal ropoym snte                                  8         10          78         70        C  liF                            a - short-term
Netflws                                               .1         4          .40        .31
bterstpaym late                                        5          11         40         33
Nattansfors                                           .7         .7         .88        .84
Dn tbopm cnt E scne.m la                                                                                                                    8128j87



Page 51
Annex 11
Regional Integration and Economic Competitiveness
The volume of intemational freight transport by road has increased rapidly in recent years as the composition of
foreign trade has changed and regional imports and exports have gained importance. Since 1990, intemational road
traffic through Uruguay has grown at an annual average rate of 12 percent. The total value of intemational trade
among Mercosur was about US$18 billion in 1997, which represented a 260 percent increase since 1990. Bolstered
by the initial result of integration efforts, three major regional projects are presently under consideration: (i) the
Buenos Aires-Colonia Bridge; (ii) the Buenos Aires-Sao Paulo Highway Axis, and (iii) the Parana/Paraguay
Waterway. The decision to develop any of these projects would further impact regional traffic patterns and,
particularly, Uruguay's transport system.
Market            ruay-Agentina  |             gV-B I        1 Uruguay-Paragay |          Total
1987      1997       1987       1997       1987     1997       19871       1997
Uruguay Share of inports (%)     78%       74%        52%         46%      43%        46%        N/A         59%
Uruguay Share of Exports ()      86%       61%        69%         65%      53%        39%        N/A         63%
Total Uruguay Market Share       81%       68%        60%         57%      45%        42%        N/A         61%
Total Tons Transported        246,050   804,108   466,032   1,131,770    5,803    66,183         N/A    2,072,061
Mercosur did not come into existence until 1990
Source. WorldBankStaff
Within Mercosur, international road freight and passenger transport is regulated by multilateral agreements, which
were approved by the member countries in 1995. These agreements seek to harmonize transport across country
borders to facilitate international trade. Among the most important decisions enacted by the Mercosur Council
were the agreements for joint customs operations and common standardized customs forms.'3 The first meeting of
the Mercosur Council at the end of 1991 established guidelines for the transport sector, which aimed to: (i) reduce
transportation costs and attract private investment in the sector, (ii) foster deregulation for international transport of
goods between member countries; and (iii) address regulatory asymmetries. Subsequent agreements established
reciprocity conditions, restricted transport to authorized operators on predetermined routes, established terminal and
border crossing points, prohibited en-route domestic transport by vehicles of one country in another, and exempted
transit goods from import/export duties
Unfortunately, progress in imnplementing these procedures has been slower than anticipated, as many previous
recommendations are still waiting to be enacted into law by Mercosur members."4 Nevertheless, the Mercosur
transport agenda is moving steadily towards addressing these implementation issues. With IDB support, Uruguay's
Customs Agency, has initiated several measures that will significantly reduce border delays in the short term and
stimulate the more radical changes needed in the medium term.'5 The first step entails the installation of an
integrated information system and to enforce the prior electronic submission of all documentation. This system
would be similar to the one that has been successfully installed in Peru, which has expedited the physical inspection
of vehicles by having processed the relevant documentation in advance. Other initiatives include the implementation
of new operational guidelines and custom regulations in line with Mercosur agreements, and a pilot that tests the
use of integrated controls at a single border crossing.
With almost 90 percent of Uruguayan tradable goods transported by truck, an emerging class of dynamic exporters
in Uruguay has noted that infiastructure bottlenecks and bureaucratic control may potentially restrain the current
13  A conmnon OlC/DTA documnent allows customs inspection to be paformed only once at ongn. Its use is still very limited The reasons for limited usage
include the relatively small number of customs units or bonded wrehouses at ongin points, and the preference oftuickingfirms to make use of independent
truckers, which restricts the continuation ofthe trip beyond the border as only trucks owned by authorized irWnational transport opeators ue allowed to cross.
14 Although anecdotal evidence exists regarding delays at the borders between Uruguay and Brazil and Argentina, but these delays have not been
sysematically assessed. Transport operators and their cLents have criticied border facilities and the time-consuming customs procedures, which increae transport
costs and impede "just-in-time" deliveries For example, a five-hour trip from Buenos Aires to Fray Bentos may end up take up to 14 hours due to delays in
obtaining international permits and conducting vehicle inspections by Uruguayan customs, health andlor sanitation authorities.
Ls The EDB Reform ofthe State Project, L& 995-OC-UR includes USSlOm for technical coopertion to improve the operations of Uruguay's Customs.



Page 52
accelerated pace of trade growth. Although Uruguayan transport operators have retained their market share relative
to their competitors in neighboring Mercosur countries, certain market segments have been subject to wide
fluctuation.16 Several bridges on the access routes to the international routes through Uruguay do not have the
functional and structural characteristics to accommodate larger and heavier truck loads. This situation has
mininiized the potential advantage of using six-axle trucks commonly used in Argentina and Brazil.
In addition, MTOP has made significant investments to improve coastal highway corridors (most notably Route 1
whose capacity expansion was partially funded under Loan 3021-UR). With IDB support has started upgrading
other strategic road corridors serving international traffic, which presently do not meet the higher operating
conditions required to sustain the increased demand of reliable transport services that regional trade integration has
brought about. Mercosur members agreed in January 1995 to increase the maximum load on triple axles from 22
to 25 tons and the maximum load per truck from 42 to 45 tons, to harmonize freight transport among member
countries. Uruguay has restricted the application of this agreement because its road infrastructure especially
bridges, lack the functional and structure characteristics needed to handle such larger loads. An inventory of
bridges shows that on international corridors alone there are about 69 bridges that cannot handle the larger loads
without further strengthening, and another 55 bridges that impose speed restrictions or do not allow two trucks or
buses to pass simultaneously over the bridge. To address these bottlenecks, the proposed project will finance the
rehabilitation of 13 bridges as well as 146 km of road sections along Routes 2, 27, and 30.
16 For example, Umguayan truckers find it difficult to compete with Brazilian operators for the large volume and long haul distances of Brazil domestic
segments of cargo handled to and from Uruguay.



Page 53
Annex 12
Road Network Statistics and Maintenance Policies
The Road System
The road system in Uruguay consists of an estimated 74,864 road kilometers, of which 8,629 km form the
national network managed by the National Directorate of Highways within MTOP; and 66,235 km are
departmental road network managed by the nineteen departmental governments. With one of the highest
road density in the region (24,000 km per 100,000 inhabitants) this network provides good accessibility to
practically any location in the country.
The National Road Network
Physical Characteristics. About 7,140 km of the 8,629 km national road network, or 83 percent, is paved.
Table 1 shows the distribution by pavement type. About 58 percent of the national network is paved with
bituminous surface treatments, an intermediate cost solution suitable for low to medium traffic levels,
which require periodic maintenance to keep the surfaces sealed and prevent rapid deterioration. Within
the national network, there are also 778 bridges with a total length of 61,000 meters. In a concentrated
effort to reduce costs, improve service quality and increase efficiency, about 1,000 km paved and 800 km
of gravel roads have been decentralized to the departments since 1996.
Table 1: National Road Network by Pavement Type
Pavement Type            Length
n%
Concrete               251         2.9
Asphalt Concrete       2,068       23.9
Double surface treatment    3,724  43.2
Single surfacetreatment  1,348     15.6
Gravel                 1,196       13.9
Earth                   42         0.5
Total                  8,629       100
Traffic Characteristics. Most of the roads within the Uruguayan national road network are of low traffic
density, with an estimated 86.1 percent accommodating on average, between 100 and 1,000 vehicles per
day. Only a small percentage of road, about 2.9 percent, handle average daily traffic (ADTs) levels of at
least 3,000 vehicles per day. With the cessation of the intercity passenger rail services and limited
domestic airport services, nearly all (99 percent) passenger traffic is transported on the road network.
Within the last ten years, traffic levels have grown at an average annual rate of 4.2 percent. Much of this
growth is attributed to integration with Mercosur and the subsequent increase in the transport of tradable
goods. Roughly 90 percent of tradable goods are transported by truck along the national and departmental
road network; it is these vehicles that are responsible for most of the wear and tear on the system and the
concomitant maintenance requirements. There has also an significant increase in the number of
automobile traffic, intercity, and tourist traffic-the latter also includes buses and similar multi-passenger
vehicles. Mercosur integration, the steady growth in cross-border and tourist traffic, and the development
of the forest products industry are expected to spur continuing growth in the coming years.



Page 54
Figure 1: Average Daily Traffic on National Road Network
2500                                     .     . .............* *  .__ - ._... .-.-_.__ _. ..
2000
1500
he E
a 1000
500
0
0- 100  101 -  201 -  301-  501-  1001 - 2001 - 3001 - 5000+
200   300   500  1000  2000  3000  5000
Average DailyTraffic
Sources: DNV, Bank Staff
Road Conditions. Most of the road network and bridges along the national road network were built in the
early part of the century. In particular, 56 percent of all bridges in the national road network are more
than 50 years old, and 80 percent of bridges are more than 25 years old. In the early 1990s, general fiscal
constraints reduced the level of resources available for the road sector, which led to periodic maintenance
neglect, an increased maintenance backlog, and a significant deterioration of the road network. From the
1988 to 1995, the percentage of roads in poor condition increased dramatically-from 8 to 45 percent. To
ameliorate this situation, DNV undertook a fimn effort in 1995 to improve the condition of the national
road network through rehabilitation and periodic maintenance, outsourcing part of the maintenance
activities to private contractors and microenterprise firmns to improve efficiency and quality. These efforts
have led to a notable improvement in the quality of roads as the percentage of roads in poor condition
decreased to 18 percent by end of 1997.
Table 2: Evolution of Road Network Condition, 1988-1997
Year       Good       Fair        Poor        i
1988        43         49          8          An,
1989        39         52           9         NW
1990        37         53          10         7n 
1993        37         27          36         RM
1994        38         27          35                                        _---0X
1995        30         27          43         .                                        X
1996        28         27          45         -n J#
1997        28         54          18         in,                         = G
Source: DNV Bank Staff                            a
i1   iARR  iRan  1A    IAA   AM i1M   iQA7
Road Safety. Although comprehensive statistics on road accidents are not available, road safety in
Uruguay is a matter of concern as road accidents are the leading cause of mortality among the 18-35 year
olds. Table 3 provides some basic statistics on the level of road-related accidents based on data collected
in 1997 for nearly 5,000 km of national roads (about 58 percent of the national network). Based on this
information, it can be concluded that traffic accidents and mortality rates compare unfiavorably with
developed countries, where there are around 10 accidents and 1 fatalities for every 10,000 vehicles. With
the assistance of this project, DNV is working toward improving road information and lane markings to
reduce



Page 55
Table 3: Road Safety Data for the Uruguayan National Road Network, 1997'
Accidents        Injuries         Fatalities
Totalbasedon58%ofnetwork        1702.0           1797.0           153.0
Per 100,000 million vehicle-km  155.0            148.3             10.2
Per 10,000 vehicles              56.7             59.9             5.1
Based an analysis of 4973.1 km (percent) of the national road networLk Rates based on populaion not presented
because of limitations in the coverage of the data. The total population of Uruguay is approximately 3.2 million.
Sources: DNV MTOP, andBank Staff
DNV Maintenance Policies
Road Sector Reforms. In 1995, DNV embarked on a gradual yet substantial restructuring of its
organization and its business processes to become more oriented toward performance and results.
Inefficiencies relating to overstaffing and poor productivity absorbed as much as 70 percent of DNV's
maintenance budget and prevented it from being fully able to respond to periodic surges in maintenance
and rehabilitation needs. To improve efficiency and resource use, DNV began in 1995 to contract out
these services to the private sector and reduce staff. By the end of the year, an estimated 1,818 km or 23
percent of the national road network will have been contracted out to private firms. DNV expects to
increase the amount of the maintenance activities under contract with the private sector to about 4,598 km
or roughly 53 percent of the national road network by the year 2000. In addition, total staff has been
reduced by 38.5 percent-from 3,700 to 2,276 employees. Additional staff reductions of about 426
employees are expected during the next two to three years.
Figure 2: Evolution of DNV staff and network maintained by contract, 1994-98
(in percentages)
100   .  . .....      . ............ . ..............-.............. .  .............. . ........... . ..............
80
60
40
20 
1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999  2000
- (KM by Contract) . . - . Staff (% of 1995)
Sources: DNV, Bank Staff
The on-going renewal program within DNV has enabled it to increase the efficiency in undertaking
maintenance activities through staff reductions and contracting out routine maintenance works to private
contractors. The legal and regulatory framework for outsourcing maintenance activities was established in
September 1994 through the enactment of Decree 442/994. Road maintenance works are currently being
performed by a combination of force account, traditional contracting out to the private sector, CREMA
contracts, microenterprise firms, and concession contracts, each of which are described in greater detail in
the preceding sections. Roads to be maintained under CREMA and concession contracts involve strategic
corridors and relatively higher traffic levels.
Force Account. Approximately 6,649 km of roads are directly maintained by DNV staff and equipment
based in the 10 administrative zones under the coordination of the Maintenance Division by the end of the
year. Within this framework, most of the extraordinary and some of the routine maintenance works are
performed in house, while road rehabilitation works (e.g. overlays, bridge restorations, etc.) are being
contracted out to private firms. Roads maintained under force account are lightly traveled and handle



Page 56
between less than 500 vehicles per day. In 1997, budget expenditures for maintenance totaled $31.0
million, and are expected to remain constant during 1998.
As part of the technical assistance component of the Transport I Project (Ln. 3021-UR), a Maintenance
Management System (MMS) was installed in DNV. The MMS has become a valuable tool for the
systematic monitoring of performance standards and resource use by DNV's ten maintenance districts.
The MMS has allowed DNV to optimize the allocation of funds, equipment and resources for force
account activities, increase accountability, and assess the cost-effectiveness of its operations. From these
evaluations, the best practices are being disseminating to field districts to improve works planning,
resource use, and increasing productivity in their respective road maintenance operations. At present, the
MMS only covers force account activities, which accounts for most of the network. During the execution
of the proposed project, the MMS will be expanded to include contract maintenance. This component will
improve the monitoring and achievement of efficiency targets set by DNV and gradually expand the use
of performance indicators to manage road network maintenance activities.
Figure 3a and 3b: Distribution of Maintenance Expenditures by Type and By Zone, 1997
$6.5    2.5
|R|| ~~~~million    E 2^
Routine 
$8.8                     Maint.    i 5  
m Hilion
Periodic                                                      IL
0
Zonui1 Zo,n2 Zon,3 Zon*4 Zon S Zon*e Zon*7 ZoneS ZoneS Zone
10
*oRoulne nPeriod|ic
Sources: DNV, BanE Staff
Although unit costs vary among zones due to varying physical characteristics, traffic levels, weather and
conditions, DNV has established base unit cost parameters for maintenance works. For some works, these
parameters have tended to vary among zones. This concept is highlighted in Figure 3, which illustrates the
varying cost structures for selected maintenance works for each zone, e.g. the base cost structure was set at
US$195/cu and US$61/cu for pothole filling and drainage systems, respectively. DNV is working to reduce
variations in cost structures between each zone, as part of a general reduction of maintenance costs.
Figures 4a and 4b: Average Unit Cost for Selected Works by Zone
Distribution by Unit Cost, Potholes          Distribution by Unit Cost, Drainage Systems
35
30                                           2
15
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9 10 11              20 40 80 80 100 120 U0 10 10 200 200<
US$/m3                                        L%Ax
Traditional Forms of Contracting Out Maintenance to Private Firms. As part of DNV's renewal, routine
maintenance activities have been contracted out to the private sector through performance based contracts



Page 57
to established contractors and microenterprise firms started by former DNV employees. Three contracts
have awarded to private contractors to undertake routine maintenance services for an estimated 350 km of
national roads. These performance-based contracts, in which monthly payments are linked by the amount
of kilometers per year maintained by the private sector contractor. Regularly scheduled monthly
inspections by DNV personnel, which entail the detailed review of a 50 meter segment for each road
kilometer under contract, serves to ensure work quality. If necessary, DNV will also carry out non-
scheduled reviews. When a private contractor is found to be in non-compliance of contractually stipulated
performance targets, it is assessed daily penalties, adjusted in accordance with defect type and assessed
the estimated repair costs.' These penalties are imposed until the repairs have been satisfactorily
completed. DNV is currently carrying out several feasibility studies for the award of an additional two
maintenance contracts to the private sector. This program has improved efficiency in resource use and
introduced new technologies in the implementation of road maintenance services.
Table 4: DNV Maintenance, Rehabilitation, and Concession Program, 1995 - 2000 (by kn)
Year                        1995        1996       1997       1998        1999       2000
1 Maintenance by Force Account('9              8,519       8,519      7,897       6,649      5,176      4,281
2  Maitenance by contract                         0          0         622        1,818      3,041      3,156
a. Microenterprise Program                     -          -         622        1,152      1,740      1,855
b. hntegrated Contracts (1BD)                  -          -          -         350         350        350
c. OtherDNV                                    -          -          -         316         316        316
d. CREMA contract (IBRD)
Rehabilitation                                                                       84
Maintenance                             -          -           -                    551        635
3  Road Rehabilitation Works                     18         131         81        215         540        377
a. DNV Financed (New and rehabilitation works
b. IBD Financed                                                      55         147        325         19
c.IBRDTransportI                              18         131         26
Transport II                                                             35        146         146
Forest Products                                                          33         69         212
4  Operation /Rehabilitation and Maintenance by  110        110        110        162         412       1,192
Concession Contract
Interbalnearia(Montevideo-PuntadelEste)      110         110        110        130         130        130
Ruta 1 (Montevideo-Libertad)                                                    32         32          32
Ruta 9 (Pan de Azicar -Chuy)                                                               250        250
Ruta 1 (Libertad-Colonia)                                                                             130
Other Routes to be Concessioned to the Private                                                        650
Sector by the year 2000 (umder study)
5  Tot a) (* *)                                 8,629      8,629      8,629       8,629      8,629      8,629
Maintenance by private sector contract (Ian):  110      110        732        1,980      3,453       4,348
Maintenance by private sector (%):           1%         1%          8%        23%         40%        50%
Microenterprises. To minimize the adjustment period for ex-DNV employees and improve maintenance
operations, DNV has implemented a pilot program to contract out routine maintenance works to micro-
enterprises established by former staff. The microenterprises have acquired basic equipment units from
DNV, and also took advantage of special credit programs, guarantees, and technical assistance programs
funded by DNV.2 Pursuant to Law 14.411, enacted on August 7, 1995, microenterprises firms can be
formed under less stringent incorporation requirements. Microenterprise contracts have two years terms,
with an option to extend services for an additional period, if performance is satisfactory. After this initial
I  Penalties are removed if the contractor demonstrates that: (i) it has instituted its own controls, detected the problem and is in the process of
carrying out corrective measures; and (ii) has already completed the necessary works, despite DNV detection ofthe problem.
2 DNV offered guarantees of up to 50 percent ofthe credit line if the contract was with the GOU, and a 25 percent guarantee if the contract
was with an external party. Credit lines and guarantees were often incorporated in the total value of the contract.



Page 58
grace period, microenterprises will compete directly for contracts on par with other private firms. The
roads contracted out to microenterprises have average daily traffic levels between 500 to 1000 vehicles.
The microenterprise program relies on the strong financial incentives provided by a flexible private sector
environment and the concomitant competition for contracts. Eleven microenterprise firms with between 2
to 15 former DNV employees currently operate in Uruguay, and are located primarily in the northern part
of the country. By the end of 1998, the microenterprise firms are expected to provide routine maintenance
services for about 1,152 km of national roads. Under the proposed project, DNV is planning to expand
this program to contract out an estimated 1,855 km by the end of the project. Under the microenterprise
contracts, the maximum time period for the completion of most identified repairs is one week, with some
repairs, e.g. potholes and air pockets, mandate a maximum lead time of 2 to 3 days. In a preliminary
assessment, DNV concluded that microenterprise contracts were less expensive than maintenance works
undertaken through the force account and road quality was better.
CREAL4 (Contracts for Rehabilitation andMaintenance). The CREMA contracts are performance-based
contracts for the rehabilitation and maintenance of roads, which in this context are to be applied for an
entire region (or subnetwork), rather than a single road segment. The length of the subnetworks ranges
from 150 to 250 km and their location has been selected in those districts that experience a paucity of
skilled personal or inadequate equipment for road maintenance and with the highest road volumes, e.g.
1,000 to 3000 average daily vehicles. Each network features road sections with different pavement types
(asphalt concrete, concrete, surface treatment, and gravel) and in varying physical conditions. The project
will support the rehabilitation and maintenance of estimated 635 road km.
CREMA contracts have four to five year terms, with the first year entailing the execution of rehabilitation
works with the remaining years of the contract dedicated toward maintenance activities. Rehabilitation
works typically include, inter alia, resurfacing with slurry seals and surface-dressing, overlays with
asphalt concrete, and reconstruction of the base and wearing course. The engineering designs of the initial
works and the minimum performance requirements during the contract period, (e.g., type and maximum
roughness level after completion) are prepared by DNV and are written into the CREMA contracts. Each
subnetwork must meet specific levels of service (LoS) for routine maintenance, which have been
incorporated into the CREMA contract. LoS have been established for each road segment and adjusted
according to features, composition, and condition. The
LoS indicators pavement type, shoulder type, IRI, potholes, cracks, ruts, bleeding of binders, road width,
shoulder width, grass, markings, road signs, gravelling, gravel thickness, and unbound materials. Similar
requirements have been specified for bridges within a separate section of the CREMA contract. Contract
performance is assessed during monthly inspections carried out jointly by DNV and the contractors.
Lump-sum maintenance payments are made based on the achievement of the predetermined performance
indicators. Penalties have been established to deter non-compliance. Table 6 shows typical standards
under CREMA-type contracts.
With CREMA contracts, the risk of cost overruns is limited to the implementation of initial works.
During most of the contractual term, cost structures remain fixed as the contractor is required to regularly
maintain completed works during the contract term. The maintenance requirement serves as a financial
incentive for the contractor to ensure the proper execution of rehabilitation works as an increasing
proportion of maintenance activities will be carried out (and payments will be delivered) in the latter part
of the contract. Thus, this requirement will establish "firewalls" against the diversion of maintenance
funds to new construction works.



Page 59
Table 5: Typical Standards under CREMA-type Contracts
Levels ofService/Performance Standards                               CA              TSB            Gravel
Average roughness immediately after overlay/rehabilitation         IRI<2.0           N.A.           N.A.
Maximum average roughness, roads with ADT > 600:                    RI<2.8         IRI<3.5          N.A.
Maximum average roughness, roads with ADT < 600:                   IRI<3.5          IRI<4.0         N.A.
Potholes                                                                         Not accepted
Cracking                                                             Longitudinal < 10% area        N.A.
Rut depths/depressions                                                            <15 mm            N.A.
Gravelling                                                                        <10% area         N.A.
Minimum granular thickness dunng contract/end contract               N.A.            N.A.         5cm/lOcm
Drainage (ditches and culverts)                                             Clean, free of obstructions
Vegetation control: shoulders and cut slopes                        <20cm                            <lm
Vegetation control within 8 meters/rest right-of-way:             <20/<40cm        <40/50cm          <lm
Maxamum time penod to attain levels of service in contract
Potholes and depressions, not allowed after:                        2 mo.            2 mo.          2 mo.
Signs reconditioned within:                                         3 mo.           3 mo.           3 mo.
Other defects on primary roads, not allowed after:                  6 mo.           6 mo.           6 mo.
Other defects on secondary roads, not allowed after                 12 mo.          12 mo.          12 mo.
Initial rehabilitation works, completed not later than              12 mo.          12 mo.           N.A.
Maximum response time to correct defects
Potholes and depressions on pavement (on pavement)                  <24 hrs         <24 hrs        <48 hrs
Cracks, gravelling, bleeding/slippery conditions (on pavement)     < 7 days        < 7 days          N.A
Defects on shoulders                                               < 7 days        < 7 days          N.A.
Culverts and drainage structures                                    <48 hrs         <48 hrs        < 7 days
Bridge maintenance                                                 < 7 days        < 7 days        < 7 days
Right-of-way maintenance                                           < 7 days        < 7 days        < 7 days
Pavement marks                                                     < 7 days        < 7 days         N.A.
Signs, guard-rails and fences                                      <48 hrs          <48 hrs        < 7 days
Sources: DNV, Bank Staff
Concession Contracts. Decree 43/997, enacted in 1997, established the underlying legal framework for
the rehabilitation and maintenance of national roads through concession type contracts (e.g. BOTs) with
the private sector. Concession contracts have a maximum operational period of 20 years before the
facility is returned to the GOU. The concessionaire is permitted to collect tolls on the transferred facility,
which are regulated by DNV. By next year, DNV will have concessioned 412 km to the private sector
and anticipates that it will contract out an estimated 650 to 900 km under similar contractual arrangements
by the year 2000. The first concession contract in Uruguay, which had a contract value of about $100.0
million, was for the Interbalnearia Highway between stipulated construction works between the 130 km,
2-lane segment between Montevideo-Punta del Este. A second contract worth $80.0 million was awarded
for the westem access route into Montevideo. Additional concession contracts have been awarded for
segments along Routes 1 and 9, and financial feasibility studies are being carried out for Routes 5 and 8.
Table 6: Tariff Rates by Vehicle Type for Concessioned Roads (in Ur$)'
Vehicle Type                            Tariff
Automobiles                                                       $40.00
Express Buses (1 passenger), Microbuses, Truck (w/o trailer)      $40.00
2-3 axle vehicles                                                 $74.00
Buses (w/ passengers)                                             $74.00
4< axle vehicles                                                 $151.00
USS1 = Ur$10.5475
Departmental Road Network
Departmental and urban road networks have total length of 66,235 and are administered by the
departmental governments. These roads constitute 88.5 percent ofthe entire road system in Uruguay. The
majority of these are of earth and gravel materials with roughly 3.0 percent paved. Revenues generated



Page 60
from vehicle licenses and supplemental intergovernmental transfers are used to fund MTOP maintenance
activities. Originally conceived as a five-year program, the program was resumed in 1996 in view of its
satisfactory results and supported in 1997 by the Forest Products Transport Project (Loan 4204-UR). The
program introduced a maintenance culture at local level, which previously did not exist, at least in most of
the departments.
Table 7: Departmental Roads by Pavement Type, 1997
Pavement Type                 Length
Km               %
Asphalt                     1,961             3.0
Gravel                      24,476           37.0
Earth                       39,798           60.0
TOTAL                       66,235           100
Source: DNVT MTOP, Bank Staff
The annual number of kilometers financed by the program in each department was determined by the size
of the road network, population, and total area. These initial allocations are revised in September of each
year and the remaining funds are reassigned based on the achievement of agreed performance targets by
the departments. Performance targets have been raised in the successive years-from a 60 percent
average compliance with annual targets in 1989 to about 95 percent compliance in 1997-which
demonstrates that Intendencias have responded well to the incentives built into the program and the close
monitoring exercised by DNV engineers who supervise the quality of completed works, mostly by force
account but in some cases by contractors, and approval of money transfers. Some departments are using
similar measures within their own maintenance programs. Program design has continued to improve
throughout the years by building on implementation experience.3
Figure 5: Intendencias Compliance with Maintenance Targets
120
100
20
40                                  -        ,.'~gr~
1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997
Source: DAIVD progam evaluation reports
3 Examples include adjustments that reflect local conditions in unit costs and construction of drainage structures to preserve road conditions.



MAP SECTION



5   _   t          t                                                                                                                  IB~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RD 29688
This -ap was producedty te b,/                                                            5r                                                                        URUGUAY
Mop Dosip nitrRof The WorldBook.         tsc<                      X>
Toryorer i6raotioo shocs on        ')s. U                 8_ <\                      s                                                     SECOND  TRANSPORT PROJECT
ibs apdo sot impl,or tonhe poor of     ,e  < '\E
TIehWorldRack roop,orryjodymect ,W7B A G -fr , -                                                                                                 Location   of  Project W orks
on he ogol statueof coy territory, or  (
ocy e-d-r-ec cut    o                  4 K                              /         RN                                                   ROAD REHABILITATION:                             BRIDGE RESTORATION:
A ROUTE 2: CARDONA MERCESES (96 kmr)                 J Ac. CHAPICUY Y CARPINCHURY
BeifA                             /                     R/ I--   J   fl \  >   t   ..   4 1     ROUTE 30:  km 192 - MASOLLER   3066 bra) .....................ROUT 3 1  Ac CiRANDE
/                                                          ( ) glverrv ..... ..................   .      ........... w ..........             ) ROUTE 27: km 36 64 -km 56.4 (20 km)  ,( Ac. SAUCE
yu ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j                                                           j~~~~~~~~~~~~ IA.. SAN GREGORJO  1
Consw"uc"> t' g-  w v   -    + <  t ^ K  < >  X   X  \COMBINED REHABILITATION AND          -Ac. MARMARAYA (kb  1503
C.cho c0      /,ISMAINTENANCE (CREMA CONTRACTS)                                                                                                               <IAo. MARMARAYA (bra 173)
f ~~~~~~~~~~~~~"'r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                 I ~~~~~~~~~~Ac., OUTIERREZ I AND II
2  ':0 ,( p@  ;  ' *    ,    rf  *  qv  tran rers"    X   -   CREMA CONTRACT - DISTRICT 11 AND X (kr 240)  9) Ac. SAUCE
/. K         <a- y''       z            ,,      ,- ,,         I   '              r        - - - - - CREMA CONTRACT- DISTRICT III (kkm 242)        :I Ac. SARANDI
SoI.]'C..- CREMA CONTRACT-DISTRICT VII (km 153)                                                                                                               I)A.CNET
5 A,,w,, MAI.; _ stN REOADS
SECON6DARY ROADS
K.  "<                                               Vmhautor%p                                              BOUNDARIES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIER
z ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~-                                                                             -0T uoa                                          DEPARTMENTBONDRE                      k
ru,                            A                              A            /*                                                                            INTERNATINAAL BOUNDARIES 
/            A                     C   P                          A                        '~~~~~~~~~~,T   
6       '    ';.;iii4,''22i:ti< \k W                       1 ,ror:Ltocrt                     t
N                                 v9"                 .VJRA   ,.,.                                          I a  T     e          5
3,1                                                                                                                         c       .1~~6~61C.
33-   /  r-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  I                      1    N.,         d5Dbcar~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8RA     
DU5    ZtOi                                                                                                           PARA7 I TUAY/ 
0    III  2~11  1~0   4 ,25gomo    I >
35  ~        4msTor" 
KILOMETERS ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~/                                             ~    0*~ 
'5  .loee~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Rodeo  a       It)     ~    ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~EPEBE     



