                                          Document of
                                       The World Bank




                                                                          Report No: 28235

                         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                          (SCL-43950)

                                              ON A

                                             LOAN

                           IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 64.5 MILLION

                              TO THE ORIENTAL REPUBLIC OF

                                           URUGUAY

                           FOR A SECOND TRANSPORT PROJECT




                                          May 10, 2004




Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Sector Management Unit (SMU)
Argentina, Chile, Paraguay, Uruguay Country Management Unit (CMU)
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

                                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                          (Exchange Rate Effective March 16, 2004)

                                   Currency Unit = Peso Uruguayo
                                              29.6 = US$ 1
                                       US$ 0.034 = 1

                                          FISCAL YEAR
                                    January 1      December 31

                            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANCAP       National Fuel Administration, Alcohol and Portland (Administración Nacional de Combustibles
            Alcohol y Portland)
BMS         Bridge Management System
CAS         ountry Assistance Strategy
CEPRE       Executive Commission for the Reform of State
CND         National Corporation for Development (Corporación Nacional de Desarollo)
CVU         Uruguay Road Corporation (Corporación Vial de Uruguay)
CREMA       Contracts for Rehabilitation and Maintenance Departments Intendencias
DIVD        Entity responsible for Departmental Road Maintenance within DNV
DNV         National Directorate of Highways
EEq         Energy Equivalent
GOU         Government of Uruguay
HDM         Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model
IDB         Inter-American Development Bank
IERR        Internal Economic Rate of Return Departments Intendencias
IVA         Value Added Tax
IRI         International Roughness Index
ITPI        Institute for Transport and Investment Planning
LACI        Loan Administration Change Initiative
MEF         Ministry of Economy and Financing
MERCOSUR    Regional Trade Agreement (Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay)
MMS         Maintenance Management System
MTOP        Ministry of Transport and Public Works
NPV         Net Present Value
OPP         Office of Planning and Budgeting (Ministry of Presidency)
PAD         Project Appraisal Document
PCU         Project Coordination Unit
QAG         Quality Assurance Group
RUC         Road User Charge Model
SAM         Maintenance management system
SIPLA       Integrated highway planning system
TOR         Terms of Reference
UE-DNV      Department within DNV in charge of structures


                                 Vice President:        David de Ferranti
                               Country Director         Axel van Trotsenburg
                                Sector Director         Danny Leipziger
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:                Jose Luis Irigoyen

                                          URUGUAY
                                    UY TRANSPORT II


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            16
6. Sustainability                                                                18
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 19
8. Lessons Learned                                                               22
9. Partner Comments                                                              26
10. Additional Information                                                       40
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             41
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             45
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             47
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             55
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             57
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                58
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            59

Project ID: P049267                                                  Project Name: UY TRANSPORT II
Team Leader: Jose Luis Irigoyen                                      TL Unit: LCSFT
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: May 10, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: UY TRANSPORT II                                          L/C/TF Number: SCL-43950
   Country/Department: URUGUAY                                                            Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Roads and highways (94%); Central government administration
                            (6%)
                  Theme: Regional integration (P); Infrastructure services for private sector
                            development (P); Other urban development (S); Other financial and
                            private sector development (S); Technology diffusion (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 03/18/1998                                     Effective: 09/30/1998                11/05/1998
     Appraisal: 08/26/1998                                         MTR: 12/01/2000                  11/22/2000
      Approval: 09/17/1998                                      Closing: 09/30/2002                 09/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          REPUBLIC OF URUGUAY/MTOP; REPUBLIC OF URUGUAY/DNV and
                                           Intendencias
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti                              Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:               Axel van Trotsenburg                           Myna Alexander
Sector Manager:                 Jose Luis Irigoyen                             Krishna Challa (Acting)
Team Leader at ICR:             Jose Luis Irigoyen                             Jose Luis Irigoyen
ICR Primary Author:             Jose Luis Irigoyen; Rodrigo
                                Archondo-Callao; Elisabeth
                                Goller


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

Overall purpose. The overall purpose of the project was to increase efficiency in the provision of
transport services and the maintenance of road infrastructure to enhance the competitiveness of
Uruguay's products, especially within Mercosur, and to rationalize sector expenditures.

Project specific objectives. The project specific objectives were to:
(a) rehabilitate and upgrade to Mercosur standards selected national roads and bridges to permit transit
of larger and heavier vehicles and reduce transport costs between Uruguay and its Mercosur trading
partners;
(b) support the Ministry of Transport and Public Works' (MTOP) policy of increasing private sector
participation in the maintenance and rehabilitation of national roads through performance-based
contracts; and
(c) strengthen road sector management through the carrying out of (i) the National Directorate of
Highways's (DNV) renewal program, (ii) the transfer of technology to the Departments (Intendencias) to
maintain gravel roads, and (iii) a road safety program.

These objectives reflected essential priorities for the transport sector in Uruguay and were consistent with
the government strategy for regional integration and trade, road network conservation, strengthening of
road sector management, private sector involvement in road management and more efficiency in road
financing/road user charges. They also reflected the priorities identified in the Bank's Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS), which called for (i) a support of investments in key sectors to enhance the
competitiveness of Uruguay's economy in the context of Mercosur, (ii) the increase of private sector
participation, and (iii) the acceleration of the rationalization of public expenditure needed to sustain
macroeconomic stability. Of particular importance in these circumstances, the objectives were realistic in
terms of demonstrated capacity of the implementing agencies, financial,            political and institutional
constraints at the moment of the project approval and the related project risks.



3.2 Revised Objective:

No revision of the project objectives took place.


3.3 Original Components:

Component 1: Road Rehabilitation and Bridge Reconditioning (Cost: US$20,594,000)
This component entailed carrying out of: (a) about 146 km of rehabilitation works consisting of reinforcing
the pavement structures of (i) about 96 km of the Palmitas-Mercedes section on national Route 2; (ii)
about 30 km between km 192 and the town of Masoller on national Route 30; and (iii) about 20 km
between Km 36.4 and km 56.4 on national Route 27; and (b) reconditioning works consisting of
strengthening, widening or replacing the existing structures of 13 bridges located on national Routes 3, 8
and 26.

Component 2: CREMA Contracts (Cost: US$ 23,360,000)
This component envisaged the implementation of rehabilitation and maintenance works of three road
networks covering an estimated 635 km of national roads through multiyear performance-based CREMA
contracts between DNV and private contractors. The networks under each contract comprised different
pavement types and service conditions. The contracts to be financed under the project covered three
networks located in DNV's maintenance districts II and X (about 240 km), II and III (about 242 km), and
VII (about 153 km).




                                                     - 2 -

Component 3: DNV's Road Maintenance Program (Cost: US$ 45,106,000)
This component consisted of the road maintenance program for the years 1998 - 2000 directly funded by
DNV and included: (i) a program of contract maintenance with micro-enterprises comprised of former
DNV staff and private contractors for about 1,855 km, and (ii) maintenance works on the portion of the
national road network, which is not maintained by private contractors (incremental operational costs of
force account works, excluding salaries, administration, and DNV's equipment).

Component 4: Departmental Road Maintenance (Cost: US$ 33,000,000)
This component included annual routine maintenance programs for about 9,500 km of selected gravel
roads in participating departments and annual periodic maintenance programs for about 1,500 km of
gravel roads to be carried out by participating departments between 1998 and 2000.

Component 5: Road Sector Management / Institutional Building (Cost: US$ 3,000,000)
This component included the (i) provision of technical assistance to DNV to monitor and supervise
project implementation; (ii) preparation of MTOP's transport infrastructure plan for the years 2000-2004;
(iii) strengthening of the Institute of Transport and Infrastructure Planning's (IPTI) technical capacity to
carry out road sector fiscal policy analyses; (iv) carrying out of DNV's renewal program to strengthen its
institutional, operational and financial capacity; and (v) carrying out of a program to transfer technology
and strengthen the road maintenance management practices of the Intendencias participating in the
Departmental Roads Maintenance component.

Component 6: Road Safety Program (Cost: US$ 4,740,000)
This component included: (i) pavement markings and road signs for about 2,500 km of national roads;
and (ii) a pilot to test the effectiveness of low-cost measures to increase road safety along routes passing
through urban areas, including an evaluation of the pilot.

Some of the Borrower's highest transport priorities reflected in the above-described objectives (e.g.
rehabilitating and upgrading internationally vital parts of the road infrastructure and arresting the
deterioration of the overall network, expanding the role of the private sector in road maintenance, and
strengthening road sector management) were directly linked to these project components. The project
gave high priority to maintenance and also built on and considerably deepened Uruguay's contractual
road maintenance efforts, which allowed to keep the road infrastructure deterioration relatively well under
control, notwithstanding the country's extremely difficult economic situation. All this was complemented
by the capacity strengthening and institutional building component.

The components were adequate in the light of MTOP/DNV's capacity in terms of administrative and
financial management as well as procurement and no real problems arose during project
implementation. DNV had the necessary technical skills and capacity to commission and supervise road
rehabilitation and bridge reconditioning works and performed extremely well as far as the private
involvement in road maintenance was concerned, even if its current legal and organizational structure is
not the most appropriate one for this purpose. The Intendencias had gained experience as a result of the
execution of the departmental road maintenance programs under the First Transport Project, and the
entity responsible for Departmental Road Maintenance within DNV (DIVD) was in a good position to
assist and monitor the program execution. The project had also put aside funds for further capacity
strengthening within these entities.

The project design took into account relevant lessons learned in prior projects and the Bank experience
in Uruguay and in the region. Indeed, performance-based contract maintenance, in particular via CREMA
contracts, already largely experimented in Argentina, revealed a big success. The CREMA contracts are
five-year performance-based contracts between DNV and a private contractor that obligate the latter to
undertake all phases of road rehabilitation and maintenance works as a single package from the design
and programming of works, through the execution of such works. In addition, by correcting some of the
major design shortages of the previous transport project, the project execution was greatly facilitated,
especially in terms of procurement delays, project coordination and supervision.




                                                       - 3 -

3.4 Revised Components:

During the project implementation period several project components were adjusted in quantitative terms
mainly to cope with the drastic budget reductions imposed on DNV or to enhance the achievement of the
development objectives, providing continuity to key programs. This lead to a reallocation of loan
proceeds on July 10, 2001 and December 23, 2002, and the Bank's no objection dated January 30, 2003
to the inclusion of the Access to Montevideo maintenance contract under this project. The main
adjustments were as follows:

l    Due to the budget cuts the start of the rehabilitation of about 30 km on national Route 30, between
     Km 192 and the town of Masoller, was postponed to after the project completion date and the
     remaining balance of this loan was used to continue supporting the CREMA contracts throughout
     2001. In this respect it should be noted that the overall impact of the CREMA contracts on achieving
     the development objectives of the project was greater than that of the project rehabilitation
     component. In addition, this particular corridor does not constitute an international link and thus has
     no mayor influence on the overall purpose of the project;
l    The financing of 31 km of rehabilitation of national Route 2 was carried out with DNV's own
     resources in the early years of project implementation;
l    The number of bridges to be rehabilitated was reduced to nine. To speed up implementation and
     make better use of funding available, two of these nine bridges were included into the CREMA
     contract for Zones II-III, and two other ones were financed by the Inter-American Development Bank
     (IDB);
l    Two additional CREMA contracts were added, using the funds made available by the reduction of
     rehabilitation works and the non-execution of other minor project activities. In addition, the Access to
     Montevideo maintenance contract was included into the CREMA component of this project late in
     2002 to help DNV accommodating the very tight fiscal situation.


3.5 Quality at Entry:

Quality at Entry is rated satisfactory, based on the consistency of the project's objectives with the
priorities of the government strategy for regional integration and road sector development as well as
those identified in the Bank's CAS (see 3.1 above). The project design directly built on a previous
transport project and a thorough knowledge of the sector in the country. It successfully corrected some of
the deficiencies of the previous project and incorporated valuable experiences and lessons also from
neighboring countries. Moreover, by limiting the scope to the road sector and opting for clear and not
over-ambitious objectives, the project design resulted simple and realistic. It also accounted for
institutional constraints and risks by incorporating appropriate risk minimization measures and included a
well-designed set of easily measurable performance indicators.
The QAG assessment carried out in 1998 rated Quality at Entry overall as satisfactory, considering
clarity and realism of development objectives, the incorporation of lessons of experience, the adequacy
of sector knowledge and strategy, the technical soundness of the project contents, and the adequacy of
the institutional framework analysis as highly satisfactory. The QAG assessment also highlighted the
quality of the risk assessment and the consequent minimization measures as well as the project
monitoring mechanism and indicators.



4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

In a nutshell the major development achievements of this project consist in (i) the improvement of the
network conditions, with the network below the optimal level of service decreasing from 15% in 1997 to
8% in 2001, and again reaching 13% in 2002, (ii) the enhancement of network planning, programming



                                                     - 4 -

and management as well as the substantial expansion of the output-based model, (iii) a strong economic
impact through the increase of the productivity in road maintenance activities and a reduction of the
respective costs, (iv) the improved reliability of financing and sustainability, and (v) the capacity to firmly
anchor the implementation of the maintenance program during a period of great financial uncertainty
caused by the severe economic crisis.

This achievement of the project objective of this Second Transport Project need to be assessed in the
light of the exceptional economic situation that hit Uruguay during its implementation period (see section
5). When the Government of Uruguay (GOU) initiated the project, its economy was growing and the
budget allocations for road maintenance and investments had been steadily increasing. The unexpected
economic crisis that lead to drastic reductions in the public finances, strongly decreased the resources
allocated to the transport sector during the project implementation period. In fact, DNV's road sector
expenditure was at its peak in 1999 with US$ 137,767,000. In 2000, it dropped to US$ 99,325,000, in
2001 to US$ 97,567,000 and in 2002 it reached its lowest level of US$ 49,404,000. Only the budget for
2003 had seen again an increase to US$ 64,515,000. The steady increase of the DNV's budget from
1994 to 1999 allowed for a significant improvement of the network conditions and a considerable
increase in the road asset value, while the following budget restrictions led to a slowdown in the road
network preservation and improvement efforts. Nevertheless, the widespread use of multi-year contracts
assisted in confronting the crisis, requiring the dedication of most of the available budgetary transfers to
finance it.

Overall the project progressed well despite these severe budgetary constraints and exceeded many of
the performance indicators agreed upon at appraisal. The project achieved its overall purpose. It
increased the efficiency in the transport service provision and road maintenance and so contributed to
the rationalization of transport sector expenditures. It also removed some of the bottlenecks to
international transport and contributed to the preservation of the road network, thus provided some of the
necessary conditions for the competitiveness of Uruguay's products to increase, especially within
Mercosur.

Furthermore, the development of the Megaconcession, a 15-year concession for about 1,270 km of the
primary roads (about 15% of the national network) and 38 bridges (17% of Uruguay's bridges)
demonstrates the strong interest of MTOP in improving the management of critical road corridors and
increasing managerial and financial autonomy of the sector. The Megaconcession was granted by
Corporación Nacional de Desarollo (DND), in the framework of an agreement with MTOP signed in
December 2001, to Corporación Vial de Uruguay (CVU), which is public corporation 100% owned by the
DNV. It requires CVU to assure an annual spending flow of a fixed amount to be used for the technical
concession management, compulsory works and maintenance, delivery of services to users and tolling
facility operation. The concession contract also lists the compulsory works, the minimum service levels
for the whole concessioned network and the penalties and fines to be applied, if these service levels are
not reached. The Megaconcession is based on the principle of cost sharing and is financed through toll
revenues and subsidies. The latter are composed of three components: (i) a fixed payment per km of
road maintained, (ii) a subsidy for the maintenance of structures and (iii) a minimum revenue guarantee
limited in size and duration (for more details see section 4.2 point 5.4 below). In this sense, the
Megaconcession represents a big step towards the commercialization of road sector activities.

With its focus on maintenance, the systematic application of management tools and a search for more
autonomous institutional and financial arrangements, the project provided strategic direction for the
continuation of key transport policies and programs throughout a period of abrupt and painful fiscal
adjustment. MTOP's commitment to those policies proved remarkable.

The project outcome is rated satisfactory. The main justification for this rating is that the specific
objectives have been achieved in an overall satisfactory manner. Moreover, even if there was a
slowdown in some project activities, and even if there were some adjustments to single project
components or sub-components, and thus minor deviations from original targets, this had been imposed
by the difficult macro-economic situation beyond the control of the GOU. In making these adjustments
MTOP/DNV exercised good judgement and selectivity as well as commitment to the project policy goals.



                                                      - 5 -

Finally, it should also be noted that the combined net present value (NPV) for all the investment portions
of the project discounted at 12% is US$ 233.2 million and the economic internal rate of return is (EIRR)
20.1%. The project is likely to be sustainable. For details see annex 3 and section 6.

The level of attainment for each of the specific project objectives is described in greater detail in the
subsequent paragraphs, while the project results for a number of key performance indicators are given in
annex 1.

1. Rehabilitate and upgrade to Mercosur standards selected national roads and bridges to permit
transit of larger and heavier vehicles and reduce transport costs between Uruguay and its
Mercosur trading partners

The achievement of this objective is rated satisfactory despite major cuts to DNV's budget that required
a strict policy of maintenance prioritization in order to avoid serious network deterioration, and negatively
affected the amount of road rehabilitation and bridge conditioning carried out under the project.

All priority works on the international corridors were carried out, and the omission of some works of
lesser importance to make room for other key aspects is more than offset by the expansion of the
CREMA contracts. DNV managed to conserve its network relatively well. Indeed, the figures from the
assessment of the actual overall network conditions over the project period, given in the table below,
show that the average network roughness (IRI) improved from 3.5 in 1997, the year before the project
start, to 3.4 in 2002. This indicator had reached in 2000 its lowest level of 3 and was in 2001 at 3.1,
which corresponded exactly to the ex-ante estimate.

              Consequences of DNV's Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program on the Network
                                        Program Consequences on the Network Condition
                                          Actual   Actual   Actual   Actual   Actual     Actual    Ex-Ante Estimate
                                            1997    1998      1999     2000     2001       2002       for 2001
          Condition   Roughness                                 Percent of Network Length, km
          Good        < 3.5 IRI             54%      71%      75%      82%      80%        64%         60%
          Fair        3.5 < IRI < 4.5       31%      14%      13%      13%      14%        21%         18%
          Poor        > 4.5 IRI             15%      15%      12%        6%       6%       15%         22%
          Condition   Roughness                           Percent of Network Utilization, vehicle-km
          Good        < 3.5 IRI             75%      81%      84%      88%      87%        77%         87%
          Fair        3.5 < IRI < 4.5       16%      12%      11%      10%      11%        16%          8%
          Poor        > 4.5 IRI               9%      7%       5%        3%       2%        7%          5%
                                                      Percent of Network Below Optimal Level of Service
                                            15%      16%      12%        6%       8%       13%          8%
                                                              Average Network Roughness (IRI)
                                              3.5     3.4      3.2       3.0      3.1       3.4         3.1


                  Source: DNV, Bank staff

The deterioration of the roughness index since 2000 resulted less critical on the international corridors
than on the secondary and particularly primary network, but it clearly illustrates that the negative
consequences of drastic budget cuts over a number of years cannot even be avoided by strictly
prioritizing maintenance.

As far as bridge rehabilitation is concerned, the project did neither completely reach its targets. The
severe budget constraints only allowed to go ahead with nine of the 13 planned bridge rehabilitations.
Nevertheless, the remaining four bridges are now incorporated in the Megaconcession (see section 4.2
point 5.4 below), which includes 38 bridges to be improved, nine of them located on the international
corridors. An evaluation of the work carried out on Route 8 showed that the quality of the bridge
rehabilitation works is good as far as widening and structural strengthening is concerned.




                                                          - 6 -

Finally, in terms of signaling and pavement markings the project was highly successful in bringing the
road network to Mercosur standards.

It should be highlighted that the Uruguayan road and bridge infrastructure supported well the quick
expansion of the Mercosur trade between 1999 and 2000, shown in the following graph in terms of
million of tons and annual vehicle miles (in thousands) that entered and exited Pasos de Frontera. The
decline of international trade in 2001 is not related to the condition of the road infrastructure but rather
reflects the effects of the economic crisis that hit the Mercosur countries.


                                    International Road Freight Transport - Exit and Entry via
                                                Pasos de Frontera 1999 - 2001


                                4,000,000                         150,000

                                3,000,000                         140,000
                                                                                            Ton/Year
                                2,000,000                         130,000
                                                                                            Vehicles/Year
                        Ton/Year1,000,000                         120,000
                                                                            Vehicle/Year
                                        0                         110,000
                                            1999    2000   2001

                                                   Year


                                 Source: DNV, Bank staff


2. Support MTOP's policy of increasing private sector participation in the maintenance and
rehabilitation of national roads through performance-based contracts

The rating of this objective is highly satisfactory. The use of multiyear performance-based
maintenance contracts with the private sector has generalized in Uruguay through CREMA contracts,
with micro-enterprises and concessions. In 2002 the conservation of 3,599 km of the national road
network of about 8,753 km was maintained by the private sector under various contractual
arrangements, which is approximately 44% more than the project target. This is also very close to DNV's
internal objective of having 4,000 km or approximately 50% of the network maintained under contract. In
this context, it is also necessary to mention the Megaconcession, operational since October 2002, which
is a 15-year concession for about 1,270 km of the national road network and 38 bridges (for details see
secction 4.2, point 5.4 below)

MTOP/DNV's policy in favor of private sector participation in road maintenance is clearly defined and
supported by the results of periodic assessments of the conditions of the road network, which show that
the performance-based contracts were superior in consistently meeting the optimum maintenance
standards established through economic analysis and incorporated into contracts.

3. Strengthen road sector management through the carrying out of (i) DNV's renewal program, (ii)
the transfer of technology to the Departments to maintain gravel roads, and (iii) a road safety
program.

Overall this objective is rated as satisfactory but with several areas rated marginally satisfactory or
unsatisfactory since some of the related components did not perform as well as expected or for several
reasons could not be implemented as planned. Nevertheless, the project has strengthened the road
sector management by allowing DNV and its Departments to consolidate and improve their systems,
tools, procedures, processes and structures. All this not only increased the efficiency of force account
maintenance but also facilitated the management and supervision of the contracts with the private
sector. Moreover, even if the consultancy study to transfer technology to and build capacity within the
Intendencias neglected some key elements that condition the implementation and sustainability of the




                                                             - 7 -

departmental maintenance program, such as financial aspects, and even if it could not have yet been
fully implemented on the ground, the project presents a menu of options and strengthening measures for
the Intendencias to improve their performance. Moreover, by successfully tightening the relationship with
the Intendencias, it created a promising basis for future collaboration.

Under this project DNV consolidated and improved the maintenance management system (SAM) and the
integrated highway planning system (SIPLA). The systematic and effective use of these systems,
especially SAM, combined with innovative management concepts, such as a systematic performance
monitoring, the implementation of a new organizational structure with managers placed in charge of key
processes, and a sort of competition resulting from the private involvement through contracts, allowed
DNV to improve the efficiency of its maintenance operations carried out directly or via contract. The
numbers in annex 1 show that the productivity targets for the principal maintenance activities directly
realized by DNV were considerably improved. The four types of maintenance unitary costs used as
productivity indicators under this project exceeded the project end targets by between 32 to 53% and
improved since appraisal by between 42 to 59%. It is also pointed out that these productivity
improvements took already place relatively early in the project period with appraisal values exceeded by
between 19 to 50% in April 1999.

It is also interesting to note that in 2002, DNV maintained 5,263 km of its network, about 60%, through
force account at a unitary cost of US$ 2,005, compared to US$ 3,314 in 2001. However, care has to be
taken with these cost figures since the decrease between 2001 and 2002 is to some extent due to the
devaluation of the national currency. For contractual maintenance, the control and supervision
mechanism adopted by DNV together with the assistance of an Advisory Committee, which included top
DNV officials and two international experts, has also been very effective not only in assuring compliance
with the agreed contract conditions and standards, but also in creating information and knowledge to
improve the management of the road network.

Worthwhile mentioning is also the introduction, on a pilot basis, of performance-based road maintenance
arrangements between DNV and two of its Districts under the jurisdiction of the latter and implemented
through force account. The pilot implied a clear definition of performance targets for all roads, albeit
lower than those under the CREMA program. This allowed for the roads to be maintained to a given
condition and assured the necessary resources to achieve the targets. However, the uncertainty of
budget allocation prevented DNV from expanding this pilot to other Districts.

DNV has also strengthened its bridge management capacity in the course of this project. It was found
that the department within DNV in charge of structures (UE-DNV) had developed the necessary
institutional capacity for bridge management and was fully able to identify bridges with structural and
dimensional problems, supervise rehabilitation works and carry out routine and preventive maintenance.
This department has recently implemented a Bridge Management System (BMS), acquired through an
IDB loan, which is not yet used to its full potential mainly due to lack of resources. The procurement
procedures used by UE-DNV were adequate and well adapted to local conditions. They allowed for the
bridge project component to be implemented in a cost-effective manner but there are a number of steps
that could be taken especially to reduce inflated bid prices. This includes a suggestion for the procuring
agency to carry out preliminary studies on the conditions of bridge foundations and to make them
available in the bidding documents. This would avoid a great degree of uncertainty regarding the exact
nature of the works to be carried out, which bidders have currently to face. Moreover, it is recommended
to provide advance payments to cover mobilization costs, which otherwise result in a heavy financial
burden for contractors.

Consequently, there are no doubts that, even if the study to analyze options to modernize DNV and the
road safety pilot did not take place as originally expected, and even if the technology transfer to the
Intendencias had some shortcomings, the project constituted an important playground for improvements
in systems, tools, procedures and processes, and           strengthened the sector management overall.
Moreover, although the study regarding DNV's modernization did not take place during the project
period, it remains on the agenda, as reflected by the fact that the Five-Year Plan for the transport sector
approved in 2000 includes a study for DNV's reformulation in the framework of the State and according



                                                    - 8 -

to a scheme that allows for greater autonomy in the resource management. On the other hand, the
piloting of some form of greater autonomy through the Megaconcession is a further indication of the
Borrower's interest to move ahead in this direction.

The reasons for the postponement of the study to analyze options to modernize DNV, together with
additional details on the institutional components of this project, are provided below under section 4.2.


4.2 Outputs by components:

1. Road rehabilitation and bridge reconditioning (PAD US$ 20,590,000; actual US$ 12,887,105).
This component is rated satisfactory.

In the light of the drastic budget reductions over the project implementation period, DNV decided to give
priority to the protection of existing road assets over new investments, a policy that reduced the
rehabilitation target for the national road network from 146 km to 85 km (by 42% - see section 3.4). This
policy did not jeopardize the priority works on the international corridor of Route 2, partly financed with
DNV's own funds, but affected national Route 30, which is not on an international corridor. On the other
hand, it allowed to keep the progressive deterioration of the road network relatively well under control,
even if in 2002 the percentage of the roads exceeding permissible roughness levels increased from the
8% project target in 2001 to 13%. The figure below shows DNV's budget and the actual total road asset
value. With the overall DNV budget steadily decreasing after 1999, it illustrates how maintenance
expenditure increased over the project implementation period at the expense of capital investments. It
also shows how these budget cuts affected the road network asset value, which increased during the
initial period of project implementation, but began to decline after 2001 in line with the heavy budget
reductions that started in 2000.


                                     Road Network Asset Value versus DNV Investment/Maintenance Budget


                          160,000                                                                                    2,220,000


                          140,000                                                                                    2,200,000


                          120,000                                                                                    2,180,000

                                                                                                                     2,160,000
                          100,000                                                                                              (US$000)

         (US$000)                                                                                                    2,140,000
                           80,000                                                                                                      Value
                                                                                                                     2,120,000
                 Budget    60,000                                                                                                           Asset
                                                                                                                     2,100,000
                       DNV 40,000                                                                                    2,080,000
                                                                                                                                                 Network
                           20,000                                                                                    2,060,000

                                0                                                                                    2,040,000
                                     1998            1999            2000           2001                 2002


                                     Investment   Maintenance   Total DNV Budget   Actual Total Network Asset Value

Source: Bank Staff (Based on DNV budget figures included in the Contribution of the Borrower to the ICR (section 9) and on Actual
Total Network Asset Value figures included in the DNV report prepared by Marcelo Krugman and Javier Wilson (annex 7)

Nine of the 13 bridges included in this project were rehabilitated. Among those, two bridges (Sauce and
Sarandí) were rehabilitated under the CREMA contract for Zone II and III and two (Guaviyú and Sauce)
with IDB financing. The remaining bridges will be rehabilitated under the Megaconcession, which
includes nine bridges located on international corridors. The quality of the bridge rehabilitation works is
good as far as widening and structural strengthening is concerned.

Both the road rehabilitation and the bridge components proved sound economic investments with an
ex-post EIRR of 16.6 and 36,7% respectively.




                                                                      - 9 -

2. CREMA CONTRACTS (PAD US$ 23,36,000; actual US$ 42,237,456). This component is rated
highly satisfactory.

In the framework of this project 123 km of the primary road network was rehabilitated and 856 km
maintained under CREMA contracts, which is more than 30% above the original project target. In
addition, DNV's strong interest in this instrument is confirmed by the fact that it used its own resources to
tender three additional CREMA contracts for about 725 km. It also plans to further expand the program
as soon as there is greater certainty on funds availability. In this context it should be pointed out that the
Borrower asked the Bank to support a follow-on operation to assist in the expansion of the program.

The use of these performance-based maintenance contracts allowed DNV to assure road maintenance
and rehabilitation in an effective and cost-efficient manner, despite the negative economic environment.
Nevertheless, the latter still caused the postponement of the execution of the CREMA contract in District
V.

The CREMA contracts originally included in this project were as follows (network size is given within
brackets): (i) CREMA District II and X (km 240), (ii) CREMA District II and III (km 233), and (iii) CREMA
District VII (km 145). Both rehabilitation and maintenance works were carried out in a satisfactory
manner and the contracts are still under implementation or have recently terminated.

In 1999 the following CREMA contracts were added to the project: (i) CREMA District IV (km 207) and (ii)
CREMA District V (km 267). While the first contract has been implemented in a regular manner, the
execution of the second has been delayed due to budget constraints.

In January 2003 the Bank agreed to extend financing under the CREMA component to another
performance-based contract, the Access to Montevideo (km 31), which DNV had started with its own
funds and was experiencing difficulties in meeting its payment obligations due to the tight fiscal situation.
The flexibility of this financing with retroactive effect starting in January 2002 allowed DNV to partially
overcome the cash flow shortfall in its 2002 and 2003 budgets, and to complete the contract.

Out of the three CREMA contracts financed by DNV with its own resources, one for about 330 km
terminated, while the remaining two will stay in force until 2005 and 2007 respectively. It should be noted
that at the end of 2002 five new CREMA contracts were tendered within the framework of the
Megaconcession. Four of them are under implementation and the fifth has still to be awarded.

The rehabilitation works under the CREMA contracts were carried out in a satisfactory manner and on
average the actual costs were 94% lower than at appraisal (see annex 3 for details). The contractors
respected the agreed maintenance standards without extensive use of penalty payments and DNV's
supervision mechanisms resulted very adequate. In 2001, the average annual cost per km for CREMA
contracts, including rehabilitation and maintenance, was US$ 8,640, which compares favorable with an
average annual cost of US$ 10,000 in Argentina.




                                                     - 10 -

3. DNV ROAD MAINTENANCE PROGRAM (PAD US$ 45,110,000; actual US$ 73,694,000). This
component consists of the road maintenance program directly financed by DNV and carried out through
contracts with micro-enterprises constituted by former DNV staff or directly by DNV's staff through force
account arrangements. It is rated satisfactory.

At the end of the project DNV had 1,914 km of its network maintained by micro-enterprises (about 22%).
In 2001, the average annual cost per km for micro-enterprises was US$ 3,77, compared to US$ 3,314 for
force account. In 2002, it was US$ 2,693 for micro-enterprises and US$ 2,005 for force account. The
original contracts with the micro-enterprises were re-tendered in 2002 and 2003 for a three-year period,
renewable for three additional years. Some of them were awarded to the original contractors, while
others went to new micro-enterprises. In addition, the signaling contracts with micro-enterprises were
extended and an additional one tendered for a total of 815 km. This means that the project target of
having a DNV financed program of contract maintenance with micro-enterprises comprised of former
DNV staff and private contractors for about 1,855 km has been largely achieved.

The national roads directly maintained by DNV through force account amounted to 5,263 km in 2002.
This is about 60% of the network. As mentioned above under section 4.1, point 3, the systematic and
effective use of road planning and maintenance management systems, combined with innovative
management concepts and better data and information collection allowed DNV to improve its efficiency
in force account maintenance. It also impacted on its productivity targets for the principal maintenance
activities that could be enhanced considerably (see annex 1 for details). As a word of caution it has to be
added that the cost decreases between 2001 and 2002 are to a certain extent due to the strong currency
devaluation.

4. DEPARTMENTAL ROAD MAINTENANCE (PAD US$ 33,000,000; actual US$ 32,940,411). This
component is rated satisfactory since overall the Intendencias achieved about 96% of the physical and
92% of the financial targets agreed with DNV.

This component built upon a departmental road maintenance program successfully carried out in the
period from 1989 to 1996. It was reassumed in 1997 with the support of the Forest Product Transport
Loan 4204-UY, and for the years 1998 to 2000 it was agreed to provide support under this project.

The program involved all Intendencias, with the exception of Montevideo, and aimed at re-gravelling
yearly 1,500 km of departmental roads and maintain 9,000 km to a satisfactory level. In 1998 a budget
of US$ 10.76 million was spent, which allowed to provide satisfactory routine maintenance for 8,794 km
and re-gravelling for 1,163 km of departmental roads. This represented 98% of the overall targets set for
1998. In 1999, the program reached 95.3% of its targets, with a budget of US$ 10.48 million. Due to
budget cuts in 2000, the program was reduced from US$ 11 million to US$ 8.47 million. This allowed the
program to reach 91.7% of its annual targets.

During 2001, the program was again reestablished at its annual level of US$ 11 million with a partial
funding from Bank Loans 4395-UY and 4204-UY. However, due to budget cuts towards the end of the
year, the program execution was reduced to US$ 10,04 million, which affected particularly the
Intendencias that had delays in the execution of their activities. It allowed to provide basic maintenance
for 7,363 km of the planned 9,000 km of roads and achieved the overall targets set for 2001 by 91.3%.
The program continued in 2002 with a budget of approximately US$ 9 million, financed under the Bank
Loan 4204-UY, maintaining approximately the same coverage as in the previous year.

As an additional remark, it can be added that the main reason for not reaching the targets was that a few
Intendencias lagged behind, while the majority did reach or came very close to their annual targets,
independently from the budget cuts. There is also some evidence that the efficiency of certain
Intendencias could be increased through different schemes and different incentives, as it was the case
for Rocha, where the hiring of a private maintenance company proved very successful.




                                                  - 11 -

5. ROAD SECTOR MANAGEMENT/INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING (PAD US$3,000,000; actual
US$587,920).This component consisted of a number of sub-components that are globally rated as
satisfactory even if some sub-components or elements of sub-components are not completely
satisfactory.

5.1 Provision of technical assistance to DNV to monitor and supervise project implementation

Most of the monitoring work was done by DNV in-house, with the support of a few technical advisors, in
particular two international experts on pavement performance and performance contracts respectively.
These advisors were hired by DNV with its own resources to guide its staff. DNV's control and
supervision arrangement, supported by this Advisory Committee, proved very successful because it set
high standards for the measurement of results on the ground and achieved effective contract
enforcement. In addition, carrying out this task in-house increased the ownership within the organization.
However, it has to be emphasized that it was the well-established reputation for high integrity within DNV
that was instrumental for the success of this kind of monitoring and supervision arrangement.

5.2 Preparation of MTOP's transport infrastructure plan for the years 2000 - 2004

The Integrated Highway Planning System (SIPLA), consolidated and further improved under the project,
was used for the elaboration of the Five-Year Plan 2000 -2004. Even if during the preparation period not
all planned inventories had been completed, the information provided by SIPLA, integrated with ad hoc
surveys, resulted as adequate. As a result of the methodology applied, the different investment programs
in the Plan are in line with a more integrated vision of the services that an improved road infrastructure
provides to users and the economy of the country. It also allows to compare the situation in base year
2000 with the evolution of the indicators that measure the results of the Plan.

5.3 Strengthening technical capacity within MTOP through its Institute for Transport and
Investment Planning (ITPI) to carry out sector fiscal policy analysis with a special emphasis on
road financing and updating and revising road user charges

Under the project IPTI, MTOP's Institute for Transport and Infrastructure Planning, has been updating its
databases and carrying out several estimates of user charges, using the road user charge model (RUC),
developed in 1998. The most recent calculations of road user charges are based on 2001 figures and
showed that the total expenses in the sector, including investments and debt service, amounted to US$
466,160,000 and that the fiscal revenues from road users reached US$ 607,850,000, which gives excess
revenues from road users of US$ 141,660,000.

IPTI also carried out a program to speed up the collection of timely data, which led to the identification of
all relevant information sources and the introduction of the basis for a more timely data collection
mechanism. Nevertheless, the collection of data from the Intendencias still remains a weak point,
together with IPTI's activities in the field of air and maritime/fluvial transport.

Other studies carried out by IPTI during the project period include an analysis for the fiscal optimization
of the passenger and freight transport sub-sectors and the study on the benefits of users on the routes
included in the Megaconcession and their comparison with collected toll revenues. IPTI's activities
provided valuable inputs into the design of the Megaconcession and are likely to play a vital role in
DNV's future transformation process. No project resources were used for these activities.

5.4 Renewal program to strengthen DNV's institutional, operational and financial capacity

The project supported this sub-component in two ways. In the first place, it provided financing for
consultancy services for the consolidation and further improvement of the highway planning and
maintenance management systems. In particular, as far as the Integrated Highway Planning System
(SIPLA) is concerned, the inventory system was finalized and final design adjustments made. SIPLA
initially worked on the basis of a test database that was progressively replaced by the information



                                                      - 12 -

obtained through various surveys carried out during the project implementation period. This project did
not only support the physical parts of this planning tool, but also provided financing for institutional
capacity building to allow for activities, such as the analysis of investment scenarios and evaluation
priorities in the framework of the policies defined by MTOP.

The Maintenance Management System (SAM) was also improved and consolidated. Its systematic
application, together with the expansion to contract maintenance reporting, the piloting of performance
contracts between DNV and its Districts II (Rocha) and X (Maldonado), and other improvements in DNV's
management processes, allowed DNV to make significant efficiency gains. These gains are expressed in
the four key indicators selected at appraisal: (i) patching with premixed asphalt; (ii) surface sealing; (iii)
vegetation control; and (iv) crack sealing (for details see annex 1). Moreover, the supervision of the
maintenance contracts through DNV's control mechanism supported by an Advisory Committee was very
effective not only in terms of compliance with contractual requirements but also in the generation of
useful information and knowledge for the improvement of road network management.

The second aspect is related to DNV's renovation program. In this respect it must be emphasized that at
project negotiation, the Borrower had been very cautious with respect to the scope of this commitment:
(i) only the exploration of reform options but not the reform process itself was finally included in the
project, and (ii) the representatives of the Ministry of Economy and Finance made their opposition to the
creation of a road fund, which would have granted DNV full financial autonomy, very clear.

Consequently, in the PAD it was specified that working groups would be established to formulate options
for the modernization of DNV's institutional structure and operations, the improvement of its human
resource management and the introduction of sound commercial and user focused management
principles. The discussions regarding the outline of the study had started but the reluctance at political
level from the outset, together with the economic situation and the tight fiscal restrictions completely
paralyzed any attempt to provide greater economic and financial autonomy to an entity like DNV.
However, even if this study did not take place according to the timetable of the project, the Five-Year
Plan envisages the analysis of the DNV's reformulation in the framework of the State, with a view to
make the new structure operational during the following five-year period (2006-2010). This analysis has
not yet started. Nevertheless, one working group had been established and played an important role in
the design of the Megaconcession and other schemes to improve DNV's institutional and financial
capacity. Moreover, information made available through IPTI's activities and the systematic application
of both SIPLA and SAM provided critical input to the design of the Megaconcession, and gave credibility
to cost and revenue estimates and overall the proposed government financial undertakings under this
concession agreement.

With the Megaconcession MTOP and DNV tried to overcome the restrictions in public spending and to
attract private financing for parts of the network that lack financial viability under the current concession
schemes. In particular, the Megaconcession aimed at (i) maintaining an adequate level of road network
investments during a period of crisis, (ii) tapping alternative (non-budgetary) financing sources for road
works, (iii) assuring good service levels on the principal corridors of the road network, and (iv) permitting
investments on corridors strategically important for the development of the country through the concept
of cross-subsidies.

The framework agreement for the Megaconcession was signed in December 2001 between MTOP and
Corporación Nacional de Desarollo (DND), creating a new public corporation, called Corporación Vial de
Uruguay (CVU), which is 100% owned by DND. The latter granted CVU a 15-year concession for about
1,270 km of primary roads (about 15% of the national road network) and 38 bridges (17% of Uruguay's
bridges). This concession requires CVU to assure an annual spending flow that over the 15-year period
reaches a present value of US$ 149,062,005. This spending must be authorized by DND and relates to
technical concession management, compulsory works and maintenance, delivery of services to users
and tolling facility operation. The concession contract also lists the compulsory works, the minimum
service levels for the whole concessioned network and the penalties and fines to be applied, if these
service levels are not reached.




                                                    - 13 -

The Megaconcession is based on the principle of cost sharing and is financed through toll revenues and
subsidies. The latter are composed of three components: (i) a fixed payment per km of road maintained,
(ii) a subsidy for the maintenance of structures and (iii) a minimum revenue guarantee. The subsidy for
road maintenance is in line with the investment levels necessary for the regular maintenance of the
network and will be paid during the first four years (about US$ 4,000/km/year). During the same time, the
contract assures the concessionaire a minimum annual revenue of US$ 25,000,000 composed of toll
revenues and subsidies. From the fifth year onwards,           an ceiling for annual toll revenues will be
established. If this ceiling is exceeded, the subsidy amount will be reduced or the agreed present value
of annual spending increased. Starting in the fourth year, a subsidy for the maintenance of structures of
US$ 167/m/month will be paid.
CVU has the right to raise revenues through bond issues and loans and is allowed to outsource works
and services necessary to the management of the concessioned network. To further bolster toll revenue,
the GOU is currently implementing a construction program of additional toll facilities. CDN has also
expressed an interest in exploring possible World Bank and IDB financing for this initiative. The
implementation of the Megaconcession seems promising. The first construction works started in
December 2002, and the program has developed well during 2003.

In short, the Megaconcession concept is a way of testing how a sizeable portion of the road network
could be managed by an autonomous body and its improvement and operations funded through
commercial instruments, which is one of the goals of DNV's modernization study.

5.5 Carrying out of a program to transfer technology and strengthen road maintenance
management practices of the Intendencias participating in the departmental roads maintenance
component

The consultancy study aimed at technology transfer to and institutional building within the Intendencias
was commissioned in 2000 and completed in 2001. The diagnostic in this study mainly focused on
institutional issues and management tools, e.g. planning, organization and execution of works and quality
control. The study clearly showed that there is a strong institutional weakness that affects most
Intendencias.It had left out some key elements that condition the implementation and sustainability of the
departmental maintenance program, such as the financial aspect. Another element that did not work as
expected was the effective representation of the Intendencias through the ad hoc "Steering Group"
created during project negotiations, which comprised representatives from MTOP and the Intendencias.
Both aspects had been highlighted during several supervision missions but were not adequately followed
through.

With these limitations in mind, it is not astonishing that while overall the results of the study were found
useful, the impacts on the ground had been somewhat less than expected. The study recommendations
were presented to the Intendencias during three meetings hold in 2002 in the north, east and west of the
country in an effort to frame their implementation in a demand-driven approach that would allow to tailor
them to the different realities. The Intendencias, however, asked to mainly focus on the reparation and
operation of equipment and the execution of works. There was less interest for the recommendations in
the field of accounting, planning, management and outsourcing and administrative decentralization.

The final outcome of this sub-component must again be seen in the light of the economic crisis that
created a     strong resource scarcity within the Intendencias and DNV. This reduced the number of
activities carried out by DIVD, the entity within DNV responsible for the departmental road maintenance
program, and the possibilities for contacts with the Intendencias.

It has also to be highlighted that one of the specific goals under the technical assistance was the design
of an urban road maintenance program to be co-financed between the Intendencias and MTOP* . With
the worsening of the fiscal situation, however, it became apparent that a government co-financed
program could not be supported, which, in turn, reduced the interest of some of the Intendencias in the
technical assistance component.




                                                    - 14 -

At project closure, DIVD was trying to involve the Intendencias in an action plan to fully implement the
recommendations of the consultancy study. In principle, it was agreed to focus on the development and
implementation of basic instruments for the management of the network (e.g. inventory and geographic
information systems) and on the support of the methodology for the management of road equipment. It
should be noted that the departmental road maintenance program for 2003 envisaged the possibility of
dedicating parts of the budget allocation to capacity strengthening but that the interest of the
Intendencias was limited.

During 2001 and 2002, DIVD provided technical assistance and training mainly in the fields of workshop,
equipment and spare part management. No other activities had been carried out due to the difficult
financial situation described above.

*During project preparation, MTOP had requested a follow-on Bank operation to finance, among other investments, the implementation of
this urban road maintenance program. This follow-on project did not materialize since the Bank at that time was considering a drastic
reduction of lending to Uruguay as part of a "disengagement policy" that underpinned the preparation of the 2000 CAS.

6. ROAD SAFETY PROGRAM (PAD US$ 4,720,000; actual US$ 4,103,802). This component is rated
marginally unsatisfactory (indicated on the basis of the physical achievement at time of budgetary
crisis).

The progress within this component was mixed. While the program for the improvement of road signs
and pavement markings for 3,879 km of road network (55% more than the original target) was
concluded, the safety improvement works at the crossing of the (old) Route 1 with the village of Rincón
de la Bolsa were awarded but have then been constantly delayed due to budgetary constraints.
Therefore, it was impossible to carry out the evaluation of the impact of these improvements on road
safety within the time frame of the project. It has to be added that Route 1 at the crossing with the village
of Rincón de la Bolsa replaced the site originally selected for this pilot program.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

The ex-ante economic evaluation for this project was done for each rehabilitation and maintenance
component financed under the project and consisting of (i) road rehabilitation, (ii) CREMA contracts, (iii)
departmental road maintenance, and (iv) bridge reconditioning. Net benefits were evaluated using the
Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model (HDM-III), which simulates life cycle conditions and
costs and provides economic decision criteria. The ex-post economic evaluation was done using the
same model and following the same ex-ante methodology, but including (i) actual costs, (ii) actual traffic,
(iii) actual road user costs, and (iv) actual timing and duration of road works.

The ex-post Net Present Value (NPV) of the capital works of the rehabilitation, CREMA and bridge
restoration programs is US$ 31.7 million and the Internal Rate of Return (IRR) is 20.1%, which can be
compared to the ex-ante estimates of US$ 47.0 million NPV and 25.7% IRR. Including the NPV of the
departmental roads maintenance program, the total ex-post NPV is US$ 233.2 million, which can be
compared to the ex-ante estimate of US$ 257.9 million.

On average: (i) the actual capital work unit costs per km of the rehabilitation, CREMA and bridge
restoration programs were 2% lower than the ex-ante estimates, (ii) the actual traffic in year 2002 was
9% lower than the ex-ante estimates, and (iii) the actual traffic annual growth rate for the 1998-2002
period was 0.3% per year, which can be compared to the ex-ante estimates of 3.0 to 4.0% per year.

The ex-post economic evaluation shows that the actual costs were in line with the ex-ante estimates, but
the actual traffic growth rate during the 1998-2002 period was lower than expected, which explains the
lower than expected economic return of the project, which is nevertheless satisfactory. For more details
see annex 3.




                                                                - 15 -

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not applicable.


4.5 Institutional development impact:

This project had a substantial Institutional Development impact on Uruguay's road sector. DNV
improved its management processes and implemented various institutional strengthening initiatives that
included among others:

l   Implementation of a new organizational structure with managers placed in charge of key processes.
    This strengthened the planning capabilities within DNV and the coordination of maintenance
    programs performed by force account and contract. The latter led to a sort of competition resulting
    from the private involvement through contracts;
l   Improvement of the wage structure in order to bring wages closer to market rates;
l   Establishment of a set of indicators to monitor DNV's performance in managing its road programs
    and systematic performance monitoring. In this framework DNV had become one of the five pilot
    agencies that started using performance indicators.

Together with the consolidation and improvement of various planning and management systems (e.g.
MMS, SIPLA, BMS) and their systematic application, DNV was able to make a more effective use of
their human and financial resources and reached important productivity increases. There is also a very
rich experience and profound knowledge that DNV was able to acquire during this project in the field of
contractual maintenance.

The technical assistance to the Intendencias was mainly focused on workshop, spare part and equipment
management to improve their departmental road maintenance capacity. This technical assistance
component of the project was not only fruitful for the Intendencias, but for DIVD as well. It allowed DIVD
to better understand the problems on the ground and to establish a closer relationship with the
Intendencias, which should allow them to implement the action plan with the recommendations of the
above-mentioned consultancy study. It is also interesting to note that as a likely consequence of this
constancy study, the departmental road maintenance program for 2003 envisaged for the first time the
possibility of dedicating parts of the budget to capacity strengthening in the Intendencias.

The project allowed IPTI, the Institute of Transport and Infrastructure Planning at MTOP, to improve their
tools and systems and update their databases. IPTI also carried out a program to speed up the collection
of new data, which led to the identification of information sources and the introduction of a more timely
data collection mechanism.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

Economic crisis. The severe economic crisis that interrupted Uruguay's growth in the 1990s had a very
strong impact on the project implementation and to a certain degree on its outcomes. While the first
symptoms of the crisis became evident in 1999 after Brazil's devaluation of the Real, Uruguay's close
correlation with Argentina, though, is what best explains the length of the recession (4 years), its depth
and the sharp financial and output collapse during 2002. Underlying Uruguay's crisis were weak fiscal
fundamentals and a fragile financial sector with over 50% of bank liabilities with nonresidents (mostly
Argentines). While real economic effects stemming from the strong devaluations in Brazil and Argentina
were sizable, the strongest channel of contagion proved to be Uruguay's banking sector. During 2002 the
deposit withdrawal represented over 50% of the system deposits.




                                                     - 16 -

To cope with the situation, the GOU negotiated a massive emergency rescue package with the
international financial institutions of US$ 3.9 billion or around one-third of its 2002 GDP. The package
was tied to structural reforms including the floating of the exchange rate - the peso value of the US dollar
increased 90% in 2002 - and a drastic fiscal adjustment effort. Other Government measures included a
significant tightening of its fiscal policies through deep cuts in public investment expenditures and a strict
freeze on public sector wages and indirectly on pensions.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

As already briefly mentioned, the economic crisis meant cutting dramatically all public expenditures, with
capital expenditures being the first and main target. In the road sector in particular, these drastic budget
restrictions required DNV to manage its assets with half or less than the usual resources. The figure
below shows the evolution of DNV's budget and expenditure between 1994 and 2003. It clearly illustrates
how DNV gave strong priority to maintenance at the expense of new investments, a policy decision
adopted to counterbalance the negative effects of the economic crisis on the condition and value of their
road assets. It should be noted that the large increase in investment in 2003 does not mean a drastic
change in DNV's maintenance policy but is due to the fact that the Megaconcession was fully included
under this category. Strictly speaking, however, the Megaconcession includes new investments and
maintenance (see section 4.2 point 5.4) and the respective expenditure should therefore be split between
the two categories.


                    Investments, Maintenance Expenditure and Total DNV Budget in Thousand US$



       160,000

       140,000

       120,000                                                                                    Investment

       100,000                                                                                    Maintenance
        80,000                                                                                    Total DNV Budget
        60,000

        40,000

        20,000

             0
                 1994   1995   1996   1997 1998    1999    2000    2001  2002    2003


         Source: Bank Staff (Based on DNV budget figures included in the Contribution of the Borrower to the ICR (section 9))

Although these policy decisions implied a slowdown in the project implementation, it is clear that
MTOP/DNV acted in the right and correct way.


5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

Procurement in Uruguay is a lengthy process and some procurement delays occurred at the beginning of
the project implementation period, which became more critical and evident as the agency was
increasingly moving towards outsourcing. Also, some of the contracts awarded had to be delayed due to
the budgetary crisis and the pace of several of the successful outsourcing initiatives had to be slowed
down. Despite everything and given the economic context, there are no doubts that DNV made the right
decisions in this respect.

Where DNV could have been more proactive in the early stages of project implementation is in the
formulation of a concrete proposal for the analysis of options for its transformation into a more
autonomous agency. By waiting for a more enabling environment, the deterioration of the fiscal situation
closed the doors for a formal and open discussion on such alternatives. Nevertheless, DNV managed to
shift to a model that, even if only in a partial way, builds on user fees, private financing and a more




                                                             - 17 -

robust contractual framework to test new options and solutions.


5.4 Costs and financing:

Actual costs were generally in line with appraisal estimates. The Bank loan was 97.2% disbursed by the
end of the original closing date. The one-year extension allowed for the balance to be used to give
continuity to the CREMA contracts throughout the remaining of CY02 and part of CY03 and to the
Access to Montevideo contract. No other significant cost changes took place.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Sustainability is rated as likely. It is based on the fact that during this project, DNV demonstrated its
commitment to giving the highest priority to road maintenance and showed a great ability to plan and
deliver efficiently well-responsive maintenance operations. DNV managed to keep the network in
acceptable conditions rather than concentrating funds for upgrading and rehabilitation. It also used its
scarce resources in an extremely efficient way by experimenting innovative maintenance schemes and
raising its own productivity. The few investments undertaken during this project were focused           on
international corridors and their sustainability is likely, considering DNV's sound maintenance practices.
The sustainability argument is further supported by DNV's policy of rehabilitating and upgrading
commercially vital links, which received continuity in the Megaconcession.

As far as the preservation of the departmental network is concerned, the implementation of the
maintenance program with the Intendencias for more than a decade is certainly a strong indication of
MTOP's commitment. In addition, the technical assistance carried out under this project increased the
awareness of the Intendencias on the importance of maintenance and helped them to improve their
capacity. Nevertheless, at least some of the Intendencias are still rather weak and the implementation of
a more commercially-oriented approach could be considered. In this field there is certainly room for
more technical assistance to further improve road maintenance practices, increase efficiency and
facilitate the collection of cost data.

The sustainability rating is also based on the fact that the private sector participation in Uruguay's road
transport management seems an irreversible reality. Performance-based contracts for rehabilitation and
maintenance are already in wide-spread use and have shown very positive results.

This trend in direction to more commercially-oriented network management and maintenance practices is
confirmed through new commitments towards innovative private-public partnerships to overcome
budgetary constraints and DNV's willingness to explore more autonomous solutions for the management
and financing of large portions of its network.

It is also supported by the 2003 Public Services and Social Sectors Structural Adjustment and Special
Structural Adjustment Loans, which considered the approval of the law creating the Megaconcession as
conditionality clause and envisaged monitoring indicators focused on the enhancement of transport
sector efficiency and competitiveness.

However, if DNV's budget is not increased and stabilized in the next future and its cash flow difficulties
improved, payment delays could cause severe difficulties for the contractors and undermine the success
of these arrangements. In addition, it has to be noted that as far as the Megaconcession is concerned,
the Forest Product Transport Loan 4204-UY financed DNV's capital contribution during CY03 for eligible
road segments. While in the medium-term it is expected that the Megaconcession will attract private
capital through the issuance of bonds and pension funds, there is the risk that DNV will cut back on
existing programs if additional financing is not secured, especially once support from the Forest Product
Transport Project has ended. As a result, DNV and CND have expressed their interest in a possible
World Bank or IDB financing. This could be explored as part of the identification of future sector


                                                      - 18 -

initiatives in Uruguay. In this context it is pointed out that in supporting greater private sector
participation, a new project would emphasize improved sector efficiency and international
competitiveness rather than increasing rural access.

Moreover, the judgement regarding sustainability takes into account that the road sector management in
Uruguay has been strengthened and that there is a solid will by all actors to go further in this direction.
Under this project, DNV managed to strongly improve its efficiency, even if its real transformation or at
least a study on the possible options to increase its autonomy has not yet taken place. In the light of the
current economic situation and the efforts to keep the fiscal deficit under control, DNV's transformation
seems politically unfeasible. However, there is a commitment, anchored in the Five-Year Plan, to go
ahead with a review of the underlying legal and regulatory framework to transform DNV into an
autonomous road sector policy agency funded primarily by road user charges.

In the meantime, the Megaconcession represents an important intermediate step towards DNV's
transformation into a sector planning and advisory agency with reduced operational activities and
increased managerial and financial autonomy.

Finally, it should be reiterated that it is not the financial sustainability that lacks but the political will since
IPTI's study on road user charges in 2001 confirmed that cost recovery in the sector is not an issue.
Indeed, charges (excluding IVA and general taxes) from road users as a whole exceeded current
expenditures by large, even if heavy vehicles did not fully cover the cost of the damage they caused.
Uruguay's economic recovery may also lead to a further push in this direction.


6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

The enhanced capacity within DNV together with its improved tools, systems, structures and processes,
the increased efficiency and effectiveness in its operations, the exploration of new instruments that
guarantee a greater financial autonomy, and the slowly improving economic situation in Uruguay should
permit DNV to sustain the necessary rehabilitation and maintenance activities also without another Bank
operation.

In addition, it is generally recognized that for an agency, like DNV that is more and more shifting to
outsourcing and public sector involvement, the current legal framework and organizational structure is
not the best one to efficiently manage the road network. In this context, a reorganization may follow as
natural response to the requirements of its new responsibilities and tasks.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

The Bank's performance during lending is rated as satisfactory. The project responded to the GOU
request to support the efficiency in the provision of transport services and the maintenance of
infrastructure to enhance Uruguay's competitiveness and to rationalize sector expenditures. Its objectives
reflected essential Government priorities for the transport sector in Uruguay and were in line with the
Bank's CAS, which called for a support of investments in key sectors (i) to enhance the competitiveness
of Uruguay's economy in the context of Mercosur, to (ii) increase private sector participation, and (iii) to
accelerate the rationalization of public expenditure needed to sustain macroeconomic stability.

The project built on lessons learnt from the implementation of the First Transport Project mainly by (i)
limiting the project scope to the road sub-sector, thus keeping its design simple, (ii) aligning the project
investments to be in phase with the budgetary appropriations under the Five-Year Plan 1995-1999, (iii)
completing the engineering designs before appraisal and advance procurement of those civil works
planned for the implementation in 1998, and (iv) complementing the institutional and investment efforts



                                                       - 19 -

started with on-going externally-funded projects to meet MTOP's long term objectives. This facilitated
project execution, increased the overall efficiency of Bank supervision missions, and avoided
procurement delays.

The project was not very risky in technical, social, environmental and project management terms and the
PAD included a correct evaluation of the capability of the implementing agencies. Another major
advantage of the project design consisted in the identification of detailed performance indicators that
facilitated the Bank's supervision and assisted the Borrower in defining its priorities and making the
necessary adjustments.

As far as DNV's reform process is concerned, the project design showed a very cautious and flexible
approach, not requiring DNV's transformation but only the exploration of reform options. The risk of a
possible slippage in the implementation of institutional reforms had been correctly identified in the PAD
and the focus was put on a gradual agenda and the strengthening of analytical and management
capabilities.

Since the time of the project identification, there has always been a strong interest and commitment by
the two main implementation agencies, MTOP and DNV. As far as the third direct involved actor group,
the Intendencias, is concerned, the PAD mentioned their potential unwillingness to participate in the
project as risk factor. It also listed a number of mitigation measures, including a link between the
institutional component and the financial support in form of the departmental road maintenance program.


What could not have been foreseen was the economic crisis that hit Uruguay during the project
implementation period and constituted the main reason for several project components not to exactly
perform as expected. Nevertheless, the PAD had anticipated a decline in funds allocated to the sector.

The financial package and the loan amount were appropriate and the lending instrument suitable.

Finally, this lending operation could rely on a number of previous Bank experiences in the field, the
CREMA contract experience in Argentina and a number of studies, such as the Road User Charge Study
carried out under the First Transport Project.

7.2 Supervision:

The Bank supervision is rated satisfactory. The Bank's oversight and supervision was adequate, with
regular visits to Uruguay. These visits took place more or less every six months and the average
permanence in the field was about 10 days. The Bank supervision team had a good skill mix and
continuity was assured by the task manager himself. Bank management supported the supervision effort,
with the sector leader commenting on many of the PSRs in a very enthusiastic and positive way. The
missions have been adequately reported in Aide-memoires, a couple of Back-to-office Reports and, most
importantly, the Project Supervision Reports (PSR) that give an excellent and very concise overview on
the developments on the ground.

The team did a very good job in timely pointing out potential implementation problems mainly related to
the institutional and capacity building components, even if the respective suggestions and
recommendations were not always fully taken into account by the Borrower.

The performance ratings given in the PSRs are realistic, even if it could have been pointed out that
some of the sub-component of the Road Sector Management and Institutional Building component had
not been performing in a completely satisfactory way. Nevertheless, it was the current lack of choice
between a "completely satisfactory" and "completely unsatisfactory" rating that correctly led to the first
option. The fact that the focus in the most recent Aide-memoires shifted from the achievements in
relation to single components to the achievement of the development objectives clearly shows that
sufficient attention was paid to development impacts.




                                                    - 20 -

The compliance with the loan covenants remained satisfactory and at the project end the clauses not
complied with are: (i) participation of the Office of Planning and Budgeting (OPP) and the Ministry of
Economy and Financing (MEF) in mid-term meeting (3.05e); (ii) execution of the study on modernization
of DNV (3.08c); and (iii) preparation and public dissemination of an annual report on DNV's operational
and financial performance during the preceding calendar year (3.09) - the original plan to create a unit to
disseminate relevant information to rod user in real time and periodical survey users opinions have been
put on hold due to budget constraints.

Bank staff showed flexibility in approving adjustments, such as the postponement of the rehabilitation
works to give priority to maintenance and the inclusion of new CREMA contracts under the project. Bank
staff also strongly supported the extension of the closing date by one year to use the remaining project
funds to give continuity to the CREMAs and the Access to Montevideo contract, which proved as
appropriate.

Finally, through the supervision of this loan the Bank was able to establish a high quality policy dialogue
with the Borrower, very much appreciated by the same. It has also led to the Borrower's interest in
seeking further Bank involvement in a follow-on operation.


7.3 Overall Bank performance:

The Bank performance overall is rated satisfactory.


Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The Borrowers performance in the project preparation is rated satisfactory. This rating takes into
account that the Borrower carried out all project preparation activities, such as engineering designs and
procurement related activities, in a manner that allowed the project to become effective within less than
two months from the Board Approval and to start fund commitments/disbursements very quickly. The
screening as well as the economic and environmental evaluations of project components used
methodologies previously designed and tested during preceding Bank projects. In particular, good use
was made of the HDM III model, and its inputs were periodically updated. DNV and the MTOP showed
their strong support and great commitment for this project right from the beginning.


7.5 Government implementation performance:

The Government's performance is rated satisfactory. The Loan Agreement was signed within less than
one month from the Board Approval, which allowed the project to become quickly effective. The project
disbursements were in line with appraisal forecasts until the economic crisis hit Uruguay and strongly
drained the Government budget. The drastic cuts in the road sector and the consequent shortage of
counterpart funds caused a slowdown in the implementation pace, even if the Government had been
able to secure essential funds for the most important project activities.

Critical to the success of the project was the continuity of the top sectorial authorities together with their
continued involvement in policy-related issues throughout project implementation.

MTOP was very committed to this project and was directly involved in its implementation through IPTI,
one of its institutes, and the Five-Year Plan for 2000-2004. Overall, the sector policies and activities
were in line with the project components, supporting or complementing them. For example, this was the
case with the Five-Year Plan or the Megaconcession. MTOP also showed a strong interest in the project
activities by supporting the departmental road maintenance program over more than 10 years and lately
envisaging the possibility to use part of the program's budget for capacity building within the



                                                   - 21 -

Intendencias.

One area where the Government showed some degree of hesitation and reluctance is DNV's renewal
program. From the outset it did not want to commit itself to anything else than studying options for the
possible transformation and even such a study did not materialize due to initial inactivity. Waiting for the
right time to launch it, and the subsequent economic crisis took away any prospect for the success of a
form of change that would imply greater financial autonomy.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

The performance of the implementing agencies is rated satisfactory. All of them were effective in
managing their respective components. DNV, in particular, was very effective in carrying out the
maintenance and rehabilitation components and the delays caused by facts, such as the small bridge
contractor market in Uruguay together with a lack of foreign interest in this sector, Uruguay's lengthy
procurement procedures, and the resource scarcity, were beyond their control. Similarly, the causes for
the delays and shortcomings in the departmental road maintenance program and the capacity building
within the Intendencias managed by DIVD are ascribed to the difficult economic situation.

The PCU had adequate financial reporting and auditing systems, and provided accurate and timely
information regarding project resources and expenditures, but did not establish a financial management
system compatible with LACI disbursement procedures. Rather, the project relied on MTOP's financial
system, which was found appropriate. Audit reports prepared by the Tribunal Nacional de Cuentas were
adequate and submitted timely. Most of the legal conditions were met on time, with the exception of
those mentioned above under section 7.2. The implementing agencies were also efficient in the technical
project monitoring, participating in supervision missions and taking the necessary follow-up actions
needed after such missions.


7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

The performance of the Borrower overall is rated satisfactory.



8. Lessons Learned


Several lessons can be derived from the implementation of this project. They are summarized below.

Preservation of road assets in a situation of severe economic crisis. As mentioned in the previous
sections, Uruguay has managed to conserve its road network relatively well despite the severe economic
crisis and the drastic budget cuts in the sector over a number of years. This is the merit of several
factors, which include:

l    Policy of absolute priority to road maintenance over new investments. As shown in section 5.1, during
     the years when the economic crisis was most acute, DNV drastically decreased its investment
     expenditure, while it augmented the funds for maintenance at a steady pace, with the exception of
     2002.
l    New performance-based contractual arrangements for road maintenance. The CREMA-type
     contracts increased the quality of maintenance works and the combination of recurrent maintenance
     with some rehabilitation works secured a minimum of new investment, which could have been
     neglected in a similar situation of budgetary drought if only force account maintenance had been
     used. In addition, they constituted longer-term commitments for DNV (5 years) to which it inevitably
     had to give priority over new investments. In a way, these contracts became a firewall to protect
     funding for road maintenance.
l    Guarantee of a minimum amount of funds to comply with the commitments of the CREMA contracts.



                                                   - 22 -

    Since the Bank loan partly financed the CREMA contracts, a stable financial flow was assured at
    least for part of the payments. In addition, in order to implement the Bank project in a satisfactory
    manner, the GOU had a strong incentive to secure the necessary counterpart funds.
l   Inclusion of the maintenance component as integral part of the project. Although this component was
    not funded by the Bank loan, its inclusion under the project contributed, similarly as with the CREMA
    component, to ease the availability of counterpart funds, and kept DNV's focus on overhead and
    operational cost reductions.

Nevertheless, even this combination of a strict policy of prioritizing maintenance with the other factors
could not avoid the slight but progressive deterioration of the roughness index since 2001, which shows
that at a certain point in time there is a need for a reasonable amount of more costly periodic
maintenance and rehabilitation investments, otherwise the road assets value will inevitably decrease.

Minimum requirements for performance-based maintenance (CREMA) contracts to work
successfully. The experience in Uruguay showed that CREMA contracts are powerful instruments to
carry out road maintenance and rehabilitation in an efficient and effective way even in a situation of
great budgetary pressure. The successful experience of MTOP in Uruguay reinforces the notion that for
CREMA contracts to show their real potential, a number of requirements must be given, namely:

l   Regular up-to-date and accurate information on the state of the road network and definition of
    realistic service output standards in the light of the current state of the network and the available
    resources. This is essential to precisely forecast the necessary rehabilitation and maintenance works
    and estimate the respective costs. While this is fundamental to design good and realistic contracts, it
    also constitutes the basis on which DNV can be held accountable towards tax payers and the users.
l   Effective control of contract compliance and good supervision of works. DNV designed an adequate
    supervision mechanism for the CREMA contracts with an internal supervision team consisting of a
    manager, two inspectors and an engineer. The two inspectors visited the sites under contract at least
    twice a week, the engineer at least once and the team manager inspected all most important
    problems. The team had two or three regular meetings a week to assess the state of the network
    under contract, discussed the recommendations for the contractors, and analyzed their timely
    response and the need to apply penalties. In addition, there was a monthly evaluation of
    representative parts of 10% of the network chosen at random, with 50 m of every km analyzed in
    detail. This evaluation was carried out by the engineer, the two inspectors and a representative of the
    contractor, and constituted the basis for the assessment of the compliance with the negotiated
    service levels and the emission of the monthly payment certificate. The external component of this
    supervision process consisted in a routine evaluation carried out every four months together with
    staff from the Advisory Committee, which prepared periodic evaluation reports, and an annual
    evaluation of 10% of the network together with DNV's Maintenance Department.
l   Good supervision of all road works. Experience with DNV's CREMA contracts showed that it is
    essential to thoroughly supervise all new infrastructure works, not only those contracted out under
    CREMA agreements since original construction defects could hinder an accurate forecast of
    rehabilitation and maintenance works to be included under a CREMA contract. On the contrary,
    performance-based maintenance contract may therefore have an important secondary effect on the
    quality of all new constructions.
l   Timely start of contract implementation. DNV experienced that delays in starting the execution of the
    CREMA contracts due to a lengthy procurement process, for example, usually led to changes in
    existing conditions since DNV stopped its recurrent maintenance on these parts of the network.
    Consequently the contract indicators had to be revised.
l   Reasonable contract duration. In Uruguay the average duration of the CREMA contracts was
    between four and five years, which is the minimum duration generally recommended in literature to
    reduce the risk of unsatisfactory quality in the rehabilitation works . Longer contracts of about 7-10
    years could provide additional incentives to ensure adequate quality of works, planning and
    equipment of the contractors, but their financing arrangements become more complex.
l   Securing financing on a pluri-annual basis. Most of the CREMA contracts in Uruguay had been part
    of the Bank project, which, as mentioned above, guaranteed stable financing for at least part of the




                                                   - 23 -

    commitments and provided an incentive for the GOU to come up with the necessary counterpart
    funds. Even with this arrangement the execution of one CREMA contract had to be postponed due to
    budget constraints, and delays occurred in the payment of the local component to contractors. This
    uncertainty regarding budget allocations is a strong deterrent for the implementation of contractual
    schemes that depend on credible funding arrangements and the perception of a high risk that the
    government might not honor its payment commitments, will certainly be reflected in the prices and
    could jeopardize the success of the instruments. This clearly shows the importance of a more stable
    financial mechanism and exposes the fragility of ad hoc short-term solutions used in Uruguay during
    the economic crisis (e.g. assurance by the Ministry of Economy and Finance of regular monthly
    assignments to cover DNV's obligations, special payment facilities with the Administracion Nacional
    de Combustibles Alcohol y Portland (ANCAP), payment certificates to pay contractors obligations
    with government institutions). The urgency of the situation in Uruguay is further underlined by the
    fact that maintenance by force account constitutes a current expense for DNV, reflected mainly in
    personnel costs, while the CREMA contracts are treated as investments, which makes them even
    more prone to annual budget cuts.
l   Greater financial and managerial autonomy of the contracting agency. The above clearly points to the
    fact that for DNV to efficiently and effectively manage the whole road network through
    performance-based contracts in the future it would need greater financial and managerial autonomy.
    There is a consensus on this, but the current political and economic situation is not favorable for
    such a transformation.

DNV's greater financial autonomy as way out from the financial crisis in the transport sector? The
successful implementation of DNV's reform process would unavoidably have implied some form of
financial autonomy and it is rather interesting to speculate if this would have avoided the financial crisis
in the sector. The most straightforward way to create an autonomous financing mechanism would have
been the creation of a road fund. A recent study based on the information collected by IPTI for its
estimate of road user charges in 2001 showed that a road fund constituted by an additional fuels tax of
0.04 US$/l for diesel and 0.10 US$/l for gasoline, a tax on the axle load of heavy goods vehicles of 70
US$/EEq and the toll revenues would allow to largely cover total costs for road management and
maintenance. However, the feasibility of such a scheme during the project implementation period seems
highly questionable since the transport sector is an important contributor to government revenue from a
fiscal point of view. Moreover, the high incidence of indirect road user charges on users' road usage
costs constraints the viability of tolling roads, levying higher tolls, or establishing a fee for road usage.
Considering also the sharp increase of petroleum and fuel prices during the project period, it is clear that
MTOP would have been left with little options.

There is also evidence that road funds are not immune to macroeconomic shocks and that a Ministry of
Finance usually finds creative ways of recapturing          resources for general budgetary needs. The
experience with road funds in Argentina clearly revealed the cyclical political economy dynamics of these
funds, originally established to provide stable financing for long term needs, successively eroded,
ultimately abolished and then re-established.

In the case of Uruguay, the commitment of the government to maintenance was essential to avoid
serious damage to the road assets caused by maintenance neglect, but the current government's pledge
to provide adequate funds for road maintenance does not commit succeeding governments. Therefore,
in the absence of any viable alternative, the Five-Year Plan could serve as a basis for securing funds for
maintenance if more appropriate expenditure categories and performance indicators were used, but the
issue of a more stable funding mechanism cannot be deleted from the agenda.

Impact of funding constraints and fiscal policies in the pace of reform implementation. MTOP's
ownership of, and commitment to the outsourcing policies supported by the project were critical to their
success at a time of unprecedented economic crisis. The project suggests, however, some interesting
lessons regarding the overall impact of government funding decisions on the reform process as it
exposes the tension between immediate stabilization needs and better fiscal outcomes. The decline in
sector funding, and equally important the uncertainties with regard to future levels of funding, forced
MTOP to slow down the implementation of various institutional initiatives that were being tested with



                                                     - 24 -

promissory results. For example, MTOP could not further expand the micro-enterprise program with
former DNV staff and the performance agreements between DNV and some of its maintenance Districts,
or launch new CREMA contracts, for all of which there was strong interest among potential participants
but unclear ability to meet their funding requirements on a timely basis. Scaling up these results-oriented
experiences requires a more stable macroeconomic environment in which the volatility of funding
decisions can be kept within reasonable margins.

Moreover, a retrospective look to the way public funding decisions are made in times of fiscal adjustment
suggests the existence of implicit disincentives for reform efforts. MTOP had engaged in a substantial
reform of the road sector in the mid 90s, which among other things slashed the size of the ministry's staff
through a series of successful initiatives and relied an outsourcing strategy for more cost-effective road
maintenance.      Outsourcing, however, meant that maintenance expenditure became a "capital
expenditure" for MEF, and as such was subject to the much deeper cuts on investment imposed by
government across sectors when the crisis hit Uruguay. On the contrary, for its more rigid composition
(mostly government salaries and other fixed commitments) current expenditure was in a manner
"protected" during the crisis. Put differently, the way adjustments are implemented at times of crisis, i.e.
cutting capital investment across sectors, may end up favoring those who had not sought cost-effective
reforms and taking a bigger toll on those who have done so.

Technology transfer to Intendencias. The experience with this project sub-component allowed to
capture a number of interesting lessons and highlighted a few critical issues to enhance the impact of
possible follow-on efforts in this field. These include:

l   Demand-driven approach tailored to the specific priorities of Intendencias. It resulted that the degree
    of internalization of the technical assistance recommendations varied among the Intendencias
    according to the level of interest shown by their respective leaders. This suggests that future
    technical assistance programs should be demand-driven and tailored to the specific priorities of the
    Intendencias requesting support, even if such an approach may face some political sensitivities.
l   Framework of incentives. The successful departmental road maintenance program should be
    fine-tuned to further its impact on institutional building. This program should be supplemented with
    an incentive framework that leads the Intendencias to greater efficiency and effectiveness. It could
    be achieved, for example, by inducing them to focus on key management tools, to adapt cost
    accounting principles that would also allow for benchmarking among them, to strive for more
    collaboration, to contribute with their own resources and to shift to outsourcing policies. For the latter
    DNV is an excellent source of information and knowledge due to its experience with
    micro-enterprises and other contractual schemes.
l   Effective representation mechanism and real ownership. The participation mechanisms for the
    Intendencias and their accountability reporting did not function as originally intended. The Steering
    Group helped in the definition of the framework for the consultancy work but did not perform the key
    monitoring role initially contemplated, partly because local representatives did not have a "collective
    ownership" of the program. Contrary to what was envisaged at appraisal, the "Congreso de
    Intendentes" did not evolve into a more encompassing body capable of handling the technical and
    policy dialogue needed to effectively contribute to strengthen Uruguay's decentralization framework,
    and in this respect there is much room for improvement.
l   Integrated approach to institutional and financial constraints faced by the Intendencias.The technical
    assistance would have benefited from a more integrated approach to the institutional and financial
    constraints faced by the Intendencias. This would, however, have required clarifying the fiscal
    decentralization framework and addressing the on-going dispute between the Intendencia of
    Montevideo and the remaining Intendencias around vehicle registration charges, a main source of
    funding for the Intendencias. Nevertheless, without interfering with the autonomy of the Intendencias,
    for instance, an investigation into the resources generated and assigned to the sector, the efficiency
    in their collection, the assignment and use of these resources and the cost of the different operations
    would already be a very valuable contribution to be considered for a follow-on effort.




                                                     - 25 -

   9. Partner Comments

   (a) Borrower/implementing agency:

                              REPORTE DE FINALIZACION DEL PROYECTO

                                                  URUGUAY
                                Ministerio de Transporte y Obras Públicas

                                SEGUNDO PROYECTO DE TRANSPORTE
                                             Préstamo 4395-UR

1. INTRODUCCION

1.1 El Segundo Proyecto de Transporte, fue financiado a través del Préstamo 4395-UR del Banco
Internacional de Reconstrucción y Fomento (BIRF) por un monto de u$s 64.500.000 y por Aporte del
Gobierno de la República Oriental del Uruguay.

1.2 El Convenio de Préstamo 4395-UR fue suscrito el día 6 de octubre de 1998, entre la República
Oriental del Uruguay y el BIRF. En él se designa al Ministro de Transporte          y Obras Públicas como
representante del prestatario a los efectos establecidos en la Sección 11.03 de las Condiciones Generales
aplicables a los convenios de Préstamo.

1.3 El Proyecto fue diseñado en concordancia con los objetivos establecidos en el "Country Assistance
Strategy" (CAS) de fecha 25 de junio de 1997 para el sector.
El mismo estableció como objetivo el mejorar la competitividad de los sectores productivos en el marco de
la integración en MERCOSUR, incrementar la participación privada y racionalizar el gasto público de
manera de mantener la estabilidad macroeconómica. A su vez, identifica a la infraestructura como uno de
los sectores claves para el logro de estos objetivos.

1.4 La fecha prevista en el Convenio para el cierre del Proyecto, era el 30 de setiembre de 2002.
Durante los años 2001 y 2002, toda la región, y nuestro país en particular, deben afrontar una grave crisis
económica y financiera que determina que se debieran adoptar severas medidas de restricción en los topes
de ejecución. Esto no permitió cumplir con los cronogramas de ejecución previstos inicialmente, por lo que
fue necesario solicitar al BIRF una enmienda prorrogando la fecha de finalización hasta el 30 de setiembre
de 2003.

1.5 Durante el período de ejecución del Proyecto, el BIRF aprueba 2 reasignaciones de fondos entre las
distintas categorías del Préstamo, (10 de julio de 2001 y 23 de diciembre de 2002), solicitadas a efectos de
adecuar los fondos disponibles en esos momentos a las necesidades de financiamiento.

1.6 Con fecha 8 de agosto de 2003, es aprobada por el BIRF la última justificación remitida (Solicitud de
Retiro de Fondos No. 41), habiendo sido utilizada la totalidad de los fondos asignados.

1.7 Este Informe de finalización del Proyecto ha sido preparado por la Unidad Coordinadora de Proyectos
con el Banco Mundial (UCP) del Ministerio de Transporte y Obras Públicas (MTOP), contando con la
colaboración de la Dirección Nacional de Vialidad (DNV) y del Instituto de Planificación del Transporte
(IPTI) para la preparación de las Evaluaciones Económicas Ex - Post de las obras incluidas en el Proyecto,
que las mismas se encuentran archivadas en el sistema IRIS del Banco.

2 OBJETIVOS DEL PROYECTO

2.1 El objetivo general del Proyecto fue incrementar la eficiencia en la provisión de los servicios de




                                                      - 26 -

transporte, y el mantenimiento de la infraestructura a efectos de mejorar la competitividad de los productos
del país, especialmente dentro del MERCOSUR, así como también, racionalizar los gastos del sector para
contribuir a la estabilidad macroeconómica.

2.2 Los objetivos específicos fueron establecidos en el Convenio de Préstamo, como los siguientes:
(a) rehabilitar y mejorar, de acuerdo a las normas del MERCOSUR, rutas en los corredores de integración y
también otras rutas nacionales estratégicas; y reemplazar o reacondicionar           puentes, para permitir el
tránsito de vehículos mas grandes y mas pesados, y para reducir el costo del transporte entre el territorio
del Uruguay y los países vecinos del MERCOSUR.
(b) respaldar la política del país de incrementar la participación del sector privado en la rehabilitación y
mantenimiento de las rutas nacionales, a través de los contratos basados en los resultados; y
(c) fortalecer la administración del sector vial a través de la implementación de: (i) programa de renovación
de DNV; (ii) transferencia de tecnología a las Intendencias Departamentales para mantener los caminos
rurales de grava; y (iii) programa de seguridad vial.

3 DISEÑO E IMPLEMENTACION

3.1 El Proyecto fue diseñado recogiendo las lecciones derivadas de la implementación del Proyecto de
Transporte I, así como también a través de un productivo intercambio de ideas entre las autoridades y
técnicos del MTOP y los técnicos del BIRF participantes.

3.2 En particular, se consideraron los siguientes lineamientos para su diseño:
 (a)mantener el diseño de un proyecto simple, enfocado básicamente en consolidar y apoyar la gestión del
 subsector carreteras;
(b) ajustar el monto del proyecto a la disponibilidad de cupo presupuestal asignado por la Ley de
Presupuesto vigente en el momento del diseño (Plan Quinquenal 1995 - 1999)
(c) adelantar la realización de los estudios necesarios (factibilidad económica y ambiental, detalles de
ingeniería), de forma tal de poder iniciar rápidamente la implementación del proyecto una vez aprobado el
Préstamo;
(d) complementar los programas que se venían realizando con otras fuentes de financiamiento, asegurando
la necesaria coordinación de esfuerzos para el logro de los objetivos de largo plazo del MTOP.

3.3 El nuevo Préstamo, financiaría la Fase I (a ejecutarse entre 1998 y 2000) de un proyecto más amplio,
que se concluiría, con una Fase II con todos aquellos subproyectos del Plan Quinquenal que por razones de
disponibilidad presupuestal no podrían ejecutarse durante la primera Fase. Este enfoque progresivo se
pensaba permitiría atender las contingencias que en materia de cambios en los patrones de demanda de
tráfico o deterioro de la red pudieran resultar de otros Proyectos en consideración en el marco del
MERCOSUR, o de la reestructuración iniciada en otros modos de transporte.

3.4 Posteriormente, y debido a los rígidos controles presupuestales y de ejecución establecidos por el
Gobierno, esta Fase II, quedaría relegada, abocándonos a cumplir con lo previsto para la Fase I solamente.


3.5 Durante la implementación, se realizaron varias enmiendas, ajustando alguno de sus componentes,
pero sus objetivos no fueron modificados.

3.6 El Proyecto, a pesar de las restricciones presupuestales y los topes de ejecución imperantes durante el
período de su ejecución, tuvo una buena "performance", lo que se demuestra a través del análisis de la
evolución de los distintos indicadores de gestión establecidos en el Project Appraisal Document (PAD),
muchos de los cuáles han superados los valores previstos.

4 DESCRIPCION DEL PROYECTO

4.1 El proyecto financió 5 componentes, cuya ejecución es analizada al detalle en el punto siguiente:
             (a)     rehabilitación de rutas y restauración de puentes;
             (b)     rehabilitación y mantenimiento de rutas a través de contratos por niveles de servicio;



                                                        - 27 -

            (c)      programa de mantenimiento de rutas financiado por la DNV;
            (d)      mantenimiento de los caminos rurales departamentales;
            (e)      administración del sector vial y fortalecimiento institucional.

5 ANALISIS DE LA EJECUCION

5.1 OBRAS

5.1.1. Rehabilitación de rutas

         Se planteó la ejecución de 3 tramos de ruta, habiéndose finalmente ejecutado 2:
   l     Ruta 2 : Rodó - Palmitas (35 kms). Este tramo corresponde a la red primaria nacional, y fue
         incluido debido a que tenía deformaciones importantes lo que configuraba un peligro para el
         tránsito, especialmente en los días de lluvia (efecto aquaplanning).
         Este contrato fue ampliado, ejecutándose el tramo Palmitas - Mercedes (30 kms) del cual solo un
         25% fue financiado por el BIRF.
    l    Ruta 27 : 36km400 - 56km400 (20 kms). Este tramo perteneciente a la red secundaria y que
         conectaba con el eje de Ruta 5 en zona forestal, se encontraba en mal estado, siendo
         imprescindible su rehabilitación.
    l    Ruta 30: 192km00 - Masoller (30.6 kms). Este tramo que conecta a una capital departamental
         (Artigas) con el eje de Ruta 5 fue incluido por encontrarse en mal estado.
         A pesar de que la licitación fue adjudicada se postergó su ejecución por las restricciones
         presupuestales a la inversión
El total de rutas rehabilitadas por el Proyecto fue de 85 kilómetros.

5.1.2 Restauración de puentes

Se previó la ejecución de un conjunto de 13 puentes considerados "fusibles" en los corredores primarios de
las rutas 3 y 8, mas un puente en la ruta 26. Dentro de este listado de puentes, incluido en la Carta de
Implementación, 2 eran nuevos, mientras que el resto eran obras de ensanche y refuerzo de la estructura
original:

       l    Ruta 3 - Arroyos Chapicuy y Carpinchurí. Ensanche y refuerzo. Ejecutados
       l    Ruta 3 - Arroyo Guaviyú. Puente nuevo. Ejecutado con financiamiento BID
       l    Ruta 3 - Arroyo Sauce. Ensanche y refuerzo. Ejecutado con financiamiento BID.
       l    Ruta 3 - Arroyo Grande. Ensanche y refuerzo. Ejecución postergada.
       l    Ruta 3 - Arroyo San Gregorio. Puente nuevo. Ejecutado.
       l    Ruta 8 - Arroyo Marmarajá I. Ensanche y refuerzo. Ejecución postergada.
       l    Ruta 8 - Arroyo Marmarajá II. Ensanche y refuerzo. Ejecutado.
       l    Ruta 8 - Arroyo Gutiérrez I. Ensanche y refuerzo. Ejecución postergada.
       l    Ruta 8 - Arroyo Gutiérrez II. Ensanche y refuerzo. Ejecución postergada.
       l    Ruta 8 - Arroyo Sarandí. Ensanche y refuerzo. Ejecutado con Contrato Crema II y III.
       l    Ruta 8 - Arroyo Sauce. Ensanche y refuerzo. Ejecutado con Contrato Crema II y III.
       l    Ruta 26 - Arroyo Conventos. Ensanche y refuerzo. Ejecutado.

De los 13 puentes incluidos originalmente, 7 se ejecutaron con financiamiento del Proyecto; 2 con
financiamiento del Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo (BID) y los 4 restantes fueron postergados en su
ejecución, aunque posteriormente, todos fueron incluidos en la Megaconcesión, actualmente en ejecución.

5.1.3 Contratos de Rehabilitación y Mantenimiento (CREMA)

5.1.3.1 Se trata de contratos por niveles de servicio para una determinada red de carreteras, y durante un
cierto período de tiempo, en general de 4 a 5 años, realizados entre la DNV y un contratista privado.

Si bien se analizaron modelos de otros países para la elaboración de los contratos CREMA, éstos fueron



                                                        - 28 -

reelaborados y adaptados por los técnicos de la DNV para a la situación del Uruguay.

El contratista se obliga a llevar a cabo todas las tareas de rehabilitación y mantenimiento, desde el diseño y
la programación de las tareas, hasta la ejecución de las mismas, de acuerdo a los niveles de servicio
establecidos a priori.

La fiscalización y el mantenimiento de estos contratos se lleva a cabo a través de la Gerencia de
Conservación de la DNV, dónde se crea un "Órgano de Control" a tales efectos.

5.1.3.2    La DNV, ya estaba experimentando con un primer Proyecto Piloto de Rehabilitación y
Mantenimiento (PPRM) en el departamento de Canelones con financiamiento del BID.

5.1.3.3 Originalmente se previó, dentro de este componente, el financiamiento de obras de rehabilitación
y/o mantenimiento de aproximadamente 635 kilómetros de rutas nacionales listadas en la Carta de
Implementación a través de 3 contratos CREMA.

Posteriormente, y a efectos de un más ágil y eficiente cumplimiento de los objetivos del Proyecto, y para
ayudar al país en la difícil situación económica y financiera que se encontraba, se introdujeron al
financiamiento 3 contratos más.

Contratos originales:
    l   CREMA en zonas II y X (red de 240 kms). Comprendía 29,1 kms de obra inicial de rehabilitación.
        El contrato de mantenimiento era por cinco años.
    l   CREMA en zonas II y III (red de 233 kms). Comprendía 24 kms de obra inicial de rehabilitación.
        El contrato de mantenimiento era por cuatro años.
    l   CREMA en zona VII (red de 145 kms). Comprendía 30 kms de obra inicial. El contrato de
        mantenimiento era por cuatro años.

Contratos incluidos con posterioridad:
    l   CREMA en zona IV (red de 207 kms). Comprendía 40,2 kms de obra inicial. El contrato de
        mantenimiento era por cuatro años.
    l   Contrato de Accesos a Montevideo (31 kms). Contrato de mantenimiento de estructuras y
        pavimento de hormigón, así como de la cartelería y de zona parquizada. Este Contrato se introdujo
        retroactivo a enero de 2002.
    l   CREMA en zona V (red de 267 kms). Sin obra inicial. Posteriormente a la inclusión en el proyecto,
        se decidió la postergación de su ejecución debido a las restricciones presupuestales vigentes.

Mediante estos contratos se rehabilitaron 123 kms de rutas, y se mantuvieron por niveles de
servicio 856 kms. de carreteras.

5.1.3.4 A la finalización de los contratos originales, algunos fueron prorrogados mediante ampliaciones y se
incluyó su financiamiento dentro del Proyecto de Transporte de Productos Forestales, mientras que otros
tramos se incluyeron en la red a la Megaconcesión.

5.1.3.5 Esta forma nueva de contrato contó con gran aceptación por parte de BIRF al ser introducidos en el
Proyecto, dado los buenos resultados que estaba experimentando en la región, pero la implementación
llevada a cabo en nuestro país superó incluso las expectativas más optimistas, en cuánto a los resultados
obtenidos.

5.1.4 Programa de Mantenimiento de la DNV

5.1.4.1 La DNV experimentó un progreso muy importante en el alcance de su objetivo de mejorar la gestión
del mantenimiento con la consolidación de 2 sistemas fundamentales a tales efectos: (a) el Sistema de
Administración del Mantenimiento (SAM), que es un sistema de administración de recursos y de actividades
de mantenimiento realizadas por administración alimentadas por Bases de Datos de las todas las zonas de



                                                        - 29 -

la DNV, y (b) el Sistema de Planificación del Mantenimiento (SIPLA).

5.1.4.2   Del análisis de resultados del SAM se deduce que el gasto directo de mantenimiento fue
disminuyendo en monto pero ha sido mayor en relación por kilómetro de red atendida.

5.1.4.3 La productividad de las actividades se incrementó en forma sustantiva con respecto a las cuatro
actividades testigo que se tomaron para el Proyecto.

El siguiente cuadro ejemplifica las metas de productividad propuestas a principios del Proyecto hasta el año
2000 y las alcanzadas a fines de 2002, las que fueron ampliamente superadas, si bien también influyó la
devaluación del peso respecto al dólar de ese año.

                                      1998           1999            2000          2002
              Bacheo c/mezcla          207            190             180          84,53
              asfáltica.             u$s/m3        u$s/m3           u$s/m3       u$s/m3
             Sellado peladuras      1.3 u$s/lt    1.2 u$s/lt      1.1 u$s/lt    0.75 u$s/lt
             Corte de pasto            69.3           65.0           60.0          33.37
                                     u$s/ha         u$s/ha          u$s/ha        u$s/ha
              Sellado de fisuras    1.7 u$s/lt    1.6 u$s/lt      1.5 u$s/lt    0.95u$s/lt

5.1.4.4   Iniciado durante la vigencia del Proyecto de Transporte I, y continuando en éste, la DNV
experimenta un cambio sustancial en cuánto a su rol en el mantenimiento de las carreteras.

Mediante la utilización de diferentes instrumentos: concesiones, contratos de rehabilitación y
mantenimiento, contratos con microempresas, la DNV ha reducido su participación en el mantenimiento por
administración desde un 100% en 1996, a un 55% en el 2003.

5.1.4.5 Los cambios en las formas de gestión del mantenimiento en la DNV, se visualizan en los
gráficos siguientes:


                                    MODOS DE GESTION DE MANTENIMIENTO
                                                      AÑO 2001


                                                                    DNV por administración

                                     23%                            Concesión

                                                                    Mantenimiento
                                  14%                      58%      contratado
                                                                    Microempresas
                                     5%




                                       MODOS DE GESTION DE MANTENIMIENTO
                                                   AÑO 2003



                                                                   DNV por administración

                                     15%                           Concesión
                                 15%
                                                                   Mantenimiento
                                                           55%     Contratado
                                  10%                              Microempresas
                                      5%
                                                                   Megaconcesión




Se toman como ejemplos el año 2001, que es cuando se encuentran en plena vigencia todos los contratos
CREMA y de microempresas y el año 2003 que es cuando ya se encuentra en plena vigencia la
Megaconcesión (punto 5.2.2.4.).



                                                           - 30 -

De ambos gráficos se deduce que si bien la Megaconcesión es un gran aporte para la tercerización del total
de la red, trajo consigo un descenso de la red de microempresas y de contratos CREMA.

5.1.5 Programa de Seguridad Vial

5.1.5.1 El programa incluía originalmente 2 componentes:
   l    Demarcación y señalización de rutas
   l    Plan Piloto en el área de Punta de Rieles sobre la ruta 8, consistente en verificar la efectividad de
        las medidas de bajo costo, para incrementar la seguridad vial de las rutas que pasan a través de las
        áreas urbanas, incluyendo, luego de ello, una evaluación de tal programa piloto.

5.1.5.2 El componente de demarcación y señalización se llevó a cabo con éxito superando largamente los
resultados previstos. Se cubrieron un total de 3.879 kms de carreteras en todo el país.

5.1.5.3 Los indicadores de progreso, programados y al fin de Proyecto, se muestran en el cuadro siguiente:

                                                         1998         1999         2000           Fin de
                                                                                                 Proyecto
    Km     de    carreteras   con     demarcación
    horizontal y/o vertical
    Programado                                            650         1850         2500            2500
    Real                                                 430          1653         2895            3879

5.1.5.4 En cuánto a la ubicación del Plan Piloto previsto, éste fue sustituido por otro en un tramo de la vieja
Ruta 1 en la zona de Rincón de la Bolsa, pero debido a las restricciones presupuestales y la priorización de
las obras, no se ejecutó.

5.1.6 Mantenimiento de la Caminería Rural Departamental

5.1.6.1 Este programa se inicia con el Proyecto de Transporte I y ha sido objeto de sucesivas mejoras a lo
largo de los años, adaptándolo a las necesidades de las Intendencias de nuestro país.

El objetivo del programa, estipulado en el Convenio que firman cada año las Intendencias con el MTOP, es
mejorar la calidad del servicio de la red departamental afianzando la cultura del mantenimiento regular de la
red, y fortalecer la capacidad institucional de las Intendencias para el mantenimiento sostenible de su red.

5.1.6.2 La red cubierta anualmente es de 9.000 kms de caminos rurales departamentales mas las obras de
arte, lo que cubre aproximadamente un 33% de la red vial total departamental.

5.1.6.3 El cumplimiento del programa siempre ha sido altamente satisfactorio, y promedialmente el total
ejecutado por año supera el 92%.

5.2 ADMINISTRACIÓN DEL SECTOR VIAL

5.2.1 Transformación interna de la DNV

5.2.1.1 La DNV, responsable de la administración del sector vial del país se abocó a partir del año 1995 a
llevar a cabo una serie de transformaciones importantes en su estructura. Mejorar la calidad del gasto,
aumentar la eficiencia y priorizar la inversión frente al gasto, son algunos de los objetivos planteados.

5.2.1.2 Estos objetivos, incluidos en el Plan de Reforma del Estado del quinquenio, se enmarcaron dentro
de la Ley de Presupuesto involucrando al sector privado en el logro de los mismos. Los cuatro puntos
principales de este Plan eran: (i) integración efectiva del país al MERCOSUR; (ii) mejora de la
competitividad de productos uruguayos (iii) potenciar las ventajas comparativas de cada región del país (iv)
optimizar la infraestructura existente en el país.



                                                        - 31 -

5.2.1.3 Una de las metas de la DNV para su reestructura consistió en la reducción del número de
funcionarios, que se efectuaría mediante tres vías: (a) no renovación de contratos; (b) incentivos para el
retiro y (c) formación de microempresas.


                                                             P E R S O N A L D E L A D N V


                                        4000

                                        3500

                                        3000

                                        2500

                                        2000                                                  Funcionarios

                                        1500

                           Funcionarios 1000

                                         500

                                           0
                                             1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003

                                                                 Años


Es destacable en la gráfica, que la disminución importante de funcionarios de la DNV coincide en el tiempo.
Con la creación y puesta en marcha de las microempresas (años 1997 y 1998) y con la tercerización del
mantenimiento de la red.

5.2.2 Tercerización del mantenimiento

5.2.2.1Microempresas
Este emprendimiento se instrumentó con la base de la Ley 14.411 de agosto de 1995, consolidándose en el
año 1997 al influjo de algunos jefes de zona de DNV.

Esta nueva modalidad consistió en la contratación en forma directa, en primera instancia, de empresas
formadas por ex funcionarios de mantenimiento de la DNV los que al retirarse se les otorgaba un incentivo
económico, y además se les asesoraba legal y empresarialmente.

Se trataba de contratos para el mantenimiento ordinario de tramos de la red secundaria y terciaria, y
contratos de señalización y alumbrado, los que se realizaban a cambio de una cuota básica por tarea y por
kilómetro. (bibliografía "De peones a empresarios" Juan Echeverz Año 1998).

Las microempresas en el año 2001 administraban una red de 1914 kms.

5.2.2.2 Contratos tipo CREMA
A la puesta en funcionamiento de la mayoría de las microempresas, se le sumaron los contratos tipo
CREMA, mayoritariamente firmados entre los años 1998 y 1999.

Se mantuvieron, bajo esta modalidad de contrato, aproximadamente 1240 km. de la red.

5.2.2.3 Concesiones de obra pública

A la concesión existente en la Ruta Interbalnearia (del año 1993) se le sumaron 3 tramos mas en las Rutas
1, 5 y 8, totalizando aproximadamente 429 kms concesionados.

5.2.2.4 Megaconcesión

Con fecha 5 de octubre de 2001, el MTOP suscribe con la Corporación Nacional para el Desarrollo (CND),
un convenio para la ejecución de obras y proyectos por el sistema de "Concesión de Obra Pública", y para
la cooperación y asistencia técnica, semitécnica y especializada, denominado "Megaconcesión".

La Megaconcesión es una solución que se encontró ante la imposibilidad de cumplimiento de la intención
de la DNV de transformarse en una agencia independiente, y que muestra el fuerte interés de la misma en


                                                                           - 32 -

el logro de una eficiente gestión en los corredores principales. A su vez, se consideró un instrumento idóneo
para superar la escasez de los recursos públicos que impedían llevar adelante obras de infraestructura
imprescindibles para evitar el deterioro de la red vial nacional.

A través de este convenio, las partes " acuerdan dar y recibir respectivamente, en régimen de concesión, los
estudios, proyectos, construcción, mantenimiento, operación y explotación de las obras públicas de
infraestructura que se indican en el Anexo I ..."

Se trata de una concesión por 15 años, para la gestión de l272 kms. de carreteras primarias (51% de la red
primaria y 15% de la red nacional) y 38 puentes (17% de los puentes de la red nacional.

Es una concesión de costos compartidos: es gratuita (no paga canon) y parte de los costos son asumidos
por el concedente.

En diciembre de 2002, se inicia la ejecución de las obras.

El concesionario cuenta, para financiar sus obras, con las siguientes fuentes de financiación: (a) ingresos
generados por los peajes, (b) un pago fijo por kilómetro mantenido, (c) un ingreso mínimo garantido por el
concedente, limitado en monto y duración, para cubrir posibles disminuciones de los ingresos por peajes.

5.2.3 El proceso de transformación en cifras

5.2.3.1 Para poder interpretar este proceso descrito, habría que considerar la evolución de la composición
del gasto durante el período de ejecución del Proyecto:


                                 1994   1995    1996     1997    1998       1999    2000     2001    2002    2003

 Administración                   6,315  8,323   8,282    10,908   16,341    13,250  11,142    9,554   5,081  5,212

 Fortalecimiento Institucional    1,196    730     795       889    1,559     1,717   1,047    1,949   1,043    758

 Mantenimiento por Administr.    22,959  25,628  28,587   31,367   30,875    26,493  18,247   18,504 12,483  13,169

 Mantenimiento contratado             -       -       -        -    1,989     6,067  28,660   28,329 15,564   7,593

 Inversión nueva                 45,170  46,511  59,869   72,193   78,042    90,240  40,229   39,233 15,233  37,783

                                 75,640  81,192  97,533  115,357  128,806   137,767  99,325   97,569 49,404  64,515




La tabla muestra cómo varió el nivel y composición del gasto de la DNV entre los años 1994 y 2003,
alcanzando un nivel máximo en el año 1999 (u$sm 137.767), frente a un nivel de u$sm 64.515 en el año
2003.

Es de destacar el importante incremento de la inversión nueva producido durante el año 2003, el que fue
motivado fundamentalmente por el inicio de la Megaconcesión

5.2.3.2 Los gráficos que siguen muestran los valores representados en esta tabla anterior y la participación
de cada uno de los tipos de gastos:




                                                        - 33 -

                             160.000

                             140.000

                             120.000                                                                                                                             Administración

                             100.000                                                                                                                             Fortalecimiento Institucional

                              80.000                                                                                                                             Mantenimiento por Administ.

                              60.000                                                                                                                             Mantenimiento contratado

                              40.000                                                                                                                             Inversión Nueva

                              20.000

                                 -

                                             1994        1995         1996         1997     1998        1999         2000         2001     2002        2003




                              100%

                               80%
                                                                                                                                                                 Administración
                               60%                                                                                                                               Fortalecimiento Institucional

                               40%                                                                                                                               Mantenimiento por
                                                                                                                                                                 Administr.
                               20%                                                                                                                               Mantenimiento contratado

                                                                                                                                                                 Inversión nueva
                                0%


                                         1994        1995     1996         1997         1998        1999     2000         2001         2002        2003




5.2.3.3 El incremento de los recursos durante los años 1996 a 1999, permitió mejorar la condición de la red
e incrementar el patrimonio vial, el que ha presentado la evolución que se muestra en el siguiente gráfico:



                                                                               EVOLUCION DEL PATRIMONIO VIAL


                            2300
                            2250
             Millones       2200
                            2150
                            2100
                     de                                                                                                                                                      Patrimonio Actual
                            2050
                       U$S  2000                                                                                                                                             Patrimonio Medio
                            1950
                            1900
                            1850
                            1800

                                    1994         1995             1996         1997             1998             1999         2000             2001         2002




                                                                                                                         - 34 -

5.2.4 Asistencia Técnica

    El Proyecto financió dentro de este componente, las siguientes consultorías:
   l     Sistema de Planificación (SIPLA) (saldo sin financiar luego de finalizado el Proyecto
         de Transporte I),
   l     Programa de Fortalecimiento Institucional para las Intendencias Municipales
   l     Estudios complementarios para el Puente Colonia-Buenos Aires.

5.2.4.1 SIPLA (Sistema de Planificación)
El Proyecto financió la etapa final de esta consultoría, que se implementó en la Gerencia de Programación
de la DNV, y que constituyó una herramienta muy importante en la fase de elaboración del Plan Quinquenal
2000-2004.

El SIPLA fue alimentado por datos de relevamientos y de sistemas de gestión aportados por otras
consultoras bajo supervisión de distintas gerencias, tales como la evaluación superficial y rugosidad,
deflectometría, gestión de señalización, singularidades de gestión de estructuras, conteos de tránsito y
análisis de accidentes.

5.2.4.2 Fortalecimiento Institucional a las Intendencias Municipales

Esta asistencia técnica tenía como objetivo el desarrollo de la capacidad institucional de las 18 intendencias
del interior del país, a efectos de un mantenimiento sostenible de sus redes de caminería. Se buscaba
también la transferencia de "know how" para la organización, planeación, ejecución y control de los trabajos
de mantenimiento, tomando como base la propia experiencia de la DNV o las experiencias exitosas de
otras Intendencias.

La consultora seleccionada basó su trabajo en la realización de un "Diseño de un modelo de planificación,
ejecución y control del mantenimiento vial en las Intendencias Municipales del interior del país".

Del diagnóstico realizado por la consultora se denota la gran debilidad institucional que afecta la gestión vial
de muchas Intendencias.

Se pone en evidencia también que el Departamento de Infraestructura Vial Departamental (DIVD) de la
DNV debe prestar su apoyo y su coordinación (pese a su falta de atribuciones frente a los gobiernos locales)
para que se puedan implementar varias de las tareas de gestión recomendadas por la consultoría.

De las visitas realizadas a distintas Intendencias durante las misiones de supervisión, se puso de manifiesto
su conformidad con la asistencia recibida especialmente en lo referido a laboratorios, supervisión y
operación.

5.2.4.3 Puente Buenos Aires - Colonia

Se financiaron con el Proyecto los estudios complementarios de navegación y gálibos, llevados a cabo
debido a la preocupación existente acerca de las implicancias del puente en la navegación del río.

5.2.5 Otros aspectos institucionales derivados del Proyecto

5.2.5.1 Transferencia de tecnología a los departamentos
La DIVD continuó durante todo el período desarrollando un programa para el fortalecimiento de las
Intendencias en administración de talleres y en gestión de repuestos.

Ya en los Convenios para el mantenimiento de la caminería rural departamental firmados en los años 2002
y 2003, se incluyó el apoyo para mejorar la gestión de los equipos viales, el que se dividió en dos áreas: (a)
Capacitación, que estuvo a cargo de la Gerencia de Conservación de la DNV, e incluía capacitación en
maquinaria, mecánica y jefe de talleres; y (b) Repuestos, que se basa fundamentalmente en la
identificación de la compra de repuestos y en el mecanismo administrativo de compra. La etapa para la



                                                      - 35 -

compra de repuestos consta de mantenimiento ordinario, de mantenimiento extraordinario y de
reparaciones mayores o compra.

Respecto al área de Inventarios, este tema aún no se ha podido instrumentar en los convenios.

5.2.5.2 Actividades del IPTI

Entre las actividades realizadas por el IPTI durante la ejecución del Proyecto, se destacan las siguientes:
  l    Actualizaciones de las bases de datos y estimación de los cargos a los usuarios.
       La corrida del modelo con datos del 2001 fue afectada por el bajo nivel de las entradas. Si bien los
       ingresos cubrieron los gastos, se continúa con el desequilibrio de los aportes entre los vehículos
       livianos y los pesados. La corrida del modelo con datos del 2002 fue realizada utilizando datos
       promedio del período
       1997 - 2001, dada la aguda disminución de la inversión y la fuerte devaluación del tipo de cambio.
  l    Colaboró en los estudios de factibilidad de rutas para determinar su inclusión en la Megaconcesión.
  l    Tiene en ejecución un estudio para estimar los beneficios que reciben los usuarios de las rutas de la
       Megaconcesión en relación a los peajes que se cobran.
  l    Efectuó la evaluación económica ex-ante y ex-post de los puentes incluidos en el Proyecto.

6. EJECUCIÓN FINANCIERA Y DESEMBOLSOS DEL PROYECTO

6.1  La tabla que sigue muestra el detalle de los componentes ya analizados financiados dentro del
Proyecto, discriminando la inversión final entre el aporte del BIRF y el aporte del Gobierno (montos en u$s):




                                                      - 36 -

                                                                     INVERSION FINAL
                                                             BIRF       Gobierno     TOTAL
1, OBRAS
1.1. Rehabilitación de rutas
Ruta 2 - Rodó ­ Palmitas (+ Palmitas ­ Mercedes)              4.559.676   2.132.124   6.691.800
Ruta 27 - Progresiva Km.36,4 a Km.56,4                        1.362.797     671.864   2.034.661
                                                  Sub Total   5.922.473   2.803.988   8.726.461
1.2. Restauración de puentes
Puentes S/Arroyos Chapicuy y Carpinchurí (Ruta 3)               638.841     299.026     937.867
Puente sobre Arroyo San Gregorio (Ruta 3)                     1.174.099     555.484   1.729.583
Puente sobre Arroyo Marmarajá II (Ruta 8 Km.174)                347.755     195.544     543.299
Puente sobre Arroyo Conventos (Ruta 26)                         627.733     322.162     949.895
                                                  Sub Total   2.788.428   1.372.216   4.160.644
1.3. Programa de Seguridad Vial
Demarcación de pavimento en Zonas IV y V                        111.663      48.025     159.688
Demarcación de pavimento en Rutas Nacionales                    267.934     115.130     383.064
Demarcación : Zonas Noreste, Este y Sur                         120.443      51.618     172.061
Demarcación: Zonas Norte, Litoral y Centro                      266.420     121.971     388.391
Demarcación de Pavimento en caliente                            385.746     165.320     551.066
Señalización vertical: Zona Noreste, Este y Sur                 370.231     158.670     528.901
Señalización vertical: Zona Norte, Litoral y Centro             326.371     139.875     466.246
Dispositivos de señalización vial                               175.441      75.189     250.630
Demarcación en frío en Zonas Noreste, Este y Sur                236.413     101.320     337.733
Suministro de dispositivos en Rutas red primaria                273.248     117.252     390.500
Demarcación en frío: Zonas Norte, Litoral y Centro              332.880     142.642     475.522
                                                  Sub Total   2.866.790   1.237.012   4.103.802

                 TOTAL CATEGORIA 1A                          11.577.691   5.413.216  16.990.907
1. OBRAS (Continuación)
1.4. Contratos CREMA
CREMA en Zonas II y X                                         8.525.013   3.695.408  12.220.420
CREMA en Zona VII                                             6.557.571   3.116.259   9.673.830
CREMA en Zonas II y III                                       6.437.640   2.831.823   9.269.463
CREMA en Regional IV                                          6.393.715   3.406.184   9.799.899
Contrato de Accesos a Montevideo                                891.691     382.153   1.273.845

                 TOTAL CATEGORIA 1B                          28.805.630  13.431.827  42.237.456
1. OBRAS (Continuación)
1.5. Mantenimiento Caminos Departamentales                   23.060.135   9.880.276  32.940.411

                 TOTAL CATEGORIA 1C                          23.060.135   9.880.276  32.940.411
2. CONSULTORIAS Y CAPACITACION
Fortalecimiento Institucional de las Intendencias               269.494     115.497     384.991
Planificación/Gestión Mantenimiento de la DNV (SIPLA)            39.757      17.038     56.795
Estudios complementarios Puente Bs.As.-Colonia                  102.293      43.841     146.134

                  TOTAL CATEGORIA 2                             411.544     176.376     587.920
Fee                                                             645.000           0     645.000

                          TOTAL                              64.500.000  28.901.694  93.401.694




                                                   - 37 -

6.2 El avance financiero del proyecto, en comparación con el avance programado, se muestra en el cuadro
siguiente (montos en u$s):

  Año   Gobierno          BIRF          Total Invertido   Total   % Avance    % Avance         %         %
                                            por año     Invertido Programado Reprogramado Avance      Avance
                                                        acumulado                             Real      Real
 1999 28.118.108 25.049.937               53.168.045   53.168.045   39.46                     38.84
 2000 21.076.971 18.777.109               39.854.080   93.022.125   80.31                     67.95
 2001 20.435.614 18.205.735               38.641.349   131.663.47   97.44                     96.17
                                                            5
 2002 1.758.963         1.567.029          3.325.992   134.989.46   99.53       98.60                  98.60
                                                            6
9/2003 1.010.446         900.189           1.910.636   136.900.10              100.00                 100.00
                                                            2

6.3 Durante el período de ejecución del proyecto, la DNV debió afrontar una marcada disminución de su
nivel de inversión, motivada fundamentalmente por las severas restricciones presupuestales y los topes de
inversión establecidos por las autoridades económicas.

6.4 Como forma de mitigar estos efectos, y contribuir al cumplimiento de los objetivos del proyecto en el
tiempo previsto, en enero de 2003, se realiza una reasignación de los fondos asignados al préstamo,
reforzando la categoría 1B, contratos CREMA, y se incorpora un nuevo contrato "Accesos a Montevideo"

6.5 De esta manera, y tal como lo demuestran los valores expuestos anteriormente, la disminución en el
nivel de inversión no se vieron reflejadas en el proyecto, debido a que las obras financiadas en él fueron
consideradas prioritarias y su ejecución se mantuvo durante el período.

6.6 Desembolsos estimados y desembolsos reales (u$sm):


                                             1999        2000        2001       2002           2003
   Estimado PAD anual                         8.8        33.3        19.4        2.7            0.3
   Estimado PAD acumulado                     8.8        42.1        61.5       64.2           64.5
   Real                                      11.5         34         52.9       62.2           64.5
   % Real sobre Estimado                      131         81         86          97             100

   Fecha del último desembolso: 8 de agosto de 2003




                    120


                    100


                     80
                                                                                       Programado
                     60

                     40                                                                Real

                     20                                                                Reprogramado
                      0




                                                          - 38 -

7. DESEMPEÑO DEL BIRF

7.1 El vínculo con el BIRF, a través de los técnicos que han participado en los distintos Proyectos, ha
proporcionado al país importantes aportes en el desarrollo de la Política de Transporte.

7.2 El BIRF siempre ha participado aportando su vasta experiencia, y ha demostrado, en todo momento,
gran receptividad y flexibilidad, sobre todo, en aquellos momentos en que se le requirieron cambios o
ajustes en diferentes componentes del Proyecto a efectos del logro de los objetivos establecidos en el
mismo.

7.3 En todas las etapas del proyecto, desde la identificación y preparación, la confección del PAD y la
supervisión realizada al mismo, la gestión del BIRF ha sido sumamente satisfactoria, y ha resultado un gran
apoyo a la gestión.

7.4 Durante la preparación y ejecución del proyecto, se realizaron 14 misiones de supervisión, todas ellas
integradas por técnicos altamente calificados, lo que junto con la decisión del gobierno de priorizar las obras
incluidas en el proyecto, colaboró en el éxito final del mismo.


8. DESEMPEÑO DEL PRESTATARIO

8.1 A pesar de la tradición de Uruguay de ser un firme pero lento ejecutor de los proyectos del BIRF, en
este caso ésta no ha sido la situación.
En efecto, tal como quedara expuesto en el punto 6 del presente informe, la ejecución de este proyecto fue
realizada, en concordancia con lo previsto en las etapas de preparación del proyecto.

8.2 El proyecto fue diseñado teniendo en cuenta las reales necesidades de la DNV, conjuntamente las
posibilidades de ejecución de la misma, teniendo en cuenta la situación económica y financiera del país.

8.3 Se plantearon objetivos y metas realistas que se pudieran cumplir en el período de ejecución previsto
inicialmente, teniendo en cuenta las condiciones macroeconómicas imperantes.

8.4 La UCP cumplió con sus funciones de forma totalmente satisfactoria, siendo importante su rol en el
relacionamiento entre el BIRF y las distintas entidades involucradas en el proyecto: DNV, IPTI, y otros.

8.5    Se presentaron al BIRF semestralmente los informes de seguimientos requeridos, incluyendo
información tanto de la ejecución física como financiera de los distintos componentes del proyecto, así
como también la evolución de los indicadores de gestión estipulados.

8.6 En cuánto a la presentación de los Informes de Auditoría de los Estados Financieros elaborados por el
Tribunal de Cuentas de la República, sólo el primer año fue efectuada con un pequeño retraso, habiéndose
tomado inmediatamente las medidas correctivas necesarias para subsanar este inconvenientes, y para las
posteriores presentaciones, las mismas fueron realizadas en tiempo y forma.

9. EVALUACION DE LOS RESULTADOS

9.1   La DNV experimentó, durante la vigencia del Proyecto, un intenso proceso de transformaciones
estructurales, que ha sido apoyado, como factor muy importante, por el Segundo Proyecto de Transporte.

9.2 La participación del sector privado en la gestión de la red vial ha sido fundamental para el logro de las
transformaciones planteadas.

9.3 El Proyecto tuvo una ejecución altamente satisfactoria, como consecuencia de un diseño adaptado a
priori a los requerimientos y capacidades de la DNV.

9.4 A pesar de las restricciones presupuestales y de ejecución durante el período de vigencia del Proyecto,
el mismo demostró tener la flexibilidad necesaria para adaptarse a esta situación, sin generar un atraso



                                                        - 39 -

significativo en los cronogramas previstos de ejecución y desembolsos.


   (b) Cofinanciers:


   (c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


   10. Additional Information




                                                     - 40 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                   1
                Indicator/Matrix                             Projected in last PSR                      Actual/Latest Estimate
SECTOR-RELATED CAS GOAL                        SECTOR-RELATED CAS GOAL

* Average network roughness remains below * Average network roughness (m/km IRI) was The actual status is the same as the one
an IRI of 3.2 and the percentage of national   3.4 and the percentage of national roads (in   included in the last PRS for all
roads with IRI above 4.5 not to exceed 25%.    km) with an IRI above 4.5 was 15%.             outcome/impact indicators.
* Transit of freight vehicles meeting Mercosur * All critical bottlenecks removed or in the
standards enabled on three main international process of being removed under the
road corridors.                                Megaconcession.
* Maintenance of not less than 50% of the      * Maintenance of 3599 km of the national
national road network (about 4000 km)          road network carried out by the private sector
carried out by the private sector under        under various contractual arrangements. If
various contractual arrangements.              the Megaconcession that embraces 1,272
                                               km of the road network is added, this target is
                                               largely exceeded.



PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE                  PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE

* Share of national roads exceeding            * Share of national roads exceeding
permissible roughness levels lowered from      permissible roughness levels lowered from
15 percent in 1997 to 8 percent.               15 percent in 1997 to 12.92 percent.
* Transit of trucks loaded up to Mercosur      All critical bottlenecks removed or in the
standards (45 tons) permitted along Routes     process of being removed under the
2, 3, 8 an 17.                                 Megaconcession.
* Use of performance based contracts           * Use of performance based contracts
extended from about 620 km in 1997 to about extended from about 620 km in 1997 to 3,599
2,840 km.                                      km.
* Working groups established within DNV will * The working group was established and
have evaluated options to modernize DNV's      even if the study to evaluate options for
institutional structure and its operations,    DNV's renewal has not yet been carried out,
strengthen DNV's human resources, and          the group contributed to the design of the
adopt commercial and user-oriented             Megaconcession and other schemes to
practices.                                     improve the institutional and financial
                                               capacity.
* Preparation and public dissemination of an * DNV participates in a pilot coordinated by
annual report on DNV operational and           OPP-CEPRE under which it has to provide
financial performance.                         information on the following three parameters
                                               to measure effectiveness, efficiency and
                                               service quality: value of road assets;
                                               percentage of overhead / intermediary cost
                                               over investment expenditures; and condition
                                               of the network. DNV also produces annually
                                               a number of reports such as "Management
                                               Indicators", "Management Report" and
                                               "Management of the Road Network". DNV
                                               also has a website
                                               www.dnv.gub.uy/index.html.
* At least 66% of all-weather gravel roads in  * 50% (estimate).
the departments receive quality maintenance
regularly.




                                                                     - 41 -

Output Indicators:
                                                                                  1
                Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                        Actual/Latest Estimate
* 146 km of national roads rehabilitated under * 85 km of national roads rehabilitated under The actual status is the same as the one
the project.                                   the project.                                  included in the last PRS for all output
                                                                                             indicators.
* 13 bridges reinforced, widened or replaced. * 9 bridges reinforced, widened or replaced.
* 635 km of roads rehabilitated under          * 856 km of roads rehabilitated under
CREMA-type contracts.                          CREMA type contracts.
* 1855 km of roads maintained through          * 2,743 km of roads maintained through
performance-based contracts funded by          performance-based contracts funded by
DNV.                                           DNV.
* Fully operational strategic planning tools   * SAM and SIPLA, the operational planning
(MMS, HDM-based Integrated Planning            tools to manage road maintenance by
System) within DNV to manage road              contract and force account, are fully
maintenance by contract and force account      operational and the performance-based
and prepare a performance-based Five-Year      Five-Year Plan prepared.
Plan.
* Systematic performance monitoring under      Target exceeded very early in the project
MMS resulting in at least 10 percent increase cycle with appraisal values exceeded by
in the productivity of four selected force     between 19 to 50% already in April 1999.
account activities from average targets in
1997.
* Working groups have carried out related      * The working group was established and
studies, study tours, and technical            even if the study to evaluate options for
assistance programs, and analyze and           DNV's renewal has not yet been carried out,
evaluate options for DNV renewal.              the group contributed to the design of the
                                               Megaconcession and other schemes to
                                               improve the institutional and financial
                                               capacity.
* Annually 1,500 km of departmental roads      * Re-gravelling over the period 1998 - 2002:
re-gravelled and 9,500 km maintained to        5,511 km: Maintenance over the same
satisfactory standards.                        period: 41,025 km.
* Standards and procedures for planning,       * Standards and procedures developed
operation and maintenance of departmental      through the technical assistance.
roads recommended for each department,
and implemented in at least two departments.
* Detailed inventory of road maintenance       * Started in June 2000 with the final report
equipment and actions recommended for          delivered in May 2001.
each department to improve management
and productivity of equipment fleets and
organization and operation of workshops.
* Road maintenance staff in the departments * Training completed at the end of December
trained to carry out improved processes.       2000.
* Guidelines designed for departments to       * Study completed on June 30, 2000.
maintain urban roads and streets.
* Steering Group established with the          * The Steering Group was established and
participating Intendencias to monitor and      operated during the consultancy study, but its
evaluate the transfer of technology to the     actions were limited.
departments.
* 2,500 km of roads to have pavement           * 3,879 km of roads have pavement markings
markings and road signs to meet Mercosur       and road signs to meet Mercosur standards.
standards.
* Pilot for road safety improvement of routes  * The pilot has not been carried out.
in urban areas carried out and evaluated.

1End of project




                                                                  - 42 -

Progress Indicators to Evaluate Project Implementation and Achievement of Development
Objectives
                    Performance Indicators                       Cumulative Progress by the end of year          Progress on
                                                                1998            1999              2000        March 31, 2003 (1)
Output Indicators required to achieve Development Objectives:
o KmofnationalroadsrehabilitatedundertheProject:                0 km            35 km            146km             85km (2)
o Numberofbridgesreinforced,widened,orreplaced:               0 bridges       5 bridges        13 bridges   See modified indicators
o KmofroadsrehabilitatedunderCREMA-type contracts:              0 km            84 km             84 km      123 km executed (3)
o Kmofroadsrehabilitatedandmaintainedtostandardsunder           0 km           635km             635km            856km    (3)

   CREMA-type contracts:
o Kmofroadsmaintainedthroughperformance-based                 1,152 km        1,740 km         1,855 km          2,743km    (4)

   contracts funded exclusively by DNV:
o Kmofdepartmentalroadsre-graveled:                           1,500 km        3,000 km         4,500 km          5,511km    (5)

o Kmofdepartmentalroadsmaintainedtosatisfactory               9,000 km       18,000 km         28,500 km         41,025km    (6)

   standards under the Project:
o Kmofroadsthathavepavementmarkingsand/orroadsigns             650 km         1,850 km         2,500 km          3,879km    (7)

   improved to Mercosur standards:
o PilotforroadsafetyimprovementimplementedonRoute8                Works completed by August 31, 1999        Change of area for the
   at Punta de Rieles:                                              Pilot evaluated by March 31, 2000                 Pilot
o Strategicplanningtools(SAM,SIPLA)andintegrated                  ConsultingcontractsforSAM/SIPLA             Both delivered and
   information and performance systems operational within           extended by September 30, 1998               operational
   DNV:                                                         SAM/SIPLAimprovedandoperationalby
                                                                           September 30, 1999
o Increaseintheproductivityoffourselectedforceaccount
   activities:         (i) Patching with premixed asphalt:    207 US$/m3       190US$/m3      180 US$/m3        84.53 US$/m3
                       (ii) Surface sealing:                   1.3 US$/lt       1.2 US$/lt     1.1 US$/lt        0.75 US$/lt
                       (iii) Vegetation control:              69.3 US$/ha      65.0 US$/ha    60.0 US$/ha        33.37 US$/ha
                       (iv) Crack sealing:                     1.7 US$/lt       1.6 US$/lt     1.5 US$/lt        0.98 US$/lt
o EstablishmentofworkinggroupswithinDNVand                        Groups and liaison designated by loan         Groupactive (8)
   implementation of studies, study tours, and technical                       negotiations
   assistance programs for the continuation of DNV's renewal:
o Standardsandproceduresforplanning,operationand                Consultants selected by December 31, 1998    Single contract that
   maintenance of departmental roads recommended for each        Study completed by December 31, 1999          includes the four
   eligible Intendencia(department), and implemented in at                                                 consultancies previously
   least two departments:                                                                                           defined
o Detailedinventoryofroadmaintenanceequipmentand                Consultants selected by December 31, 1999
   actions recommended for each department to improve            Study completed by December 31, 2000        Started in June 2000
   management and productivity of equipment fleets and                                                     Final Report delivered in
   organization/operation of workshops:                                                                           May 2001
o Roadmaintenancestaffinthedepartmentstrainedtocarry          Training Program completed by December 31,
   out improved processes:                                                         2000
o Guidelinesdesignedfordepartmentstomaintainurban                 Consultants selected by June 30, 1999
   roads and streets:                                               Study completed by June 30, 2000

o EstablishmentofaSteeringGroupwithparticipationofthe              Steering Group established by loan        Operated during the
   Intendencias to monitor and evaluate the transfer of                        negotiations                Consultancy Study, but its
   technology to the departments:                              Program results evaluated by Steering Group   actions were limited
                                                                          by end 1999 and 2000
Outcomes to be achieved by carrying out of the Project:
o Shareofnationalroadsexceedingpermissibleroughness             15%               -               8%            2001       2002
   levels, not greater than:                                                                                 8.13%         13.25%
o TransitoftrucksloadeduptoMercosurstandards(45tons)            Traffic permitted by December 31, 2000     Route 2 achieved
   permitted along corridors linking Montevideo with Fray                                                  Route 3, one bridge
   Bentos (Route 2), Paysandú (Route 3), and Río Branco                                                    pending
   (Routes 8/17/18):                                                                                       Route 8, seven bridges
                                                                                                           pending (9)
o Useofperformance-basedmaintenancecontractson                 1,500         2,725 km          2,840 km          3,599km   (10)

   national roads extended to not less than:                    km




                                                              - 43 -

  Modified Indicators Related to the Project and the Achievement of Development Objectives
                      Performance Indicators                                    Cumulative Progress by the end of year                 Progress on
                                                                             1998                 1999              2000            March 31, 2003(1)
  Output Indicators required to achieve Development Objectives:
  o    Number of bridges reinforced and widened with IBRD                       0                   5                 7               7 finalized  (11)

       financing:
  o    Number of bridges reinforced, widened without IBRD                       0                   0                 4                2 finalized
       financing:                                                                                                                    2 postponed(11)

  o    Km of roads rehabilitated under CREMA-type contracts:                 0 km                83 km             123 km              123 km (12)
  o    Km of roads rehabilitated and maintained to standards                 0 km                618 km           1092 km              856km    (13)

       under CREMA-type contracts:
  o    Pilot for road safety improvement implemented on                    Contract tendered by August 1999. Evaluation          Indefinitely postponed
       Route 1 (old) ­ Rincón de la Bolsa:                                                 by August 2000.                                 (14)



Notes:
(1) Date of this reporting exercise.
(2) The contract for Route 2 (35 km) executed. The contract for Route 27 (20 km) executed. The amplification of the section Palmitas-Mercedes
    (30km) executed.
(3) Initial works of: CREMA II and X (29,1 km) already executed, CREMA VII (30 km) already executed, CREMA II and III (24 km) already
    executed, CREMA IV (40.2 km) already executed.
    Maintenance: CREMA II and X (240 km) in execution, CREMA VII (145 km) in execution, CREMA II and III (233 km) in execution, CREMA
    IV (207 km) in execution. In January 2003 the inclusion of the Access to Montevideo Contract (31 km) was approved, with retroactive effect
    from January 2002.
(4) Includes eight road maintenance micro-enterprises (1587 km), two micro-enterprises for the maintenance of signaling (815 km) and one
    performance contract with traditional contracting financed by DNV (341 km) (the Access to Montevideo Contract is to be financed by the
    Project).
(5) Cumulative progress:            Year 1998 ­ 1,163 kmYear 1999 - 1,130 km
                                    Year 2000 - 850 km                 Year 2001 ­ 1,417 km (Partially financed by the Forest Product Transport
    Project)
                                    Year 2002 ­ 951 km (Forest Product Transport Project)
(6) Cumulative progress:            Year 1998 ­ 8,793 km.              Year 1999 ­ 8,409 km
                                    Year 2000 ­ 8,252 kmYear 2001- 7,891 km (Partially financed by the Forest Product Transport Project)
                                    Year 2002 ­ 7,680 km (Forest Product Transport Project)
(7) The progress can be detailed in the following way:
                             One contract for pavement marking (709 km), terminated.
                             One contract for pavement marking (208 km), terminated.
                             One contract for road signs (350 km), terminated.
                             One contract for pavement marking (148 km), terminated.
                             One contract for pavement marking (355 km), terminated.
                             One contract for pavement marking (in hot) (135 km), terminated.
                             One contract for road signs (350 km), terminated.
                             One contract for pavement marking for 640 km finalized in April 2001.
                             One contract for road signs for 200 km finalized in August 2001.
                             One contract for pavement marking for 434 km finalized in June 2001.
                             One contract for road signs for 350 km finalized in April 2002.
(8) Even if it did not start with the study of options, the Group collaborated in the design of the Megaconcession and the other schemes for the
     improvement of the institutional and financial capacity.
(9) Route 3 ­ Bridge over the river Grande already tendered; Route 8 ­ Bridge Corrales tendered and about to start; Bridges Pirarajá, Retamosa and
     Sarandí with bidding documents ready for bidding; Bridges Marmarajá I and Gutierrez I and II with bidding documents under preparation. All
     these bridges are included in the Megaconcession.
(10) Based on 8 maintenance micro-enterprises plus Serviam for 1,928 km, 6 maintenance contracts (4 CREMAS plus 2 DNV) for 1,238 km and 4
     concessions for 433 km.
(11) Out of the 13 bridges included at Appraisal, the Project financed 7, two of them included in CREMA II and III. The seven bridges were
     completed.
     Without IBRD financing: The works on the bridges over the rivers Guaviyú and Sauce were executed within the IDB Program (both completed).

     In the Megaconcession the following bridges are included: the bridge over the rivers Grande, (bidding already carried out), Marmarajá small (to
     be tendered) and Gutierrez I and II (to be tendered).
(12) New CREMA contracts in the districts IV and V were added to the Project. In the district IV an initial rehabilitation work for 40 km (already
     executed) was included. CREMA V was postponed.
(13) New CREMA contracts in the districts IV and V were added to the Project. In the district IV the maintenance is for 207 km and in district V for
     267 km. The contract in the district IV is under implementation. CREMA V was postponed. The Access to Montevideo contract was approved
     for financing in 2002 and part of 2003.
(14) The new pilot for road safety will be carried out on Route 1 (old) at Rincón de la Bolsa and will be financed with local funds. The contract is
     awarded. The execution will last 4 months.




                                                                         - 44 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                      Component                           US$ million   US$ million
Road Rehabilitation and Bridge Reconditioning               20.59          12.89            62.58
CREMA Performance-based Contracts                           23.36          42.24           180.81
DNV Road Maintenance Program (Incremental Costs)            45.11          73.69           163.38
Departmental Road Maintenance                               33.00          32.94            99.82
A. Road Sector Management and Institutional Building         3.00            0.59            19.6

B. Road Safety Program                                       4.74            4.10           86.58

Total Baseline Cost                                        129.80         166.45
 Physical Contingencies                                      4.91
 Price Contingencies                                         1.62
                        Total Project Costs                136.33         166.45
                                        Front-end fee        0.65            0.65          100.00
                  Total Financing Required                 136.98         167.10


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          36.80            18.30        33.00         45.11        133.21
                                 (25.70)          (12.80)      (23.10)        (0.00)      (61.60)
2. Goods                          0.00              0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                       0.00              0.00         3.10         0.00          3.10
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (2.20)         (0.00)       (2.20)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.65         0.00          0.65
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.65)         (0.00)       (0.65)
5. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                          36.80            18.30        36.75         45.11        136.96
                                 (25.70)          (12.80)      (25.95)        (0.00)      (64.45)




                                                - 45 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
         Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
   1. Works                                 46.40             12.83             32.94             73.69            165.86
                                           (31.59)            (8.79)           (23.06)            (0.00)           (63.44)
   2. Goods                                 0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   3. Services                              0.00               0.00              0.59             0.00              0.59
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.41)            (0.00)           (0.41)
   4. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.65             0.00              0.65
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.65)            (0.00)           (0.65)
   5. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                                46.40             12.83             34.18             73.69            167.10
                                           (31.59)            (8.79)           (24.12)            (0.00)           (64.50)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Road Rehabilitation and        16.30         4.29                     8.71         4.17                  53.4      97.2
Bridge Reconditioning
CREMA                          18.50         4.86                    28.81         13.43                 155.7    276.3
Performance-based
Contracts
DNV Road Maintenance            0.00        45.11                     0.00         73.69                  0.0     163.4
Program (Incremental
Costs)
Departmental Road              23.10         9.90                    23.06         9.88                  99.8      99.8
Maintenance
A. Road Sector                  2.20         0.80                     0.41         0.18                  18.6      22.5
Management and
Institutional Building
B. Road Safety Program          3.70         1.04                     2.87         1.24                  77.6     119.2
Physical Contingencies                       4.91                                                                  0.0
Price Contingencies                          1.62                                                                  0.0
Front-end Fee                   0.65                                  0.65                               100.0
Total                          64.45        72.53                    64.50        102.60                 100.1    141.5




                                                           - 46 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

The ex-ante economic evaluation was done for each rehabilitation and maintenance component being
financed under the project consisting of (i) road rehabilitation, (ii) CREMA contracts, (iii) departmental
road maintenance, and (iv) bridge reconditioning.               Net benefits were evaluated using the Highway
Design and Maintenance Standards Model (HDM-III), which simulates life cycle conditions and costs and
provides economic decision criteria.        The ICR ex-post economic evaluation was done using the same
model and following the same ex-ante methodology, but including (i) actual costs, (ii) actual traffic, (iii)
actual road user costs, and (iv) actual timing and duration of road works.

The ex-post Net Present Value (NPV) of the capital works of the rehabilitation, CREMA and bridge
restoration programs is US$ 31.7 million and the Internal Rate of Return (IRR) is 20.1%, which can be
compared to the ex-ante estimates of US$ 47.0 million NPV and 25.7% IRR. Including the net present
value of the departamental roads maintenance program, the total ex-post NPV is US$ 233.2 million,
which can be compared to the ex-ante estimate of US$ 257.9 million.

On average: (i) the actual capital works unit costs per km of the rehabilitation, CREMA and bridge
restoration programs were 2% lower than the ex-ante estimates, (ii) the actual traffic in year 2002 was
9% lower than the ex-ante estimates, and (iii) the actual traffic annual growth rate for the 1998-2002
period was 0.3% per year, which can be compared to the ex-ante estimates of 3.0 to 4.0% per year.

The ex-post economic evaluation shows that the actual costs were in line with the ex-ante estimates, but
the actual traffic growth rate during the 1998-2002 period was lower than expected, which explains the
lower than expected economic return of the project, which is nevertheless satisfactory.

Main Assumptions

The HDM-III model was used to compute the reduction on road user costs resulting from road
investments. The table below shows current unit road user costs estimated for the ex-post evaluation, in
2001 US Dollars, for a typical road with roughness equal to 4.5 IRI.

                           Economic Unit Road User Costs (US$ per vehicle-km) for Roughness 4.5 IRI
                                                                             Medium      Heavy       Articulated
             RUC Component                    Car     Pickup       Bus          Truck    Truck            Truck
             Fuel                           0.021       0.028    0.065          0.064     0.107           0.129
             Lubricants                     0.009       0.009    0.015          0.015     0.015           0.023
             Tires                          0.004       0.007    0.112          0.109     0.242           0.392
             Maintenance Parts              0.014       0.027    0.141          0.092     0.162           0.257
             Maintenance Labor              0.006       0.007    0.042          0.037     0.040           0.089
             Crew                           0.000       0.000    0.081          0.063     0.075           0.074
             Depreciation                   0.076       0.044    0.052          0.093     0.044           0.052
             Interest                       0.045       0.026    0.031          0.067     0.026           0.031
             Passenger Time                 0.036       0.042    0.278          0.000     0.000           0.000
             Total                          0.212       0.190    0.817          0.539     0.711           1.047


The table below presents the typical traffic composition per traffic level.

                                          Traffic Composition by Traffic Level (%)
             Traffic                                                        Medium      Heavy       Articulated
             Class                              Car      Pickup   Bus          Truck     Truck           Truck
             AADT > 3000                       61%         25%     4%             7%        1%              2%
             1000<AADT<=3000                   56%         24%     5%             7%        3%              5%
             300<AADT<=1000                    53%         23%     5%             8%        5%              6%
             AADT<=300                         53%         24%     4%             8%        5%              6%


Similar to the ex-ante evaluation, the adopted evaluation period is 15 years and the discount rate used is
12%.




                                                          - 47 -

Road Rehabilitation Program

The road rehabilitation program considered the rehabilitation of four sections, but due to budget
constraints Route 30, between Km 192 and the town of Masoller, was excluded from the program. The
table below presents the comparison, in 2001 US Dollars, between the ex-ante, contract and actual
financial costs per km, which shows that on average the actual costs were 8% higher than the contract
costs and 5% higher than the cost estimated at appraisal.

                                 Road Rehabilitation Program Financial Investment Costs (US$ 000/km)
                                              Ex-Ante and Ex-Post         Cost per km (US$ 000/km)     Ex-Post/  Ex-Post/
          Section                             Road Work                   Ex-Ante Contact    Ex-Post   Ex-Ante   Contract
          Ruta 2: Rodo-Palmitas               Overlay 12 cm                  156.0    148.9     187.9     1.20      1.26
          Ruta 2: Palmitas ­ Mercedes         Overlay 12 cm                  147.0    140.3     110.4     0.75      0.79
          Ruta 27: Ruta 28 - 56k000           Reconstruction DST              88.4     87.1     104.6     1.18      1.20
          Average                                                                                         1.05      1.08


The comparison between the ex-ante and actual traffic is given on the table below, which shows that on
average the actual daily traffic in 2002 was 82% of the ex-ante estimate. The ex-ante annual traffic
growth rate was defined as 3% for all roads but the actual annual growth rate was negative on all roads.

                                                  Road Rehabilitation Program Traffic
                                                                  Ex-Ante Estimates     Ex-Post Actual     Traffic
                                                      Traffic     Traffic    Growth Traffic      Growth      2002
                                                       1998        2002     98-2002    2002     98-2002   Ex-Post/
                  Section                            (AADT)      (AADT)         (%) (AADT)           (%)  Ex-Ante
                  Ruta 2: Rodo-Palmitas                   1504       1693      3.0%       1500     -0.1%     0.89
                  Ruta 2: Palmitas ­ Mercedes             1504       1693      3.0%       1500     -0.1%     0.89
                  Ruta 27: Ruta 28 - 56k000                 305        343     3.0%        239     -5.9%     0.70
                  Average                                                      3.0%                -2.0%     0.82


The comparison, in months, between the ex-ante and actual execution time is given on the table below,
which shows that on average the actual execution time was 72 percent higher than the ex-ante estimate,
with an actual average execution time of 20 months.

                                              Road Rehabilitation Program Execution Time
                                                                      Contract      Actual      Actual
                                                                      Duration     Duration      per
                             Section                                  (months)     (months)    Contract
                             Ruta 2: Rodo-Palmitas                       12          23         1.92
                             Ruta 2: Palmitas ­ Mercedes                 10           9         0.90
                             Ruta 27: Ruta 28 - 56k000                   12          28         2.33
                             Average                                     11          20         1.72


The table below presents the main characteristics and the economic evaluation results of the
rehabilitation sections, which indicates that the ex-post economic returns were slightly lower but still
satisfactory with an overall IRR of 16.6%, which is 91% of the ex-ante IRR.

                                           Road Rehabilitation Program Economic Evaluation
                                                                            Ex-Ante         Ex-Post        IRR      NPV
                                            Length Surface Roughness IRR           NPV IRR         NPV Ex-post/ Ex-post/
          Section                             (km)    Type          (IRI) (%) (M US$) (%) (M US$)       Ex-ante   Ex-ante
          Ruta 2: Rodo-Palmitas                 35      CA            2.5 19.3       3.0 17.1      2.08    0.89     0.69
          Ruta 2: Palmitas - Mercedes           38      CA            2.5 19.3       3.3 17.4      2.28    0.90     0.70
          Ruta 27: Ruta 28 - 56k000             20      TS            5.1 16.4       0.5 13.7      0.19    0.84     0.38
          Total                                 93                        18.3       6.8 16.6       4.6    0.91     0.67




                                                                - 48 -

CREMA Program

The CREMA program considered the rehabilitation and maintenance of three networks of around 200 km
each. The table below presents the comparison, in 2001 US Dollars, between the ex-ante, and the actual
financial costs per km of the rehabilitation and periodic maintenance works, which shows that on average
the actual costs are 94% of the costs estimated at appraisal.

                                     CREMA Program Financial Investment Costs (US$ 000/km)
                                                       Ex-Ante                 Ex-Post               Cost per km   Ex-Post/
   CREMA      Section                                  Road Work               Road Work            Ex-Ante Ex-Post Ex-Ante
   Region II Ruta 10: Tramo 3 (R104 -J.Ign.)           Reseal 4 mm             Reseal 4 mm             6.80   7.02     1.03
   and X     Ruta 10:Tramo 4 (J.Ign. - L.Gar)          Regravelling de 15 cm Regravelling 15 cm       23.33  16.53     0.71
             Ruta 10:Tramo 5(L.Gar.- Caracol)          Regravelling de 15 cm Regravelling 15 cm       22.71  16.13     0.71
             Ruta 10:Tramo 6(Caracol-L.Rocha)          Regravelling de 15 cm Regravelling 15 cm       22.72  16.12     0.71
             Ruta 12:Tramo 17(Portozzuelo-Ruta9)       Routine Maintenance Routine Maintenance
             Ruta 39:Tramo 2(San Carlos-Ruta9)         Routine Maintenance Routine Maintenance
             Ruta 39:Tramo 3(Ruta9-48K600)             Routine Maintenance Reconst. Partial 60%              60.79
             Ruta 39:Tramo 4(48K600-71K600)            Routine Maintenance Routine Maintenance
             Ruta 39:Tramo 5(71K600-Aigua)             Routine Maintenance Routine Maintenance
             Ruta 93: Tramo 41Rr (Piriap.-93)          Overlay 9 cm            Overlay 10 cm         129.44 190.11     1.47
             Ruta 104: T1 (Ruta 10 - Ruta 9)           Routine Maintenance Routine Maintenance
             Ruta 99: Tramo 1 (R10 - R200)             Overlay 5 cm            Overlay 8 cm           90.00 142.43     1.58
             Ruta 10: Tramo 1(Est Solis-Piriapolis)    Routine Maintenance Routine Maintenance
             Ruta 37: Tramo 1 (Piriap.- R9)            Overlay 11 cm           Overlay 8 cm          122.68 186.99     1.52
             Ruta 60:Tramo1 (P.Azucar-A.P.Azucar)      Routine Maintenance Routine Maintenance
             Ruta 60:Tramo2 (A.P.Azucar-L.D.)          Reconstruction DST      Reconst. Partial 30%   70.46  75.38     1.07
             Ruta 60:Tramo3 (L.Deptal - R12)           Routine Maintenance Routine Maintenance
             Ruta 9:Tramo 52Rr (R9 - Caracol)          Regravelling De 15 cm Regravelling 15 cm       22.70  32.17     1.42
   Region II R8: Ao. Corrales - Ao Sarandi             Routine Maintenance Routine Maintenance
   and III   R8: Ao Sarandi - Ruta 17                  Routine Maintenance Routine Maintenance
             R14: Averias - Ruta 8 (256K500, J.P.Va.)  Routine Maintenance Routine Maintenance
             R14: Lascano ­ Averias                    Slurry                  Reseal 4 mm            11.45   5.50     0.48
             R15: Lascano - Paraje La Coronilla        Slurry                  Surface Treatmeant     15.00  14.43     0.96
             R15: Paraje La Coronilla - Ruta 19        Regravelling De 15 cm Surface Treatmeant       23.32   6.68     0.29
             R15: Ruta 19 ­ Cebollati                  Regravelling De 15 cm Regravelling De 15 cm    24.15  17.12     0.71
             R17: Treinta Y Tres - Ruta 18             Routine Maintenance Routine Maintenance
             R17: Ruta 18 (300K000) - 314K000          Reseal 4 mm             Reseal 4 mm             6.79   7.00     1.03
             R17: 314K000 - Gral E. Martinez           Reseal 4 mm             Routine Maintenance     6.31
             R18: Ruta 17 - Ao. Del Oro                Overlay 12 cm           Overlay 13 cm         185.82 166.37     0.90
             R18: Ao. Del Oro ­ Vergara                Routine Maintenance Routine Maintenance
             R18: By Pass Vergara                      Overlay 12 cm           Overlay 12 cm         191.11 172.48     0.90
   Region VII R21: Colonia - Ruta 22                   Overlay 12 cm           Overlay 12 cm         190.79 165.99     0.87
             R22: Ruta 21 (207K900) ­ Tarrariras       Reseal 4 mm             Reseal 4 mm             7.12   7.00     0.98
             R22: Tarrariras - 36K000                  Routine Maintenance
             R22: 36K000 - Ruta 1 (149K000)            Routine Maintenance
             R50: Ruta 1 - Cem. Tarariras              Reconstruction          Reseal 4 mm            54.57  17.95     0.33
             R50: Cem. Tarariras ­ Tarariras           Routine Maintenance
             R54: Juan Lacaze - Ruta 1 (138K700)       Routine Maintenance
             R54: Ruta 1 (138K700) ­ Barker            Reseal 4 mm             Reseal 4 mm             7.02   7.19     1.03
             R54: Barker - Arroyo San Juan             Reseal 4 mm             Reseal 4 mm             6.78   7.00     1.03
             R54: Arroyo San Juan - Ruta 12 (78K400)   Reseal 4 mm             Reseal 4 mm             6.99   7.23     1.03
   Average                                                                                                             0.94


The comparison between the ex-ante and actual traffic is given on the table below, which shows that on
average the actual daily traffic in 2002 is 91% of the ex-ante estimate. The ex-ante annual traffic growth
rate was defined as 3% for all roads but the actual annual growth rate was on average 0%.




                                                          - 49 -

                                                     CREMA Program Traffic
                                                                         Ex-Ante Estimates Ex-Post Actual   Traffic
                                                                Traffic   Traffic  Growth Traffic  Growth    2002
                                                                 1998     2002    98-2002  2002    98-2002 Ex-Post/
       CREMA      Section                                      (AADT) (AADT)          (%) (AADT)       (%) Ex-Ante
       Region II  Ruta 10: Tramo 3 (R104 -J.Ign.)                  1898      2136      3%    1499      -6%    0.70
       and X      Ruta 10:Tramo 4 (J.Ign. - L.Gar)                  150       169      3%     178      4%     1.05
                  Ruta 10:Tramo 5(L.Gar.- Caracol)                  150       169      3%     178      4%     1.05
                  Ruta 10:Tramo 6(Caracol-L.Rocha)                    76        86     3%       92     5%     1.08
                  Ruta 12:Tramo 17(Portozzuelo-Ruta9)               381       429      3%
                  Ruta 39:Tramo 2(San Carlos-Ruta9)                1405      1581      3%
                  Ruta 39:Tramo 3(Ruta9-48K600)                     242       272      3%     223      -2%    0.82
                  Ruta 39:Tramo 4(48K600-71K600)                    242       272      3%
                  Ruta 39:Tramo 5(71K600-Aigua)                     242       272      3%
                  Ruta 93: Tramo 41Rr (Piriap.-93)                 1958      2204      3%    1817      -2%    0.82
                  Ruta 104: T1 (Ruta 10 - Ruta 9)                   413       465      3%
                  Ruta 99: Tramo 1 (R10 - R200)                    2611      2939      3%    2428      -2%    0.83
                  Ruta 10: Tramo 1(Est Solis-Piriapolis)           2611      2939      3%
                  Ruta 37: Tramo 1 (Piriap.- R9)                   1958      2204      3%    1528      -6%    0.69
                  Ruta 60:Tramo1 (P.Azucar-A.P.Azucar)              430       484      3%
                  Ruta 60:Tramo2 (A.P.Azucar-L.D.)                  430       484      3%     470      2%     0.97
                  Ruta 60:Tramo3 (L.Deptal - R12)                   430       484      3%
                  Ruta 9:Tramo 52Rr (R9 - Caracol)                  150       169      3%     172      3%     1.02
       Region II  R8: Ao. Corrales - Ao Sarandi                    1659      1867      3%
       and III    R8: Ao Sarandi - Ruta 17                         1659      1867      3%
                  R14: Averias - Ruta 8 (256K500, J.P.Va.)          310       349      3%
                  R14: Lascano ­ Averias                            310       349      3%     302      -1%    0.87
                  R15: Lascano - Paraje La Coronilla                420       473      3%     435      1%     0.92
                  R15: Paraje La Coronilla - Ruta 19                136       153      3%     150      2%     0.98
                  R15: Ruta 19 ­ Cebollati                          136       153      3%     150      2%     0.98
                  R17: Treinta Y Tres - Ruta 18                     833       938      3%
                  R17: Ruta 18 (300K000) ­ 314K000                  427       481      3%     378      -3%    0.79
                  R17: 314K000 - Gral E. Martinez                   427       481      3%     378      -3%    0.79
                  R18: Ruta 17 - Ao. Del Oro                        660       743      3%     615      -2%    0.83
                  R18: Ao. Del Oro ­ Vergara                        660       743      3%
                  R18: By Pass Vergara                              660       743      3%     617      -2%    0.83
       Region VII R21: Colonia - Ruta 22                          523.5       589      3%     862     13%     1.46
                  R22: Ruta 21 (207K900) - Tarrariras               586       660      3%     457      -6%    0.69
                  R22: Tarrariras - 36K000                         1023      1151      3%
                  R22: 36K000 - Ruta 1 (149K000)                   1023      1151      3%
                  R50: Ruta 1 - Cem. Tarariras                      313       352      3%     257      -5%    0.73
                  R50: Cem. Tarariras ­ Tarariras                   193       217      3%
                  R54: Juan Lacaze - Ruta 1 (138K700)              1056      1189      3%
                  R54: Ruta 1 (138K700) - Barker                    132       149      3%     150      3%     1.01
                  R54: Barker - Arroyo San Juan                     132       149      3%     150      3%     1.01
                  R54: Arroyo San Juan - Ruta 12 (78K400)           132       149      3%     151      3%     1.02
       Average                                                                         3%              0%     0.91


The table below presents the main characteristics and the economic evaluation results of the CREMA
sections, which indicates that the ex-post economic returns were slightly lower but still satisfactory with
an overall IRR of 17.6%, which is 83% of the ex-ante IRR.




                                                           - 50 -

                                                  CREMA Program Economic Evaluation
                                                                                  Ex-Ante       Ex-Post      IRR     NPV
                                                       Length Surface Roughness IRR    NPV IRR        NPV Ex-post/ Ex-post/
    CREMA Section                                       (km) Type       (IRI)   (%) (M US$) (%)    (M US$) Ex-ante Ex-ante
    Region II Ruta 10: Tramo 3 (R104 -J.Ign.)           18.1   ST        2.9   53.2     0.47 74.3      0.23  1.40     0.49
    and X     Ruta 10:Tramo 4 (J.Ign. - L.Gar)            7.5  GR              None     0.18 None      0.16           0.86
              Ruta 10:Tramo 5(L.Gar.- Caracol)          18.1   GR              None     0.44 None      0.38           0.85
              Ruta 10:Tramo 6(Caracol-L.Rocha)          10.3   GR              None     0.12 None      0.05           0.44
              Ruta 12:Tramo 17(Portozzuelo-Ruta9)       18.2   ST        2.8
              Ruta 39:Tramo 2(San Carlos-Ruta9)           1.2  AC        1.7
              Ruta 39:Tramo 3(Ruta9-48K600)             28.9   ST        2.1                 16.3      0.16
              Ruta 39:Tramo 4(48K600-71K600)            23.0   ST        2.1
              Ruta 39:Tramo 5(71K600-Aigua)             18.2   ST        2.1
              Ruta 93: Tramo 41Rr (Piriap.-93)            7.2  AC        3.2   18.0     0.30 12.0      0.01  0.67     0.03
              Ruta 104: T1 (Ruta 10 - Ruta 9)           16.0   ST        3.3
              Ruta 99: Tramo 1 (R10 - R200)               2.2  ST        4.0   37.1     0.47 23.3      0.14  0.63     0.31
              Ruta 10: Tramo 1(Est Solis-Piriapolis)    11.6   AC        1.9
              Ruta 37: Tramo 1 (Piriap.- R9)              9.7  ST        3.8   31.3     1.33 21.1      0.78  0.67     0.59
              Ruta 60:Tramo1 (P.Azucar-A.P.Azucar)      16.5   ST        2.1
              Ruta 60:Tramo2 (A.P.Azucar-L.D.)          13.0   ST        3.9   14.0     0.09 29.8      0.13  2.13     1.42
              Ruta 60:Tramo3 (L.Deptal - R12)             8.5  ST        3.0
              Ruta 9:Tramo 52Rr (R9 - Caracol)          11.5   GR        4.8   None     0.27 None      0.21           0.80
    Subtotal                                           239.7                   31.0     3.68 19.0      2.26  0.61     0.61
    Region II R8: Ao. Corrales - Ao Sarandi             16.2   AC        1.7
    and III   R8: Ao Sarandi - Ruta 17                  13.9   AC        1.7
              R14: Averias - Ruta 8 (256K500, J.P.Va.)  26.9   ST        3.0
              R14: Lascano - Averias                    13.1   ST        3.0   26.6     0.17 38.9      0.05  1.46     0.29
              R15: Lascano - Paraje La Coronilla        14.0   ST        3.5   12.4     0.01 16.8      0.03  1.35     3.07
              R15: Paraje La Coronilla - Ruta 19        18.7   GR                       0.83 14.4      0.01           0.01
              R15: Ruta 19 - Cebollati                  31.3   GR                       1.29           1.01           0.78
              R17: Treinta Y Tres - Ruta 18             12.3   AC        1.8            0.00
              R17: Ruta 18 (300K000) - 314K000          14.0   ST        3.0   17.1     0.04  4.8    (0.02)  0.28    -0.51
              R17: 314K000 - Gral E. Martinez           35.5   ST        3.0   23.1     0.26                 0.00     0.00
              R18: Ruta 17 - Ao. Del Oro                18.2   ST        3.8   12.3     0.05 12.3      0.06  1.00     1.02
              R18: Ao. Del Oro - Vergara                21.9   AC        2.0            0.00
              R18: By Pass Vergara                        5.9  AC        4.0   12.2     0.02 12.5      0.03  1.02     1.53
    Subtotal                                           241.9                   21.3     2.68 16.6      1.16  0.78     0.43
    Region
    VII       R21: Colonia - Ruta 22                    30.4   ST        4.0   14.7     0.76 15.8      0.72  1.07     0.95
              R22: Ruta 21 (207K900) - Tarrariras       26.0   ST        3.0   36.3     0.15 27.0      0.09  0.74     0.64
              R22: Tarrariras - 36K000                    8.0  ST        2.5            0.00
              R22: 36K000 - Ruta 1 (149K000)              6.3  ST        2.5            0.00
              R50: Ruta 1 - Cem. Tarariras              20.5   ST        3.7   12.9     0.05 15.1      0.05  1.17     1.02
              R50: Cem. Tarariras - Tarariras             2.0  ST        2.8            0.00
              R54: Juan Lacaze - Ruta 1 (138K700)         4.1  AC        2.2            0.00
              R54: Ruta 1 (138K700) - Barker            11.4   ST        3.0   88.6     0.10 15.8      0.01  0.18     0.09
              R54: Barker - Arroyo San Juan             26.7   ST        3.1   39.2     0.15 13.0      0.01  0.33     0.06
              R54: Arroyo San Juan - Ruta 12 (78K400)   17.3   ST        3.1   27.6     0.06 12.6            0.46     0.00
    Subtotal                                           152.6                   15.7     1.26 17.0      0.87  1.08     0.70
    Total                                              634.1                   21.1     7.61 17.6      4.29  0.83     0.56


Bridge Reconditioning Program

The reconditioning of 13 bridges was evaluated at project appraisal yielding a program NPV of US$
33.39 million and an average IRR of 32.3%. Nine of the thirteen bridges were reconditioned under the
project and the remaining bridges were placed under the Uruguay Megaconcession program. The table
below presents the main characteristics of the bridges included under the project.




                                                               - 51 -

                                     Bridges Reconditioned Under the Project
                                    Length Ex-Ante Estimate                  Actual                            Actual Cost
     Route Bridge                    (m) Reconditioning Type                 Reconditioning Type              (US$ per meter)
      3    Guaviyú                   160.0 New Bridge                        Strengthening & widening to 8 m     1,558
      3    Chapicuy / Carpinchurí    135.0 Strengthening & widening to 8 m   Strengthening & widening to 8 m     6,660
      3    San Gregorio              147.0 New Bridge                        New Bridge                          11,935
      3    Sauce de Pintos           30.0 Strengthening & widening to 10 m Strengthening & widening to 8 m       8,059
      8    Marmarajá km 173          151.0 Strengthening & widening to 8 m   Strengthening & widening to 8 m     3,833
      8    Sauce / Sarandí           35.0 Strengthening & widening to 10 m Strengthening & widening to 8 m       10,801
      26 Conventos                   126.0 New Bridge                        New Bridge                          8,746


The table below presents the comparison, in 2001 US Dollars, between the ex-ante, contract and actual
costs, which shows that on average the actual costs were 4% higher than the contract costs and 13%
higher than the cost estimated at appraisal.

                                               Bridges Reconditioning Financial Costs
                                                          Ex-Ante Contract Ex-Post      Ex-Post  Ex-Post
                                                            Cost      Cost      Cost      Per      per
                          Route Bridge                    (US$M) (US$M) (US$M) Ex-Ante Contract
                            3   Guaviyú                     1.30      0.20      0.25     0.19      1.25
                            3   Chapicuy / Carpinchurí      0.60      0.89      0.90     1.50      1.01
                            3   San Gregorio                1.05      1.71      1.75     1.67      1.03
                            3   Sauce de Pintos             0.19      0.23      0.24     1.27      1.07
                            8   Marmarajá km 173            0.75      0.86      0.58     0.77      0.67
                            8   Sauce / Sarandí             0.50      0.36      0.38     0.76      1.04
                           26   Conventos                   0.63      0.90      1.10     1.75      1.22
                         Average                                                         1.13      1.04


The comparison between the ex-ante and actual traffic is given on the table below, which shows that on
average the actual daily traffic in 2001 is 92% of the ex-ante estimate. The ex-ante annual traffic growth
rate was defined as 4.0% for all bridges and the actual annual growth rate was on average 1.1%.

                                       Bridges Reconditioning Traffic
                                                Ex-Ante Ex-Ante Actual        Actual AADT     Ex-Ante      Actual
                                                 AADT      AADT     AADT           Per        Annual       Annual
              Route Bridge                        1998     2001      2001    Ex-Ante AADT     Growth       Growth
                3    Guaviyú                      803       903      795          0.88         4.0%        -0.3%
                3    Chapicuy / Carpinchurí       803       903      795          0.88         4.0%        -0.3%
                3    San Gregorio                 1260     1417      1414         1.00         4.0%        3.9%
                3    Sauce de Pintos              1260     1417      1414         1.00         4.0%        3.9%
                8    Marmarajá (km 173)           623       701      716          1.02         4.0%        4.7%
                8    Sauce / Sarandí              1660     1867      1450         0.78         4.0%        -4.4%
                26   Conventos                    666       749      669          0.89         4.0%        0.1%
              Average                                                             0.92         4.0%        1.1%


The comparison, in months, between the ex-ante and actual execution time is given on the table below,
which shows that on average the actual execution time was 49% higher than the ex-ante estimate, with
an actual average execution time of 16 months.




                                                              - 52 -

                                           Bridges Reconditioning Execution Time
                                                                Ex-Ante     Actual  Actual
                                                                Duration  Duration   Per
                             Route Bridge                       (months) (months) Ex-Ante
                                3   Guaviyú                        12        17      1.42
                                3   Chapicuy / Carpinchurí         10        24      2.40
                                3   San Gregorio                   12        15      1.25
                                3   Sauce de Pintos                12        15      1.25
                                8   Marmarajá (km 173)             10        16      1.60
                                8   Sauce / Sarandí                12        12      1.00
                                26  Conventos                      8         12      1.50
                             Average                               11        16      1.49


The bridge reconditioning program was evaluated ex-ante by DNV estimating road user benefits of the
bridge improvements in terms of savings in road user costs. Using the same methodology, the ex-post
evaluation yielded the results given on the table below, which shows that all project were economically
justified with an average IRR of 36.7%, which is 94% of the ex-ante IRR. The ex-ante and ex-post NPV
cannot be compared because the ex-ante evaluation grouped some bridges on the same route as one
project and did not properly differentiate the NPV corresponding to each bridge.

                                        Bridges Reconditioning Economic Evaluation
                                                            Ex-Post Ex-Ante Ex-Post     IRR
                                                             NPV       IRR      IRR  Ex-Post/
                          Route Bridge                      (US$M)     (%)      (%)   Ex-Ante
                            3    Guaviyú                     0.85      35.7     46.1    1.29
                            3    Chapicuy / Carpinchurí      3.05      35.7     46.1    1.29
                            3    San Gregorio                2.15      19.8     16.7    0.84
                            3    Sauce de Pintos             3.05      19.8     19.6    0.99
                            8    Marmarajá (km 173)          9.68      47.8     82.9    1.73
                            8    Sauce / Sarandí             3.16      69.8     20.7    0.30
                            26   Conventos                   0.91      43.3     24.7    0.57
                          Total/Average                      22.84     38.8     36.7    0.94


Departmental Roads Maintenance Program

The economic evaluation of the Departamental Roads Maintenance Program was done through the
analysis of a matrix of road classes.           The table below presents the network length by traffic and
roughness estimated in 1997, based on a full network survey.

                                 Departamental Maintenance Program Network in 1997 (km)
                                         IRI<5     5<IRI<10      10<IRI<15     IRI>15  Total  Percent
                   ADT<30                 1859          755             745       270  3630     40%
                   30<ADT<70              1729         1043             367       137  3276     36%
                   70<ADT<150             947           596             175       199  1917     21%
                   ADT>150                107            41              29        0     177     2%
                   Total                  4643         2434           1317        606  9000    100%
                   Percent                52%          27%             15%        7%   100%


The table below presents a comparison, in 2001 US Dollars, between the ex-ante unit road maintenance
works costs estimates and the average ex-post unit costs, for the 1998-2001 project period, which shows
that on average the project costs were 7% lower than the ex-ante estimates. Note that in 2003, due to
devaluation of the local currency, the unit road work costs are, in Dollars terms, around 50% lower that
the ex-post project costs from the 1998 to 2001 period.




                                                          - 53 -

                                        Departamental Maintenance Program Unit Costs
                                                                   Ex-Ante Ex-Post Ex-Post
                                                                     Cost      Cost      Per
                               Road Work Type                       (US$)     (US$     Ex-Ante
                               Regravelling (US$/m3)                 8.00      7.68     0.96
                               Spot Regravelling (US$/m3)           10.00      9.10     0.91
                               Grading (US$/km)                    104.00     96.96     0.93
                               Routine Maintenance (US$/km)          178       165      0.93


The ex-post economic evaluation was done considering the average ex-post unit road maintenance costs
and ex-post traffic growth estimates. The ex-ante evaluation assumed an annual traffic growth rate of 4%
for all vehicles, while the ex-post evaluation considered, based on the observed traffic growth on low
volume national roads on recent years, a traffic growth rate of 0% for cars and pickups and 3% for
commercial vehicles during the 1998 to 2001 period, followed by a 4% growth rate afterwards. The table
below presents the results of the economic evaluation, in 2001 US Dollars, which yields a network NPV
of US$ 202 million, which is 88% of the ex-ante network NPV corresponding to US$ 229 million, in 2001
US Dollars.

                              Departamental Maintenance Program Network Ex-Post NPV (US$ M)
                                               IRI<5     5<IRI<10      10<IRI<15      IRI>15     Total
                          ADT<30                   2.5         1.6             2.3        1.2      7.6
                          30<ADT<70               35.1        24.9             9.9        4.3     74.1
                          70<ADT<150              49.4        35.4            11.5      14.4    110.7
                          ADT>150                              5.1             3.9                 9.0
                          Total                   87.0        67.0            27.5      19.9    201.5


DNV Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program Consequences

The project was a component of an overall maintenance and rehabilitation program to be undertaken by
DNV during the 1998-2002 period. An ex-ante network evaluation indicated that with the proposed
program the network condition in 2001 would have marginally improved compared with the network
condition found in 1997, for example, the percent of the vehicle utilization in poor condition decreasing
from 9% to 7% and the percent of the network below optimal level of service decreasing from 15% to
8%. The table below presents the ex-ante estimates for 2001 and the actual network condition from 1997
to 2002, which shows that overall the actual network condition in 2001 is in line with the ex-ante
estimates.

                                       Program Consequences on the Network Condition
                                           Actual    Actual  Actual   Actual    Actual    Actual     Ex-Ante Estimate
                                             1997     1998     1999     2000     2001       2002        for 2001
         Condition  Roughness                                    Percent of Network Length, km
         Good       < 3.5 IRI                54%      71%      75%       82%      80%       64%           60%
         Fair       3.5 < IRI < 4.5          31%      14%      13%       13%      14%       21%           18%
         Poor       > 4.5 IRI                15%      15%      12%       6%        6%       15%           22%
         Condition  Roughness                              Percent of Network Utilization, vehicle-km
         Good       < 3.5 IRI                75%      81%      84%       88%      87%       77%           87%
         Fair       3.5 < IRI < 4.5          16%      12%      11%       10%      11%       16%           8%
         Poor       > 4.5 IRI                 9%       7%       5%       3%        2%        7%           5%
                                                       Percent of Network Below Optimal Level of Service
                                             15%      16%      12%       6%        8%       13%           8%
                                                               Average Network Roughness (IRI)
                                              3.5      3.4      3.2       3.0      3.1       3.4          3.1




                                                           - 54 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              10/1997                   5    TASK MANAGER/HIGHWAY
                                             ENGINEER (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL SPEC. (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPEC. (1);
                                             SPEC. IN ECONOMIC
                                             ANALYSIS (1); HIGHWAY
                                             ENGINEER (1)
              01/1998                   1    TASK MANAGER/HIGHWAY
                                             ENGINEER (1)
              04/1998                   5    TASK MANAGER/HIGHWAY
                                             ENGINEER (1); LEAD
                                             ECOLOGIST (1); LEAD
                                             TRANSPORT ECONOMIST (1);
                                             SPEC. IN ECONOMIC
                                             ANALYSIS (1); HIGHWAY
                                             ENGINEER (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              07/1998                   4    TASK MANAGER/
                                             HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);
                                             OPERATIONS ADVISOR
                                             (1); FINANCIAL
                                             ANALYST (1); HIGHWAY
                                             ENGINEER (1)

 Supervision
              04/1999                   3    TASK MANAGER/                    S               S
                                             HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);
                                             HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);
                                             FINANCIAL MGMT SPEC.
                                             (1)
              11/1999                   4    TASK MANAGER/HIGHWAY             S               S
                                             ENGINEER (1); TRANSPORT
                                             SPEC. (1); FINANCIAL MGMT
                                             SPEC. (1); OPERATIONS
                                             ADVISOR (1)
              05/2000                   3    TASK MANAGER/HIGHWAY             S               S
                                             ENGINEER (1); TRANSPORT
                                             SPEC. (1); FINANCIAL MGMT
                                             SPEC. (1)
              11/2000                   1    TASK MANAGER/ HIGHWAY            S               S
                                             ENGINEER (1)
              05/2001                   1    TASK MANAGER/HIGHWAY             S               S
                                             ENGINEER (1)
              11/2001                   4    TASK MANAGER/HIGHWAY             S               S
                                             ENGINEER (1); TRANSPORT



                                              - 55 -

                                            SPEC. (1); FINANCIAL MGMT
                                            SPEC. (1); SENIOR URBAN
                                            SPEC. (1)
               05/2002                 3    TRANSPORT SPEC. (1);              S    S
                                            TRANSPORT ECONOMIST (1);
                                            FINANCIAL MGMT SPEC. (1)
               10/2002                 2    TASK MANAGER/ HIGHWAY             S    S
                                            ENGINEER (1); TRANSPORT
                                            ECONOMIST (1)
               05/2003                 1    TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1)          S    S
               11/1998                 2    TASK MANAGER/ HIGHWAY             S    S
                                            ENGINEER (1); HIGHWAY
                                            ENGINEER (1)

 ICR
               06/2003                5     TASK                              S    S
                                            MANAGER/HIGHWAY
                                            ENGINEER (1);
                                            TRANSPORT SPEC. (2):
                                            TRANSPORT
                                            ECONOMIST (1);
                                            STRUCTURAL
                                            ENGINEER (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            27.1                           69.6
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 11.0                           34.6
  Supervision                           45.2                         264.3
  ICR                                     4.0                          12.0
  Total                                 88.8                         385.4




                                            - 56 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 57 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 58 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


Project documents, such as the Project Appraisal Document and the Loan Agreement, and the project
reports and aide-mémoires are on file.

DNV report on Ex-post Economic Feasibility Study and Impact on the Evolution of the Status of the
National Road Network prepared by Marcelo Krugman and Javier Wilson (Estudio Expost de Factibilitad
Económica e Impacto en la Evolución del Estado de la Red Vial Nacional) on file.

IPTI report on the Economic Evaluation of Bridges on file.

DIVD report on the Economic Evaluation of the Departmental Road Network Maintenance on file.




                                                 - 59 -

- 60 -

