Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4395-UR
Loan Agreement
(Second Transport Project)
between
REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated October 6, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4395-UR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 6, 1998, between REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
the Bank to assist in the financing of Parts A, B.1, C and D of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
Page  2
meanings:
(a)
“Arrangement” means any of the arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 
(c) of this Agreement;
(b)
“CREMA Contract” means a multiyear contract to be entered into by the 
Borrower, through DNV, with a private sector contractor which obligates such 
contractor to undertake all phases of road rehabilitation and maintenance work as a 
single package, from the design and programming of the works, through the execution of 
such works with respect to an identified portion of the national road network;
(c)
“Departamento” means a political subdivision of the Borrower;
(d)
“Departmental Maintenance Subproject” means any of the projects referred 
to in Part C of the Project; 
(e)
“DNV” means the National Directorate of Roads (Dirección Nacional de 
Vialidad) within MTOP;
(f)
“Eligible Intendencia” means the government of a Departamento benefited 
by the Transport Project I; 
(g)
“Environmental Manual” means DNV’s manual dated May 1998 referred to in 
Section 3.01(b) of this Agreement;
(h)
“Implementation Letter” means the letter from the Borrower to the Bank of 
even date herewith setting forth: (A) the bridges to be reconditioned under Part A.2 
of the Project; (B) the kilometers of national roads covered by each CREMA Contract; 
and (C) the Project indicators;
(i)
“MEF” means the Ministry of Economy and Finance (Ministerio de Economía y 
Finanzas) of the Borrower;
(j)
“Mercosur” means the Southern Cone Common Market (Mercado Común del Sur) 
created pursuant to the provisions of the Treaty of Asunción dated March 26, 1991;
(k)
“MTOP” means the Ministry of Transportation and Public Works (Ministerio 
de Transporte y Obras Públicas) of the Borrower; 
(l)
“OPP” means the Office of Planning and Budgeting (Oficina de Planeamiento 
y Presupuesto) of the Borrower;
(m)
“PCU” means the unit established in MTOP pursuant to the Borrower’s 
resolution dated September 19, 1989;
(n)
“Resolution” means MTOP´s  resolution dated August 12, 1998 which 
established the Steering Group;
(o)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(p)
“Steering Group” means the group established pursuant to the Resolution 
comprised of representatives from MTOP and the Eligible Intendencias; and
(q)
“Transport Project I” means the Borrower’s project financed in part with 
the proceeds of Loan No. 3021-UR as provided in the Loan Agreement entered into 
between the Borrower and the Bank on April 6, 1989, as such agreement has been amended 
to the date of this Agreement.
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to the Eligible Intendencias in 
respect of carrying out Departmental Maintenance Subprojects.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Page  3
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to 
sixty-four million five hundred thousand Dollars ($64,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
works and services required for Parts A, B.1, C and D of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of Parts A, B.1, C and D of the 
Project, open and maintain in Dollars a separate special deposit account in its 
Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2002 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee.
 Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.07 
of this 
Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for 
value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring 
on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage 
per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one 
percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) 
the London interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
Page  4
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six months’ notice to the Borrower of 
the new basis.  The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall: 
(i)
carry out: (A) Parts A, B, D.1, D.4 and D.5 of the Project through 
DNV; (B) 
Parts D.2 and D.3 of the Project through MTOP; and (C) Part 
D.6 of the Project 
through MTOP with the participation of the Eligible 
Intendencias and the 
Steering Group, all with due diligence 
and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, 
technical, financial, engineering and 
environmental 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for such Parts of  the 
Project; and
(ii)
cause the Eligible Intendencias to carry out Departmental 
Maintenance 
Subprojects as provided in paragraph (c) below, and 
shall take or cause to be 
taken all action, including the provision of 
funds, facilities, services and 
other resources, necessary or 
appropriate to enable the Eligible Intendencias 
to carry out the 
Departmental Maintenance Subprojects, and shall not take or 
permit 
to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with the 
carrying out of the Departmental Maintenance Subprojects.
(b)
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall carry out Parts A, B and D.5 of the Project, in accordance with the 
provisions of a manual (the Environmental Manual) which sets forth, inter alia, 
environmental guidelines and procedures, satisfactory to the Bank, to be followed by 
DNV and contractors in carrying out road rehabilitation and maintenance works.
(c)
For purposes of carrying out Departmental Maintenance Subprojects, the 
Borrower shall prior to the initiation of the works under a Departmental Maintenance 
Subproject enter into an arrangement (the Arrangement) with the Eligible Intendencia 
(which has jurisdiction over the roads included in such Departmental Maintenance 
Subproject) under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including those set 
forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement. 
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each Arrangement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to enforce any Arrangement 
or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the works 
and consultants’ services required for Parts A, B.1, C and D of  the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
Page  5
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
(a)
continue to operate and maintain during the implementation of the Project 
the PCU with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, including, inter  
alia, the responsibility of assisting the Borrower in the monitoring, coordination and 
supervision of the Project; and
(b)
ensure that the PCU is at all times headed by a Project coordinator and 
assisted by staff in adequate numbers, all with qualifications acceptable to the Bank.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Project indicators set forth in 
the Implementation Letter, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about forty-five days after the conclusion of each calendar 
semester, starting in the second semester of 1998, a semi annual report integrating 
the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project during the semester preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; 
(c)
review with the Bank and the Borrower, by April 30 of each year of 
Project implementation, or such later date as the Bank shall request, starting in 
1999, the corresponding reports referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take or cause to be taken all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said reports and the Bank’s views on the 
matter; 
(d)
at the annual review to be held in the year 2000 (the mid-term review) as 
provided in paragraph (c) of this Section, focus, inter alia, on the progress made by 
the Borrower in: (i) preparing MTOP’s transport infrastructure plan referred to in 
Part D.2 of the Project; and (ii) carrying out Parts D.4, D.5 (b) and D.6 of the 
Project; and
(e)
at the review meeting referred to in paragraph (d) of this Section, be 
represented by representatives of MEF, MTOP and OPP.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall not later than March 31 of each year of Project 
implementation, starting in 1999:
(a)
prepare and furnish to the Bank, DNV’s annual national road maintenance 
plan for the corresponding calendar year, satisfactory to the Bank, which shall 
include, inter alia: (i) the portion of the national road network to be maintained 
through the execution of contracts with private contractors; (ii) the portion of the 
national road network to be maintained through force account; and (iii) the expected 
productivity targets of the portion of the national road network to be maintained 
through force account; and
(b)
prepare and furnish to the Bank, a report of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank may reasonably request with respect to, inter alia: (i) the 
expenditures incurred and the results achieved by DNV during the calendar year prior 
to the date of presentation of each such report in respect of the portion of the 
national road network maintained through the execution of contracts with private 
contractors and through force account; (ii) the statistical information related to 
Page  6
traffic levels, pavement type and physical condition of the portion of the national 
road network covered under (i) herein; and (iii) the productivity targets of the 
portion of the national road network maintained through force account as provided in 
(i) herein.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall: 
(a)
not later than March 31 of  each year of Project implementation, starting 
in 1999, prepare and furnish to the Bank an annual plan, satisfactory to the Bank, 
which shall include the road sector fiscal policy analyses to be carried out by MTOP 
during the corresponding calendar year; and
(b)
ensure that the databases and models developed as a result of the 
recommendations of the study on road user charges carried out under the Transport 
Project I are updated by MTOP in a manner satisfactory to the Bank for purposes of 
enabling MTOP to carry out the analyses referred to in paragraph (a) above.
Section 3.08. For purposes of carrying out Part D.4 of the Project, the Borrower 
shall cause DNV:
(a)
to maintain during Project implementation a working group with functions 
and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank; 
(b)
to maintain within such working group a professional with qualifications 
acceptable to the Bank for purposes of serving as a liaison between DNV and the Bank 
during the carrying out of such Part of the Project; and
(c)
to not later than January 31, 2000 prepare and furnish to the Bank a 
report, satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include the analyses and evaluations of 
the options carried out under Part D.4 (b) of the Project. 
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than March 31 of  each year of 
Project implementation, starting in the year 2000, prepare an annual report on DNV’s 
operational and financial performance during the preceding calendar year; and (b) 
immediately thereafter disseminate the corresponding report to the public. 
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain the financial management system 
referred to in Section 4.02 of this Agreement, including records and separate 
accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph 
(a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to 
the Bank, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year as so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements, records and accounts and 
report of such audit, by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 
and 
accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank 
shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
Page  7
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall not later than December 15, 1998 establish 
within the PCU a financial management system satisfactory to the Bank.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely that, the Resolution or any 
provision thereof shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or 
not enforced in such a manner so as to materially and adversely affect, in the opinion 
of the Bank, the ability of the Steering Group to provide assistance to the Borrower 
in carrying out Part D.6 of the Project.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely, that any of the events specified in 
paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The date January 5, 1999, is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of MTOP is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Transporte y Obras Publicas
Rincon 561 esq. Ituzaingo
Montevideo, Uruguay
Cable address: 
Telex:
MINTRANSP
Page  8
Montevideo, Uruguay
39822071
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the Distruct of Columbia, United States of America as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY
By /s/ Luis A. Mosca 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki 
Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
   % of
Loan Allocated
Expenditures
Category
  (Expressed in Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Works
(a) under Parts A
  17,800,000
)
and D.5 of the Project
)
)
(b) under Part B.1 of
  16,400,000
)
the Project
)
70%
)
(c) under Part C of
  23,100,000
)
the Project
)
(2)
Consultants'
   2,100,000
70%
Services and
Training
Page  9
(3)
Fee
     645,000
Amount due under
Section 2.04 of this
Agreement
(4)
Unallocated
   4,445,000
TOTAL
  64,500,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $6,100,000, 
may be made in respect of Category (1) (c) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of 
this Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after 
January 2, 1998.
3.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures under: (a) contracts for works estimated 
to cost less than $3,000,000 (including those contracts for works under Departmental 
Maintenance Subprojects) with the exception of the first two contracts for works to be 
awarded under Part C.1 (a) of Section I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (b)  
contracts for the employment of consulting firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent 
each; and (c) contracts for the employment of individual consultants costing less than 
$50,000 equivalent, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to rehabilitate and upgrade, to Mercosur 
standards, selected national roads and bridges to permit the transit of larger and 
heavier vehicles and reduce the transportation cost between the Borrower’s territory 
and its Mercosur neighboring countries; (b) to support the Borrower´s policy of 
increasing private sector participation in the rehabilitation and maintenance of 
national roads through performance-based contracts; and (c) to strengthen the 
Borrower’s road sector management through the carrying out of: (i) DNV’s renewal 
program; (ii) the transfer of technology to the Departamentos to maintain gravel rural 
roads; and (iii) a road safety program.  
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Road Rehabilitation and Bridge Restoration
1.
Carrying out of road rehabilitation works (which consist of reinforcing the 
pavement structure) for: (a) about 96 kilometers of the Palmitas-Mercedes section on 
national Route 2; (b) about 30 kilometers between kilometer 192 and the town of 
Masoller on national Route 30; and (c) about 20 kilometers between kilometer 36.4 and 
kilometer 56.4 on national Route 27.
2.
Carrying out of reconditioning works (which consist of strengthening, widening 
or replacing the existing structures) of the bridges located on national Routes 3, 8 
and 26 and listed in the Implementation Letter.
Part B:
Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance 
1.
Carrying out of rehabilitation and/or maintenance works, through the 
corresponding CREMA Contract, for about 635 kilometers of national roads listed in the 
Implementation Letter and not included under Parts A.1 and B.2 of the Project) 
2.
Carrying out of: (a) maintenance works (through performance-based contracts 
other than CREMA Contracts) for about 1855 kilometers of the national road network 
that are not covered under Parts A.1 and B.1 of the Project; and (b) maintenance works 
on the portion of the national road network which is not maintained by private 
contractors.
Page  10
Part C:
Departmental Road Maintenance
Carrying out of specific projects which consist of providing routine maintenance 
and/or periodic maintenance to gravel surfaced rural roads included in the 
corresponding annual maintenance program of a Departamento benefited under the 
Transport Project I.
Part D:
Road Sector Management and Institutional Building
1.
Provision of technical assistance to DNV to monitor and supervise the carrying 
out of the Project.
2.
Preparation of MTOP’s  transport infrastructure plan for years 2000-2004.
3.
Strengthening of MTOP’s technical capacity to carry out road sector fiscal 
policy analyses.
4.
Carrying out of a renewal program to strengthen DNV’s institutional and 
operational capacity, which consists of: (a) consolidating and further improving DNV’s 
maintenance management and planning systems; and (b) analizing and evaluating options 
for: (i) modernizing DNV’s institutional structure and its operations; (ii) 
strengthening DNV’s human resources; and (iii) adopting commercial and user-oriented 
practices to manage the national road system.
5.
(a)
Carrying out of a road safety program for about 2,500 kilometers of the 
national road network which consists of improving pavement markings and road signs; 
and (b) carrying out of a pilot program in the Punta de Rieles area on national Route 
8 which consists of testing the effectiveness of low-cost measures to increase road 
safety of routes passing through urban areas, including an evaluation of such pilot 
program thereafter.
6.
Carrying out of a program to strengthen the institutional and management 
capacity of each Eligible Intendencia which consists of: (a) improving the management 
of road maintenance equipment and the organization and operation of workshops to 
repair such equipment; (b) adopting standards and procedures for the planning, 
operation and maintenance of departmental roads; (c) designing a maintenance program 
for urban departmental roads and streets; and (d) providing training to staff on road 
maintenance activities.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
  (Expressed in 
Date Payment Due
     Dollars)*
On each April  15 and October 15
beginning April 15, 2004
through October 15, 2013
3,225,000
Page  11
___________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except 
as provided 
in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Works
Part A:
General
Works (other than those under Part B.2 of the Project) shall be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in 
January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, works shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to works to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B: the 
invitation to bid for each contract estimated to cost $10,000,000 equivalent or more 
shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to large contracts 
under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Works estimated to cost less than $3,000,000 equivalent per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $13,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines.
(b)
Procurement of  works under this Part shall be carried out using standard 
bidding documents acceptable to the Bank.
2.
Force Account
Works to be carried out under Departmental Maintenance Subprojects which meet 
the requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines may, with the Bank's prior 
agreement, be carried out by force account in accordance with the provisions of said 
paragraph of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Special Provisions 
In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this 
Section or the Guidelines, the following principles and rules of procurement shall 
expressly govern all procurement of works referred to in Part C.1 of this Section.  
The principle and rule of procurement referred to in paragraph 4 below also governs 
all procurement of works under Part B.1 of this Section.
1.
The lowest evaluated bid which has been determined by the Borrower to be 
substantially responsive to the bidding documents shall be selected for contract 
Page  12
award.
2.
Foreign bidders shall be allowed to participate in national competitive bidding.
3.
There shall be no prescribed minimum number of bids to be submitted in order for 
a contract to be subsequently awarded.
4.
Foreign bidders shall not be required to authenticate (legalizar) their bidding 
documents or any documentation related to such bidding documents with Uruguayan 
authorities as a prerequisite for bidding.
Part E:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all works shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of 
said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (a) each contract  for works to be awarded under Part B.1 of 
this Section; and (b) the first two contracts for works to be awarded under Part 
C.1(a) of this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services under Parts D.1 and D.2 of the Project may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services under Parts D.3, D.4 (b) and D.6 (d) of the Project estimated to cost 
less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Single Source Selection
Page  13
Services under Part D.4 (a) of the Project which are estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 4.
Individual Consultants
Services under Parts D.3, D.4 (b) and D.6 (d) of the Project estimated to cost 
less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded to 
individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 
of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Special Provisions
In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this 
Section or the Consultant Guidelines, the following principles and rules of 
procurement shall expressly govern all selection of consultants' services referred to 
in this Section.
1.
The prices of contracts over one year duration may be adjusted.
2.
Foreign consultants shall not be required to authenticate (legalizar) their 
proposals or any documentation related to such proposals with Uruguayan authorities as 
a prerequisite for participating in the selection procedure.
Part E:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan 
for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for 
its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 
1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the 
Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to: (i) each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more; and (ii) the contract for the 
employment of a consulting firm to provide services under Part D.4 (a) of the Project, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of 
paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000 (with the exception of the 
contract for the employment of a consulting firm to provide services under Part D.4 
(a) of the Project), the terms of reference for the particular assignment shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only 
after said approval shall have been given.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost $50,000 or more but less than $100,000 equivalent, the 
qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the 
consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The 
contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
(d)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000, the terms of 
reference for the particular assignment shall be furnished to the Bank for its review 
and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been 
given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
Page  14
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in respect of Parts A, B.1, C 
and D of the Project; 
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of works and services required for Parts A, B.1, C and D of the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time 
to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equal to $6,000,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equal to 
$3,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account  plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the amount of 
$13,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify. 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to para\1fgraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
Page  15
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to Parts 
A, B.1, C and D of the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such 
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been 
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the 
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Terms and Conditions of Arrangements
Each Arrangement shall provide, inter alia, that:
(a)
the Eligible Intendencia shall carry out the corresponding Departmental 
Maintenance Subproject with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, technical, financial, engineering and environmental 
practices and provide the funds, resources, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the carrying out of such Departmental Maintenance Subproject;
(b)
the Eligible Intendencia  shall carry out the corresponding Departmental 
Maintenance Subproject in accordance with the provisions of the Environmental Manual;
(c)
the Eligible Intendencia shall maintain, and furnish to the Borrower upon 
request, records in respect of the corresponding Departmental Maintenance Subproject, 
so as to permit timely compliance with the terms of Section 4.01 of this Agreement;
Page  16
(d)
the Eligible Intendencia shall duly perform all its obligations under the 
corresponding Arrangement, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Eligible 
Intendencia shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of 
amending, assigning, abrogating, waiving, terminating or failing to enforce the 
corresponding Arrangement or any provision thereof;
(e)
the Eligible Intendencia shall: (i) provide to the Borrower all the 
necessary information so as to permit timely compliance with the terms of Section 3.05 
(b) of this Agreement; and (ii) take the necessary measures to ensure efficient 
completion of the Departmental Maintenance Subproject and the achievement of the 
Project’s objectives as provided in Section 3.05 (c) of this Agreement;
(f)
the Eligible Intendencia shall provide to the Borrower all the necessary 
information and take the necessary actions so as to permit the Borrower to comply with 
its obligations set forth in Sections 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to the plans and schedules, records and reports and maintenance) in respect 
of the Eligible Intendencia ´s  activities under the corresponding Departmental 
Maintenance Subproject;
(g)
the Borrower shall make payment to the Eligible Intendencia for executing 
the corresponding Departmental Maintenance Subproject, such payment to be calculated 
by the Borrower in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; 
(h)
the Borrower shall inspect by itself or jointly with representatives of 
the Bank, if the Bank shall so request, the maintenance works carried out under the 
corresponding Departmental Maintenance Subproject; and
(i)
the Borrower shall suspend or terminate the right of the Eligible 
Intendencia to benefit from the proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such Eligible 
Intendencia to comply with any of its obligations under the corresponding Arrangement.
