Report No. PID6880
Project Name                     Uruguay-Transport Project II
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                           Transportation - Highway
Project ID                       UYPE49267
Borrower                         Republic of Uruguay, Ministry of Transport
and Public Works (MTOP)
Implementing Agency              National Directorate of Highways (DNV),
within MTOP
Date PCD prepared                February 14, 1998
Project Appraisal                June 1998
Board Date                       September 17, 1998
1. Background
In the context of an effective Mercosur integration, the Government of
Uruguay is strongly committed in increasing private sector participation in
activities traditionally managed by the State, and accelerating the
rationalization of public expenditure needed to sustain macroeconomic
stability.   Infrastructure is one of the key sectors because past
infrastructure neglect translates into high costs for private sector producers
which in turn constrain the competitiveness of Uruguay's economy and the
realization of Mercosur benefits. Infrastructure has lagged as pressures has
limited public investment, and inefficient operation by public entities has
raised intermediation costs.
In the highway sub-sector, to bring it up to adequate international standards
the following major issues have been identified: (i) arresting deterioration
of the road network and removing constrains to international traffic to reduce
transport costs and enhance integration with Mercosur economies; (ii)
restructuring and modernizing the National Road Agency (DNV) to increase
efficiency and performance in road operations, which in turn would allow
rationalization of public expenditures; and (iii) increasing private sector
involvement in road maintenance to enhance quality and responsiveness of
maintenance services at a lower costs to taxpayers.
2. Project Objectives
Overall Goal. The overall purpose of the project is to facilitate the
provision of safe and reliable transport services needed for an effective
integration in the context of MERCOSUR, enhancement of the competitiveness of
Uruguay's products and exploitation of the comparative advantages of its
productive regions. This would be achieved by arresting deterioration of, and
preserving Uruguay's road stock in an efficient and sustainable manner, based
on rationalization of public expenditure, increased private sector
participation, and implementation of more commercial- and user-oriented
management practices. The project would complement Government efforts
supported by two other transport projects currently under implementation with
IDB, Bank and JEXIM financing.



Specific Objectives. The project specific objectives are to: (i) reduce
transport costs and maintain proper economic and safety standards along the
national road network through rehabilitation and sustainable maintenance of
roads and physical reconditioning of bridges whose structural characteristics
do not meet Mercosur standards and, thus, constrain international traffic;
(ii) increase private sector participation in road maintenance through the use
of performance-based contracts for maintenance and for combined rehabilitation
and maintenance; and (iii) strengthen road sector management at DNV through
restructuring of its organization and incremental implementation of more
commercial- and user-oriented practices, and at the Departments through
building up institutional capacity for sustainable maintenance of their gravel
road networks.
3. Project Description
The project has the following components:
- Road Rehabilitation and Bridge Restoration, including (i)
rehabilitation of about 60 km on the Fray Bentos-Montevideo
export/import road corridor and of about 120 km of other major
highways, and (ii) widening and reinforcement or replacement of six
bridges that because of their functional and/or structural condition
constrain international transport along main road corridors (Routes 3,
5, and 8);
- Road Safety Program, including pavement marking, traffic signs, and
a pilot to test low-cost measures to improve safety along routes
passing through urban areas;
- Combined Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance of about 363 km in
DNV's districts II, X and III, through multiannual CREMA-type
contracts;
- Outsourcing DNV maintenance and operations, by implementing (i) a
program of contract maintenance with microenterprises of former DNV
staff and private contractors for about 1480 km, and (ii) a four-year
contract for axle-load control on national roads, designed by
consultants funded under Loan 3021-UR.
- Departmental Roads Maintenance, including annual routine maintenance
programs over the project period on about 9,500 km of selected gravel
roads in participating departments and annual periodic maintenance
programs on about 1,500 km of these gravel roads;
- Technical Assistance, Studies, and Training to assist DNV in
implementing more commercial- and user-oriented road management
practices, and participating Departments (Intendencias) in building up
capacity for sustainable maintenance of their road networks. This
component may also include a pilot study for corporatization of an
agency under MTOP.
4. Project cost and financing
Based on the preliminary estimates, the project is expected to cost about
US$130.5 million. The World Bank would finance US$63.5 million.
- 2 -



5. Project Implementation
The National Directorate of Highways (DNV), the national road agency under the
MTOP will be responsible for implementing all project activities, with the
exception of the departmental road maintenance component. The latter is
carried out by the Intendencias and supervised by DNV through its Direcci6n de
Apoyo Infraestructura Vial Departamental (DAIVD).
6. Project Sustainability
The sustainability of the project benefits in the long run depends on
implementing planned cost-effective rehabilitation of the network,
transforming DNV into high-performance organization, and ensuring stable
funding for more responsive maintenance programs. The project would address
sustainability though a three-pronged approach: (i) furthering key
institutional reforms; (ii) reducing future maintenance and rehabilitation
costs, and (iii) exploring mechanisms to enhance road sector funding.
Furthering reforms. DNV is an organization in transition. The project
supports continuation and further deepening of the reforms already started to
make the organization more efficient and responsive to customer needs. The
prospects are good, since MTOP has shown strong leadership in the process, the
agenda includes elimination of overstaffing and other irreversible changes,
and there is support at national and organization levels to emphasize customer
orientation and gradually bring users perspective to sector management. GOU's
political commitment to Mercosur is an advantage in that it effectively locks
in past reforms and bolsters further reform efforts in line with regional
trends.[Note: Flag the factors critical for the sustainability of project
benefits.]
Reducing future costs. The proposed project together with other externally-
funded ones presently underway would allow DNV to recover the rehabilitation
backlog and attain a network condition that can be maintained with an
affordable and leveled flow of funds. The project is expected to reduce DNV's
intermediation costs by relying on private contractors to carry out
maintenance operations, improving performance of both force account and
private contractors through competition and close monitoring, and building
capacity for managing contracts.
Exploring mechanisms to enhance road sector funding. The project would assist
MTOP in devising mechanisms to ensure efficiency and transparency in the way
funds are allocated to programs, and strengthen accountability for results.
The use of road concessions and long-term contracts for rehabilitation and
maintenance mitigates future funding shortfalls, as they rely on independent
sources of funding, or force government to minimum contractual commitments,
respectively; but in the case of the latter, the contracts assure funding only
through the contractual period. With project support, MTOP would analyze what
are the best options to ensure a stable flow of funds for maintenance in the
context of the planned reforms and the political environment. This may entail
improving the structure, quality and periodic updating of MTOP's Five-Year
Investment and Maintenance Plans, restructuring the system of road user
charges and FIMTOP, or setting a new sort of fund.
7. Lessons learned from the past operations in the Country
The project design builds on lessons learned from the implementation of the
(first) Transport Project and Bank experience in the region. The resulting
principles for project design are summarized as follows:
- 3 -



Project Scope: keep the project design simple, limiting its scope to
investments in the road subsector and leaving for a subsequent operation the
investments in railways and ports subsectors initially proposed. The (first)
Transport Project -- with its comprehensive coverage of road, rail, port and
transport policy-- proved too complex for efficient coordination.
Implementation of some project components lagged, with little or no connection
with the rest of the project.
Counterpart Funds: align the project investments so is in phase with the
budgetary appropriations approved under the Plan Quinquenal 1995-1999, to
avoid the shortage of counterpart funds that plagued implementation of Loan
3021-UR between 1990-1995 (the loan closing date had to be extended for two
and a half years to complete the project) . The project would extend from
1998 to 2000 to support implementation of the on-going Five-Year Investment
Plan, and preparation of the Plan Quinquenal 2000-2004. If justified, a
subsequent project could help finance those investments whose implementation
had to be postponed for budgetary reasons, together with other priorities
identified and incorporated into the new plan. Since a new administration
will take over in the year 2000, MTOP would like to have in place at that time
a framework agreed with the Bank to allow swiftly processing of a follow-on
operation, but with flexibility in respect of the specific investments to be
considered. This phased-approach will also help MTOP adjust the new Plan
Quinquenal to changes in traffic patterns along the transportation system that
may result from the proposed concessioning of railway and port services, and
from three major transport projects being considered in the context of
Mercosur (if a decision to implement them is taken).
Procurement Delays: avoid delays in procurement of project works and services,
which typically slowed down implementation of Loan 3021-UR. The project
preparation plan was designed as a continuum, covering both preparation and
implementation aspects, so a significant part of the investments are "bid
ready" prior to effectiveness. To advance procurement of works planned for
implementation in 1998 the standard bidding documents and specific provisions
for turnkey contracts under the bridge component have already been agreed
upon. The project would also finance retroactively expenditures incurred in
respect of the departments road maintenance program, whose implementation
started in January 1998. These measures would ensure that the project meets
its physical targets within the three-year implementation period. The shorter
timeframe for project implementation and the focus of the project on the road
sector exclusively are likely to deter the delays experienced under the
Transport Project.
Reform Slippage: gain early commitment for institutional reforms and motivate
change by showing results. The institutional components of projects have
often fallen short of achieving their objectives. The reasons may vary but
two common underlying factors are: (i) changes of administration or of top
sector management leave reform programs without the leadership needed to carry
out them throughout the organization, or result in shifting agencies'
priorities away from reform; (ii) the scope and timetable for implementation
are too ambitious, or at least not commensurate with the changes in behavior
that the reforms are usually aiming at. The project's scope was scaled down
in favor of a shorter implementation period in phase with the country's
political cycle and a phased-approach for institutional building. The
institutional component of the project would focus on a few essential issues,
and set strategic directions in line with those change drivers in the region
that are pursuing institutional reform in response to the dramatic changes
-4 -



presently taking place in global and regional economies.[Note: Summarize
assessments of key policy, institutional and other issues, and the
Government's strategy to address them, referencing the economic and sector
work of the Bank and other development agencies.]     The project investments
are aligned with the key policies sought under the project, so their
implementation would have a demonstration effect, enabling MTOP and DNV to
build capacity to evaluate early results to improve performance, and learn by
doing while motivating by showing results.
8. Poverty Category                      Not applicable
9. Environmental Aspects
No significant negative impacts are foreseen. The project supports
rehabilitation and maintenance of existing roads, either paved (national road
network) or unpaved (departmental road network). The road subprojects to be
incorporated in the project prior to appraisal will not be located in or near
critical natural habitats that may justify detailed Environmental Impact
Assessments. DNV's technical specifications for execution and control of these
road works minimize the risk of negative direct impacts on the environment.
Changes to existing standards (such as widening, alignment improvements or
paving) that could cause involuntary resettlement or substantial increases in
traffic flows through rural communities, are not planned. Hence, no indirect
impacts on the life-styles of the population are expected from the planned
road works financed under the project. Illegal occupation of right-of-ways is
non-existent in Uruguay.
As it is frequent in Uruguay's road system, some road sections pass through
urban areas. DNV, and the municipalities involved, systematically apply
various devices to reduce through-traffic speeds, avoid safety hazards and
minimize disruption of local social patterns. The project would pilot more
cost-effective measures to improve safety along these crossings, implementing
the recommendations of a study recently completed under the Transport Project
I.
10. Program Objective Category   Economic Management
11. Contact Point.               The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Cont. Isabel Martinez
Divisi6n Proyectos Banco Mundial y Fonplata
Ministerio de Transporte y Obras Publicas
Rinc6n 561 - Piso 6, Oficina 611
Montevideo, Republica Oriental del Uruguay
Phone: 916 1342
Fax:     916 3763
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending September 25, 1998
- 5 -



