The World Bank                                                 1818 H Street N.W.             (202) 473-1000
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT          Washington, D.C. 20433         Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION                          U.S.A.                         Cable Address: INDEVAS



                                                                                                May 27, 2011
                                                 CONFORMED COPY
            H.E. Fernando Lorenzo
            Minister of Economy and Finance
            Colonia 1089, Piso 3
            Montevideo, Uruguay
            República Oriental del Uruguay

            H.E. Enrique Pintado
            Minister of Transportation and Public Works
            Rincón 561 esq. Ituzaingó
            Montevideo, Uruguay
            República Oriental del Uruguay


                                           Re: Amendment to Loan Agreements

            Excellencies:


                     We refer to the loan agreements entered into between República Oriental del Uruguay
            (the Borrower) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) in
            respect of the Loans listed in Annex 1 to this letter. We also refer to your request that the Bank
            enter into a Master Derivatives Agreement with the Borrower.

                    In connection with such request, we hereby confirm the Bank’s agreement to amend
            Section 1.01 of each of the Loan Agreements for the loans listed in Annex 1 to this letter so as to
            modify the General Conditions applicable to such loans as provided in Annex 2 to this letter.

                      Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing by signing and dating this amendment
            letter in the spaces provided below. This amendment letter shall be executed in three counterparts,
            each of which shall be an original. Upon confirmation, please return one fully executed original
            to us. The provisions set forth in this amendment letter . This amendment shall become effective
            upon receipt by the Bank of one fully executed original of this amendment letter.

                                                        Sincerely,

                                               By /s/ Penelope J. Brook
                                                       Director
                                           Argentina, Paraguay and Uruguay
                                        Latin America and the Caribbean Region
                                               2



AGREED:

REPÚBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY

By:      /s/ Fernando Lorenzo
           (Authorized Representative)

Title:   Minister of Economy and Finance

Date:    October 11, 2011



By:      /s/ Enrique Pintado

Title:   Minister of Transportation and Public Works (for Loan Nos. 42040 and 43950)

Date:    October 11, 2011
                                              3


                                                                                  ANNEX I

                        List of Loans by Project Name and Number




                    Project Name*                                  Loan Number

Contractual Savings Structural Adjustment Loan                         42800
Second Basic Education Quality Improvement                             43810
Financial Sector Adjustment Loan                                       45400
Public Services Modernization Technical Assistance                     45980
Forest Products Transport                                              42040
Second Transport                                                       43950




‫٭‬General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans,
dated May 30, 1995 (as amended from time to time)
                                               -4-

                                                                                       ANNEX II


                    Amendments to General Conditions Applicable to Loans


1.      A new definition of “Derivatives Agreement? is inserted in Article II, Section 2.01 as
follows:

        “Derivatives Agreement? means any derivatives agreement entered into between the
        Bank and the Borrower or the Guarantor for the purpose of documenting and confirming
        one or more derivatives transactions between the Bank and the Borrower or the
        Guarantor, as such agreement may be amended from time to time. Derivatives Agreement
        includes all schedules, annexes and agreements supplemental to the Derivatives
        Agreement.

2.      Article VI, Section 6.02, sub-paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) are amended as follows:

                (a)      The Borrower shall have failed to make payment (notwithstanding the
        fact that such payment may have been made by the Guarantor or a third party) of
        principal or interest or any other amount due to the Bank or the Association: (i) under the
        Loan Agreement, or (ii) under any other loan or guarantee agreement between the Bank
        and the Borrower, or (iii) under any Derivatives Agreement, or (iv) in consequence of
        any guarantee or other financial obligation of any kind extended by the Bank to any third
        party with the agreement of the Borrower, or (v) under any development credit agreement
        between the Borrower and the Association.

                (b)    The Guarantor shall have failed to make payment of principal or interest
        or any other amount due to the Bank or the Association: (i) under the Guarantee
        Agreement, or (ii) under any other loan or guarantee agreement between the Guarantor
        and the Bank, or (iii) under any Derivatives Agreement, or (iv) in consequence of any
        guarantee or other financial obligation of any kind extended by the Bank to any third
        party with the agreement of the Guarantor, or (v) under any development credit
        agreement between the Guarantor and the Association.

                (c)    The Borrower or the Guarantor shall have failed to perform any other
        obligation under the Loan Agreement, the Guarantee Agreement or any Derivatives
        Agreement.


3.     Article VII, Section 7.01, sub-paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) are amended to
read as follows:


                 (c)     A default shall occur in the payment by the Borrower of principal or
        interest or any other amount due to the Bank or the Association: (i) under any other loan
        or guarantee agreement between the Bank and the Borrower, or (ii) under any Derivatives
        Agreement, or (iii) in consequence of any guarantee or other financial obligation of any
        kind extended by the Bank to any third party with the agreement of the Borrower, or (iv)
        under any development credit agreement between the Borrower and the Association, and
        such default shall continue for a period of thirty days.
                                       -5-


         (d)    A default shall occur in the payment by the Guarantor of principal or
interest or any other amount due to the Bank or the Association: (i) under any loan or
guarantee agreement between the Guarantor and the Bank, or (ii) under any Derivatives
Agreement, or (iii) in consequence of any guarantee or other financial obligation of any
kind extended by the Bank to any third party with the agreement of the Guarantor, or (iv)
under any development credit agreement between the Guarantor and the Association,
under circumstances which would make it unlikely that the Guarantor would meet its
obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, and such default shall continue for a period
of thirty days.

        (e)      A default shall occur in the performance of any other obligation on the
part of the Borrower or the Guarantor under the Loan Agreement, the Guarantee
Agreement or any Derivatives Agreement, and such default shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower and the
Guarantor.
