FILE COPY
DOMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
l    pOfZTS  :s  
RETURNITOAIN                              F     Nmo 266s-KE
APPRAISAL OF A POPULATION PROJECT
KENYA
February 20, 1974
Population and Nutrition Projects Department
| Thi repOrt wU prepaed for offcial uJC only by the Bank Group. It may not be published. quotcd X
o cited without Bank Group authotiution. The Bank Group does not acpt responuilbity for the
aeracy of completess of th rport.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00             6.90 KSh
1 KL - ISh 20-    US$2.8985
From Independence at the end 1963 until March, 1973, the exchange
rate between the Kenya shilling and the US dollar was retained at
US$1 - 7.143 KSh. As of June 30, 1973, however, the Kenya shilling,
together with those of Tanzania and Uganda, was revalued vis-a-vis
the US dollar to 6.90 KSh. For January 1974, the Kenyan shilling
reverted back to its pre 1973 rates of US$1 - 7.143 KSh. The ex-
change rate used in this report is based on those governing at the
time of negotiations of US$1 - 6.90 KSh.
MEASURES
1 Km          w    0.38 square miles
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
A.   ABBREVIATIONS
ASFR            Age Specific Fertility Rate
CN              Community Nurse
DANIDA    =    Danish Agency for International Development
DMS       =    Director of Medical Services
EN        =    Enrolled Nurse
FPAK      -    Family Planning Association of Kenya
FPFO      -    Family Planning Field Officer
FPFW           Family Planning Field Worker
FP/MCH    -    Family Planning/Maternal and Child Health
GOK       a    Government of Kenya
EA        =    Health Assistant
HEU             H Health Education Unit
IPPF      =    International Planned Parenthood Federation
RAP            Knowledge, Attitude and Practice
MA=    Medical Assistant
MOH       =    Ministry of Health
Mow       =    Ministry of Works
NFWC            National Family Welfare Center
NORAD     -    Norwegian Agency for International Development
PHN       -    Public Health Nurse
PCU             Project Construction Unit
RN              Registered Nurse
SIDA           Swedish International Development Authority
UNFPA           United Nations Fund for Population Activities
USAID     -    United States Agency for International Development
WHO       5    World Health Organization



KENYA: BASIC DATA
1969 Census Figures (except where indicated)
Area                      ....                                    582,546 k1m2
Population-midyear ..................                             12.5 million (1973)
Land Suitable for Cultivation ......          ............   177.
Percentage .of Population Resident on Arable Land .........   80%
Density (land area) ..................    21+ persons per km
Proportion Urban .....  ......  .......... O........... .. .   10%
Estimated Birth Rate .... ....            .e............. .    50/1,000
Estimated Death Rate ............................    17/1,000
Total Fertility Rate            ..................                7.6
Rate of Natural Increase ................ ....... . .,,  3.3Z
Infant Mortality Rate ...................... .............   126/1,000
Total Women in Reproductive Age Group (15-49) ...........   2.33 million
Expectation of Life at Birth - Males ..............               46.9 years
Females ..............    51.2 years
Age Structure- 0 - 14 years ..........                            48.4%
15 - 59 years                                    46.2h
60 & Over                     .........**o   5.4%
Dependency Ratio ...........                           .          114 (1973)
Illiteracy (Estimate) 10D years +                                 50%
GNP per Capita .. ....        ..... .          ..........         US$ 170 (1972)
Family Planning First Visitors ....         ........ .    45,205 (1972)
Family Planning Revisitors .....               ........           172,279 (1972)






B. DEFINITIONS
Crude Birth Rate                -  Number of live births tar thousand om
population per year.
Crude Death gate                -  Nuhmber of deathA per thauwand of populatiou
per year,
Rate of Natural Increase         -  Difference between the cude birth and
death rates.
Total F.ertillty Rate            -  Represents the number of children that
would be born per 1Q00 f-emales if they
experienced no mortality and were sub-
ject to the age-specific fertility rates
of a specified fertility table.
Dependency Ratio                 -  Persons of "dependent" ages, those under
15 years of age and age 60 and over, per
100 persons of 'working ages" 15-59.
Infant Mortality Rate            -  Annual deaths of infants aged less than
one year per thousand of live births.






KENYA
APPRAISAB OF A ?OPULATION ?ROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS          .................................... .  i
1.   INTRODUCTION .........................................  1
LI.    DEMOGRAPHIC AND SOCIOECONOMIC BACKIROUND .....................  1
III.    THE POPULATION SECTOR          .      ..................................  ...........  3
A.    Voluntary Family Planning Efforts .........    ........*   3
B.   Government Policy and Support ............................  4
C.   Health and Family Planning Services ..... ..............               4
D.   Manpower Requirements    ...................................            5
E.   Family.Planning Program Organization and Administration..  6
F.   Family Planning Training             ......................             7
G.   Famiiy Planning Information and.Education ............                  7
H.    Program Achievements .         ...................................   8
I.   Future Trends ........................ ..................... -
J.   Foreign Assistance .............          .........................  0
IV.   THE FY lY75-79 FIVE-YEAR FAMILY PLANNING PROGRAM ....               .........  9
A.    Objective and Targets    ...................................           9
B.    Strategy ....................................              ..        10
C.  Alleviation of Manpower Constraint                     .. ..10
D.   Training ................             .........................  11
E.   Field Services .......  ..........  ........................ 12
F.    Support Services ........................................ 13
G.    Itformation and Education ........          ....................... 14
H.  Evaluation and Research . .......... 14
I.   Transportation .................                                      15
J.   Technical Assistance                       ...................... 15
K.    Recurrent Cost Implications of the Family Planning Plan.. 15
V. THE PROJECT                   ............... 16
A.   Program Description ......................                . ............ 16
B.   Summary of Program Costs ................................. 16
C.    Project Description ..................................... 18
D.    Implementation and Disbursement ........... .............. 20
VI.   FINANCING OF THE PROGRAX .            .................................... 22



Table of Contents
-2-
Page No.
VTI. DEMDGRAPIC AND SOCIOECONOMC ANALYSIS OF PROGRAM IMPACT....    24
Vill. AGRMWENTS REACBZD AND  ECOMMENDATIONS .............6........ ,6
This report is based on the findings of the Appraisal/Program Review
Mission which wisited Kenya from November 19 to December 18, 1972.   The
mission consisted of Dr. T. Kim (Deputy Chief) and Mr. P. Hall from the
Bank; Dr. L. Chow (Evaluation), Mr. D. Radel (Informotio±  and Education),
Mr. D. Shoesmith (Architect), Ms. S. Tooke (WHO Nursing Specialist), and
Mr. F. Stubenitsky (PMEA Econoaist) who joined the mission in the field.
Mr. G. Zaidan headed the missiol duri3g its first week and Dr. K. Kanagaratnam
led the mission during its last week for conclu4ing discussions with the Kenya
Governmest: Mr. B. Bantegui (UNFPA Coordinatar in Nairobi) was associated with
the mission during its four week stay, participating in its program of consul-
tations. Messrs Zaidan and Hall visited Nairobi in April 1973 to discuss with
the Government the misaion's reca.ndatious and proposed financing plan, and
tog.ther with Ms. T. Sato (loan officer-Kenya) attended a donor coordination
meeting chaired by the GOK in Nairobi in October 1973 to firm up financing
commitments. This report was prepared by Mr. Rall, with the assistance of
Dr. Kim and Mr. P. Mistry and with the coepewatiom @f Mr. Shoesmith in parti-
cular sectiomn. It is based on th findings of the appraisal mission and
discussions with tha Government and other donor,.



ANNEXES
1.   Population Growth and Demographic Parameters
2.   Functional Allocations and Classifications of Central Gavyrnat
Recurrent and Capital Expenditures 1964/65 - 1972/73
3.   Tmplications of Projected Population Growth on Socioeconomic
Development Objectives During the Plan Period 1974-78: Extracts
from the Draft Kenya Development Plan, 1974-78
4.   Orgalaization of Health Service.
5.   Rural Realth Services
6.   Family Planning Service Points
7.   Availability of Medical and Paramedical Personnel
8.   Program Achievements
9.  External Assistance
10. Nursing Manpower Requirements
1t.  Suggested Guidelines for the Establishment of an Annual Registration
System for Nursing Personnel
12.  The Population Studies and Research Center
13.  Detailed Five-Year Family Planning Program Budget
14. Comunity Nurse Training Schools and Rural Health Centers
15. National Family Welfare Center and Supporting Facilities
16. Vehicles
17.  Nursing Activities Study
18.  Suggested Terms of Reference for Evaluation and Research Study
19.  Schedule of Accommodations
20.  Detailed Cost Estimates and Implementation and Disbursements Schedule
of the IDA-Assisted Project Components
21.  Proposed Five-Year Population Program Contributions
22. List of Critical Actions Required Over Five-Year Plan Period



ANNIS (Coutinued)
23.  Dgmgraphic and Socioeconomic Impact of the Prlojpc
CHARTS
7946 -    Provincial and District Level Pamily Planning Administration
7945 -    Proposed Family Planning Organizatiou Ciart
7878 -    Birth, Death and Natural Increase rates, 1974-99
7879 -    Mid-Year Population, 1974-99
7880 -    Population With and Without the Family Planning Program,
1974 and 2000
7947 -    Health Administration in Kenya
7948 -    Health Canter Organization
7949 -    Annual Indices of First Visitors and Ravisitors for the
Y.tars 1970, 1971, 1972
7950 -    Annual Indices of Accapted Methods for the Year 1972
MAPS
10595 - Existing Health Facilities
10596 - Physical ProJect P dlities



KE.YA
APPPRA:SAL OF A POULATION PROJECT
S1TLARY AnD CONCLUSIONS
i.        Kenya has one of the highest population growth rates in the world.
The 1969 Census indicated that the total population was about 10.9 million
persons and growing annually at a rate of 3.3%.  This high growth rata is
expected to intensify the current population problem which is ccharacterized
by: (a) a high dependency rate with 48% of the population under 15 years of
age; (b) a rising level of urban and rural unemployment and underemployment;
(c) a high density of population concentration on the 17Z of total land area
considered arable; and, (d) a high rate of internal migration co areas of
hligh and medium economic potential and urban centers, leading to overcrowdinE
in the major cities and towns. This combination of factors makes it unlikel:
that living .3tandards can be significantly raised and economic opportunities
more evenly distributed without a significant deceleration in the high rate
of population growth coupled with an acceleration of present development
efforts. Without a decline in fertility, the population of Kenya is expected
to triple to 34 million by the year 2000.
ii.       The Kenyan Government was the first sub-Saharan African Government
to adopt a national family planning program. Recognizing the importance of.
limiting the high rate of population growth, the Government launched the Na-
tional Family Planning Program in 1967 under the auspices of the Ministry of
Health (MOE) and in 1972/73 prepared a Five-Year Family Planning Program to
serve as a basis for the expansion of family planning activities.
iii.      The Five-Year Family Planning Program covers fiscal years 1975-79
and will focus orimarily on: (a) training adequate numbers of qualified
paramedical and field worker personnel to extend family planning service to
the rural population through the health care delivery system; (b) strengthen-
ing the rural health system infrastructure; and (c) developing an appropriat4
institution for planning, implementing and evaluating a national population
program within a family welfare context. The specific components of the
Program include: (a) eight community nurse (CN) training schools, 30 rural
health centers, a National Family Welfare Center (NFWC), a family planning
clinic, and a Health Education Unit (HEU); (b) general, special and clinical
equipment and about 190 vehicles; (c) teclmical assistance (360 man months
for specialized advisory staff and 28 fellowships) and evaluation and re-
search stucies; and (d) operating costs of.the Program including contracep-
tive supplies, oducational materials and staff salaries. The total cost of
the Progr=a is estimated a; US$38.8 million.
iv.       Te pronosei project which will be the Association's first in
Africa south of the Sahara, forms an important part of thie total Program and
will Lnclude thc financing of: (a) the construction and equipping of five CN
training schools, 27 rural health canters, a NFWC, a family planning clinic



- ii -
and a Health Education Unit (HEU); (b) the purchase of some 90 vehicles,and
office equipment, (c) a Program Advisor and (d) two studies, one dealing
vicai mnursing activities and the other an examination of family size motiva-
tions. The nroject is estimated at US$15.4 million. An IDA credit of US$12.0
million is p:oposed which will finance US$5.0 million of foreign exchange
costs and US$7.0 million of local costs. The GOK will provide the balance
of the project costs.
v.        A Project Construction Unit (PCU) will be established in the Minis-
try of Health (MOR) to assist in the implementation of the civil works compo-
nent of the project; it will also be in charge of procurement and will main-
tain the necessary accounts for the IDA-assisted components of the project.
This unit will be headed by a Project Construction Director appointed by the
GOK in consultation with the Association. It will consist of an architect,
procurement officer and project accouni:ing officer. The Project Construction
Director will report to the Permanent Secretary of the MDR who will act as
the ex-officio Project Coordinator.
vi.       Contracts for civil woiks and vehicles of the IDA-assisted components
costino more than US$30,000 will be awarded on the basis of the Bank Group's
guidelines for procurement and international copetitive bidding will be
observed. Domestic manufacturers will be accorded a margin of preference
equal to the existing rate of customs duty or 15%. of the C3U costs of coapet-
ing imports, whichever is the lower; and the new policy of a 7-11/2 preference
for local contractors will also be applied.  Contracts for equipment and
furniture for the non-civil works components are unlikely to attract inter-
national attention because of the small size of the bid packages, and will
be obtained by competitive tendering locally where a nunber of oVe=seAs
suppliers are represented.
vii.      The Five-Year Family Planning Program presents witbin one integrated
package items which will be financed in parallel by the Association, the
United Nations Fund for Population Activities (UNFPA),  the United States
Agency for International Development (USAID), the Swedish International
Development Authority (SIDA), the Norwegian Agency for International Develop-
ment (NORAD), the Danish Agency for International Developmeat (DANIDA), the
Federal Republic of Germany and the Population Council of New York. Excluding
IDA's contribution, the GOK expects external commitments of at leas US$10.6
million from the above donors towards financing of the Program costs.
viii.          The 4FWC will be leaded by a Program Director who will report to
the Director of Medical Services in the )sH and be responsible for the opera-
tional aspects of the Five-Year Family Planning Program.  He will oversee the
execution of the Program, coordinate telu software inputs, the hiring of
personnel, etc.  To facilitate the coordination of donor supervision, the GOX
intends to organize annual briefing maeetings to exchange information and
consult about the nrogresi of the Program.



- iii -
ix.       In functional terms the Program will help to (a) create a strong
broad-based organizational framework to enable the implementation of the
Five-Year Family PLanning Plan (b) improve administrative and management
capabilities for its implementation; (c) achieve realistic targets of
fer:11ity decline translated into the required number of acceptors and con-
tinuing users; (d) develop a system for ongoing evaluation of program inputs
and an assessment of the program's impact through operationally oriented
research studies; and (e) expand family planning information and education
activicies to stimulate demand for services.
x.        The Pregram is intanded to achieve a substantial decline in fertility
over the rive-Yoar Plan period. It is expected that the project will assist in
reducinn the rate of natural increase from 3.3% in 1974 to 3.0Z in 1979. This
reduction in the rate of population growth will contribute to the development
objectives of the CXK by enabling a more rapid increase in per capita income,
slowing the growth in the labor force, helping reduce unemployment, assisting
in a wider distribution of socioeconomic opportunities, improving rural health
conditions and reducinX maternal and child mortality and Morbidity.
xi.       Subject to assurances described in paras. 8.01 and 8.02, the
proposed project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$12.0 million equivalent
to the GOCK on standard IDA terms.






APPRACSAL OF A POPULATION PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Following a reconnaissance mission to Kenya in May 1971, a population
program review/project appraisal mission visited Kenya in November/December
1972. At the request of the Government of Kenya (GOK), the mission had a two-
fold purpose, namely, to appraise the components proposed for IDA assistance,
aid, to evaluate the Five-Year Family Planning Plan developed by the family
pZanning section of the Ministry of Health (HOH) with a view to critically
assessing its program requirements in te.-ms of physical and financial resources.
A program proposal covering all the major program inputs required over the
Five-Year Plan period was circulated to the GOK and to various interested
donors in April 1973 to provide a basis for discussing the optimum ways of
assisting Kenya's population efforts.  These findings and the program proposal
were reviewed with the GOK, and, following approval of the program concept,
discussions were held with UNFPA, TUSAID, SIDA, NORAD, DANIDA, the Federal
Republic of Germany and the Population Council, and a tentative financlng
plan, based on expressed donor interests, was drawn up and submitted to the
Kenyan Government. This plan provided a basis on which the GOK approached
individual donors with specific financing requests. At the request of the
Govesnment, the draft appraisal and sector survey reports were circulated to
the major donors and a donor coordination meeting, chaired by the GOK, was
held in Nairobi in October, 1973 to resolve any outstanding differences and
to firm-up financing arrangements.
1.02      This appraisal report is complemented by a Population Sector Survey
Report reviewing the Five-Year Population Program of Kenya (Report No. 267-KE).
The Sector Survey report was developed in close consultation with the GOK
and provides the background information and analysis of the Five-Year Family
Planning Plan from which the Appraisal Report was developed.
II. DEMOGRAPHIC AND SOCIOECONOMIC BACUGROUND
2.01      The 1969 Census confirmed that Kenya's population was growing
rapidly. During the intercensal period 1962-69, total population increased
some 27% from 8.6 million in 1962 to almost 11 million in 1969 (Annex 1).
For the period immediately preceding the 1969 Census, the crude birth and
death rates were estimated at 50 and 17 per thousand respectively giving a
rate o2 annual increase of 3.3%. Since net migration is negligible in
compar;son with the rate of natural increase, the 3.3% per annum figure may
oe taken as the rate of population growth. The total fertility rate is
estimaced at 7.6, and by now the crude birth rate may have reached 53 per
thousand. Thus the rate of population growth and the total fertility rate
are among the highest in the world. Life expctancy at birth is approximately



2-
47 years for males and 51 for fAales, and the infant mortality rate is a
high 126 per thousand, contributing to the high birth rate. In 1973 the
population was estimated at 12.5 million. There has been no apparent change
in the fertility rate, and mortality is continuing to decline. These factors
indicate Kenya's population possesses a great potantial for future groS th.
Several sets of projections are available utilizing assumed rates of fertility
decline through the year 2000.  Assuming no change in fertility, the popula-
tion will triple to 34 million by the year 2000. Assuming a 50% decline in
fertility over this period, the population will still reach 2S million by
2000, 2.3 times its present number.
2.02      Kenya's rapid rate of population growth is exacerbated by the high
density of population concentration on the arable land.  Nearly 80% of the
population lives on 17% of the arable land. Because of limited employment
opportunities in these areas, there are two mainstreams of population movement
in Kenya: from the rural countryside to the urban centers and from the land
areas of high potential to medium potential and land settlement areas. About
10Z of the population lives in urban centers of 2,000 or  ore in size and the
nuaber is growing.
2.03      Per capita income in 1972 was estimated at US$170, which is about
the median for Africa as a whole.  During the first decade after Independence,
Kenya has achieved a remarkably high economic growth rate, averaging about
7% in constant prices. Such a rapid economic growth rate has meant that per
capita incomes have increased significantly, thereby helping to ameliorate the
effects of Kenya's population growth rate which is one of the highest in the
world. However, a continued high rate of population growth relative to the
growth of available resources will reduce the potential for savings and inuwt-
ment thereby resulting in a lowering of the rate of investment and ince
growth.
2.04      Reliable data on income distribution are difficult to find.  However,
as in many developing countries, studies in Kenya reveal that the top 10% and
20% of households account for 35% and 55% of the total urban household income
respectively. Similar data for rural households are not available, but there
are indications that concentration of income in the rural areas is likely to
be nearly as great if not greater. Disparities of income are also large
between urban and rural areas and different regions of the country.
'.05      The disparity in incomes and standards of living as well as the
nigh population concentration is exacerbated by a rising level of imeploy-
ment which may account for as much as 20 to 24Z of the total potential labor
force. This level of unemployment is serious and the labor force is growing
more rapidly than opportunities available for employment.
2.06      The proportion of children under 15 years of age (482) and adults
age 60 and over (52) which are dependent upon the economically more active
population (15-59) is around 54%, one of the highest in the world, and the
dependency ratio is greater than one, representing a heavy burden for the



-  -3 -
group in the produczive ages.  This high dependency ratio, which ,s c&.r-
acteristic of higher-fertility countries, mears that a large portion of
Kenya's scarce resources will have to be used to support these two goulps.
2.07       _t is estimated that presently some 10 million cases of disease
annual'y afflict the 90% of the population living in the rural areas.  If the
rate of population growth continues to grow at its -)resent level, the number
of cases is expected to increase to around 16 miliion by 1984.
2.03      Recurrent expenditures by all levels of Government for social (edu-
cation, health, community development) and community services (roads, wcter
works) have increased from about US$39 rillion in 1964/65 to an estimated
US$164 million in 1972/73. In percentage terms, the share of total recurrent
expenditures for such services has risen from under 24% in 1964/65 to around
43% ir. 1972/73, while the share of capital expenditures for such services has
increased from about 30% to over 50% in the same period (Annex 2). These
figures reflect a degree of qualitative improvement in services, but in the
main represent quantitative increases necessitated by population growth and
the provision of services to a greater percentage of the population. These
rising proportions have diverted resources from the productive sectors which
will need considerably greater emphasis if the prospect of a further rise in
unemployment is to be avoided and if standards of living are to improve at an
acceptable rate.
III.  THE POPULATION SECTOR
A. Voluntary Family Planning Efforts
3.01      Voluntary family planning efforts in Kenya were begun by autonomous
associations in Nairobi and Monbasa as early as 1955,, their aim being to make
people of all income levels aware of family planning and provide them with
modern contraceptive methods to avoid unwanted pregnancies. In 1961 the Nairobi
and Mombasa family olanning organizations were amalgamated as the Family
Planning Association of Kenya (FPAK) and a year later the FPAK became the first
tropical African affiliated member of the International Planned Parenthood
Federation (IPPF). By 1968, the Association was operating some 40 clinics,
most of them in M0E facilities.
3.02      The IPPF has significantly contributed to the recruitmeut of first
visi:ors and revisitors through its mobile unit scheme which recruits about
one-third of the total number of first visitors and revisitors. The IPPF also
supports the regionally-operated family welfare center at the Kenyatta National
Hospital in Nairobi which is the only existing f'mily planning training facility
The center trains IPPF, FPAK and Government staff for family planning duties.
3.03      Two major local authorities - the Nairobi City Council and the Mombasa
City Council - also offer family planning services. By far the biggest effort



-4-
has taken ?lace Xi Nairobi, where 40 service points have made faly planuing
available to the public and in recent years some 15 to 20Z of ill fily plami-g
acceptors in Kenya have been recruitad..
B4  Goverxmmt Policy   d Support
3.04      In 1962 the GOK began to recognize the importance of family plnnings
when a demographic survey revealed that Kenya'sa population growth rate was iu
excess of 3% per annum, and that its population of 8.5 million would double
within the next 23 years. The GOK came to realize that this hilgh population
growth rate would impose a major coustraint on Kenya's ability to expand her
economy and fully develop her apubllitias, and in 1966 the G0; announced the'
adoption of family planning as part of its development policy.
3.05      ;he responsibility for implementing the program was assigned to the
'VH.  Towards the end of 1966 the M4H announced its intention of mAi+ng family
planning an integral part of material and child health (CHi) services and took
steps to begin training medical officers in family planning techniques. The
aim of the family planning program was to make family plannlng information,
education, and services freely available upon request in government hospitals
and health centers, etc.  The National ?amily Planning Progras was launched I1
1967. Family planning services are now being integrated for general health
service and the program is bein-g taken over by Kenya personnel.
3.06      The implications of the 1969 Censts caused heightened COX concern,
and led to the appointment of a senior Kenyan administrator directly respon-
sible for the program, and the dtafting af a Five-Year Tahily Planning Plan
FY 1975-79 was begun. The GMKs guiding philosophy in this five-year period
will be to provide oppottunities and facilities aimed at encouraging the
country's efforts to control its population growth in such a way as to ensure
raising the welfare statue of all Ranyans (Annex 3).
C. Health and F ,,i2q Psigning Services
3.07      Health services in Kenya are provided by the Central Government,
Local Government, chuirch mission*, industrial health umits in the main urban
centers, and by the private sector. Prior to 1970 health services were de-
centralized, with the County Councils responsible for the basic health ser-
vices of 90Z of the population at the district level and below. In 1970
however, in order to establish a more viable framwork for expansion of
lealth activities, the responsibility for the adainistration and supervision
of all services was transferred to the MOH. Govermient health services are
now organized on a central4zed basis and carried out at the central, provin-
cial and district levels through a network of hospitals, health centers and
dispensaries to function as a system of integrated health protection designed
to provide both preventive and curative services (Ann-x 4).



-5-
3.08      The GOK has recently completed the formulation of the Haa!:.. Zevzlo'-
ment Plan, 1974-78 which forms part of a comprehensive 10-year Rural iHeal.;.
"!Aster Plan (Annex 5) and is based on consolidation and expansion of rural
health services and the provision of more effective MCIi services coordinated
with an expanded family planning program. This goal is to be achieved by
reducing the shortage of qualified manpower, particularly at the paramedical
level, and improving the coverage and distribution of rural health facilities.
3.09      There are at present about 600 Gover.  ent rural health facilities
in Kenya consisting of 185 health centers and subcentera and 414 dispensaries
with a low overall average rural population per health canter/subcenter of
approximately 58,000 to I (See Map 10595).  By 1984, the goal of the MCOH is
to reduce the existing average rural population per health centar/subcenter
ratio to 46,000 to 1.
3.10      The health delivery system is today overburdened by curative d2mands
which hive taken precedence over the provision of family planninglmaterna4
and child health (FMP/ACH) services. Because of the overriding curative
demands and the shortage of trained health staff, family planning services
are offered by enrolled nurses/midwives (E/Ms) on a weekly or fortnightly
basis. Part-time family planning services are available at only 300 out of
the existing 900 Government and non-government health facilities (hospitals,
health centers and subcenters and dispensaries, Annex 6). Under the Health
Development Plan, the staffing patterns at all Government service points will
be standardized and additional paramedical personnel added so that preventive
health services including FP/MCH can be provided on a daily basis.
D. 'lanpower Requirements
3.11      As of March 1973, about 350 physicians, 580 medical assistants, 770
registered nurses and midwives and 2,650 enrolled, community and public
health nurses (EN, CN, PHNs) were employed in Government service (Annex 7).
In view of the shortage of paramedical personnel and the varying categories
thereof, the MH will emphasize the role of the CN as a multi-purpose pro-
fessional nurse category, to dispense intenrated community health services
(including FP/MCR). The 3 1/2-year CM training is a consolidation of the
training received by the ENs, enrolled midwives and PHNs which would other-
wise require a total of 4 1/2 years for all courses. By 1980 almost all of
the nurse craining schools will be training CMs.
3.12      There are at present 9 nurse training schools for basic training
operated ljy the MOH, with an annual output of 300 EN/CNs and a maximum student
capacity of about 1,400, including facilities about to be completed. Ta the
private sector, 18 missionary hospitals are. engaged in zhe training of
enrolled staff with student capacities of about 930. Their annual output of
EN/IMJs is around 150 graduates, about 50% of which are absorbed by the Govern-
ment.  The M.R estimates that in order to achieve the desired staffing norms
and to maintain the existing bed/popuLttion ratio (0.8 beds per 1,000 people)



-6-
in the rural areas, about 5,500 EN/Cis will be required in Government service
by 1984.  By 1978 the desired minimm level of EN/Cas is 3,400 and the target
leve.. 3,900 nurses, a met addition of 750 snd P 0O nurses respectively over
the present Z650 nw-ses in Government service.  The MOH estimates that it can
reach the mmimnS requirements but will fall 500 nurses short of the 1978
target level (para. 4.05). Expansion of the EN/CN training capacities, both-
in the Government and private sectors is therefore probably the single most
vital task in the next few years to mesure the provision of an acceptable
level of health services particularly for the rural areas.
E. Family Planning Program Organization and Administratioa
3.13      The MOH has overall responsibility for implementing the National
Family Planning Program, coordinating all the family planning inputs and
providing free clinical services.  The Director of Medical Seriices, who
reports to the Permanent Secretary in the MOE, is in charge of professional
health matters and supervises the family planning program, heading an Advisory
Working Ccomittee wiiich helps formulate policy and coordinates the Ministry's
efforts with participating agencies. Three subcommittees- provide the Working
Committee with program support in the aLreas of training, research and informa-
tion and education.
3.14      The day-to-day administration of the program is the responsibility
of the Family Planning Unit. This Unit is headed by a senior Kenyan adminis-
trator in charge of coordinating all the activities carried out by different
institutions and implementing the family planning program. He is assisted ia
these duties by two expatriate advisers, an obstetrician/gynecologist and an
administrative specialist who devote their fulXtime attention to family
planning training and administration.
3.15      The Fanily Planning Unit is supported in ito activities by three
sections of the ZIDH: the Epidemiology and Medical Statistics Section 1/,
the Health Education Unit, and the Medical Stores Section. These sections
provide much needed assistance in the areas of evaluation, material supports,
and distribution of contraceptives.
3.16      One problem in the past has been the low priority accorded to family
planning services by parmedical personnel. Although this situation is in
large part due to the manpower constraint and the more pressing demand for
curative services, there is a need for medical leadership capable of supervis-
ing the parasedical personnel involved in dispensing FPP/Mc services to ensure
that appropriate attention is regularly given to family health activities
(para. 4.13).
1/   The Medical Statistics Section is responsible for the compilation of
statistics in clinic attendance, return visits, methods used, etc.
Monthly record cards from each clinic are sent to Nairobi.



-7-
F.  Family Planning Trair.:.n
3.17      Family planning training courses are conducted by the FPAK at the
IPPF-sDonsored family welfare center and by the family planning section of
the :50H at various Government institutions throughout Kenya. Three groups
of persons have thus far received family planning training: family planning
field educators, professionals and paraprofessionals, and other cadres of
field workers.  A large number of paramedical and medical personnel have
attended short seminars or family planning worksh-.ops.  7amily planning is
.acluded in the curricula for fourth-year medical students, nutritionists,
and in the diploma course offered to students in home aconomics and agri-
culture at Egerton Agricultural College. Eleven family plann-ng nurse
trainer/supervisors who are registered nurse/midwives have received a tlhree-
month family planning course so they can provide in-service training in the
delivery of family planning services to registered nurses and EN/CNs. To date
some 68 nurses have been trained. Despite these efforts, however, small
training facilities, an ad hoc approach, an inadequate number of trainers
and a reluctance of supervisory personnel to release nurses.for family plaa.-
ing activities becauise of the high demand for curative services have hampered
the training program (paras. 4.06 - 4.09).
G. Family Planning Information and Education
3.18      The FPAK has since 1968 been responsible for stimulating the demand
for family planning services, expanding the field worker program and.developing
other avenues of public education in consultation with the ME. Its program
has stressed person-to-person educat:.on, primarily in clinics and to a lesser
degree through public meetings, using a cadre of some 60 field educators.
Their activities are assisted and supplemented by six area-officers stationed
at the provincial level.  With a large geographical area to cover, a poor
communications system, and limited transport the field educators have had
some difficulty making home visits. They are, however, increasingly relying
on ot%er extension workers to help reach all areas of the community. Educa-
tion of special groups-national and local leaders, professicnals, extension
workers, teachers, etc.-has been carried out in cooperation with the  )DH.
The FPAK has also developed or commissioned the preparation of materials for
use in the mass media and television and has recently begun to use three
mobile cinema units in conjunction with its field education program. In
addition, many other organizations have been involved in information and
education activities for specialized audiences. While these activities have
been laying important foundations, an expanded information and education
program is required if the National Family Planning Program is to increase
significantly the demand for family planning services and to motivate contra-
ceptive acceptors to become continuing  users (para. 4.16-4.17).



-8-
H. Program Achievements
3.19      No specific numerical targets were set for the family planning
program during its first six years and there has been no apparent impact on
the high rate.of population growth. Nevertheless, attendances at family
planning clinics have steadily risen from around 1,500 first visits and
7,900 revisits in 1967 to about 45,200 visits and 172,300 revisits in 1972
and attendances have continued to increase throughout 1973 (Annex 8). One
of the difficulties in the past has been the small numnber of field educators
i'equired to follow up new acceptors, motivate continuing users and to
accurately record the number of discontinuing users.  To guide family plan nng
efforts there is a need to establish realistic program targets, inucease the
number of field educators, and institutionalize an on-going evaluation
mechanism to monitor program progress and access the impact of the fal41y
planning program (para. 4.02, 4.11 and 4.18).
I.  Future Treada
3.20      Recent kaowledge, attitude and practice surveys suggest the importancs
Kenyans attach to having many children to farm the land, provide old age social
security, contribute to the family income, ensure permanent social status for
women and provide a guarantee of the continuity of life. A 1968 survey cover-
ing the six largest tribes in Kenya revealed a high ideal faiily size of six
children, only slightly less than the achiened family size of 6.8, as estimat-
ed in the 1962 Census. These high fertility aspirations are reinforced by:
(a) high infant mortality rates; (b) alaost nonexistent knowledge and practice
of family planning; (c) a health delivery system which is deficient both in
th.l availability of staff and provision of services so critical to program
performance; and (d) traditional motives supporting the,desire for children.
Nevertheless, there is an interest in learning more about fmaily planning
and a recognition that a larga number of children is a financial burden.
Studies have shown that the larger tribes in Kenya are more favorably dis-
posed towards family planning and that attitudes are influenced by education,
shortages of land, expenses incurred in providing for children, and exposure
to information about family planning. Moreover, although abortions are legal-
ly performed only on strictly medical grounds, there is a high number of
admissions to various hiospitals for completion of abortion, and abortion is
thought by medical and sociological experts to be widespread in the rural
areas. These illegal abortions, plus the evidence that attitudes are changing,
suggest that families want to limit and regulata their family sizes.
J., Foreign Assistance
3.21      The National Family Planning Program has in the past drawn support
from cight international donor agencies. In 1969/70 total annual expenditures
were around US$ 1 million and the GOK was bearing US$ 28,000 of the costs of



-9-
the program (Annex 9).  This figure, however, does not reflec: the usz:zze
value of the use of GOK facilities, personnel and premises. The eaphasiz o_
the Five-Year Family Planning Program is on the utilization of local persounel,
the coordination of previously uncoordinated donor inputs, and the increased
contribution of the G0K so that at the end of the Five-Year Plan period the
GOK will be fully financing the recurrent costs.
IV.  THE FY 1975-79 FIVE-YEAR FAMILY PLANNIM  PRGOGRAM
4.01      The GOK has prepared in close consultation with the Association,
a Five-Year Family Planning Program, FY 1975-79, which is intended to al2eviate
the above constraints and provide realistically achievable Program targets.
The Program has the following major features:
A. Objectives and Targets
4.02      The expanded Family Planning Program, which will be administered as
an integral part of Kenya's maternal and child health (MNCH) activities, is
intended to serve the dual functions of significantly reducing the rate of
population growth while enhancing the health and welfare of all Kenyans,
particularly mothers and childrman. Towards this end, the Plan specifies
several health and demographic targets. The health targets which are
described in greater detail in the Health Development Plan, 1974-78, are to
be achieved through the expansion of facilities for improved training and
better deployment of manpower, reconstruction and expansion of the rural
facilities network, and a systematic attack on those diseases which will be
most responsive to the efforts of rural health services. The Family Planning
Program will facilitate the achievement of these objectives through its pro-
gram of construction of eight community nurse (CN) training schools to in-
crease the number of CNs available for rural health services. The Family
Planning Program aims at recruiting some 640,000 new acceptors over the Five
year Plan period, thereby helping avert some 150,000 births and reducing the
rate of population increase from around 3.3% in 1974 to 3.0% in 1979. Family
Planning and MSX services will be extended and avilable on a daily basis
throughout Kenya.
4.03      In functional terms, the Five-Year Fa2ily Planning Program will:
(a) provide a highly visible and well-supported institutional infrastructure
for administering an expanded family planning/maternal and child health
(FP/MCH) program; (b) improve the quality of FP/}iCf services in those parts
of the country where family planning practices have already gained some
acceptance, while gradually extending services to the rest of the country;
(c) considerably expand family planning information and education activities;
(d) provide specialized training for all cadres directly involved in dispensing
family planning services, motivating new acceptors and continuing users, and



-10 _
contacting the family umit in their development activities; (e) establish an
o-going evaluation and research program to  raanre the impact of the program;
aid (f) provide the necessary technical advisory and. fellowship support and
essential transportation for persmn  involved. in family- -plam±n   w
1 Strategy
4.04      The major constraint on.expansion of the Family Planning Progran
is the acute shortage of trained paramedical manpower at the field level to
provide preventive health and family planing serv.ices. This constrain;
affects tli frequency and qualit-y of family. planning/maternal. and. child
health (FP/MICH) services.  The Program, therefore., focuses on reducing the
shortage of those personnel ordinarily, involved in dispensing FP/M.C services
-the EN/CN -   and on family planning training of motivational field worker
and naramedical personnel. The expanded Family Planning Program will
strenathen the rural health deliveryt systan and increase the training capa-it-
ies o, nurse training schools. while laying the foundation for the provision
of family planning services at all health delivery points throughout Keaya..
It will also help increase the demand for sarvic   and. establish a. system
for constant monitoring' of proVuaw progresw..
C. Alleviation of Maswex Contraint
4.05      The Family Planning Program provide  ftor the conatruction. of eight-
C2 training schools to provide aa increase in the nmrse training capacity of
750 places by the end of 1976.  Thls. additional training output will enable.
the health services to achieve a balin-e -between the supply and demand for
nurses thus maintaining the pres et hosptaIL beds to, population ratio, and 
represents a critical element izi achieving the MDE's EX/CN requirements for
the implementation of the 10 year Rural Health Master Plan (Annex 10).
Since there is about a five year time lag from start of construction to the
first output of EN/Cis, the expanaion of FP/MCH services depends on the
availability of trained manpower during the Plan period. An estimate of the
training capacity of existing nurse training schools allowing for losses
of staff, etc., indicates there will be a net addition of approximately
1,030 nurses over the Five-Year Plan period. This number is greater than the
estimated minimum requirement of some 700 EN/CNa; however, it is below the
target figure of 1300 nurses determined by the MDE (para- 3.12).  Four hundred
of these 700 nurses will specialize in providing daily FP/MCH services -
approximately 65 of them will be assigned to the hospital sector and 335 to
the rural hlealth sector. Agreement was reached during negotiations that
the COK will employ the number of adequately trained nurses sufficiett to
implement the Progrm.



- - 11 -
D. Trainina
4.06      The long-term goal of the training program is to reach and educate
in fanily planning all levels of health personnel and those other workers
(e.g., in extension services run by various ministries and in the private
sector) who have cor..act with the rural population. W4hile this overall goal
-il! 5radually be met through the normal insticuzional training chanr.els,
there are  ,wo major constraints which affect the short-term requirements of
zhe rive-Year Program: (a) the shortage of nursing persornel and qualified
.-i w  workers to provide the necessary services, ar.d (b) the need for teaching
personnel to provide technical stnpport for the expansion of the training
capacities of the nurse training schools.  These constraints are to be
alleviated by the development of suitable family planning training courses
iuring the first three years of the Plan period, the training of additional
nursing tutors to improve the teacher/student ratio, and the expansion of
physical facilities for training. In addition, the supervisory personnel
involved in overseeing the EN/CMs, as well as the Family ?lannJng Field
Workers (FPFWs) and the senior staff at the National Family Welfare Center
(NNFC) will, also require family planning training.
4.07      The short-term goal of the training program is to provide specialized
family planning training for those persons which will be immediately involved
in dispensing family nlanning services and motivating new acceptors and
continuing users. Until the NFWC, eight CN training schools and 30 rural
liealth centers are constructed, family planning training will be undertaken
in rented facilities and existing nurse training schools and rural health
centers/subcenters. The following cadres of personnel will be given specialized
family planning training over the Five-Year Plan period:  400 E/CNs; 46
registered public health nurses slated to be provincial and district nurse
trainer/supervisors; 55 tutors; the doctors, medical assistants and registered
nurses directlv involved in supervising and administering FP/MCH services; the
staff of the four functional divisions at the NFWC; aO0 FPFWs; 46 Family
Planning Field Officers; 17 EN/CNs and FPFWs to staff the mobile teams; com-
munity leaders, extension officers; and leadership groups. Refresher courses
at regular intervals are also planned for all the above personnel. Agreement
was reached during negotiations that the details of the structure and content
of tlhe different theoretical and practical courses for the various categories
o.f th.e staff above mentioned will be prepared by June 30,, 1975 in consultation
wita the Association.
4.03     All of t'le above cadres of personnel except the district and division
LeveL .ield workers, etc., will receive specialized clinical and motivational
inscructio.: in fami:y planning at the NFWC.  The EN/CNs will, however, prior
co the.r intensive trainina at the MNFC, receive theoretical family planning
cli'ical instruction at the CN trAiniiig schools and practical clinical expe-
rience at the rural heal.h centers which will be constructed as health
facilities near the nurse training sclools. This combination of theoretical
and practical experience followed by more specialized instruction in population
dynamics at the NFWC should enable the i..N/CN personnel providing daily FP/MCa



- 12 -
se _zes zo carry out their clinical and motivational responsibilities.  At
:he 4nd of the Plan period, as the shortage of trained personnel and. the
:ra._ag load at the NFWC subside, those paramedical personnel which hwve not
rece ved family planning training will be given an intensive course at the NPWC.
_+.09     To improve the unsatisfactory teacher/student ratio at the various
nurse training schools which ranges from 1:50 to 1:90, some 55 additional
tutors will -require training over the first three years of the Plan period.
Twenty two cutors will be trained in 1973/74. if the MOE trains an additional
32 tutors, the improved tutor/student ratio of 3:100 can be achieved by the
rime th.e new nurse training schools are ready for their first student intakes.
It was agreed during negotiations that details of the staffing plan for all
teaching positions in the existing or to be constructed nurse training schools
will be prepared by December 31, 1974 in consultation with the Association and
an adequata supply of tutors trained by December 31, 1976.
4.10      In addition, there is a neeid for a manpower accounting system to
more precisely determine the quantity of manpower to be produced annually
jy basic training and the proportion of manpower,required for rural health
serv:ces and the hospital sector.  Presently, it is difficult to assess how
many i-iedical assistants, EN/CNs, etc., occupy positions in health facilities
because the manpower accounting system now in effect is oriented towards
administrative rather than health planning requirements. As part of its
functions the manpower planning system should also keep up-to-date records
of the numbers and location of paramedical personnel in the private sector.
Furthermore, annual registration of all nurses should be tmcouraged and the
employment situation recorded once a year (Anmex 11). As agreed during
negotiations unemployed qualified nurses would throughout the Five-Year Plan
period be encouraged to seek employment to help alleviate the iJmediate man-
power constraint (see para. 4.05). It was also agreed that the MOE will
undertake to develop, no later than June 30, 1975, in consultation with the
Association, a detailed rural health service manpower planning system and a
personnel record-keeping system tc provide a sound basis for the allocation
of medical and paramedical personnel required for rural health services.
E. Field Services
-'.11    .n order to achieve che program targets, the MIOH plans to provide
-iaiy FPPlC-.1 services at some 400 existing service points, and pert-time
fami2v ola.maing services at some 190 additional existing service points through
17 mobile zeams which will provide FP/NCE services at clinics not staffed
with clinical personnel. During the first. three years of the Plan period, the
MU/CNs offering daily services will be assigned to some 65 hospitals, 185
rural hicalth centers and subcenters and 50 dispensaries.  Each of the service
woints providing daily services will be staffed with a team consisting of one
.N/CN for FP/MCTi clinical work, two family planning field workers (PPFWs) for
motivating acceptors and continuing users and part-time clerical staff. The 800



- - 13 -
TP^Fs will seek to generate ?ublic support for the program ard its a- s ay
organizing a system of follow-up and reassurance visit3, coaducting group
meetings, persuading non-acceptors, and distributing literature and non-
medical contraceptives.  Male as well as female FPFrs will be recruited and
assigned to areas they know and are known in.  Tne mobile teams 'Will be
staffed by one EN/CN, one. FPFW and one driver. These teams, as well as 7
IPPF mobile teams, will visit on the average 8 different part-time service
points at least twice a month. They will instruct the health personnel at
the part-time service points on procedures for dealing with clients developing
complications and establish a time schedule for referra.
4.12      The FPFWs and the EN/CNs will be supervised by diat6ict and
provincial level field officers (Chart 7946). 1/ Some 46 nurse traner/
supervisors will oversee the delivery of FP/1MC services and the family
planning field officers will be responsible for in-service training of FPFWs,
liaising with other cadres and community leaders, recruiting new personnel,
and developing local communication materials. During negotiations the GOK
agreed to submit by June 30, 1975 a staffing plan covering the next three-year
period, detailing the staffing of proviacial and district level supervisory
offices and outlining the staffing of field service points.
F. support Se.rvices
4.13      The field service network will be supported by supervisory support
services to be located at the National Family Welfare Center (NFWC) to be
constructed in the Kenyatta hospital complex in Nairobi.  The NFWC will provide
centralized facilities for training, planning, evaluating and administering
the expanded FP/M'CH progran. It will be headed by a medical Program Director
accountable to the Director of Medical Services in the MOR, who is in charge
of all FP/MCH activities.  The Program Director will be assisted by a Deputy
Director primarily responsible for administration.  During negotiations it
was agreed the GOK would consult with the Association on the recommendation
for the appointments of the Program Director and his Deputy who are to be
appointed within 90 days after credit effectiveness.  The NFWC will avail itself
of She field administrative structure of the MCH in the implementation of the
Family Planning Progran. To that end it will also cooperate closely with the
M1inistries of Education, Information and Broadcasting, Cooperatives and Social
Services, and with the FPAK regarding its training and information and education
activities, and with the tinistry of Finance and Planning, the Office of the
Registrar-Cenoral and the University of nairobi in undertaking its evaluation
and research program. It was agreed during negotiations that the MOH would
acquire rented premises for the NFWC within 90 days after credit effectiveness.
1/   Excluding the North Eastern Province, there are some six provinces and
40 districts which wili require supervision by the end of the Plan
period.



- 14 -
4. ,'4    The NFWC will have four functional divisions:  (a) information and
education; (b) training; (c) evaluation and research; and (d) clinical services.
The d:.vision heads will be responsible for: (a) designing and coordinating
various family planning information and educatLon activities; (b) a4ministering
and planning the family planning training of clinical, motivational aud para-
medical personnel trained at the NFWC; (c) collecting and analyzing family
planning service statistics and undertaking a baseline survey on continuation
rates, etc; and, (d) planning, supervising and administering clinical services.
During negotiations the GOK gave its assurance that it would appoint within
90 days after credit effectiveness four suitably qualified chief officers to
head up the four functional divisions of the NFWC.
4.15      The NFWC will be given poticy guidance and support by an Inter-
'inisterial Wbrking (bmmittee composed of representatives from various minis-
tries and organizations. The working committee will be chaired by the Per-
manent Secretary of the MOH and would convene at least once every three months.
Adviscry working committees specializing in information, education and training,
evaluation and research, and medical matters will provide technical support and
guidance (Chart 7945). It was agreed during negotiations that a suitably con-
stituted Inter-Ministerial Wbrking ounmittee will.be established as a condi-
tion of credit effectiveness.
G. Information and Education
4.16      The principal objective of the information and education program is
to seek to introduce a change in attitudes and behavior so that people can
readily accept family planning, methods. In stimulating the d-mnd for family
planning services, priority emphasis will be placed on person-to-person educa-
tion, supported by an enlarged mass communications effort. Over the Five-Year
Plan period, some 800 FPFWs will be employed to generate community acceptance
and support, conduct follow-up and reassurance visits, hold group meetings
and liaise with extension workers who have contact withfthe family unit.
4.17      The production of family planning materials will be undertaken by
the Health Education Unit (EEU) with the assistance of coinrcial resources
during the early years of the program. The HEU expects to devote some 50% of
its production capacity to the production of prsteste& family planning informa-
tion and education materials.
H. Evaluation and Research
4.18      one of the most important objectives of the expanded Family Planning
Program will be to establish an Evaluation and Research Division at the N7WC.
T7his division will monitor program progress through the establishment of a
management-information system and recommend more effective approaches to: (a)



- 15 -
improve the provision of services and increase tne demanc -for such services,
(b) collect and analyze service statistics: (c) pretest family planning mater-
ials; and (d) conduct specialized studies (surveys, etc.). A Population
Studies and Research Center to be established at the University of Nairobi
and housed in temporary rented oremises will undertake research and training
of Kenvans on the sroader implications and solutions to the population problem
(Annex 12). Both z..e Evaluation and Research Division and the Ce3ter will be
rurnished with computational equipment, library material3, vehicles and
advisers.
I. Transportation
4.19      One of the major const:aints facing an expanded family planning
program is the provision of transport for personnel involved in family planning
work. In addition to the existing 22 vehicles which will become part of the
transport pool, some 190 vehicles are required during the Five-Year Plan perioc
In particular, transport is required for the:. CI training schools (18), rural
:ealth centers (30), mobile teams (17), HEU (28), the nurse trainer/supervisors
(40), the Family Planning Field Officers (46), the Population Studies and
?Research Center (3), and the NFWC (B).
J. Technical Assistance
4.20      During the Plan period, considerable attention will be paid to
strengthening the capabilities of qualified uon-medical personnel through the
assignment of short-term advisory and fellowship support in the areas of
program management, information and education, training and evaluation and
research. Thirteen short-term consultant-advisers and 28 fellowships have
aeen included as part of the Progri;m. This advisory(and fellowship support
will last .or three years and will have as its principal objective the
strengthening and further development of local capabilities so that Kenyans
will be able to implement effectively the population Program at the end of
chis period.
K.  Recurrent Cost Implications of the Family Planning Plan
.4.21     Z;`e high levels of planned investment in health and family planning
sorvices w4ill lave significant recurrent cost implications.  Recurrent costs
i6n tlhe lieaitlt budget are estimated to increase from US$27.4 million in 1974
to US$42.7 million in 1978. This will mean an annual growth averaging about
11.3% per year, while the annual recurrent cost increases for the total



-16-
rec-urrent budget is estimated at 10.72. External assistance for the Family
?lanning Program will be provided on a declining basis.through 1978. At .
that ti:me the Government has committed itself to finance the recurrent costs
of :;.e Program estimated at US$4.8 million per asnum. This expenditure is
reasonable given the high priority the 'TH assigns to expnsion of rural
health services and FP/MCU activities.
V.  HE PROJECT
A. Program Description
5.01      The population Program will be financed by several donor agencies
and covers the entire Five-Year Plan period, FY1975-79. It will; (a) lay the
foundation for the long-term provision of daily FP/'MCH services at all Govern-
ment health facilities in Kenya by expanding the basic training capacities of
ENI/CN training schools (some 750 additional places); (b) help to increase the
demand for family planning services through the employment of some 800 Family
Planning Field Workers (FPFWS--to motivite new acceptors and continuing usets)
while establishing a system for constant monitoring of program progress; (c)
strengthen the rural health system infrastructure; and, (d) develop an
appropriate national institution for planning, implementing and evaluating
an effective population program vtithin a family welfare context. By the ead
of the Five-Year Plan period, daily FP/UCR services will be provided at some
400 existing service points, thereby greatly expanding the availability and
quality of FP/MCH services.
5.02      The specific comiponents of the program include: (a) the construction
and equipping of eight community nurse (CR) training schools, 30 rural health
centers (see ',ap 10596), a National Family Welfare-Center (NFWC), family
planning clinic and Health Education Unit (7EU); (b) the; provision of around
190 vehicles and general, special and clinical equipment; (c) the provision
of tehnical assistance - 360 man months for specialized advisory staff and
23 fellowships for nationals' training abroad, and evaluation and research
studies; and (d) the provision of operating costs for rental of short-terp
facilities, contraceptive supplies, salaries and allowances and educational
materials.
B.  Summary of Program Costs
5.03      The family planning program will require sizeable increases in
resources applied in capital and recurrent costs and in technical assistaunce
inputs. The total, cost is estimated at US$38.8 million with a foreign exchange
component of USS9.7 million and local costs of US$29.1 million. The main
component costs over the five-year investment period are summrized in the
following table (see Annex 13 for a detailed breakdown);



-   17-
KSh millions                   US$ mii-na
Items                 Local  Foreign   Total        Local 6   Foei=   Tozal
Capital Costs
Civil Works          62.8      26.2    89.0         9.1         3.8    12.9
Office & Special
Equipment             -        5.5     5.5          -           .8       .8
Vehicles               -        4.9     4.9          -           .7       .7
Subtotal    62.8      T76      99.4         9.1         5.3    14.4  37.1
Technical Assistance
Advisers & Consul-
tants                1.4       5.5     6.9          .2          .8      1.0
Studies               2.7        .7     3.4          .4          .1       .5
Fellowships            -        1.4      1.4         -           .2       .2
Subtotal      4.1      7.6    11.7                      1.1     1.7   4.4
Other Operating Cost
NWFC                 20.0        -     20.0         2.9          -       2.9
Supervisory Office  15.2         -     15.2         2.2          -       2.2
Service Points       49.0        -     49.0         7.1          -       7.1
Contraceptive Sup-
plies                 -        8.3     8.3          -          1.2      1.2
Training Programs    6.9         -      6.9         1.0          -       1.0
Information & Edu-
cation               6.9        -      6.9         1.0          -       1.0
Population Studies
and Research Center  4.8         -      4.8          .7          -        .7
Subtotal   102.8       8.i   111.1         14.9         1.2    16.1  41.5
Contingencies
Civil Works          23.5       9.6    33.1         3.4         1.4      4.8
Non-construction      7.6       4.8    12.4         1.1          .7      1.8
Subtotal    31.1      14.4    45.5        75            2.1     6.6  17.0
TOTAL      200.8      66.9   267.7         29.1         9.7    38.8 100.0
5.04      Capital costs including civil works, the purchase of vehicles,
equipment and furniture account for some 37% of total Program costs.  Of the
remaining costs, 4.4% willlprovide for technical assistance, and 42% for
recurrent costs for salaries, the preparation of population information and
education materials, the training of paramedical, field worker and non-medical
personnel, the undertaking of evaluation and research studies, and the purchase
of contraceptive supplies. The single largest recurrent item will be the 18.3%
of total costs required to finance the salaries of the paramedical and field
educator personnel who will staff the 400 service points and 17 mobile teams.



- 18 -
C. Project Description
5.05      The proposed IDA credit, which would be the Association's first for
a population project in Africa south of the Sahara, will assist in finar cing
primarily the capital cost components of the Program, with an important
technical assistance conzribution. The project will increase the number of
EN/CNs ava ilable to provide daily FP/MCH services, provide a NFWC to serve
as the focus for FP/ISC  services, and increase the production of family plan-
ning and health education information and education materials. It will also
provide for a Program Adviser who will give managerial advice on program
imil.3mentation and a nursing activities study and evaluation and research
study which will provide information relevant to the development of a second
phase population project. The proposed IDA-financed components thus comprise
the following elements:
a.   The construction and equipping of: five C'T training schools and
27 rural health centers (Annex 14), the National Family Welfare
Center (NFWC) one family planning clinic, and the Health Educa-
ti )n Unit (HEU) (Annex 15). These CN training schools will
provide places for 700 students (500 net addition and 200 replace-
ment), a large nuimber of which will take the lead in providing
daily FP/MCH services. Each CN training school will be associated
with a provincial or district hospital and will have attached
to it two or three satellite rural health centers. These rural
health centers will provide a two-month period of clinical field
experience in FP/MCH work. The NFWC will be the national focus
of family planning activity, and will contain the four functional
divisions, namely, training, information and education, evalua-
tion and research and clinical services. It will be suppotted by:
the family planning clinic for practical clinical experience;
the HEU which will design and produce audiovisual and printed
family planning and health education material; and a dormitory
accommodating 100 participants in the training courses.
b.   The nrovision of 87 vehicles (Annex 16) for the NFWC (8), lIEU
(28), Population Studies and Research Center (3), rural health
centers (30) and the CN training schools (18). These vehicles
will be *sed to transport trainees and supervisory personnel in
the field, to enable the Population Studies and Research Center
to undertake its research program in the rural areas, and to
transport health education and family planning materials to the
rural areas.
c.   The Program Adviser:  to provide advice on program implementation
to the Program Director and Deputy Director of the NPWC. The 36
man-month adviser will be a senior man with considerable experience
in management of family planning programs. During negotiations it
was agreed that the Program Adviser would be appointed in consulta-
tion with the Association within 90 days after credit effectiveness.



- 19 -
d.   A nursing activities study (12 Lmn-months) ro develop a stanzar-
staffing pattern for the most efficient use of nersonnel (Annex .i,.
e.   An evaluation and research study of existing behavior patterns
and the factors which influence decisions on family size. The
study will be developed by the ITFWC in conjunction with the
Population Studies and Research Center. The study will help to
provide first hand information to assist the COK in formulatirig
future family planning programs and population policies (Annex 18).
It was agreed during negotiations the GOK would consult with the
Association in developing this study and furnish the results of
evaluation and research studies to the undertaken by the Family
Planning Program.
A schedule of accommodation for the construction components is listed in
Annex 19.
5.06      The total cost of the project for civil works, vehicles, office
equinment, technical assistance and cortingencies amounts to US$15.4 million.
Of this amount, US$5.0 million is foreign exchange or about 30% of total
project costs. Foreign exchange represents roughly 30% of construction costs,
20%. of furniture and equipment, 75% of the cost of advisors and 100% of the
cost of vehicles. The proposed IDA credit will cover some 80% of the total
project costs estimated at US$12.0 million, US$5.0 million of which is foreign
exchange and US$7.0 million local costs. The estimated capital costs and
foreign exchange component of the IDA-assisted component are summarized below:
YSh (in millions)                 US$ (in millions)
Local     Foreign      Total      Local      Foreign      Total
A. Site
Development      2.8          1.3        4.1        .4           .2         .6
B.  Construction    39.3          17.3        56.6      5.7          2.5        8.2
C.  Fees and
Supervision      6.9           -         6.9       1.0           -         1.0
D.  Furniture and
Equipment        2.7          1.4        4.1        .5           .1         .6
E.  Vehicles           -           3.4         3.4       -            .5         .5
V.  Teclmical
Assistance        .7          1.4        2.1        .1           .2         .3
C. Office
Equipment         -           1.4        1.4        -            .2         .2
il. Contingencies
a. Civil Works  18.6           8.3       26.9       2.7          1.2        3.9
b. Nou
Construction   -             .7        .7         -            .1         .1
Total     71.0         35.2      106.2       10.4          5.0      15.4
5.07      The construction estimates 1 ve been based on reports from quantity
surveyors (from both the Ministry of Works and the private sector) and on



- 20 -
recent ai'ards for similar building types. Allowances have been made for
recent and anticipated increases in cost of labor and bullding materials.
5.G8      Contingencies amount to 26% of total project costs -  22% for price
coatin-encies and 4% for physical contingencies. For civil works, price con-
tingencies, based on an estimated 8% cost increase per year for labor and
build.ng materials, amount to 32% of civil works cost; while physical contin-
-encics nmount to 6i of civil work costs.  For non-civil works, contingencies
amount 10% of non-civil works costs; they are based on a 10% physical and an
annual 52 nrice contingency (compounded an-ally) for office equipment and
vehicles.
5.09      A detailed breakdown by type of expenditure and functional category,
together with an implementation schedule is provided in Amnex 20.
D.   Implementation and Disbursemen.
Xdministration
5. 1      A Project Construction Unit (PCU) will be established in the HDD  to
assist in project implementation. This unit, which would be headed by a
Proiect Construction Director and would employ the services of an accountant,
procurement officer and architect. During negotiations it was agreed as a
condition of credit effectiveness that a Project Construction Director would
be appointed in consultation with the Association. Agreements were also
reached that the G0K would appoint within 90 days after effectiveness a
suitably qualified procurement officer, accountant and architect. The Poroject
Conscruction Unit Director will report to the Permanent Secretary of the MOE
who will act as cx-officio Project Coordinator. The Director will connunicate
direct'v with the IDA on technical matters, while the IDA will deal with the
Permanent Secretary on policy matters. The MDH (through the PCU) will employ
the services of the Ministry of Works (MOW) for the design and supervision
of civil works. Procurement will be undertaken by the PCU, which will be
responsible for maintaining unified accounts and authorizing expenditures.
5.12      The Program Director of the NFWC will report to the Director of
Medical Services and will be responsible for the operational aspects of the
'ive-Year Family Planning Program. He vill oversee the execution of the
progran, coordinate the software inputs, the hiring of personnel, etc.
Professional Serviccs
3.13      The MIW has a consultant health facility architect and his
recommetidations have been sought in connection with the planning of the rural
hea.ldt centers and the development of sites.  The PCU will use the services
of the IMO  for design of the 100-place CN training schools and the rural
..eilth centers, while architects from the private sector are being retained,
after consultation with the Association, for the 200-place CN training schools



--21-
and for the N.FWC and its supporting facilities. Resident clerks o: works
will be appointed to ensure effective day-to-day supervision of conscruction
and that specifications are being followed.  Both the 1101 arc.itect and the
:40W building inspectors will undertake customiry site inspections of work in
progress.
Sites
5.14      Tihe CN training schools will all be located -n the compounds of
existing hospitals which are owned by the Government. These locations will
ensure easy access to the hospital for clinical experience and training, and
site acquisition problems will not arise. Tne NFFVC will be located on the
camnus of the Kenyatta Medical Center and the Medical Training Center in
Nlairobi.  Sites have been orovisionally identified and approved.  With regard
to the rural health centers, town plans have been prepared for most of Kenya's
rural villages and market centers, in which development and future growth
has bean chlarted and land set aside for major purposes including the delivery
of health services. The MOH should obtain possession of these s±tes by the
prescribed legal formalities on a phased basis to allow construction to pro-
ceed according to the implementation schedule in Annex 20. Roughly one-third
of the sites have been. acquired. The remaining sites will be acquired over
the next year.  DurinS negotiations it was agreed the G0K wzould within 12
months after credit effectiveness acquire such land.
Procurement and Disbursement
5.15      Contracts for civil works and vehicles costing more than US$30,000
will be awarded on the basis of the Bank's guidelines for procurement and
international competitive bidding will be observed. Contractors will be
prequalified and notices of invitation will be inserted in national news-
papers and circulated to embassies of member countries represented in Kenya.
)omestic manufacturers will be accorded a margin of preference equal to the
existing rate of customs duty or 15% of the CIF costs of competing imports
whichever is the lower; and the new policy of a 7-1/2= preference for local
contractors will also be applied. Contracts for non-civil works, equipment
and furniture are unlikely to attract international attention because of the
small size of the bid packages, and will be obtained by competitive tendering
locally where a number of overseas suppliers are represented locally.
3.16      To avoid delaying execution of the project, the GOK has requested
the Association to finance retroactively expenditures as from October 1, 1973
for essential professional services for site surveying and for preliminary
architectural and engineering work which will have been incurred in accordance
with Bank guidelines. In view of the need to speed up the construction of
health training facilities and accelerate the output of paramedical personnel,
the renuest is reasonable and a provision of up to US$100,000 to cover such
costs is included in the Credit.



- 22 -
5.17      Disbursements will be fully documented and made against:  80% of
the total expenditures for all civil works contracts and equipment and
furniture procured locally; and 100% of foreign expenditures or 80% of local
expenditures of consulting services and of imported vehicles, specialized
equipment and furniture. Any funds remaining in the Credit Account upon
completion of the IDA financed component would be used, at the Association's
discretion, for the continuing development of the overall project. The
estimated schedule of disbursements is shown in Annex 20.
VI.  FINANCING OF THE PROGRAM
6.01      The project, which forms an important part of the Five-Year Family
Planning Program, will be financed entirely by the Association and the GOK.
For the rest of the Program costs, it is expected that the GOK will obtain
financing from at least seven other sources in an amount not less than
US$10.6 million. At the donor coordination meeting held by the Government
in October 1973, the various donors announced their support for the expanded
family planning program and tentatively committed themselves to the Program.
Annex 21 summarizes the likely size and phasing' of the donors' contributions
over the Five-Year Plan period.
Country (Agency)            Amount       Terms          Items Financed
US$ million
Denmark (DANIDA)                0.6         Grant    Nurse training school at
Eldoret and technical
assistance for nurse
tutor advisers
Federal Republic
of Germany                    0.9         Grant    Nurse training school at
Kakamega
Norway (NORAD)                  1.8         Grant    Three rural health centers
and recurrent costs.
Sweden (SIDA)                   5.4         Grant    Technical assistance for
training and information
and education; recurrent
costs; contraceptive sup-
plies; training programs;
and mass media program
costs.
United States (USAID)           0.7         Grant    Special equipment; technical
assistance for HEU and
fellowship support; and
some recurrent Costs.



- 23 -
Country (Agency)            Amount       Terms          Items Financed
US$ million
The U. Fund for Population       1.2        Grant    Office equipment; vehicles;
technical assistance for
the clinical services
and evaluation and
research divisions of       -
the TMWC; recurrent costs
for the first three years.
Sub-Total            10.6
IDA Credit                      12.0         Standard
IDA terms See paragraph 5.06
Expected future annual
comnitments by USAID and
?opulation Council
(US$.3 million)                1.9        Grant    (Continuation of grant
above)
Total Ixternal Financing        24.5
GOK                             14.3
TnTAL                38.8
b.UZ      SIDA and DANIDA have already signed agreements with GOK, NORAD,
t'e Federal Republic of Germany; USAID and UNFPA expect to negotiate
their grants by the end of this fiscal year. Since USAID operates on an
annual funding basis it can only commit itself for a year at a time
(US$0.7 million in FY75), but it is expected to contribute an additional
US$1.6 million over the ensuing four years. UNFPA's contribution of US$1.2
million towards the cost of the Program will form part 'of an "umbrella agree-
ment" of US$3.5 million, although UNFPA has not determined its activities
beyond FY 1977.
6.03      The contributions of all donors are based on cost estimates provided
in this report, except SIDA whose estimates are slightly higher (about $0.9
million). SIDA will await a decision on the application of surplus funds,
if any, until the end of the disbursement period. SIDA has however, indicated
that such funds could be used for the recurrent costs to be financed by Sweeden.
6.04      A somewhat distinctive feature of this Program is the number of
external .ageucics involved. While each of the agencies will be responsible
for supervision of their respective components, it is generally recognized
that the agencies will have to coordinate their supervision efforts to avoid a
succession of missions and an excessive burden on the implementing agency.



- 24 -
To facilitate coordination of donor supervision, the GOK intends to organize
annual briefing meetings to exchange information and consult about the
?rogrcss of the Program. Moreover, a critical path analysis of the important
actions to be undertaken over the Five-Yea:c Plan period is being prepared
Dv the Association and GOK to be issued as a separate set of working papers
(Annex 22).  Tlis analysis will provide a check list against which to assess
the progress.of the Program.
6.05      As the project objectives are closely linked with those of the
Program the Government agreed during the negotiations to carry out che over-
all Program and consult wTith the Association on any material change to it.
Satisfactory financ:ng arrangements for the entire Program are a condition of
credit effectiveness.
VII.  DE-OGRAPHIC AND ZOCIOECONCMIC A2XALYSIS OF PROGRAUI  -PACT
7.01      The Five-Year Family Planning Program will accelerate tie rate of
fertility decline. It is expected that with the Five-Year Program, the rate
of natural increase of the y(cnya population will decline from about 3.3% in
1974 to 3.0% in 1980, and evantually to 2.8Z by the year 2000 (Annex 23
Ch.art 7378). The total fertility rate is also expected to fall from 7.2 in
1975 to 4.7 in the vear 2000. 1/ Without the family planning program, the
rate of natural increase would remain at 3.3% through 1980 and decline to 3.1%
hy the year 2000.  The total fertility rate would fall less sharply from 7.3
in 1975 to 5.7 in 2000.
7.02      With the Five-Year Program, the Kenyan Population will continue to
grow from 13.2 million in 1975 to 27.4 million in the year 1999 or 114% over
the next 25 years (Chart 7879).  Without the program, the total population
would increase from 13.2 million in 1975 to 29.3 million in the year 1999,
an increase of nearly 16.5 million or 129% in 25 years-and the average annual
growth rate would be more than 3.3%. Similarly, the ciude birth rate with the
program will fall from 47 per thousand in 1975 to 35.3 in 1999, whereas with-
out the program, it will decline from 47 to 33.5, a difference of some .32
!)arcentage points.  As a consequence of these demographic effects, the project
will liave important socioeconomic benefits.  The Five-Year Family Planning
Program is expected to favorably alter the age structure of the Kenyan popula-
tion, thereby helping alleviate Kenya's economic burden and facilitating the
1/   It is assumed that the Age Specific Fertility Rate (ASFR) will remain
constant until 1974 and then decline by 15% between 1974 and 1980 and
35% between 1974 and 2000. Without the Program the ASFR would remain
constant until 1974 and decline by 18% of the 1974 level by 2000. In
botht cases, life expectancy is expected to increase for males and females
by 0.5 per years per year, rising from 47 in 1969 to 62.5 in the year
2000 for men and from 51 in 1969 to 66.5 in 2000 for women.  However,
if there is no change in fertility, the population will triple to 34
million by the year 2000.



- 25 -
attainment of her developmental goals (Chart 7330).  As a result of an effeccive
?opulation program, ner caoita income, will increase more rapidly than other-
wise, as will the resources available for health and other social services;
and, in the long run, unemployment will be reduced.  The above projections
reflect only the impact of the Population Program  up to 1980 and do not take
into account the effect of a further expansion in the family planning effort
after 1980 wqhich the Program will make possible. To the extent that such
efforts are vigorously pursued after 1980, the demographic goals and their
socioeconomic im?lications could be far more pronounced than reflected in the
11iove figures.  Van analysis of the continued high rate of population growth
and its consequences showing the impact on: (a) per capita income, (b) public
education and (c) unemployment Ls incluc.ed in Annex 23.
7.03      A decline in fertility as envisaged with the Five-Year Family
Planning Program will automatically result in an increase in per capita in-
come due to the smaller size of population given the rate of growth of output
in the short run. By 1985 and 1990 the increase in per capita income would be
greater than otherwise by 2.5% and 3.5%, resnectively. Ztoreover, since the
thrust of the Five-Year Program is to develop 400 service points, mostly in
the rural areas, the project will enable. FP/MCH services to be extended on a
daily basis to the rural noor, chereby concentrating financial resources
relatively more in rural areas and helping to alleviate some of the pronounced
income inequalities in Kenya.
7.04      An immediate dlemooraphic implication of the Five-Year Family
?lannin" Program is the difference the Program will make in the school age
?opulation. If the present rate of population growth were to continue, the
sclool age population would increase from 4.5 million in 1975 to 9.9 million
in the year 2000.  With the Family Plamning Program, the school age popula-
cion ijill rise to 8.9 million in the year 2000, 1 million less than with.out
the Program. With increased savings from educational expenditures, the
Government will eventually be in a better position to improve the quality
of education and to exnand educational facilities.
7.05      The difference in the potential male labor force with and without
che Family Planning Program will be significant in the long run but not so
direct ti the short run. By the vear 2000 the labor force without the
Family. Planning Program would rise to more than 10.7 million.  Therefore,
in the next fifteen to twenty years,  eic country would not only have to
create an adequate number of jobs to remove existing unemployment and under-
,!mplovment Jut also to create 3.4 million additional jobs - about the same
.S t1we total size of the labor force in 1970. With the Five-Year Family
Piannirg Progrmm, the labor force in the year 2000 will be reduced by about
300,000 nersons.
7.06      In addition,,the Five-Year Family Planning Program through its
expansion of the nurse training capacity and provision of daily FP/MCH
services will help the MOH in achieving its 1984 target of reducing the



- 26 -
projected number of annual cases of preventable diseases from 16 million to
around 11 million. This will be accomplished by reducing the projected
number of family health diseases bv 46%, communicable diseases by 26X,
environmental health diseases by 18X, malnutrition by 50% and upper respira-
tory tract infactions by 30%.
VIII.  AGREEIENTS REACHED AID RECOMEMATIONS
8.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the GOK on the
following principal points:
a.   The C0K will carry out the Project and the Program through
its 'Ministry of Health, and will consult with the Associa-
tion with reference to any material change to the PF'ogram
sufficiently in advance to enable the Association to ex-
change views thereon (para. 6.05);
;.   Suitably quaiified persons will be appointed in consulta-
tion with the Association to the positions of Director and
Deputy Director of the NFWC within 90 days after credit
effectiveness (para. 4.13); and that the chief officers of
the fDur functional divisions of the .SFWC and the procurement
officer, accountant and architect of the PCU will be
appointed within three months after credit effectiveness
(paras. 4.14 and 5.11);
C.   A suitable Program Adviser will be appointed in consulta-
tion with the Association within 90 days after credit
effectiveness (para. 5.05);
d.   The NFWC will furnish to the Association by June 30,
1975 a suitable staffing plan for the ensuing three-
year period, detailing the staffing of provincial and
district level supervisory offices and outlining the
staffing of field service points (para. 4.12);
e.   Details of the structure and content of the different
theoretical and practical courses for various categories
of personnel receiving family planning training (clixrical
personnel, FPFWs, NFWC staff, and non-medical staff)
including refresher course will be prepared in consul-
tation witli the Association by June 30, 1975 (para. 4.07);
f.  !k)tails of the staffing plan for all teaching positions
will be prepared by December 31, 1974 in consultation
with the Association (para. 4.09);



2 27 _
g.   The MOH will undertake no later than June 30, 1975 to
develop in consultation with the Association a detailed
rural health services manpower planning system together
with a personnel record-keeping system to provide a sound
basis for the allocation of paramedical and medical per-
sonnel for rural health services (para. 4.10);
h.   The GOK shall, throughout the Program, employ a sufficient
number of adequately trained nurses for carrying out che
Program (para. 4.05);
i.   The MORH wll have obtained possess;on of the sites for all
the rural health centers on a phased basis to allow for
project implementation to proceed according to schedule
(Annex 20). Acquisition of the last group of sites is
to occur no later than one year after credit effectiveness
(para. 5.14);
J.  The 111 will undertake no later than three months after
credit effectiveness to acquire temporary rented premises
for the administration and execution of the family plan-
ning program until the NFWC is constructad and ready for
occupancy (para. 4.13); and,
k.   The GOK will furnish all progress and final reports on
evaluation and research studies to be undertaken by the
Family Planning Program (para. 5.05).
3.02      As conditions of credit effectiveness:
a.   A suitably constituted Inter-Ministerial Working Comittee
will be established (para. 4.15);
b.   The Project Construction director will be appointed in
consultation with the Association (para. 5.11); and,
c.   Satisfactory financial arrangements will be worked out
for the Program (para. 6.05).
S.03      Subject to the assurances described above, the proposed project
is suitable for an IDA credit to the COK of US$12.0 million equivalent on
standard IDA terms.






Page i of 15
Keiiva
Population Growth and Demographic ?aramez_rs
1.        In 1897, the population of Kenya was estimated at 2.5 million.
This estimate did not include Western Kenya which was formed by the transfer
of the eastern province of Uganda to Kenya in 1902.  The censuses in 1921,
1926, and 1931 were incomplete because they only enumerated-tne European
populat.on and estimated the At.:ican population on the basis of the number of
taxpayers. Over the last 25 years, censuses have been i=.dertaken in 1948,
1962 and 1969.  In 1948 a full-scale enumeration was conducted by the newly
formed East African Statistical Department o. the High Comnission. Although
it is generally recognized that the 1948 census was underenumerated, the total
?opulation was estimated at 5.4 millior, with 5.25 million Africans and 154,846
non-Africans. By 1962 the total pooulation had grown to 8.6 million. This
census enumerated all races simultaneously and more extensive details were
obtained for the urban and non-African populations. The results of the 1969
census showed that Kenya had a total population of about 10.9 million per-
sons with an intercensal rate of natural increase of 3.3% per annum
(Table 1) one of the highest in the world (table 2).  In 1973 the popula-
tion was estimated'at 12.5 million.
2.        The high rate of population growth is expected to intensify the
current population problem which is characterized by:
a.   A very high density of population concentration on the arable
land. Kenya has a total area of 582,546 km'of which some
three-fifths is semi-arid or desert land and 13,396 km2is
water. Nearly 80% of the population lives on 17% of the land
which is considered suitable for cultivation 1/ (12% high
potential and 5% medium potential), while others raise
livestock in the drier non-cultivatable regions (422,000 1m2).
In 1969 nearly half of Kenya's population lived on some 6%
of the total land area and on 322 of the,cultivatable land2
in districts with densities of more than 50 persons per km
(Table 3). Assuming that the general fertility rate of 7.6
remains constant, in 1973 the same proportion of the popu-
lation is living on approximately the same land area at
densities ranging from 100 persons per km2 and above
(Table 4). Population distribution is determined by the
topographical and other natural conditions, especially the
distribution of rainfall upon which agricultural activities
depend. Kenya is geographically divided into three regions
of reliable rainfall where 90% of the population live: the Lake
./ 'High potentia!: Annual rainfall of 857.5 mm or more.
Medium potential: Annual rainfall of 735-857.5 mm.
Low potential: Annual rainfall of 612.5 mm or less.



AN NX 1
Page 2 of 15
Victoria basin, the Rift Valley and highlands, and the coastal
belt. Economic activities have also been restricted by these
natural factors and have contributed to the disparity of popu-
lation distribution and regional inequality of economic oppor-.
tunity.
b.   Economic regionalization has been the principal impetus of
internal migration. There are two main streams of ponulation
movement in Kenya: from more to less prosperous developing
rural parts of Kenya and from rural to urban areas.  Regional
migration is largely a product of the desire for land and
employment opportunities. Yyanza, Central Province, and Southern
Province, where densities are highest, were areas of net out-
migration; while Rift Valley and Coast Provinces, together
with Nairobi municipality have attracted migrants.  In addi-
tion, some 200,000 familites have been resettled on 34,000 plots
of Land on former large-scale European mixed farms mostly in
the Central, Rift Valley and Western Provinces. Migration frcm
rural areas tp urban centers is high (7% per annum), exacerbat-
ing the social problems in urban centers where emoloyment onpor-
tunities have not met expectations of migrants. In 1969: some
10% of the total population or 1.08 million persons, lived in
urban centers with 2,000 or more inhabitants (Table 5). This
represents a 60% increase over the numbers who resided in urban
centers in 1962. Nairobi and H4ombasa, the two main urban cen-
ters, account for 70% of the total urban population. The urban
population in 1973 is estimated to have reached 1.2 million
persons, or about 13% of the total population.
c.   High dependency burden. As may be observed in Table 6, the age
distribution of Kenya follows a pattern similar to that of all
less developed countries, where fertility has been steadily high
and morality is declining.  Between 1948 and 1969 there have not
been significant changes in the age structure. The proportion of
chilren under 15 years of age remains slightly under 50% and
the dependency ratio 1/ still hovers around one, representing
a heavv burden for the group in the productives ages.  This
high dependency ratio means that a large portion of Kenya's
scarce resources will have to be used to support the young such
that not enough remains for an adequate level of investment in
directly productive, job-creating activities. Moreover, the
high fertility rate of 7.6 children born alive to a woman who
survives to the age of 50 means that most individual families
1/   Population under 15 years plus 60 and over divided by population
15-59 years. In 1969 the dependency ratio was 116, i.e., there were
116 children aged 0-14 and persons 60 years and older per 100 persons
in the productive ages (15-59). The ratio is estimated at 114 in
1973.



ANEX 1
?age 3 of 15
who are at low levels of income find it diff$cult co improve
their living standards. These standards cannot, therefore, be
substantially raised so long as family size remains large.
d.   Rising level of unemployment. Estimates of the total size of
the labor force and of total unemployment in Kenya are not very
reliable and are not available over any continuous period. The
only continuous series of statisticaJ data on employment covers
those workers employed in the "modern sector" that is, in establish-
ments in the urban areas, on large-scale farms and other large
establishments in the rural areas and in the public sector.
In 1970, 644,500 persons were reported by their employers as
employed in the monetary sector (Table 7). The potential
labor force was estimated at 3.8 million. The potential
labor force is assumed to comprise 95% of the males and 45%
of the females aged 15-59. This modification of the usual
international assumption of 64 years as the upper age limit
is because of different conditions of life expectancy. Al-
though there are no accurate statistics available, it is
believed today that Kenya has a hard core of 250,000 tn-
employed. Under the 1970 Tripartite Agreement, by which
employers of 10 or more persons agreed to increase their
labor force by 10% and trade unions accepted wage restraint
during the twelve months of the Agreement, some 200,000
persons signed up as unemployed. Moreover, a considerable
nunber of unemployed could not get to registration centers
and therefore were not counted. Unemployment is serious
and growing.
Ethnic Composition
3.        According to the 1969 census, more than 98% of the Kenyan population
is of African origin with the non-African population consisting of 209,503
persons, or less than 2% of the total. Of the non-Africans, Asians account
for nearly two-thirds of the total with Europeans and Arabs forming the
remainder.
4.        The African population of Kenya comprises a large number of tribes
and subtribes, of which the principal groups are Bantu, Nilotic, Nilo-Hamitic
and Hamitic (Table 8)..  Of the 40 main tribes in Kenya, four-make up 58% of
the indigenous population:
Kikuyu (Bantu)        ............ 20%
Luo  (Nilotic) ............                 14%
Luhua (bantu) ....................  13%
Kamba (Bantu) ....................  11X



-                    ~~~~~~ANE  1
Page 4 of 15
Future Pooulation Growth
5.        The Kenyan population possesses a great potential for future growth.
This is not only because the current fertility level is high, but also be-
cause the family size norm accepted by couples is high. With further decline
in mortality imminent and with the Itigh family size persistent, the rate of
growth is likely to accelerate within the foreseeable future, unless some
effective means of regulating fertility are accepted.
Age of Marriage
6.        Of the 2.3 million women in the reproductive age group, 15-49,
approximately 1.67 million are married (Table 9). The average age at first
marriage according to the 1962 census was 25.7 years for African males and
19.5 years for females. The average age at first marriage is usually a
good indication of the age at which women start child bearing.
Literacv
7.        It was estimated in mid-1970 that about half of Kenya's population
is illiterate. Using UNESCO's criterion for literacy, however, which is the
ability to read and write a twelve-word sentence, the figure for illiteracy
may be as high as 85%. This high illiteracy rate is, however, counter-
balanced by the large numbers of primary and secondary pupils.
Education
8.        In 1970 the primary and secondary school-age population was esti-
mated to be 2.2 million and 1.1 million respectively. This constituted about
46% of the total population between the ages of 6 and 16. The capital and
recurrent expenditure including teacher training absorbed about 152 of
total GOK expenditures. 1/
9.        Several sets of population projections for Kenya are available
utilizing different assumed rates of fertility decline but usually only one
assumed mortality rate (Table 10). Even under the optimum conditions of a
fertility decline by 75% (Series D), the population will be over 24 million
bv the year 2000. On the assumption of no change in fertility, the popula-
tion will tripie to over 34 million by the year 2000. AAsuming a 50% fall
in fertility, a rate Kenya can possibly achieve by the year 2000, the popu-
lation will reach 15,877,000 in 1980 and socme 28 million people in 2000,
2.3 times as many people as there are presently.
1/   Kenya Statistical Digest, Vol. IX, No. 2, June 1971, p. 4.



l
Page 5 of 15
Table 1
Kenya: Total Pop~ulation and Ita Growth
19148,_1962 and 1969-Censu.ses
Numnber                           Index (1948 as 100)
Origin         1948       1962        1969         1948   1962    1969
African        5,251,120  8,365,942   10,733,202   100      159     209
Non-African      154,846    270,321      209,503   100      175     135
Asian          97,637    176,613      139,037   100     181    142
European       29,660     55,759       140,593   100    102      137
Arab           24,174     34,048       27,886   100     191      115
Othoe           3,325      3,901        1,987   100     117      60
Total          5,1405,966  8,636,263   10,942,705  100     160      202
Source: Statistical Abstract, 1971, Statistics Division, Ministry of
Finance and Planning, Republic of Kanya, p. 13.



-1u - .e 
-          (a. 4*L2L_3         12..)         16 U..7 3  -W   ISf  WA. af    La at                                               - *     A6 t        so          1 of      Lwsl   9.-11  21.4S
-*__ _      -,           -v                             2Sf    3611                       17Sf       no 7m  i                     f   1Sf          72of        1         L
o.  916_                         -f 20                                                                        49                      rf                       S(    it            f.      4
*_~~~~~~~~~~U   _"   IS                               J6-3                       to 40 "L-3a    S/                            P$ V      umovw    is. dV 
*D_ _X 1S,r                                  4.9 L1AS                      2 J       1 715u   s               16          6.          l          7.2  #   - *.a       11           27 n 
_.-to                           2.2LO        2                 .11           .         . 1'0      2.9         A.2         1.2         1.0.2.    L         Los 1       i.s         27        9
I.(...  09.Icw  ~.            179 3         11W            1I*9)t    tz             12.,        3MS          -           U           &. ,.    46 2 ,    in6.          2a.2.* 7 1.^  U2.
-=                      7~~~~*      is*025 3                       41        4o 1/        5. Sf      £           29          4*        LI.           .Se S1      5        it        *
~..vr   _  L1.M                 2:2"^_    3...                76~           2_. 1                29            12        92           4.      17C9          09         1.1          7i      *. 
_.  (.        7                                             ;                                                Li
rwF.v,,,A.rI4.8411/ O                                                                            t.3 _y                 *            *         7a         29          *
r r.  p 1 1*94"  19  17          U,              42.1           ttM/ 7/               77 1.2                 t            *3                   It41 4  41 IV           . J3
~ .g ,, b_iZ*_ ...........     L            21              I              14         9          12          23          34                     2         209         it          11t
t..241.  *Sb C tI  0,131                                                             O           A           4 n 1                                        *3 1
p..,,,,,, o i.41 -~            34 _         41 *  /                        1.25    11t.2 ,/      1.3S        91 t                   42 S/     26         271         9 .41/
'  .*?  P1.i                                               . 2
SiL.   .t.t  it"  "t..
_.IV                                      Nio       of                                   /       *t            41/           - Y7S             91          9
?221 9  .                                47 S/                                    7;          ; 9f        43Sf                    1 5,7                49.         74.'
...,91..0  9.4099sr            I .)         3.4                           24         2.1                      .4        23.          9.97      7.3         9          3.3
~ ^Iv£a ..d_lt..                4.9          4.8                          Il         21.          1.4        7t          46          10         17.                   4
N,       2.s1. r aI_n)
909 led .... 9  9402 bX /*910  (091 ZS
~~ret                ~     ~19    4*               1      2         2'    t 2          2t           2          7,t          2         4          3.6       11           29        2
...1 w.^.sla nds  .                 b     t7       1       '}-2.2    ('7S 11 I ¢        '    t ' 27 t  19 "  )1  t    3.4          5 '    4        7    ^ I.       11
2.0.9Z  2e 9el                                              3.7           3 2U  UI  UO                                  0.0 2_ 2_                         0.t  7 t  _                       1
'/ a. c "ln'-     we  l2
(99'1 _    9.1. 1-.9_. 19_.  1e,17    t             _       _ "
1/2g  3097.8 44e t0   9999** 49 944 (0*  A.'  t_1.I    Lw&.(9. 1971.   _~                                 _90   I1_.  _.  _~  Y7_1 0  _9 S. 29: hem _9 _994
1/ 79,eI.t G1 1.  
j.  1.4. 9444. .*_ Inaeinn9I09  s16*44*                  19wI71.
jf  *_-. 4'.1.  Ax 7o11_9. lI93.l9, 91909  gI 9.9 , 11611w  1971.
4,  519..    9999    Y .  119.



A iNX i
Page 7 of 15
"'able 3
Kenya: Population Density by District, 1969
High & Medium
Po tential
No. P2ople/                       Population        2Land Area       2Land Area
km               Districts   (O00)        %   km           %   km            %
300 +                   1          675     6.2    2,196    0.4    2,196        2.2
250-299                 -           -       -        -       -        -
200-249                 1          783     7.2    3,520    0.6    3,250        3.3
150-199                 5        1,922    17.6   10,976    1.9    9,605        9.7
100-149                 4        1,569    14.3   13,701    2.4   11,473    11.5
50-99                  9        2,822    25.8   46,951    8.2   30,020    30.2
25-49                  3          804     7.3   27,695    4.9    9,690        9.7
10-24                  3          587     5.4   45,092    7.9   15,570    15.7
5-9                   3          303     2.7   45,190    7.9   10,900    11.0
-4                  10          722     6.6  373,035   65.6    6,350        6.3
Total                  39       10.187    93.1  568.356   99.8   99,054    99.6
+ Nairobi
and                2          756     6.9       894    0.2       370     0.4
Mombasa
GRAND TOTAL            41       10.943   100.0  569.250  100.0   99,424   100.0
Source: Draft Development Plan, 1974-78.



ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 15
Table b4
teuysg Population Density By District. 1973
No. Eeople/                                                 High & Medium
km           No. Districts Population %    Land Area%   Pot. Land. Area J
300 +                1           6.2             0.14           2.2
250 - 299            1           7.2             o.6            3.3
200 - 2L9            3         12.0              1.2            6.0
150 - 199            2           5.4             0.7            3.6
100 - 149            5          19.2             3.3           15.4
50 -  99            8          21.4             7.4           26.4
25 - hg             3           7.3             4.9            9.7
Source: Dratt Developmnt Flan 19714-78.



ANNEX '.
Table 5                     Page 9 of 15
Kenya: Urban Pooulation, 1969
Popula-ion size       No. of Communities   Population   % of Total Population 1
'OO,OC0  +                    2               756,359            6.90g
20,000 - 100,000             2                79,582            0.73
10,000 -  20,000             7                90,682            0.83
5_,000 - 10,000            11                71,396            o.65
2,000 -   5,000            25                81,886            0.75
Total                        47             1,079,905           9.87%
V Total population in Kenya was 10,9942,705.
Sources  1969 Censue reporta.



AE1
PBge 10 of 15
Table 6
Kenya: Population by Age: 1948, 1962 and 19S9 Cean;uses
Age GrouD             19_8                  1962 1/           1969 2
Under 1 year           4.5                   2.9
1 - 5 years            19.0                 18.1
6 - 15 years          24.6                  27.1
16 - 45 years         143.2                IC .8
46 and over             8.7                 11.1
1/  Based on results of sample BiWv.
2/  Age groups for 1969 ae: 01, 15-49, 60. years.



A.NNEX 1
Page il of 15
Table 7
Kenyas Employment by_ Sector and Race. 1951-70
(0o0G)
_1961   1962    1963   1964   1965   1966   1967  1968  1969  1970
Agriculture and
Forestry
African .........  249.8  243.5  213.7  200.2  200.7  186.1  170.7  171.1 177.0 182.2
Asian...........  0.5     0.6    0.7      0.7    0.7      0.8     0.8   0.7    o.6   o.5
European  ......   1.6    1.4    1.3    1.2    1.1    1.2    1.2    1.2   1.1    1.0
Subtotal ...... 252.0  245.5  215.'  2C1.1  202.4  188.1  172.7 173.0  178.7 183.7
Private Industry and
African ......   134.1  133.2  127.1  154.0  153.8  157.5  175.1  174.8  179.0  181.7
Asian ......     25.0   23.5   26.3   27.5   28.2   29.8   28.5  27.>  23.4  22.8
European ......   11.7   10.6   10.7    9.8    9.4    9.6    9.1    8.8    8.5   8.3
Subtota .....  170.8  167.3  164.1  191.3  191.4  196.9  212.7  211.5  210.9  212.8
Public Service
African......... 145.9  147.2   141.3  168.2  173.3  184.5  198.3  208.8  226.0  236.8
Asian ...........  12.2   12.0    11.9    8.8    9.5   10.6       8.5    8.0   7.4    7.0
European........   8.9    7.8    6.3      4.9     5.4    5.3      5.3   5.u   4.2    4.2
Subtotal ....... 167.0  167.0  159.5  182.0  188.2  200.4  212.1  221.9  237.6  248.0
All imployment
ARrican .......... 529.8  523.9  i482.1  522.4  527.8  529.6  545.2  559.0  582.0  600.7
Asian .... ..   37.8   36.1   38.9   37.0   38.4   42.6   37.2  32.1  31.h   30.3
European .......  22.2   19A.B. 18.2   16.0  .15.9   13.2   15.1  15.3  13.8  13 .5
Subtotal..... 589.8  579.8  539.2  575.4  582.1  585.4  597.5  606.4  627.2  644.5
Source:  197  Statistical Abstract, p. 187.



AMTEX 1
Page 12 of 15
Table 8
Kenya: The African Po,ul-ation
Bantu Group:                    Kikuyu, Luhya, Kamba, Kisii,  !eru,
4jikenda, Embu, Taita, Taveta, Kuria,
Mbere, Tharaka, Riverine tribes, etc.
Nilotic Group:                  Luo
Hamitic Group:                  Somali, Boran, Rendille, Orza, etc.
Nilo-Hamitic Group:             Kipsigis, Nandi, Tugen, ?okot, Elgeyo,
Marakwet, Masai, Samburu, Turkana,
Teso, Niemps, Saboat, El Molo, etc.
The Nderobo of the Rift Valley Province
are rtXgarded as the earliest people in
Kenya. They could form a distinct Group
of their owa but considerable auo-wnt of
inter-marriage has occurred between thm
and the neighboring tribes.
Other Africans                  belong to the "mixed" group.  The best
example is the Wasvahili of the Coast.



TaS' S 9              ?age 13 of 15
Pofulaticn by Sex. Age and -arital Stat-is
Age      Total         Single        Married    Widowed    Divorced   Not
or Separated Stated
Tota    lo0,9h2,705    6,832,963    3,543,453    3L53165    149,786    71,338
-       2,104,482     2,094,949            -          -          -    9,553
-    S   1,799,913   1,792,158      _          _                      7,755
10-14    l,388,O051    1,367,051       1,09L.        450        685    7,771
:5-19    O1,105,508      882,311      201,429      1,837     11,243     8,688
20-24      882,809       393,036      453,00       5,838     22,934    8,o00
25-29      756,627       137,782      578,011      9,684     24,307    6,843
30-34      579s703        49,o80      491,808     2.4,557    19,176     5,082
35-39      5o8,201        30,976      437,572     19,360     16,088    4,205
40-49      728,173        34,269      611-,45     53,669     23,000    5,790
50-59      493,418        21,245      381,862     72,464     14s478     3,369
60-69      337,998        16,051      231,207     78,379     10,420    1,941
70+        257,822        144,055     145,024     88,927      7,455    2,361
mXle     5,482,381     3,744,998    i.,601,51J    42,602     55,427    37,835
-li    11,058,102     1,053,351            -          -          -    4,751
5-9       914k 703      910,657            -          -          -    4,046
10-14      716,911       709,820        2,742        192        229     3,938
15-19      559,844       535,140       18,970        336      1,056     4,342
20-24      431,540       309,857      112,062        867      4,444     4,310
25-29      347,679       111,575      223,855      1,314      7,300     3,635
30-34      279,338       37,702       228,718      22080      7,792     30o46
35-39      250,227       22,640       215,289      2,316      7,372     2,610
40-49      363,281       241,059      319,070      5,520    11,130      3,502
50-59      250,041       14,055       220,195      6,898      7,2127    1,766
,0-69      178,935       9,379       154,320      8,920      5,163     1,153
70J+       131,780        6,763       106,298     14,159      3,824       736
7emale  5,L60,324      3,087,965   1,9413934    302,563      949359    33,503
--     1,046,380     1,Ol,598            _          _          _       782
885,210       881,501            -          -          -     3,709
' t_-   671,140  657,23:   329,352        258        466 36833
545,664-      347,171      182,459      1,501     10o, 87    4,346
2c  4    451,269         83,179      340,939      4,971     18,490     3,690
408,948        26,207      354,156      8,370    17,007    3,208
)4_3   300,365         11,378      263,090    12,477      11,384     2,036
-$ 39     257,974          3,336      222,283     17,044      8 ,716    1,595
0-49      364,892         10,210      292,375    48,149      11,870    2,288
50-59     243,377          7.,190     161,667     65,566      7,351     1,603
60-69     159,063          6,672       76,887    69,459       5,257       788
70+       126,042          7,292        e% 726    74,768      3,631    1,625
Source: Kenya Pcpulation Census 1969, Vol ITT, p.73.



ANNEX 1
Page 14 of 15
Tab3e 10
A. Klenyat Projected Crude Birth Rates-, 1970-2000
(Brb  per1           ;,pjaj)
Series A    Series B    Series C    Series D
_-                        -
1970 o.................   50.0       50.0         50.0         £0.0
1975 .................   49.2    4     9.2        4.&9.2       49.2
1980. . ................  .9.0       45.2          4.o         l2.7
1985..................  15.5           1.0..      39.6         37.9
1990 ......4.2                       38.1.        35.6         32.8
1995 ..............    111.8         35.1         31.6         27.6
200..................  1111.6       32.2         27.3         21.6
B. Kenwas  ProJ.ctei Batas af PcvS1a£ Ca,th. 1970-200
Swriss I    Seri.. B-  Swi. C    Series D
1970 - 7;                3.58        3.58         3.58         3.58
1975 - 1)                3.65        3.143        3.32         3.27
1980 - 85                3.76        3.25         3.09         2.92
1985 - 90                3.82        3.02         2.7h         2.44
109C - 95                3.9C        2.78          .0          ;.97
2c. - 2000               3.98        2.56         2.X)S
Overall 1970-2000        3.78        3.10         2.86         2.60









Page 1 .8 4
ot.y.    P...ior.i Ci.lipt tto. of retroil CvqvonmvnC stc",n.c .           r. :.    r1  94f4965-.971/l973
;4t*,qvv                                                             19Lh        .12M16      1jj167    1967166          6IUcMM    169S        19'707      1571/7:   ( 97 2M
C,n.r:' Sor,&tce                                                                      UA           1          U7           2 2-f7                              i5Q      7    7  3; o 
of whioo
(Aestratst)                                                              (4.)        (3.8)        3.9)       (3.8)       (4.1)        (5.3)       (6.3)       (8.9)      (1.9)
11_ ed Order)                                                            (|0          84.1       (9.5)      (10.3)      (10.4)      (11.1.)     ;11.9)       (14.2)      (13.9)
(Detfe..)                                                                (2.9)       (3.9)       (5.1)       (3.8)        (5.3)       (34.)       (G.1)       (8.4)          9)
2               S:e"t, t.i.A                                                               Li           la I2                   L           &             a           . 6
of ottoh
i8omlo)                                                                  (1.3)       (1.8)       (1.9)       (2.0)        (2.4)       (2.9)       (3.7)       (4.3)        (5.1)
OVaxz  (erI. *)                                                                      (LA7 a.       .6)       a2.3)       a.1 .4)                  a1.n        (2.1)       (2.2)
3. SoecA SerotGo                                                              Jl2   y J               MA.         Adl                                               "A ; 3S6    ila 
of sitcft
(cd.os-)                                                                 (4.2)       (3.9)       (7.2)       (7.9)        (9.0)      (1..)       (25.9)      (31.9)      (37.0)
(01olt) )                                                                (3.0)       (3.8)       (3.8)       (4.3)        (4.7)       (6.1)       (7.3)       (9.3)        (7.9)
(Cooenry 0L_Dow      sW  NW .tle)                                        (8          (1.8)       (2.4)       (3.')       (2.0)        (3.21)      (.2)        (3.8)        (4.2)
4.   Eco..Lc Sgrytess                                                          7 t                      j4,        .           .2          t2          ILl          :            L
of -ot tch
(AsrirLculer, Mte tartm. Fo**Cn7}                                        (5.2i       (0.3)       (3.9)       (7.3)        (3-.n       (7.J)       (7.2)       (9.8       (10.4)
Co_r,e. cNW Idtotr7)                                                     (0.7        (0.7)       (0.8)       (3.1)        (4.2)       (2.9)        (..0)                   (2.0)
2.   rin-e.io ObtotiOtOe k   otz rl ya... l                                                                             11. 2                          ILL          L,L         I
of .0101
(PNuL,. Dlt ln.esot)                                                     (4-4)       (4-8)       (3.2)       (3.4)        (4.0)       (6.6)       (7.4)        (8.7)       (9,6)
(poatoas  w OratittI..)                                                 (3.9)        (3.)        (3.9)       (3.6)              (3      .)        (3.6)       (3.6)        (5.4)
(lrms. t. to total Aochow1aXs)                                          .LR         A     ,      a.11    o.Ln              L          O.          .LA         .D          4
TOSKL                                                         56.9        60.7        64.8        70.1         7).2        87.1       100.8       11.3/    137.7
.1/  £Ljdos pblite debt   akt>a.g   iA *h ve6ae1aes.
_i   oolod.. N-nal1e-bl1  wpedime ot *_  . 5 odlSoc
AUmSo  namel Amid ctL



2"    2 at 
;-~                                                      1964J5    U65/ff    U66G7   1967/6a    196/49    1 96,70               1 "17      .9n/72    12WZZi/
^4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~61                                     (6.3)                  (30)        (3 ).5)   O.4  (                   (7.5} )
-_  _ R-                                                    ( a4-       (V462      (1."7       (2.0)       (LS          =7)       (U-0        0L2-S       aL)
.>                                                            (.%I)       (")        (7.5>       (0.3)       (7.a)       (6.n       (6-1)       (5.1)       (ss3
(se"                                                            (23         1X0)        Mg_)       (2.9)       0.2)        03.3)      (3.7)-      03.3)       CX')
(c*  kns)                             an(7_0}  a.05)   tl.3)-                                      (I.    S L)             (t.S)       (1.3)      (1.9) tu       6)
5a::41 Sorwcm#                                                  92
(hi|h  IA)                                                     aoJl 0          7t14   tSt.4       tL-1        t12.0"      tULJ.Z      (23.8)     ( }         t26.S}
(HLth)                                                          0.-3)       .S}9        MD3        (*.I)       (6-3)       (70,        ((7.0)                 (.7).
(C,.Mmtc  D~L_mc  _" O-          a                              (3.1)       a.ox)       o.z)       a.X)        (3.4)       (3.7).    (Ot)  -   0.2)           (3.1)
4.mmneic SerUs                                                          .i6                                                              II          i
(Adricot. W Voteray  POSOY                                      (2          & (7)       (}        (7L1}       (Lt.J)       (9.0)       (7.Sl      C3)         (7.6)
(ca"rcs _0  ldcry)                        ,                     a'2)'       (L,        (.2           X          5.}        (J)        (.7)                    (I1S)
5.F;-Amcial ObLzti            at Qthgs2                                                    ZZ           d         -W         n
(pubPJ,c D -c it l stt)                                         (7.7)       t7.g1      (11.0}      (7)         (8.0)       (7.6)      (T./|}      (6J          7.0)
(P"st       w cr euLei_)                                        (G. 9)      (6.3)      (6.0)        ML.0       O.          ("jX'       3.1)       (3.0)       C3.93
(Tlr"ssirs to  11a  Amebc_} ,a                                  (3.5)  O.-6)           (X4-3    O     6)       (7.4)  O.53)           (0.3)       (0.6}.      (0.5)
Tr7                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1011.0  100.0  1006   I00.0       100.0      100.0-      W*.Q        IC0.0.     W4.0
Tbi.   L. ~ ~    ~



?&A. 3 of 4
Table  3                             1
Cce                                             U64~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9/65    1965/66    1966/67    1967/68  196S/59    tff9170  197C/71
C_       urviet0 C.6    0                                                           _7  .7     A           2.1         1S           2-4         ;.6          4.8
tt _luft)                                                           (0.4)        (0.3)       (0.3)       (0.5)        (0.5)       (1.1)        (1.6)       (1.7)
(TLoc _    0_ ew)                                                   (0.1)        (0.3)       (0.7)        (1.3)       (1.1)        (1.3)       (2.0)        (3.0)
cDet_}e                                                             ( . )        (0.0)       (0.1)        (0.2)       (0.2)        (- )        ( - )        (0.1)
2.   CnMtt   SoCyic..                                                      1           Li                       5 9                6       .96       IM          2.
Of which
(ic.)                  *                                            (1.6)        (3.4)       (4.4)        (5.2)       (6.5)        (9.3)      (14.3)      (18.9)
Cwatw  wormF)                                                       (0.2)        (0.3)       (O.9)        (0.2)       (0.4)        (0.3)       (0.6)        (1.4)
3.   ScCial S'aviee                                                                     - 1.4                                6.2          6.7         213          9A
of oht.h
(iduceuo)                                                           (0. )        (0.6)       (0.6)        (1.4)       (2.4)        (1.5)       (1.4)        (1.0)
(malkU)                                                             (0.1)        (0.2)       (0.5)        (1.1)       (1.4)        (2.4)       (2.7)        (2.9)
Jmetm)                                                              (0.5)        (0.4)       (1.4)        (0.8)       (2.1)        (2.5)       (2.7)        (3.2)
(Ciaw.)                                                             (0.1)        (0.2)       (0.4)        (0.4)       (0.3)        (0.3)       (0.5)        (2.5)
4.    k_~c  SegYttee                                                       6.4         6.1          6.7          9.0        10.8         11.         17.5         12.i7I
ot .qicb
(AUFIeulre, V.tettoacy, Vaz TcU)                                    (6.1)        (5.7)       (5.6)        (4.9)       (5.8)        (4.0)       (4.4)        (5.4)
(Cmme  .*d tLiuseoy)                                                 (on.)       (eg.)       (0.5)        (2.L)       (4.t)        (3.0)       (4.4)        (5.2)
CLetriatyJ *e_W (P )(-    -)  (-)                                                                                                  (2.6)       (4.0) -)
S.   franuffers to  Ioa Autharit±.A                                        0.A 4                                              .           0.3 
rr notas ee   1   AuthesAtSZ                     0 4         0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(4  _    0        1               0 1 03       03          0-4-
6.     -ll4&bl*                                                                         -           L6           1.0         1.0          099         0.8          0.5
TM          iS           16.6        21.8         26.8        31.0         44.4        48.3
T/ hsis t& *  oticmil a.waMCla. cOeO"  .6 :t diffl.Ms fr_m  the coePt of dew1ozf  =ind±tvwa of the bWd%.t docunota.
Se>tSw:  stattee 01,1St., NInLetry of r1am. aod PIanafte
Amm4l Stattstleal Abstracto



tg4a 4 of 4
,,,.~~~~~~ v                                       C.f1- irjt 1;.. 1r:..,  el 5I.!,_.....A.....  I.2IA... t/q,1471/'Ol    C...-   V..._,  
(is p.wccX)
C-ce,;nr                                                           Iq9X I /6S                                          U319071.                 197tZ72                  ;97 /73
1.  CGon.atl 5ee-vic'7                                                                                  i                                                  i               
of whi$A
(AdaLnitscreti)                                                       (3.4)                    (2.3)                    (3.6)                     (3.5)                    (5.0)
MWo Ords)                                                          (0. 9)                   (G. 0)                    (4.5)                    (t.2)                     (,.3)
(Dt4.)                                                               ( -)                      (0.9)                    ( - )                     (0.2)                    (1.7)
2.   C,oi  , Syt$      .                                                   Il                         3L                      fk                         L2                      33.6
of iech
CR")                                                             (1.z                      23.9)                    (32.2)                    3.1)                     (30.7)
(Yfter  W )                                                           (1.9)                    (0.9)                    (1.4)                     (2.9)                    (2.9)
3.   Socisl Services                                                       124                      .LL. ti2 4
of .kich
(E61aatim)                                                           (5. (4.)                                           (.2)                      (2.1)                    (3.2)
,Hluth)                                                              (1.0)                     (5.0)                    (G.1)                     (6.0)                    (5.2)
(BH N;                                                               (4.J)                     (3.7)                    t*l                       (.)                      (6. 7)
(Ochar)                                                               0-)                      (I. e)                   (10)                       3.)(2.6)
4.   Lcom±c Smc.                                6L0                                                 A9           4                                      26.4                     34-.
of wnicb
(kfsieul t I   e si^sm^ .ra, tszty)                                 (5.)(22.5)                                           9.)(11.2)                                        (17.1)
(C    rce _d :uscry)                                                (nY.)                     (12.8)                    (9.9)                    (10.8)                    (3.7)
(c2 ctricity  r<_r Po-)w )                                                                                              (9.0)(-) -)
.   Trenhstfes t  1oc1 Authwitims                                           3X                                           -    92.                       0.o                       1.1
6.   Unalloc.ble                                                            4_6 A                                i l.2
2TOL                                                     100.0                     100.0                    100.0                     100.0                    10C.0
A~soute.  Tb   3



-Pa, i oi 5
Kenya:  Implications of Projected Poou. oation Grc   onw o 3rc.ec.zz:;
Development Objectives During i:he ?lan Period 1'97Z-1i973
Exzracts from the Draft Kenva Development Plan, 1974-78
1.        The attainment of develooment gcals requires economic exoansion
relative to population size and change. Economic expansion, expressed oy a.
certain annual grcwth of Gross Domestic Product, is not in i:self a final
objective, but rather the means by which the objectives are achieved.
A. Employment vs. Labour Force
2.        The overall rate of growth in employment opoortunities is esti-
mated at 3.3 oercent per annum during 1973 - 1978, provided that the Gross
Domestic Product is increasing at an average rate of 7.2 percent per ar.num
during the period.. Because of the high fertility rate maintained in the
past together with declining mortality in all ages over time, the
poputlation in productive ages, i.e. 15 - 59, as well as the potential
lahour f -:ce is, however, estimated to increase at a somewhat higher
rate (3.45 pexcent per annn=). Considering that the definition of potential
labour force is rather narrow and might well include not only a higher per-
centage of females, but also population below 15 and about 60, the conse-
quence will be a widening gap over time between demand for and supply of
employment opportunities. A reduction in the fertility rate now will have
no Impact whatsoever on the size of the labour force during an approximately
fifteen years to come, as those people anticipated to be part of the labour
force as late as 1988 are already born. In fact, employment opportunities
have to increase by at least the same rate as the labour force. Given a
situation where unemoloyment already exists, and the objective is to reduce
unemployment comnletely over time, employment oopottumities have to increase
at a faster rate than the labour force.
3.        Persons in productive ages (15 - 59) comprise some 60 percent of
the total copulation in urban areas, compared to about 46 percent in the
rural areas. During the plan period population aged 15 - 59 in the urban
areas is estimated to increase by aotroximately 6.9 percent per annum,
whereas povulation in the same age groups in the rural areas is expected to
increase bv 2.8 percent per annum. The high rate of growth of potentially
productive persons in urban areas is due mainly to the rapid rate of urbani-
sation as well as to the fact that most migrants to urban areas are persons
in this age group.
4.        As the population in the urban areas is restricted in the sense
that they can only derive their means of livelihood through either modern



ANMEX 3
?age 2 of 5
or informal sector emplovment, some 60 percent of the anticipated total
nuwmer of Job opportunities in the modern sector including the informal
sec:or will have to be in town, should the present ratio of about one job
Xer averV two persons aged 15 - 59 remain intact.
-B.  Health Facilit4es vs. Rural Population
5.        The number of Government aad church health institutions reasonably
available to the copulation in the rural areas in 1973 was 940, of which 60
were Government Hosnitals, 80 Church HosDitals, 187 Gover=ment Health Cantres
and Sub-Centres, 416 Government Dispensaries and about 200 church dispensaries.
During the plan period it is envisaged that four more Government HIospitals
will come into operation, as well as 30 more Government Eealth Centres,
1 Sub-Centre and 76 DisiDensaries.
6.        The distribution of hospital beds varies widely by provinces and
districts. The inclusion of a total of about 1,500 new beds in new or
extended general hospitals will Eerve to keep a constant Government bed/
population ratio.
C.  Education vs. School-age Children
7.        As primary or basic education will be the only level of formal
education that most of Kenya's people will have access to, the highest
oriority during the plan per4od is placed on the development of the educa-
tion offered at this level, including improvement of the quality of the
curriculum as well as the teaching force in schools, which in turneans
improvement of the teachers' college..
8.        The snecified long-term objective of primary education is to pro-
vide nine years f-:ee basic education for all Kenya's children.  In terms of
numbers the objectives set for the plan will mean an increase of the number
of students from 1,S62,000 in 1973 to 2,945,00 in 1978, or an annual increase
of primarv school enrollments by 9 percent at Standard I level and 9.6
percent in total enrollments. In theory this would mean that by 197$, 98.5
percent of all children in primary school ape, i.e. 6 - 12, will attend
school comnared to 75.2 percent in 1973. As, however, there are a number
of children older than 12 who attend primary educition today, and this situ-
ation is not going to change significantly during the plan period, a better
ratio is arrived at by assuming the primary school ate to comprise children
in ages 6 - 14. The ratio would then increase from about 60 percent in 1973
co 80 nercent in 1978.
9.        The Government's ,objectives for secondary school education during
1973 - 1978 must be viewed in the light of the overall realization of an
over-supply of secondary school leavers, whose quality of education is not



ANNEX 3
Page 3 oz~ 5
geared to job requirements.  Te objectives, therefore, do not only include
consideration of the need for qualitative improvement in terms of diversi-
fication and direction towards emoloyment-oriented school curriculum, but
also emphasize restraint in the expansion of enrollments in order to make
provision for the qualitative improvements and for the allocation of a
greater share of resources to the primary sector.
10.       During the five-year period it is estimated that the number of
pupils in aided secondary forms 1 - 4 will increase from 83,600 in the
first year of the period to 105,100 in the fifth, or by 4.70 percent per
annum during 1973 - 1978. Enrollments in secondary forms 5 - 6 will increase
by 4.10 percent per annum, from 7,290 in 1973 to 8,910 in 1978. The number
of students attending Technical Secondarv School Education will increase by
300, from 5,15n to 5,450 between 1973 and 1978.
Table 4-9:     Primary and Secondary (forms 1 - 4) education in 1973
and 1978. Enrollments in relation to number of poten-
tial students. Populaticn in '000.
1973                      1978
Children aged 6 - 14:                     3,075                      3,694
of population                            24.6                       24.8
growth p.a. 1973/78                                  3.75
?rimarv school enrollments:                1,862                     2,945
Z of children 6 - 14                       60.6                       79.7
% growth p.a. 1973/78                                  9.60
Children aged 13 - 19 /1                  1,910                      2,259
X of population                             15.3                      15.2
/ growth p.a. 1973/78                                  3.45
Secondary school (forms 1 - 4)
enrollments:                               84                        105
Z of children aeed 13 - 19                  4.4                        4.6
a growth p.a. 1973/78                                  4.70
/1   Although in theory secondarv school age (forms 1-4) should be 13-16,
there are many students attending education in forms 1-4, who are older
than 16. For this reason, the age is assumed to comprise 13-19.



ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 5
D. Supnlv of Housing vs. Demand for Rousing irn Urban Areas.
11.       More than 50 percent of the population in the urban areas is
estinated to have an annual income of less than KL 300 and presumably will
not be able to afford shelter costing more than 100 shillings per m3nth to
rent or KL 750 in construction. The shortfall is also greatest in the lowest
income groups; in 1973 77 percent cf an estimated total shortfall of 50,000
housing units is found in income groups with less than an annual income of
KE 300.
12.       Raoid urbanisation during the period 1973 - 197A will bring about
additional housing requirements, especially in the lower income categories.
The Goverrnment's objectives to encourage development in housing for rhe
three lowest income categories so that bv 1978 about half of the anticipated
shortfall is covered should be seen in this light.
E. Water Susplies and Population Served bv a Water Susnly.
13.       In 1973 less than 10 percent of the ponulation in the rural areas
have access to a water suoply in the sense that'they are served with water
from a source not more than 4 kilometres distant. The objectives for the
plan period, if achieved, will mean that by 1978 about 24 percent of the
rural population will be served by water as well as all the people living
in the urtban areas.
F.  Domestic Consimption of Electricity vs. UTrban Pooulation.
14.       Most of the customers supslied with electricity, and particularly
customers using electricity for domestic purposes, are living in areas
classified as densely populated, including towns and other urban centres.
While it is true that all of the people inhabiting towns have as yet access
to electricity, the objective of the electricity sector during the plan
period will, besides continuation of the electrification process in the rural
areas, involve a systemized effort to keep uD with the increasing demand
for electricity in urban areas.
1S.       The average per capita consumntion, measured through amount of
sales, in 1969 in urban areas was approximately 94 kilowatt hours. Assuming
this average to be the minimum per capita consumption valid in urban areas
for donestic purposes, domestic consumption of electricity will increase from
135,500,000 KWh in 1973 to 1R8,000,000 KWh in 1978, or by 6.75 percent per
annum during the period. In terms of total consumption - sales, domestic
consumption of electricity will continue to decline relatively. In 1967
domestic use was 20.1 percent of total consumption, in 1969 17.7 percent,
in 1971 16.0 percent. In 1973 it will be 15.6 percent and in 1978 13.1
percent of total consumotion.



ANNl~EX 3
?age 5 of 5
G.  Road Construction in the Rural Areas vs. Rural Ponulation.
16.       The development of road transport in Kenya is now entering a phase
where the needs are no longer so imperative and orders of priority not so
obvious. In fact, no principal population or production centre remains
inaccessible. As a consequence, road works in the rural areas will mainly
take the form of major and minor road improvements during the plan period
once the committed projects are finished. In response to local needs and
conditions the rural works programe will open up and maintain those seg-
ments of the unclassified network of roads, which mainly fulfill the
function of being access roads.






( 4
Page 1 of 3
Kenya: Organization of Health Services
Tbe Minitry of Health (MOH) is organized on a centralized basis
with strong support from the provincial and district levels. The structure
.or the delivery of health services follows closely the division of the country
_ato administrative areas. Basically, this administrative breakdown is as
.ol_ows: there are seven provinces (Nairobi and environs is an extra-prcvincial
area). The provinces are divided iato districzs with as few as three and as
zia'' as 13 districts making up one province.  There are in all some 40 districts.
t.. he largest city of each province there is generally a prov;incial hospital
and public health headquarters. At the listrict level there is a district
hospital and public health administration.
2.        The central level is the headquarters where political, professional
and administrative matters are coordinated and policy decisions made. The
.inister of Health is the political head of the Xinistry and is responsible
to the Cabinet and a Member of Parliament:. He is assisted in the running
of the MOH by the Permanent Secretary (the chief civil servant with the
Ministry), wno is responsible for the overall direction and administration
of the Ministry and the Director of Medical Services (DMS) who is the chief
adviser to the Ministry on professional matters. He supervises all matters
pertaining to preventive, curative and promotive health services and heads
a number of professional comittees.
3.        The MIS is assisted in his professional responsibilities by the
Senior Deputy Director of Medical Services who coordinates training of all
categories of professional staff, assists in the professional matters of the
ministry, and directs the work of the Deputy Assistant Directors of Medical
Services. The Deputy Assistant Directors of Medical Services are in charge
of rural health services, administration of Government hospitals, etc.
Various departments of the MOH are set-up to deal with different responsibili-
ties, such as laboratory services; epidemology, statistics and demography;
vector-born diseases; control of communicable diseases; health planning;
nutrit_on; family plan-nng; hospital adAministration; nursing; environmental
heal;., etc.
4.        Nursing services are administered by the Chief Nursing Officer who
mailitains nursing standards and sits as a ex-officio member of the Nurses
wad Madwives Council.  She is assisted by a Deputy Cnief Nursing Off~_Zer
who coordinates the training activities in consultation with others.
The Ministry is represented at the provincial level by the
?roviazial Medical Officer, a senior medical officer in charge of organiza-
cion and administration of health services. The Provincial Medical Officer
is responsible to Ministry headquarters, and is assisted by the Provincial
Health Inspector and the Principal Matron.



A=EX 4
Page 2 of 3
6.        At the district level, the Medical Officer of Health is re-sponsible
for d-:s ricc health services, organizing and administering specialized
serv-:es at hospitals and at health centers, clinics and other static or
mobile units. fie coordinates Government and non-government health services
and is responsible to the Provincial Medical Officer of Health. He is
assisted by the District Health Inspector and District Matron. The Assistant
hospical Secretary handles personnal, finance, and supplies for all
facilities within the district.
7.        At the community level in locations and sub-locations, health
centers provide basic curative, preventive and promotive services. Together
with subcenters and dispensaries they form the backbone of rural health
services where 90% of the population lives. The medical assistant (MA) is
in charge of the health center. Chart 7947 summarizes how health services are
orgaanzed below the central level. Chart 7948 shows how the personnel of a
typical health center fit into the health organization, highlighting the
source of supervision.
Hospitals
8.        There are two main types of hospitals in Kenya:  general hospitals,
which cater for all types of patients including maternity cases, and special
hospitals for special diseases. The general hospitals form the largest
number of hospitals in Kenya (90%) and differ from one another in size,
facilities and staff. These are subdivided into four main categories:
national hospitals; the Kenyatta National Hospital in Nairobi; provincial
hospitals which serve as referral hospitals for the provinces; district
hospitals, which serve as referral hospitals for smaller health units; and
subdistrict or divisional hospitals. The special Government hospitals
cater for special diseases: leprosy, infectious diseases and mental
hospitals.
9.        Other agencies offering health services include the industrial
and private hospitals and some voluntary organizations like the East African
Medical and Research Foundation. Churches provide for 28% of all the
hospital beds and about one-half of hospitals in the country, some of which
provide traiaing facilities for nursing and midwifery staff. Table I provides
a breakdown of the medical institution and hospital beds by province and
-gencies responsible as of 1970.
10.       The cJ ty of Nairobi has extensive health responsibilities and,
for example, operates 40 family planning clinics. Certain other cities,
including Mombasa, scill have health responsibilities, but at the beginning
of 1970 a major centralization of functions took place and administration
of these Governmat health services were taken over by the MHM.
Source:   MOR, ne.irh Services - !971.



ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 3
'able 1
:nya: Dist-rcution off Medical Institutions 1/ and Hospital Beds by
Province aad Agencies Responsible, 1970
Pr-ivate and                 Approx.
Population   Gover:ent        Church     Other              Total      ?opCatic.
?-2rozne     in t13lons) Inst. 3eds   Inst. Beds  imt.2/ Beds   tnst. Beds   ?er 3ed
Ce.tral         1.'8      10    1,171    19   1,053    1         22    30   2,246       793
Coast           1..0O     12    1,152      2     166    7       255    21   13603      624
ZasT-arn        2.02      10    1,008    15      982    1         7    26   1,997    1,012
Nairobi
Extra
pr )-.ncia1
Area.          0.54.      1    1,865      1      14   18    1,255    20   3,134       172
Nort~i-
Eastern        0.26        3     106     _-           -         -      3     106    2,453
Nyanza          2.25       5      840     12     539    6        95    23   1,474    1,526
.U.'t Valley    2.35      21    1,170    14      719   12       384    47   2,873      a8a
Western         1.41.       3      447     9     645   -         -     12   1,092    1,291
Total     11.61      65    8,359    72   4,118   45    2,048   182  14,525         799
Percentage Distribution: 36        58    39      28   25        14   100     100
TTLS. = Institution.
1/   .iot all of the institutions provide a full range of hospital facilities and some of
-.hem cannot, in terms of facilities and staff, be regarded as hospitals.
2/    institutions azd beds included under "tprivata and other" belong to the private
or Lndustrial hospitals, prison department, local authorities, and the Ar.
onur:-   MOE,!i1ealth Servlces in Kenya - 1971)  Table 3.






ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 6
KENYA: Rural Health Services -
The Present Situation
1.        The rural population in Kenya amounts to over 90% of the national
total. Its primary health problems remain concentrated in the following
areas:
(a) family health, including family planning;
(b)  co=mxunicable diseases;
(c) diseases and conditions .:esulting from inadequate
environmental sanitation, and
(d) health problems related to malnutrition and underautrition.
It is estimated that the present conditions in the rural sector are responsi-
ble for some 10 million cases of diseases annually. With a fast growing
population, and without major improvements, the figure may grow as high as
16 million cases of diseases in 1984, which would mainly be concentrated
around maternal and child health problems; communicable diseases such as
measles and whooping cough; water-borne and vector-borne diseases orig4nating
in the physical environment; nutritional problems such as protein and calorie
deficiencies; and digestive and respiratory diseases.
2.        The following facilities are available to the rural population:
Type of Facility                                 Number (1973)
Government district and subdistrict hospitals          58
Gover,ment health centers and subcenters              186
Government dispensaries                               416
Church hospitals                                       80
Church dispensaries                                   150
The number of beds available to the rural population was 7,125 in 1970 and as
of December 1973 has increased to about 9,200, mainly due to the construction
of new Government hospitals and extensions at the district level. With an
estimated rural population of 11.2 million, the overall bed population ratio
is about 0.8 per 1,000 people. 2/
S/ ources:  MM, Realch Develovment Plan 1974-78 and MME, Proposal for r..e
;mprnyement 3'- Rurai Eea;th Services and t'ne Development of Rural lealth
Training Cen:.ers ir. Rer.Ya, August, 1972.
2/   Although the total niuber of MMA, local Government and Church hospital beds
increased from 11,900 in 1969 to nearly 14,200 in 1973, because of the
population increase, the bed population ratio was statistically decreased
from 1.20 beds per thousand people in 1967 to 1.13 beds per thousand in
1973. The distribution has, how---_r, greatly improved.



ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 6
3.        Between 1969 and 1972 construction of new health center facilities
:ad oeaa rastricted to a minimum because existing structures had to be (and
still rave ;o be) staffed, upgraded and made operational before a further
<xpansi.on ot coverage and of facilities could be envisaged.  In addition,
local self-help mavements have produced a considerable number of umplan^.
health centers and dispensaries, many of which are now understaffed or not
funct_oning at all, thus further complicating the staffing and overall planning
process - a trend waich may well continue unless self-help projects can
become more actively coordinated with the Government program. An exception to
this situation is the development of health centers and mobile health services
under the Special Rural Development Program. Three areas of the program:
Liakago (Easteru Province), Migori (Nyanza Province), and Mbale (Western
Province) are scheduled for completion in 1973. Three additional Special
Rural Development Program areas will be developed between 1973 and 1976 in the
Central, Coast and Rift Valley Provinces.
4.        The existing, functioning rural health facilities are at present
offering primarily curative services, while preventive pro-rams (i.e., mAinly
immunizations) are delivered through periodic mass mobile operations. Such
health centers are an exception as they operate preventive clinics in Mai
care and family planning on fixed days and schedules. Studies of service
patterns indicate that the bulk of services are given to populations within
a fairly small radius from each facility (3-4 miles) and that women and
children are using the overwhelmIn3 majority of services provided.
5.        According to the staffing standards used during the past Plan (1970-
74), medical assistants (MAs) and enrolled nurses or midwives (EN/Ms) and
health assistants (HAs) constitute the basic staff for a health center. Sub-
health centers have usually functioned without MAs and dispensaries are fre-
quently still operated by ungraded staff. A survey of rural health facilities,
conducted by the World Health Organization (WHO) in 1969/70, shows that only
one out of 22 health centers had the standard staff complement recommended
by the Ministry of Health.  Out of 21 health centers visited, only five were
supervised regularly from the district level, and 10 had no such supervision
or support at all. The shortfall of MAs, EN/Ms, and HAs is presently esti-
mated at 20-25%.
6.        This shortfall does not take accouitt of the fact that an estimated
i4Z of the dispensaries are operated by ungraded staff and there is an
uneven dis.ribution and concentration of health services in the urban areas.
Most of the hospital beds as well as nearly all the private consultants are
concentrated in the urban areas. The table below shows the distribution of
Central Government medical officers in 1971:



ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 6
Distribution of Central Government Medical Officers
in Relation to Population, 1971
('OOOs)
Non-              1969
Kenyan   Kenyau  Total  Population
Nairobi                           95      52       147        509
Town Over 20,000 Pop.             15      31        46        327
Oth.ars                           46      60       106    10,106
Overall Average                  156     143       299    10,932
Source:   NOR, Health Development Plan, P. 10.
The shortage of doctors and registered nurses is estimated to be around 20Z.
However, it is the enrolled staff which form the basis for the recruitment of
certified medical assistants (HAs) and other higher personnel categories, which
form the backbone of the rural health services.
7.        To correct this unfortunate situation, the Ministry of Health (WOH)
has designed and proposed a ten-year expanded rural health services development
program with far-reaching implications on training, staffing, technical and
operational procedures and supervision, population coverage, and on the allo-
cation of health resources likely to be available throughout that period.
Improvement of Rural Health Services
8.        The first phase of the ten-year master plan (1974-78) will concen-
trate on the extension and improvement of existing facilities through grant-
in-aid to nongovernment services and through construction of urgently needed
new facilities. Preventive and family planning services will be accelerated
and expanded in conjunction with the growing manpower, rural health service
and hospital service capacity. Progress towards the long-term objective of
one health center for every 20,000 people will be facilitated by: (a) increa-
sing the number of service points through new construction, modification and
upgrading of 31 health centers and sub-centers and of 76 dispensaries through-
out the country; and, (b) through the operation of more mobile services.



ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 6
Rural Health Facilities (COL)
Type of Facility         Number Presently Working (1973)        Target (1978)
Health Centers                         131                          161
Health Subcenters                       56                           57
Dispensaries                          416                           492
Total                            603                          710
Source: MOH, Realth Development Plan, P. 37. A schedule of the new
facilities to be opened by province in 1978-84 is listed in
Table 1.
9.        By 1984 the goal is to have some 244 Government health centers, 102
Government subcenters and 692 Government dispensaries, properly staffed servi-
cing the rural population. If this target is achieved the density of health
centers and subcenters will rise from 1:58,000 to 1:31,000, close to the
1:20,000 desired. Based on the projected 1984 population, t/ the target is
to reduce the projected number of family health diseases by 462, conaunicable
diseases by 26%, environmental health diseases 18%, nutrition by 56% and
upper respiratory tract infection by 30Z. On the aggregate the number of
cases of sickness on account of the stated health problems is targeted to be
11.2 million in 1984, instead of 15.9 million.
10.       This new system is based on establishing health units and health
teams to service those units. A health unit will serve the population in a
particular area. Each health unit will be serviced by one bealth center,
providing technical leadership and a subeenter and four or more dispensaries.
The health unit area will also include some 30 or more schools and a similar
number of day-care centers. At all service points, PP/MCH and health services
will be offered on a daily basis and mobile units will be operated on a dairy
basis.
11.       The health unit will be serviced by an integrated team under the
supervision of a seiior MA.  Pseventive and promotive health will be empha-
sized through a family health approach and a health strategy aimed at the
health needs of the high risk segments of the population.
12.       In general, the standard health center is staffed with one HA, two
/NIMs, 1 HA, and 2 or 3 ungraded staff. Subcenters usually function without
1/   These projections are based on the projections of the Ministry of Finance
and Planning and assume that fertility will remain conestant through the
year 2000.



ANiNEX 5
Page 5 of 6
MAs, and dispensaries frequently are operated by ungraded staff. Generally
the MA provides curative care and the EN/M cares for the women's and
children's health problems. In practice, the services are generally un-
coordinated and overwhelmed by the demand for curative services. Under the
master plan, a health center will consist of three basic components: (a) a
block of two clinics, one preventive, and the other curative; (b) an in-patient
block with 12 beds, and (c) a service block consisting of a pharmacy, labora-
tory, etc. The new staffing pattern will be: 1 MA, 4 CNs, 1 HA, 2 Family
Planning Field Workers (FPFWs),1/ 1 statistical clerk, and 7 subbordinate staff.
A health subcenter will have the same two clinics and the service block, but
_.t will not have an in-patient block. It will be staffed by 1 MA, 2 CNs,
1 HA, 1 FPFW, and 5 subordinate staff members. A dispensary will have one
clinic and service facilities and will te staffed by 1 C0, 1 HA, and 2 sub-
ordinate staff members.
13.       The following staff to population ratio will result:
Staff           1972 Ratio             1984 Ratio
Category       To Population          To Population         Increase
MA            1 : 70,450             I : 32,000              220%
CN            1 : 14,765             1 : 5,758               256%
HA            1 : 21,908             1 : 10,348              211%
Source: MOH, Proposal for the Improvement of Rural Health Services, P. 26.
14.       In order to meet the targets outlined above, the GOK expects to
shift: its emphasis to rural health services by increasing the level of re-
current expenditure for rural health services from 10% to 20% of the Health
vote by 1984; expanding the basic training capacity to meet staff requirements;
not constructing new health centers until existing facilities are adequately
staffed and up-up-graded; 2/ by giving first priority to the needs of rural
health services; and making a concentrated effort to reduce the loss rates of
staff.
Source: MOH, Health Development Plan 1974-78; MOH, Proposal for the
Improvement of Rural Health Services and the Development of
Rural Health Training Centers in Kenya, (August, 1972).
1/  The FPFWs will most probably eventually become family Welfare Field
Workers.
21   In practice this means:
(a) no new dispensaries will be opened until 1974;
(b)  no new health centers to be opened prior to 1976; and
(c) no new subcenters prior to 1978.



Table                                                    AM. 
Pa1 6 of 6
lenYa:  Schedule of Ne. Facilities to Be  Oted 1974-198s. bY' ProvIyo.
Year            1972               1984       1973/74             1974/75            1975176        1976/77    1977/78
(exisctir          (desired)
ero  rPa               DC  SC   D      RC   SC   D    NC   SC    D        BC   SC    D    RC   SC   b   C   SC   D  IC  SC  D
entrai             28(1)   6  67    44    13  110   -    -         -      -          4    -    -    4   -    -    1   4   -  4
Nyanxa              10      14 5       47    20  129   -    -       -                 7    -    - . 7   8             7   8   -  7
Coast               10(6)   4  6(5) 19(6)  7   58             -                                  --    -   6          3   3   1  3
Western             23       6   8    33    14    1   -                      -                   -    8               81    -  8
glif  VaLley        35(3)  14 140(2) 50    21  166   -    -3   -   -  3
Fastern             19       6  70    45      9  118   -    -       -            -          -    -    -   -    -    5   -   -  5
North-"MStern        0       5   9      6     3   20   -    -       -       -    -          -              -                      -
TOTAL      131(10) 55 416   244   102  692        -    -   11    -    -   19  14    -   22  16   1 24
Year      1978-79               1979-1980       1980-81          1981-82             1982-83       1983-84       1986-85
P?ov.nce            HC     SC  D      HC   SC   D _   RC   SC    D         HC  -SC   D    RC   SC   D   SC   SC   D   ENC  SC D
Central              3       -4       4      -   4      -    6      4      -    6    4    -    -    4   -    -    4 -   -3
Nyana                8       -7       7      -   7      -    -       7     -    6    7    -    -    7   -    -    7         --
Coast                -       2 -2     -      -   -      _    _      -      _-                                         - _    _    _
Western                         a -8   1     18         -    7      8      -    -    8    -    -    a-           -        --  1l
Rift Volley          -      -3        -      - 3        5    -      3      S    1    3    2    6    2-          -    3      -     7
Eastern              5      -5        8      -   5      a    -      5      6    -    5    -   13    5-          -    6       -   6
North-Easctrn        -       -        6    -3   2       _    1      2      _    _    2    _    _    2   -    _     2              I -1
TOTAL        29      2 25    26    -2  29    13   14    29         13   13   29    2  19   29-           - 29    .  -30
IIC   Health Center                       igures in bracbAts indicate urban facilities.
S - Health Subcenter
D - Diapensary
Source:  MON. Aperndices to Proeasal for ti. Iuwrov_ nct of furel Health S9-srics  in Kenya, App4eix C, Ctbpatr 4, p.5.
Naote   :his list is tetattive and will depend on a better analysis of the existing physical construction reqiremants
,173 survey) and the rcctmndatlons of the District and Provincial Dleoep_-nt CemtCtee.



Table 1
eFZa   Family Planning Service Points as of Mid-1972
Health      Dispensary and
HEoatal          Center      Special Clinic                                               Na obi
Province           Covt Olthers  Total       Govt    Govt Others  TotlI   Others    Govt Others   Total   City CoL2urwi
Central             10      3      (13)      27        114    10      (24)       _        51      13       64
Coast               10      2      (12)      10         -       1     (1)        -        20       3       23          _
Easter n             8      2      (10)      16         1       1     (2)        -        25       3       28
Nairobi              1      _      ( 1)       1         1       3      (14)     40          3      3   .46            4o,
Nyni.a               2      4       t 8)     15         1       4      (5)      .         20       8       28
Rift Valley         16      5      (21)      27         1       6     (7)        -        1414    11       55
Western              3      3       (_6)     20         3       2                 -        26      5       31
Total             52    19       (71)    116         21      27     (48)      40   !  189       46      275         40
(%)                             (25.8)  (42.2)                     (17.5)  (14.5) j (66.8) (16.7)  (100.0)  (14.5)
Siource:  MUH, IFailly Planning Unit.
rlo



ANNE 6
Page 2 of 2
Table 2
Kenya: Government Health Centers and Dispensaries
as of November 1972
Health Centers/
Province                        Sub-Centers        Dispensaries      Total
Central                              34                 67             101
Coast                                13                 67              80
Nyanza                               18                 62              80
Western                               29                  8             37
Rift Valley                          63                128            191
Eastern                              25                 70              95
North-Eastern                          3                 12             15
Total                           183                414             399
Source: MOR, Health Planning Unit.



AiNEX 7
Page 1 of 9
Kenya: Availability of Medical and Paramedical Personnel
1.        As of March 1973, it was estimated that about 350 physicians, 580
medical assistants, 770 registered nurses and midwives and 2,660 enrolled
nurse/midwives (EN/Ms) were employed in the Government service under the
Ministry of Health (MOB). These medical and paramedical staff are primarily
engaged in dispensing curative ntervices and are only engaged in family planning
on a part-time basis. Staffing of existing facilities and services is seriously
affected by the estimated 25% shortage of medical and paramedical personnel.
.he projected expansion of rural health services forecast in the Second Health
Development Plan is heavily dependent upon the success of the expanded para-
medical training program. It is expected that this training program will
train enough personnel to fill most of the new positions, offset losses at
existing health facilities and also make it possible to standardize staffing
patterns in existing health facilities. Community nurses (CNs) will then,
together with other paramedical personnel, have enough time to offer daily
family planning services as the demand arises. However, the limited enrolled
staff, such as ENs or Cis, is likely to remain the single major constraint
for the next 10 years.
Doctors and Medical Assistants
2.        The MOH estimated there are around 1,100 professionally active
physicians in Kenya. The majority (700) are in private practice and do not
participate in the national family planning program. Of the 350 physic:!ans
employed by the MOB which are engaged in dispensing clinical services, more
than 100 are distributed in rural areas and in towns with less than 20,000
inhabitants. The Medical School of the University of Nairobi has an annual
output of about 30 doctors at present. It is expected that because of the
expansion of student capacity, the total number of physicians trained per
year at the Nedical School will increase to around 90 doctors over the next
few years. A limited number of doctors are being trained abroad.
3.        The Medical Training Center in Nairobi is responsible for training
paramedical personnel. At present, about 130 medical assistants are trained
annually. One hundred of these graduates are certified medical assistants who
are recruited from EN or CN cadres receiving one year's additional training.
The remaining 30 are registered medical assistants so designated because
after completing four years of secondary school they are recruited and given
three years' training. The MOH has established a new school for registered
medical assistants in Nakuru with a total student capacity of about 300.
Thus the total output of registered medical assistants will increase to
80-90 per year by 1976. The annual output from certified medical assistants
will gradually be phased out during the 1974-78 Plan period to allow a target
number of 1,050 to be achieved by 1978. By the end of 1973 the MOH expects
to have 650 medical assistants. Table ; shows the medical assistants man-
power projections through 1984 based on the desired level required to impie-
ment the rural health master plan, 1974-84.



AZWNE 7
Page 2 of 9
Nursig Personnel
4.        The MR) estimates the minim'm desired level of registered nurses and
oY/CKs to be 1,200 and 3,400 respectively by 1978. The target level is 1,500
and 3,900 respectively (Table 2). At present, the annual output of registered
nurses is about 170 nurses from three schools. Of these approximately 130 come
from one Governmenr School attached to Kenyatta hospital and remaining 40 are
trained at two private scnools (Table 3). Over the Five-Year Plan period
some 600 registered nurses will be trained and qualified indicating the min'-
mum requiresnts will be reached.
.         T.In view of the shortage of medical manpower, the MOE's plan for
the improvement of rural health services had identified the CN as the most
appropriate to offer integrated community health services including FP/MCH.
The 3-1/2-year training period for CNs is a consolidation of the EN, mid-
wifery and public health nurse preparation which would otherwise require
a total of 4-1/1 years for all courses. A net addition of about 700 Cis is
minimally required by 1973 for expansion of rural health services and the
hospital sector. This. includes the requirements for family planning. There
are 9 nurse training schools operated by the MOH with an annual output of
about 300 EN/LNs at the student capacity of about 1,050 (Table 4).  Three of
them are training EN/CMs, one is only for CNs, and the rest are in the process
of converting to Ci training. In the private sector, 18 missionary hospitals
are engaged 4.n the training of enrolled staff with potential student capa-
cities of about 930. Their annual output range is about 150 and about 50%
of the graduates are absorbed by the Government. Expansion of the EN or CS
training capacity, both in the Government and private sectors, is one of the
most important tasks to be tackled during the next few years iL order to
strengthen health services, particularly for the rural areas.
6.        The following are descriptions of the functions and training
requirements of the various categories of health personnel employed in
health centers:
Registered/Medical Assistant (MA)
Entrance Requirements:  Completion of four years of
secondary education;
Training              : Three years;
- 1st year - Theory
- 2nd year - One-third of time is spent
in practical work;
- 3rd year - Two-thirds of time is spent
in practical work.
Functions             : Diagnoses common ailments, prescribes
treatment, refers difficult cases to
a doctor;



ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 9
Coments               : Traditionally MAs have
not yet been trained in midwifery;
such training is now being introduced
into the course for MAs and therefore
those taking this training will be
able to provide family planning services.
Certified MA
Entrance Requirements: EN;
Training              : One year;
Functions             : Assists doctor; diagnoses common ailments,
prescribes treatment, refers difficult
cases to a doctor;
Comments              : There is the possibility of going on
after qualifying as a certified MA
to obtain a specialist qualification
in opthalzology and diseases of the ear,
nose and throat. This takes one addi-
t:ional year of training.
RN (Registered Nurae)
Entrance Requirements: Completion of four years of secondary
education;
Training              : "Three years":  This course of training
stretches over a total period of 42
months. The first three months are intro-
ductory theory. There are five one-
month blocks during which the pupil
nurse spends full time in the class-
room. There are 30-1/2 months of
service and 3-1/2 months of leave;
total - 42 months;
Functions             : The RN carries out the usual full range
of nursing services.
RM (Registered Midwife)
Entrance Requirements: RN;
Training              : One year "post graduate;"
Punctions             : Midwifery.



ANNEX 7
Page 4 of 9
EN (Enrolled Nurse)
Entrance Requirements:  Completion of two years of secondary
education;
Training              : 2-1/1 years;
Functions                - Gives medication;
- Observes patients;
- In the clinical setting directs
patients to the appropriate clinic.
EM (Enrolled Midwife)
Entrance Requirements: (a) In the Nongovernment Sector -
Completion of two years of
secondary education;
(b) In the Government Sector - EN;
Training                 (a)  A total of 2 years;
(b) One further year after qualifying
as EN;
Punctions                - Works in labor or maternity ward;
- Delivers;
- Conducts prenatal and postnatal
clinics;
- Conducts child welfare clniacs;
- Conducts family planning clinics.
CH (Community Nurse)
Entrance Requirements:  Completion of two years of secondary
education or general certificate of
education;
Training              : 3-1/2 years;
Functions             : The CN receives a wide spectrum of
training such that she can perform
the functions usually performed by
EN, a EM, or a PEN. 1/
1/   The major benefit from such training is that i. saves oue yearts train-
ing time and permits flexibility of assignment on the job and easier
introduction of the team approach to work.



ANNEX 7
Page 5 of 9
(Enrolled) Public Health Nurse (PHN)
Entrance Requirements: Both EN and EM;
Training              : One year;
Functions                - Works primarily outside the health
center;
- Vaccinates;
- Conducts health education with
individuals and groups;
- Conducts family planning clinics;
- May help with child welfare
clinics.
Health Assistant (HA)
Entrance Requirements:  Completion of two years of secondary
education;
Training              : Two years;
Functions             : The HA is an assistant to the
professi.onally qualified Public
Health Inspector. Under direction,
he does the practical work of a
sanitarian including taking samples
of drinking water and having them
tested, examining cleanliness and
correctness of procedure in slaughter
houses, etc.



Table 1
Kenya: Medical Assistants, Gov't. Employment
Assumptions                          1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    19 81    1982    1983    1984
1.  Beginning of year,                                                                         0
Government employment          650      755     870      965      1,005   1,045   1,075   1,100   1,135   1,160   1,190
2.  5% loss (rounded)                 35       35       45      50         50       50       55       55      55       60       60
3. Out ut registered
medrcal assistants                40       50       90      90         90       80       80       90      80       90       80
4. Certified medical
assistants                       100      100       50      -          -        -        -        -       -        -
5.  Position, end of year            755      870      965   1,005      1,045   1,075   1,100   1,135   1,160   1,190   1,210
Note:  The annual output of registered medical assistants from 1976 will be between 80 and 90.  This has been
arbitrarily distributed over the years, some years 80, others 90.  An element of non-government expansion
may reduce the totals slightly.  Enrolled staff deducted one year from the summary of this cadre are
accounted for as medical assistants output in the following year.
0
'0



ANEX 7
Page 7 of 9
Table 2
Kenya:  Central Government Health Staff
Actual
Number                            1978        Projected
March,       Requirements        Target        Increase
Type of Personnel                1973   1/       Minimum          Level          1973-78
Doctors                             350              500            600         150 -   250
Registered Nurses                   770            1,200          1,500         430 -   730
Medical Assistants 2/               580              950          1,050         370 -   470
Enrolled Staff 3/                 2,660            3,400          3,900         740 - 1,240
Health Inspectors                   185              250            300          65 -   115
Clerical                            850               -           1,050         200
Unskilled                         6,500               -           9,000       2,500
1/ Rounded figures.
2/ Both registered and certified categories.
3/  Nurses, Midwives, Public Xealth Nurses,
Comnity Nurses.
Source:  Health Development Plan, 1974 - 78.



Table 3
Kenyat Traiiing of Nursing Personnel in
uovernment InstiAtIions, g109707r
Training Inatitutions                    1970                             1.971                         1972
Number   Number   Number      Number    Number   Number       Number    Number   Number       Number
Type of                 of        in       of          Of        in       of          of         in       of          of
Personnel             Schools  Training Admissions Graduates Training Admissions Graduates Trainings Admissions Graduates
Registered Nurse        1        460        147         125      520        180         97       526       180         129
Registered Midwife      1         43         64          45       56         71         54        56        73          69
Enrolled Nurse          8        600        316        127       694       310         131       704       283         182
Enrolled Midwife        3         62         58          48       62         62         59        74        fi4         50
Enrolled Nurse
(Psychiatric)           1         62         48         16        62        16          17        62        16          1.1
Enrolled Public Health
Nurse                 2         24         23         I5        24        27          21        26        28          23
Comunity Nurse          3        252         40           9      258         46         44       284       152          90
Source t MOH
00
0



ANNEX 7
T able 4                Page 9 of 9
Kenya:  Existing Taining Capacities for ENs and CNs,
as or.octooer 191?
Total in
New Intakes                  Output           Training
Schools             EN      ON    M        EN      CN    M        EN      CN     N,  Total
Nyeri               47       _    -        42       _    _        96       _     -       96
Muranga             37       -   26        23       -   18        73       -    27    -,00
Thika                -      44    -         -      25    -         -    112      -      112
Mombasa              _      74   hi         6      43   15       100     88    32       220
Machakos            50       -    -        25       -    -        9k       -     -       94
Kisumu              18      34   17        15      47   17       106     59    15      180
Kisii               47       -    -        21       -    -        65       -     -       65
Kakcamega           41       -    -        31       -    -        83      -      -       83
Nakuru              43       -    -        19     _      -        87     _       -       87
Total             283    152   8k        182    115   50        704    259    74   1,037
EN   E Enrolled Nurse.
CN   Community Nurse.
X - Midwife.
Source: MOH






ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 8
Kenya: Program Achievements
1.        The growth in attendances over the first six years of the national
family planning program indicates there is a dewand for family planning
services (Table 1). Although the rate of growth has varied, attendances
have risen in all provinces. By the end of 1971 the number of rirst visits
was up 35%, in comparison with the end of 1968. Coast, Eastern, Nairobi and
Rift Valley Provinces have increased 352, 106%, 75% and 13% respectively.
Western Kenya, which has the lowest number of first visitors, has also shown
sizeable proportional gains with Nyanza increasing some 140Z and Western
Province increasing about 40Z (Table 2). Graphically Charts 7949 and 7950
summarize the growth in attendances over the three-year period 1970-72 and
show the distribution of accaptor methods in 1972. Table 3 shows the number
of first visitors and revisitors in 1972. According to the data supplied
by the Ministry of Health (MOH), the current distribution of contraceptive
acceptors shows the following pattern:
Orals                79%
IUD                  11%
Condoms               2%
Injectables           6%
Others                2%
Previously, some 65% of contraceptive acceptors used the pill and 25% the
intrauterine device (IUD), indicating a preference for the pill and growing
dissatisfaction with the IUD.
2.        In 1969 an analysis of the percentage distribution of acceptors
by education and number of living children revealed that the mean age of
all contraceptive acceptors was 28.6 (Table 4); the mean number of years of
education was 4.3 (Table 5); and the mean number of living children (Table 6)
was 4.7. These statistics revealed that by and large women in their twenties
with some schooling and four or five children had a greater tendency to pursue
family planning than other acceptors. Differences by contraceptive method
are not significant for either of these characteristics.
3.        The Family Planning program is primarily clinic oriented and almost
exclusively directed toward women. Clients attend family planning clinics
for physical check ups and contraceptive supplies.
Clinic Record Card
4.        Program evaluation is primarily based on the clinic record card
which was introduced in 1967 and has since been revised several times. The
clinic card serves the dual purpose of providing clinical information
as well as evaluation data and is used by       Government clinics,



ANNEX 8
Qf 8
Fglly PplUing Association clinics and various church h(q pi.  117e front
of the card is used to record information Oa the first vigit whersu the two
facing sides of the inner part are for recording infonuatiip &*tQd4 d4ring
subsequent revisits. All first visit and revisit forms a* seot 4 each
mnth for sorting and processing by the MCII.



ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 8
Table 1
Kezra: First Visits, Revisits and Total Visits by Year
National Program: 1967-72
Tear           First Visit           Revisits        Total
1967              1,519                7,878         9,397
1968             11,711               17,891        29,602
1969             30,303               719967       102,270
1970             35,136              113,695       1148,831
1971.            41,100              138,656       179,756
1972             15,,2o5             172,279       217,1484
Source: IVH, Epidmio1og &' Medical Statistics Section, 1973.



ANNEX 8
Table 2                    Pa&a- 4 of 8
Ker=ya: Percen-rage Di ribution
of First Visiwors ar.d tievisitors
By  9rovi7nce l9c9-,
First Visitors                Haviaitorm
19&9     1970 &O    971               __       19a
National Family
Planning Program .... 82.8     83.8      85.8     65.7      69.6     78.5
Nairobi City
Council .............. 17.2    16.2  ..14.2                18. 3.4   21.5
Kenya Total           100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    2.00.
Central ............ j-.35.8    34.6      32.4.:   38.7     36.       34k0
Coait .... 1.4 ....... 1l.1      9.3      11.5     12.7      10.7     11.3
Eastern.............. 414.2     15.0     15.5      12.3      16.5     16.2
Nairobi.............. 13.3      16.4     15.5      16.4    1.71.7    19_4
Nyanzia..............  *5.7      6.3       7.0      4.0       5.1      5.4
Rift Valley ....... .. 14.8     13.5      12.7     11.5      10.0     .94
Western............  * 4.8       4.9       5.4      4.4 l6            _k.2
Total Natiocal Family
Planning Program ....2.00.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100).0    100.0
Source: G0K, MDH, The K2ga National Famly Planning Progam t The Five
Tw Plan, App            .



ANNEX 8
Page 5 of 8
Tab.e 3
Kenya: Number of First Visitors, Revisitors and
Acceptors by Method and Month
1972
Month              Method                            Method  Accept- First       Re-
*oflt.h     pill  IIMD  InJ  Cnad Others Accptrs Unkr.on  ars   Visitors Visitors
January    2,603  357 176  63    50-        3,249     33      97       3,379    12,775
February   2,572  364  214  63    39        3,252     61      72       3,385    13,027
March      2,900  4.61  226  69    60       3,716     47     107       3,870    14,807
April      2,782  468  256  37    69        3,612     83     101       3,796    14,475
;5ay      2,793  395  213  58    83         3,542     44      94      3,680    164,32
June      2,854  404  248  50    71         3,627     71     163       3,861    14,948
July       2,971  430  284  56   109        3,850     57     168       4,075    15,365
August    3,352  404  267  70    90        4,183      64     131       4,378    15,472
September 2,924  438  224  53   107        3,746      79     166       3,991   15,098
October   3,155  344  241  87  .107        3,934      61     183       4,178    16,624
November  3,066  377  243 55   124         3,865      70     151       4,086   13,756
December  1,995  237   46  47    70        2,395      34      97       2,526   11,296
TOTAL    33,967 4,679 2,638708   979      42,971    704   1,530      45,205  172,279
Definition:
First Visitors - A first visitor is a woman who visits a reporting clinic
for the first time.
Re-visitors - A re-visitor is a woman who attends the sane clinic in which she
is registered as a First Visitor for the 2nd or consecutive time.
Acceptors - Acceptors are those women who visit a family planning clinic and
accept a contraceptive method.
Source: NOR, Epidemiology & Medical Statistics Section, 1973.



Page 6 of 
Table 4
Kenya: Perce-ntage Distribution of AcceDtors
by Age and Contraceptive
Metkiod, 1969
Age                                        PiLl               All
Acceptors
15 - 19            3.3                     5.5                4.5
20 - 24           22.1                    27.14              24.7
25 - 29           29.4                    28.4               28.9
30 - 34           a.1                     17.1               19.1
35 - 39           13.5                    12.0               13.1
40 - 414           6.2                     14.3               5.2
45            1.0                     1.2                1.1
Unkom              3.14                    3.4                3.4
Totala           100%                    100%              100%
Mean              29.2 yara               28.0 year          28.6 years
Source: TNtia mh                                  st Five-Zear Family
r&g- I n gFa, p r



ANNEX 8'
Page 7 of 8
Table 5
NenUfa: Percentage Distribution of AcceDtors By,
Sducation and Cotraceptive Xethod., 199
No. of Years              I                   Pill            Allckoceptors
- 0 -                   27.0                 23.7               25.0
1- 3                     .12.5               13.1               12.7
14- 7                     37.9                 3l.7               36.1
8 - 10                    15.0                 16.8               16.3
11 - 13                     0.4                  2.0                1.3
14                     0.1                  0.2                0.3
unknown                    7.1                  9.5                8.14
Total                    100%                 100%               100%
Mean                       4.0 years            4.14 years         4.3 years
-0ourCe: Nation*l Family Plaziming Program, 'Ms First Five-tear Plan, p. 1-29.



ANNEX 8
Page 8 of 8
Table o
Senya: Percentage Distribution of Acceptors By Number
of Living Chil.dren and Contraceptive
Method. 1969
No. o Cbhildren          IUD                 Pill              All Acceptors
0                        0.3                  3.5              2.1
1                        5.3                  8.2               6.8
2                       10.4                14.0              12.1
3                       14.3                15.3              14.8
14                      13.5                14.1              13.6
5                       15.5                12.9              14.0
6                       13.8                11.4              12.5
7                       11.i1                6.6               8.7
8                        8.6                 5.7               7.2
9                        4.1                 4.3               4.4
10                        3.1                 3.3               3.3
Unknown                  0.1                 0.6               0.5
Total                  100%                100%              100%
Mean                     5.0 children        4.4 children      4.7  h±ildren
Source: National FamiP                    The FirPt Fi-e-Year Plan, p.1-30.



ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 2
Kenya: Breakdown of External Assistance For FY 1969/70
A.   Ministry of Health
Line Item FP/HCH                                   US$ 28,000
B.   Foreign Donors
(1)  British Overseas Development                       78,000
Equipment for Epidemiology and Medical
Statistics Section
Office equipment and 10 vehicles
(2) Ford Foundation
Grant for financing training and educa-
tion
Travel fellowships
(3)  International Planned Parentbood Federation    368,000
Financial support to Family Pl-an3ig Association fianp-ing
Operation of national family welfare center
Mobile teams (7) for family planning
services and traiuing
(4)  Netherlands Government                            126,000
2 Gynecologists
1 Demographer
2 Nurse/Midwives
1 Statistician
1 Cytologist
Clinical Equipment
(5)  Norwegian Government                               12,600
Clinical equipment for 50 family planning
clinics



23R e42iof -2
(6)  Population Council                         $ 1ZIO
1 Medical Adviser and 1 Nurse/
Health Educator seconded by
Ministry of Health
(7)  Swedish International Development Authorit     7Q,O
1 Administrative adviser seconded
to Mlnistry of Health
Contraceptive supplies
(8)  United StatesAgency for International
Development                                   t64,000
1 Health Education Expert
1 Audiovisual Expert
2 Experts contributing to the
Population Cesus
Basic equipmt for the Health Educatda
Uit
3 Vehicles 
Toal                                 s
Souce:   ME,, The Kenya National Family PLanning Progrsm:
Five-YeAr Pla, pp. I-26-27.



ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 3
Table 1
Kenya: Nursing Manoower Requirements
Total No. of Nurses
Required
Health Unit                          Bed/Nurse Ratio      1984/85        1990
(15. increase)
Rural Health Units required
under Rural Health Master
Plan (including relief at
dispensaries)                               -              1,940         2,230
Kenyatta National Hospital               1,600/4             400           400
Other GoveriTunt Hospitals
Ward Staff-                           12,500/5           2,330         2,680
Outpatient Department2                 100,000/3             500           575
(visitors)
Other Hospital Functions
(x-ray, operating theatre,
delivery room)                                               400           460
3/           3
5,570 -      6,34 5=
1/  Bed/population ratio for Government hospitals 0.75-0.80/1000 - 13,700-14,600
beds; taking an average of 14,100 beds and subtracting Kenyatta National
Hospital (1,600) - 12,500. A norm of 1 nurse/5 beds is applied, with
allowance for a lower norm at the mental hospitals.
2/  Norma in a state of flux, but 3 nurses/100,000 visitors a year is reasonable.
3/ These nursing manpower requirements are minimum requirements which leave no
room for qualitative improvements or improving the existin'g bed/population
ratio.
Source: MOH Health Planning Unit.



Table 2
jrnL4. Actiust-. ot IN/Cm Output
(Without Froftrai)
1973    1974    1975    1976    1977U   1978    1/1-6/30  7/1-12/31  1980   19B1   1928   1983   1984   JJ_5
Employment GOK, beginning of year        2.600    2,679   2.767   .,903   3,069   3,287          3.493       3,559   3,628  3,797  3,924  4.047  4.193  4,373
Lese 7.51 attrition                         195      201      208      218      230      247        131         131     272    285    294    304    314    328
Add Churches           -                     75       80       85       90       9S      100        50           50      100    100    100    100    100    100
Less MA                                     110      100       50      -        -        -         -           -        -       -       -       _      _       _
Add COK Output                              309      309      109      294      353      353        147         150      341    312    317    350    394  ~94
Net Addition                           79        88      136     166      218      206         66          69      169    127    123    146    180    166
End of Year                         2,679    2,767   2,903   3.069   3,287   3,493          3,559       3,628   3,797  3,924  4,047  4,193  4,3)3  4,539
EN  - Enrolled Nurse.
CU  - Comcunity Nurse.
KA  - Medical Assistant.
The projections above are based on the following assumptions:
1.  Basic wastage of 7.51.  In Kenya5nurses who have'children tend to return to service soon after child-birth and continue working
even with large feamlies.
2.  Losses to MA training equal 110 In 1974; 100 in 1975; 50 in 1976.
3. No more CNe or ENs vill be recruited for mono-purpose nutrition work.
4.  Recruitment from churches 150, increasing 10 per year to 200 annually.
S.  baseline at the *nd of 1972 - 2,603.
5gu1ce2  MNO, Health Planning Unit.                                                                                                                            ii
4-



Table 3
Keney: Estinate of Output of INlCN
(With ?lrogra)
1973    1974    1975    1976    1971    1978    117-613i      71T          180 *l    1982    1983  198                1985
Employaent GOK, begianLng of year             2,600   2,679   2,767   2,903   3,069   3,287        3,522       3,630     3,739   4,038   4,329   4,572   4.823   5,121
Less 7% attrition                               195     201      208     218      230     247        132         132       280      303     325      343      362     384
Add Clurches                                     75       80      85       90      95      100        50          50        100     100      100     100      100      100
Leass MA                                        110      100      50       -       -       -          -                      -                -       -
Add GOK Output                                  309      309     309      294     353      382       190         191        479     494      468     494      S60      560
Net addition                                 79       88     136      166     218     235        108         109        299     291      243     251      298      276
Total end of year                         2,679   2,767   2,903   3,069   3,287   3.522        3,630       3,739     4.038   4.329   4,572   4.823   5.121   5.392
EN  -  Enrolled murse.
Cm  -  Co unity Eurea.
mi - Medical Assistant.
The projections above are based on the following assumptious:
1. Basic wastage of 7.51.
2. In eDnyalnuraea wbo have children tend to return to service soOm after child-birtb and contiuue working even with large fmilles.
3.  Losses to HA training equal 110 in 1974; 100 in 1975;'50 in 1976.
4.  No nore CNa or ENs will be recruited for mono-purpose  nutritLon work.
S. Recruitment from churcbes 150, increasing by 10 per year to 200 annually.
Baseline at the eand of 1972 - 2,600.
SoWrcta  HLb, 1ealth Planiang Unit.






ANNEX  11
Page lllo; 1
Kenya: Suggested Guidelines for the
Egtabl1{ghmAnt of an Annual Rpqistration
System for Nursing Personnel
1.        An annual registration system for nursing personnel should
include:
(a)   accurate reporting and analysis of the employment an2d man-
power situation of nursing personnel both in the public
and private sector throughout Kenya;
(b)   continuous reporting of the numbers of people entering and
leaving Government service and the .recording of relevant
data such as age, category of nursing personnel, length
of Government service, attrition rates, etc.;
(c)   introduction of an activity code for each health facility;
(d)   annual information :.rom the provincial level as to plans
for upgrading facilities over the next four years, exist-
ing and expected vacancies for rural facilities and hospi-
tals by district, loss rates for various categories of staff;
and, oa those rural health facilities which have or can be
expected to achieve standardized staffing norms; and,
(e)   continuous updited information on the quantity of manpower
produced annually by basic training, the.proportion of man-
power required for rural health services and the quantity
of manpower required in each province.



ANNEX 12
Page -1 -of 1
Kenya: Population Studies and Rese.arch Center
This Center which will be M,used in temporary rented facilities
will help the Evaluation and Research Division of the National Family Welfare
Center        evaluate the impact and effectileness of the family planning
program by providing much needed information amd research findings on the
population problem as it relates to (a) denographic and socio-economic
interrelations; (b) determinants of fertility; (c) demographic aspects of
urbanization and internal migration; (d) quality .of the envirornt; (e) health,
nutrition, mortality, and morbidity; and (f) basic data. The Contar will also
train researchers in demography and population policy. It will have a core
staff of 11 including a director, a c1eputy, three senior research fellow, two
junior fellows, four visiting research fellows, and some 16 research assistants
who are MA and Ph.D. candidates. The Center will house two seminar rooms with
20 places each, a lecture room with 40 places, 8 rooms for the research assist-
ants, a reference library, space for 16 student carrels, a cartographic section,
accommodations for the Director and Deputy Director, one secretary, one copy
typist, a common room, and space for tabulating machines, etc.



OAA
FY 1975-79
1. onaPTuA Co052
1. 0  ZhL~    C e                        t          l I__, dt Y *    *    Y                 2Y            4 *            s                  , hf |4intl
i2n te      1 .lc.Q  t                              0id.)
1..  1.6                  dl
S. 96W   20 1II".$                  4.052.230   561,280                                                                                                 1,4.4        104.1      3,349.1      16,204.8
3.       us- 0 fls                   2.92,e   425,000                                                                                                     2,290.0     520.0      1c100.0       I.2)0.0
t.1.2 IsslIb  i4
.. I.1 J.2(l  Ctft* 40)              1.402,30   232.120                                                                                                   4.017.z   2,090.3      *r 1.9       4uers.11
I2#t.t1hfl8Lre C.ns1.  _
1.1.3  Ic                                   1.497 It"   341,920                                                                                                   222.3      108.6       362.9        2497.1
1.2.4 _"t.1 l  100 m.ts-Xo                  ,430,600   35s200 m2A..                                                                                                          106.4       95.2         3450.9
1.1. . _    Itil    1t1 ea D 0,1t           2032,030   94,3S0                                                                                                    210.1        8.4         194.3       3,032.1
1.1.6  U..dI, l1.68t £22.2.                  8.244   121.240                                                                                                       99. 0      38.2       122.2          8176
1t.    1.1                                                                                                                                                       908".6  326446.6    lt.95.4         $393712.3
;-.1  ItlKot _dtg            .
1.1.. Nw. 4.1.1-3 8o.l
a. l_ -   031.o rt--                   400200o   s.000 ec.                                                                                                             46.4        232.0        1,400.o
*, 3.,, - 1no r             7me   2,000                                                                                                                      42.4       10.4        92.0    '     3.9.a
i.1.2. 5_62( C.ew-.
a. N8wa1 Nw1( C_tw 30)                  49U,4      1.200                                                                                                    12n.0       43.2       214.0        1,490.4
| ha-  t-tl tf rs C nt.r _
L}I.U ilC                                   20,10    29,00                                                                                                        23.2       S.0          29.0         200.1
1.1.4. UIoet.  f  100 Tralrn                  i408 e o       g                                                                                                     16.4       4.6          23.2         240.2
I.1.S1. Nw13    ClI   Ihit 9t0,040   27,o000                                                                                                                       1)9.2     34.8         1)4.0        1,200.6
l.i.6. F1lw  *LmA  Cl                          e e       *.0  &.e                                                                                                    7.0?     1.7           4.7           60.0
b..l 1..                                                                                                                                                           388". 0   14.           134.9       9,070.2
m bta1 civil Nwt (1.1 od 1.2)                                                                                                                                    9,09.4  3,703.1       12o890.3       66,43.1
fvt'l4 tmttn&J                                                                                                                                                     497.1    11U.1          710.2       *@@00.4
Ita. Cet2._qw                                                                                                                                                    WJI LIA J             iJU          ..IIs.
Ywt.. Ctitl Ibw9                                                                                                                                                1224"4 4    S219.S      141676.9     121,966.5
II



NY  Y.. *   r7   Y * * 
UICV 0*  2                                   3      4        S       0        1                                                                    __ 3  C T  Luat  p...  _____
Rua?tvol*"t I" ?loeverF                                                                                  1.0   22. 3    12.6     .4      .4      1.2          -          39.5        20.5         196.6
b. 3~Iuft_*l.. £ sen lo .. - 
?bt   u4t E    OUlt Is                                                                                  I1.    15.7       0                           _,18.                               .,9.
Subtotal 1.2.L                                                                                           1.0  149.7   18.3    10.5    4.4        4.5          -         116.5       156.5       1.286.7
1..2grnetPt-t  - CtBleJ44
1139tt Clt 11s            4,500       5|0        -      3100    100     100.    S0      50        -      50.0   SS.0   S0.0  2n.o 20.0                           232.:       231.0       l.600.0
TL. ?1A Clinics                   5.000        t50        -       0                                                                                                        2  7 - ^ _    6-?.k    .l_4  2e,  _As.
x.buotal 5.2.2                                                                                           -       3.5   535.0   70.0    39.0   37.5            -         33.6        253.4        174'.'
Sbte.l 3.t                                                                                                 1.0  21!.5    74.    51.3    33.4   31.4             -         43.9        43.0         3,028.3
32  htis. con.l go.y C_.W 4.ede  &.lly (Ir l-S)                                                                    -      10.5     7.6   12.0      1.2   19.6           -          57.0                      396.0
l02  l,ysical C..tiqs.ey - 5wlse  1.1.1. .3y (Yr l-S)                                                               ___ -           5.3    7.1      2.      1._                     191         19 I          131 A
ro.ll 1.2                                                                                                     1.0  222.1    87.7  101.2   43.5   60.3              -         315.5       515.6        3,558.9
9. A~I.altr.(1                                                                                              2.9 *    .7     3.6    21.5     -         ..5  25.5                          35.0         241.5
b {-§ | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10  2 .1                                               .1   *.4                            -                                    § .6    6t. 2
1.3    .7    -       10.5     -         -          -          12.6         12.6          51.9
d. I3ot.'tloa O td.c.tI.
t) 1X*2,for.ctt  0 tiu...tl  .Div                                                                        1.2     2.0 t          11.1               -                      15.4        15.4         106.3
1I) BuIth zj.atliaw  *it                                                                                          3.2    4.4      2.5     -         -          *.S          1.6        10.4          71.5
*. Clerica services                                                                                                                                                            . ,7    _  ,  ,7  .7      4,.
5  t.°.I  1-5.1                                                                                          *.2   15.4    0.2    S3.9        -         -         14.3        89.4        83.7          57?.5
3.3.2  ?JwLsim Office* (Dtu. 0
1.4     .7      .o      .3              ,            -           3.2         3.2           22.1
4. 0WO                                                                                                      .    Jf.    2.0   4JJ                                           303.6    _103.            734.9
Sd.. 1    .131.2                                                                                         1.4    29S   23.5   52.1        -       -            -          10.0        104.a         736.9
1.3.3 IIl.5t 1Ousti
*I-& ?ttt_  .1.0                                                                                            -      40.0   U0.0   45.0    25.0   25.0             18.0       172.0       194.0       1,13E.4
Ss%m.a.d 5.3.3                                                                                           -              U.1    "8.0  1.2    25.0    35.2 3I.0            203.3       215.S       1S,14.5
5.ht.t-4    *.S                                                                                             7.4  104.5   so 0   137.2    25.0    25.2            30.1       371.7        409.0      21828.9
A     y  (byr 3-5)                                                                                                   3.3             20.4      .4     7.S          4.2        48.0         31.2 310.I
sel  lt.1m1                  r 2t-S)                                                                                -    s       {t t-    1.5.  .M.    i.    L.           iL       ..L          .*.          §     .
teS  5.2                                                                                                       1.      p.2   96.2  216.3    51.9   24.7             37.2       43.7        490 9       *}9.q
5i



FY Y  .                                          F* *rY yO a *F
.....IMIZ_COIIL. __        0       1        2       1       4        5        0        1       2        3       4        S       lcal        '4"w         I.. T _t_    ._ TO_
1.4  V.l cI.
1.4.1 t   W                                                                                                                                         .                                         66664
V6lbcIv (2-.*e41 d8ilv)           IS000        2.110       1        1       _        I      _       _         2.2     2.2      -       2.2      -                                              6.6           45.5
nicorLb.                           30.000       43150       -        1       2                  _       _      -      1.1       6.7      -                -                        21.          21.           150.4
Ito.at i  4 Educatlion -
t71tb Z-I o Ibtt
4-&w,.1 birv                    40.000        S.lt0                1               3                                17.4      -      17.4      -       -                         14.8        34.5           240.1
Ciasc  Vans                     30.000        4.350                         1      2                                4.4      4.3     8.7      -                                 1.4          11,4          120.1
F..Ily I4qtrta  "bit. Uait    6S< *           q.4pn                3       1       4       -                        2 28.    26.1   317.7      -        -            -            4          94.3          650.
Iq.tur L.41i&l (2-iw--I
dti..)                        tS,000        2.170       _        2       2       2                                 A- 4.    4.3     4.3      -       -                         12.S        12.9            89.0
t oot...                         2. am          410       -        I                                         -       44               .        *4                                  .6           .S            6.5
Subtotal 1.4.1                                                                                                 2.2    70.1    45.6    10.3       .4              -                186.6        166.6        1,301.5
1.4.2  pgm.p. a LA-3s L  .L6
(41.4t.  Jri&v  vobt.e)           40.000        S 60!       -                I 3      -      _       _         -               17.4     -        -        -                         '4          17.4          130.1
1.4.) t14E.1 s11- oij      tlzs
talatctaS.holas
S.  t.satb Center  AIdIri.0
Obu80 for mr.c Ireipiai
scbools
2 tor 200 plte * hool _d
I fqr 100 pIaIC  schol        30.000       4,3l0        -        10      -       6       -       -         -      43.5      -      34.6               -            -           76.)         76.1          540.3
b. 4-wboel vehcles. for .ra                                                                                                                                                           4
mloa.1b Ceotar.               40.000        5.00                 -       -       30      -       -         -       -        -     174.0      -        -    _                  174.0        174.0        1 201.6
SW.1l1 1.4.3                                                                                                        45- 3.    -      208.6     -        -             -         252.3        252.3        1.740.9
1.4.4  svce          .
A Vrbl ler for U.... T/S
2v-b1l Jrlve vebjldes          1U.000        2,170       -        22      a        4      -       6         -      47.7    17.4       8.7     -       13.0           -          66.8         66.6          398.9
6. 9I.4.1. for rflo.
2-iAA.*1 &lwt Vehiles.         15000         2.170       -        17     11        6      5       5         -      36.9    23.9    17.4'   10.9    30.8                         69.9         99.9          6d9.3
a. Habit.E ChiDr
4C."Its C ivse whIcl.          40,000        1 0          -        5       -      12      -        -        -       2.0  --          69.4      -       -             -           68.6        96.6          660.3
Subtotal 1.4.4                                                                                                -      113.6    41.1    65.7    10.9    21.8             -          265.3       285.3        1.966.5
Idtaotal  1.4                                                                                                      2.2   221.2   104.3  3174.6    11.3    23.6              -          743.6        743.6        5.1301.8
sI nr I. Cot  ajency tun.os.Ad
Aaa_lly  (r. l-S)                                                                                                  -      11.4    10.7    59.1       2.4     6.6           -           90.2         90.2          622.4
101 ISysiral Cetlsarcy (Tr 2-5)                                                                                                  -       10.4    31.5      1.1      1.3          -           51.3 11.1                  354.0
Total  L4                                                                                                           2.2   235.6   125.4   471.4    14.8    32.7             _          t65.1        685.1       6;107.2
04.L C0ltn   03fl                                                                                                                 10.6   569.9   309.3   7d2.9    91.2   127.7        12.410.6      7 137.4    19.568.0      135,026.0
o II
_ 



2 I  Ad~~~~~~~~~i11u~~~~~~~41~~~                                          2        'j.
1.1.:  %F~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~51                                                                                                                                                                                           KI
a. A111A0.1sea
261",                          383,720       41.440                 I        I                -                20.7    41.4    41 4    20 7         -        -31.0                      9J.;I       124.2          837.0
100tcaI 0lilcar (3am)           240.000       34,100                 I        I                                 17.4    34.0    14.8       -                 -2.8                       63.2         87.0          800.3
ftbik  $14..Ih Owsr, (242'9    180,000       26.080         Pj       I       I                                  13.0    26.1    13.1       .                 -            130          .L'J-     ...1.3            360.3
S..boIawlb)                                                                                                   30.4      0.9O  -47-.8     -        -                     34.8         106,46       239.3          860.3
6A.1l..r 424104                200,000        36.230                 I                        -        -        18.1    36.2    1.                     18.1                WI24.31                   72.4          499.8
. OoloatIm, 4 16.*a.clh
Se.ner Adnlatr (24M$)          284.000        41.440        P-                                -20.7    41.4    20.1                        -                                0.7         62.3         M2.            IIII.3
J..nlor AMSts*  (2420)          220,000       36.210        -        I        I       -                          -      36.2    36.2       -        -16.1                               34.)7.                       9.
Sy.t-. A.aIy.t 16M0)            160.000       23.180        -                                 .                                   3.2                                       J - -  .8   17.4         131           '1,601
S.bLOWa  (8)                                                                                                  30.     776    80.2I    -           -        -44.6                     133.8        178.4        2,231.0
S.Iso..adlo  61 U..catlo
AdoIser (36*0)                 210,000       36,230                 I        1       I                                  36.2    36.2    36.3       -                      27.2         82.3        120.7           710.0
A4.leac   N..1th Ed...t024
11.10 (36.0)     230.000       36.330                 I        I        I                                 36.2    16.3    36.2        -                     27.2          81.3        108.7          710.2
Aa.l..r - 3altll FA.,cstIo.
Ur!t  ~      220,000       36,230                 I        I        I      -                           62    36.2    36.2         -                      7.2         83.2         108.6          749.3
I. as. Tutor.
J,"Iv*r*  ~    ~        18,932        26,080        -                         2       2        2                                                    SU.jj    .21 _~I  W ) 1,    ,,,J,jL  1,,.JI.           .7
TOW.  (2.23                                                                                                            89.8   324.7   296.2   28.6    32.2    32.2               242.2         747.6        896.7        6,877.1
2.2 st.d.J.a
a.  82.47 oan 9.a.l..  Hoop-r (128l)         280,000       42.020        -2                         -                         -        -       42.0      -                 .            20.4          31.6         42.0          M8.8
b.  loaooton      an  ..... ch 8t0410. C0
be ndrta0r.h. by 6IWC .Irb U24.it-
pity *I Na.a.bi                                          -                                                -                       -      100.0      -        -33.0                              73,0         100.0           680.0
C.  Studios fot IPO&Fr   1-1-utiOn
V.2000-o  S1s.   otlr                                                                                                           02.3     -       20.7      -                     22.2                      122.284.
Follow- loSaroy A-   2or83.0                                                                                                                      -       20.0    25.9            96.9          -86.8                       9.
Acetan Reseer.b                                                                                 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    4.3    23.2    29.0    29.0    18.0
misc. 6 Coacllnaarnl.                                                                                                 .....   .J1 JJ             2.        43      2.             24.6                      124.6          830.7
So24,tal (b3                                                                                                                I3337    37,7    0        -j- .Yf               ....4L1                       6.              6.
Vogel M2.2                                                                                                                     1523.1   178.7    64.2    12.       22.3          433.8        206.6        343.4         3,742.6
2.3 Yellwob1ps
a.  lu.2.a.iA - (I0 )44)                      30,000        4,350        -        I                 2       -        -                 4.3      -        4,3      -423                                              4.3            3
b.  Ido.-t1 &m UocdaIS.o (15 a  M)            30.000        4.330        -                                           -         -       '..43             -        --                                    .            .
3 "a-I"  fttCfdt  (3420)               880,00        22,800                 111  -                                      -       2.6    11'.6    12.4                                           34.8         34.8           140.1
4 *lu-opto.   cooo.a (2480)             80.000        1.230                 2   2        3   2                                  14.3    14.5    24.2 S                                         43.3         43.g
4 t1re-9.th ob..rw.2m  (13043    W0000                4.330                 1        -       -       I        -                                                                                2 7.4         1.
EShloael (C)                                                                                                                                                                                 _u,-&                    .I    1
23 thfre-a.nh (4044)                   30,000        6,330                          S         S      S                                                                               .      *j,Jil45
Told 83  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~                                                                                                                       LLL.~~~~~~R~    .I 6.
Total 1.3                                                                                                 52~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4.4 3.8    32.3  17 --289                     291I1,
10181. TEOUIICAI ASSISTOiCI                                                                      88.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~499    322.9   523.1   397.8   146.4   224.4  884.8  1,033.8  2,708.8      22,789.3



111,  (VtIFS CO7YS
FY  V * *                                         rY Y a A e
Unlt roots                      1       2        1       4                                  2 O   I      3      *     5         Ltwl -       .v;         f-r-I.          Total
3.1 I"
D1 Olrector' OMia c    Stafi
a Salarie. & Allane.,.
Dirfactor                       60.000       5.690   ~ s           2        a       I        I       2        4.3     S.1 I    5.7      5.7     S.1 I    5.1          42.5                      41.5           325.5
bo*4ty  l..s.ter                SO.O         7.240                2        I        1 i             1        7.2      1.2     7.2      7.2      7.2      t.2         43.2                      412            29551
S;r.tory       l              1500          2.170 (              A        4                4       A       2 1   7 20.      20.3    20.       2       20.2    -                 1414.                     -iti-I
101 Ak1_-                                                                                                    _<*      -14    _7'  1' A&                  -2 LA   - _A_                                           79
11.1    22.4   'ii3  i-i2.1    22  -2 22             -      i                     I  ....L.    ..2.1L
Tota.l 3.1.1 (t20  OlI.wec- tr  o... 127) 1acros s       saIlay st)                                            14 S    24.4    24.S    24 4    24 4    24 4            !1  ti          -         IIC.9           5.1
3.1.2 t-t.sWtratirm
S. la2terit & Alleaaara.
.cc.t/s.... Ott.                14,000        2.320               I1                  I      I I              1.2      2.3     2.3      3.2      2.2     2.3          12.4            _          12.4     -       .SA
0U 81. r;_SOO                               2.170                         I        I               I         .2      2.1     2.       2.2      2.2     2.2 2S.5 32  Si 1
Libraries                 ,     2.000         2,460                                  a       1        I       -   .  2.3       2.1      .5.      2.3     2.5           22.3          -            2.3           56.3
1046por                          7000         I, 1.010                               I       I               -        1.0*     1 0      .        .      1.'            S.l          -            3.2 II.2
trtr,aw                          4 000          o70                J        S        S       I        S        .4      S.,     4.4      4.4      4.3     4.3           20.4           -          20.4          140.4
S.rr.utAIJjlttaI                 8,5o0          t5O               I        I       I        I        I        .4      1.0     1.5    130        1.0     1.0            5.4          -            3.4           37.3
Cisp,t1psIt                      6,0             5O0       I       I        2       2        2       2          a      2.5      .0 t     .0      2.0     2.0          1to.            -          10.5           74.S
22..  kstIC1.s.           X      4. SW           3.0    . SO           I 1         -4      .4                -7      -- 4.4   -A-       .0   -Aq    .44            ..4           .          43.4               261 S
Srwteal ()                                              4       127      19      1i      i2       1         *.4    15.      1.S       t. It   1t IS   105.         101.            *         101.9           70J3.
ROIL Ai tlemw.-r-                                                                                                     -A        IA    .4.1    --L   2    4          _' L. I      .         _t                    70_ 1
1.1.2  (.2~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                                                       21.5    22.5          115.1-                                     3.
b. Nt-Wemsc  & SuVrly Cost
0t1.. 5p.t..1                   20,000        2.500                                                           2.2      2.*     2.0      2.9   S.I        2.i          1l.1            -          16.7          221.2
Offie 22.I.sor. -  2 C-.tr,.cts Coat - S00 d.al.s rental lscra.l   by 100/yr.                                1.4    12.       2.2      2.3      1.2     1.2           22.0           -          22.0          12.
thitlo, (3.) Om1                71 SOO        1.00                                                            2.0      2.2     2.2      2.2      2.1     3.2          12.                        12.9           59.0
IN.M.1,2.            Omlsa-- ) 004  5.00      1.230                                                           -        J.2     *.1      *.1      *.2     6.1          25.2                      28.2            28.2
5..l OE.1   es 10  1 *.C.t6std cms6trwcte cost                                                                                                  I-                                                            L""
W.tot }42  i f 13 t5.2    42.4    15.4    15.4           1.3            - _       44S6.5       3145.8
67.4   173.3   i0.0 I      4.3    48.2    41.4          365.5           -         365.5        2,923.4
1.tal 3.1.2 (101 sliastrc  tc- te.r 15M  tlcra... t1  .*alar  scale)                                      74. 1    M2     155.0      0.7    44 .2    45.5         65.3            S2S.3                  4031737
3.2.1. ftrJt.tC 5.11
90.  4ll&ctceIt at               0.000        S.IIO0      -        *        I       I                                                                                    1 -  .  1  . 2  S  17 4  27.          2 20.1
202 AIIcs......~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  -d                                                           -1                         251            -           25.2          232.5
I.t.t 3.1.3 (102  il-ma._e low tt._ 1213 Incra.se Lo salry st*a.)                                                    C.S     7.0      7.0      -                     20.5                      20.5          144.5
3.1.4 Cliital S-rtIc.o Di..
a. Sla2ria* * 622o.asv
216..2-  OMt1-.. -. 3I.-.5      * 40,000      .5O  s tO                             I       1        I       2.9      1.5      3.5      3.5     3.       3.            2.59          -          31.5          2t0.I
I-Ali,r *.a1Ck Murat9s 760.0000                   0                2        *       2        2       2        14       1.        .      S.5      1.5      S.5          30.4           -30.4                    209.5
S.orc.rtr ypl2t 5,500                           550o     -A        2      .         4                                                 .4          4                    21.s 12..1_
S~.be    4 loO (O _II   21                                               -S                       2 1    _   S   2   0  4.1    13.6  0   2.4    13.5    13.,         72.8           -           *            302 .
Tottl (a)                                                                                                   3.3    14.5    24.9   12.0   i2.0    13.0                50.1           -          SO           S32.7
b. Wat;tso.ce 4 SWply Cast                                                                                        j               .        .Z    --             I       ...          .    . 7.-                      26.9
3.6    1s.,    1M.      23.7    15.5    23. 7           "4.0           -           4.0           575.
Total 3.1.4 (203 .2.... 1.w I0r     . 21271 1'.....  t-. ..I.y tc-l-l)                                     6.2    17.2    17.1    11.2    17.4    17.3              92.5                      92.5          538.3
ii



rlY r * * .9 Vr r . .
_ Unu ifJv at.        0        I       2       3        4       5        0               2        1-      4        5        Loca l      r.i Fo _     T.tel          Total
32L._       bStr                  Ego l4yaIc~I l Uttal                     __              os~5j(OO )        _      _                    USS (     l  --s los
3.1.5  Ibal.9a Dlweinii
a. Salaries * Allow~a.9
D5v1l,le  Chief                 40,000        S.00 l        o              I          I     I       I        2.9     5.5     ).8      5.5     5.8      S.S         It 9                      31.9         221
rallning Ottilcer               30.00        4I350       -       I        I       I        I       I        -       4.3     4.'.    4.3      4.4     4.3          21.7          -          21.7          149.7
TraLa5oS Asslatsa               20,0r0        2,9O0       -       I        I       I        I       I        -       2.9     2.9      2.9     2.9      2.9         14.5          -           14.S         100.1
lrai.1ms Materlal Otticet       24,000       31450                 I       I       I        I       I        1.9     3.S     3.5      3.S     3.S      3.5          19.4         -           19.4          133.9
&mijowtsl Otticer               24,000        3,480       -       I        I       I        I       I        -       3.5      3.5     3.5     3.S      3.5         17.5          _           11.5         120.8
latroctora                     )0,000       4.350        1       2        3       3        3       3       4.4      8.7    13.0    13.0    53.1    13.5           65.3          -          6S.3          '50. 6
Secretary/T7pLt                  6.S00          910       I       2        2       2        2       2         .9    1S      2.0      2.0     2.0      2.0         10.8          -           I0.O           74.5
Clack                            5.000          320               2~    _IA       -1      -_I     __I    .....    ..J_A  _..4    1..L '-            _L_              7.s          - -    ....Zi52.4
Sitot.i (a)                                                    it       12      52       12      12   U 0.S       32.0    36.5    34.4    34.7    38.4          588.1                    207.4        1,302.7
102Al 41a.ce                                                                                                   15      32      3.6      3.      3.        .          5.                       20.810 
Total (a)                                                                                                 55.4    35.2    44.1    40.0    40.4    40.3           207.8                    228.4        T37.4
b. Pisateaaoe  &5Spply Cost&
NIleae Allowace                   0.0S           14    '0.0b0  55.000  35.000  35.000  3S.000  35.000       5.5   - 5.l      S.5     5.1      5.0     3.0          26.5 6                   26.5          184.
Offlce Sopptll                  53000           720       -       -        _       _        _       _         .4      .1       .       .1      .7       .7          3.9                       3.9           26.9
Tr-l-ing latarisl/qluap.at
(estlmated      -a)                                                                                     ..JA s*J S               *3   _ 2.          2            27 S          -          27.5          159.8
Total (1)                                                                                                  3.3    20.3     5.7      5.7     3.4      9.4          54.2         -           44.1         401.6
14.9    5S.5    48.5    45.7    49.0    48.9          245.8          -         264.6         10,34.0
Total 3.1.S (tlt allwanca foe  NM. 19713 J crcaaa to alary Scala)                            .           16.4    61.1    52.7    53.6    53.9    53.8           292.5                    292.5         2,017.6
3. I.6   wIattom 4 Useearcub D1v.
a. Salarlie & Allewuace,
DIw5a10, lead                   40,000        5,5                 I I      1       I        I       1        2.9     5.8     5.0      5.0     5.8      5..          31.9         -           31.9         20.
leloer   e barch Oftlcer        30,1o         4.350               I        I       I        I       1        2.2     4.3     4.3      4.3     4.4      4.4          23.9         _           23.9         16b.9
3aea rcb Offie r                24.000        3.480       '       2        2       2        2       2        1.8     7.0     4.9      *.9     6.9      6.9         36.4          -           2a.4         251.2
Oeaarcb AeIst4amt (Srrvay
saupelvsor)                   12,00         1,740       1       3        3       3        3       3        1.7     3.2     S.I      5.2     5.2      3.2         27.4          -           27.6         190.4
Nachia. Oprstair                14,000        2.320       P        I       I        I       I        I       1.1     2.2      2.3     2.3      2.3     2.3          12.5         -           12.5           S6.2
Ka7 ?hMcb9r/TarZt{l4            10,600       15530        1       4        4       4        4       4        1.3     4.2     *.1      *.1     4.5      4.1         32.1          -           32.1         221.5
rogrart                         14000         2.029 O  0          I        I       I        I       I        1.0     2.1     2.1      2.0     2.0      2.0          it.2         -           11.2           77.3
Sgatlatical Cl                   4.000          to        P       2        2        2       2        2        .S     2.0      2.0     2.0      2.0     2.0          50.5         .           50.5           72.4
Coder                            7. o         I 010                2 2     3        3       3        3        .3     2.0      3.1     3.0      3.0     3.0          14.4         -           34.4          100.7
5.cr.ieryITyplat  4,500         950     ,J        .~~~~~         ~~     ~~~1 ,J  --  -1  ..J  30   ...LI                                                                    21.2         ,49
lob S  (ra)t I 000g it                                                  26      20       20      20       14.2        8.7      40.    5   -04                    MA_1     I                1             5071.'
10  Allm.ame oca                                                                         44                           1J 43                                         21.  ,  2.  __                          549 !
Tc4al (a)                                                                                                 t5.6    43.4    44.7    44.5    44.7    44.i          i              *-         237.8        1.440.1
h.
b, NIoaoaca 4 S*Wly esz
Office Suplies                  10,00         I,45t0               I       I        I       I        I        .8     1.4      1.3     1.5      1.4     1.4           8.0          -           5.0           35.2
MSe Sil eaoeA                      0.05          14c 24 5.000   .000   5,3000   3,00   5, 000          ,000   .4       .7      .7       .7      .7        7          3.9          -           3.9           26.S
rQotae  1   Ct                                                                                              1.2     I        $.0      .0      7.9                  401        9 -           4209          *i.
58.8   5".3    32.7    32.5    32.4    52.4            278.7         -          278.7        1,922.9
total 3.1.6 (10  all*waac   or MY. 1973 worasa in malwy   alao)                                         15.5    34.7    58.0    57.4    37.5    37.5           304.6                   . 306.4       ,1S.1
Ma b,talog   t,ratle, gil eer dad 4V81o-eiasal ofIfcer wll be aaeiSDAd ta so# egcrawt:  for by tl
Oeath Sawcateim, "it.  a, t_e mm facility is enqlat.
.,



a      a -~~~~~~~~~~
t ffi i [X i[ F~~~~rt;Fir  
I 2                    A
II; 111
-  -  -   in*~- -     ----      ----   
~~~~~~~~~1, .I,,",Idt .-**-*|F--                                 ,. Ce. ____   c
.-------------------                         -                         ------         -
1._.ws,"~-------_-------"-----*--- _ ___ 
L. ------- -----                         -- --                       -                  -
L . wC               -  .o *                     -                                    -  2
.   ... ....-...     ....    -... ...      ......J                . 
- 1.___      .___ . O   . . _.     . _                     - .-  . . .                  °
p            -~ ~-^r--- --r-r                                >rr. * 5 e .tka   i-  . -.  alo..2n 
o 1_ -_*o  -_ _ o0~    - - -- -- - -             - - - --
I-_*,fwF~,a*~*r-"--w*^    S, a -   lmoe--a
° o~          O~*,~_,_~,ro0*s                  S,_  
,  W W_g-O*gr,,*-*_~,*,.~,r-,r,_**t*            SSU ,,, Iiz,      w        I
1      S      n      fl                        l                11U Il4b 
- I    O* 0  .e*SC,AO'..°             * _ __ _S              e  _  _ _Y .les° .  °  ..
-~~~~~~~~~~ ~   4__    -r4_-r_*So_r~~og       O@~*        ~_           
Z1 w t d.a---
tl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                      -     ;;L-



0  I  2   3       4       3         1       I       ~       ~~~~~~~ ~~~~                       ~~ A14   - 4  1  I.  7er.333n  I3  Ao) 
At1CorS~.vpIIr                                                                                                    I.6     2.1     2.9     3. 2     3           13.7 I                   1 3.           94. 3
lrSetlasIo...                                                                                                             I      .3       .       3       .3                       1.0         1.0            6. 9
a'" II 0                                                                                  S~~~    ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.2    37.6 3.1    23. 2    26.196  go  35.         690. 0
Holstetr26 bi    .k.,O                                                                                                  2.9     4.4     4.2      S.:     1.:         23.6                     23.6          162 a
NehuteoIra                                                                                                              2.8     4.6     1.3      6.     6.5           6.I          -           6.1          164.2
.fit Iss   Prtgee4.otr                                                                                           .9     2.3     3.2,    3.2        3     3.2          1.0                      Is. a824.2
UrIlule  &                                e.t  -8eid3 rtCAi6                                            6       --      44       431     821     81       88          34                       34.           140.1
2-Mba.. of Ive 6   o1~.0 9..130)                3070          -       2       4        4       4       .3               2.2     4. 4    4.3     4..3   3.            *1.                                    ISO. 104
800.red                                600          80soI                                       I       1                 1       .        3      .3       .            ~-.                                    4.3
cbLit. Witu                          11,000      3,240                 S 2     2                        231                       .      3.1    :3.3      I 3.S       32.66                    I2,           1323.4
Cl..  Iao                            10.000    . 3410       .A       ..1      2        -                4              _.Li ..J __ I2    -~    4...     __.J          fl1                    - . 9           36
X~.Lteto  ()                                                                                                 2.3    335       21      32     2.8    31.3I         301:O                                17335  M
Tena! 3.3.2 a  (t0x allownace fog No. 3923 60t0rms l.a "lay seats)                                                19.4   162.2   212.9   264.6   312.0   319.3        1,369.2          1.1     1,320.9        9,419.2
Icete  332.                                                                                                       87.3   393.0   2413.   313.0  340.4   347.7         3.5138,          3.7     1,120.6       10,492.1
180a) 3.1                                                                                                            2319.1   310.3   399.5  343.8  338.3   346.3         2,993.6          1.2     2.981.s       20,626.6
awst6e. Il                     4,00       3,450        3       6        6       6       1        6      31J.4   20.9    20.9    20.9   20.9    20.9           123.9         -          1239           541.1
MvO                           26,000      ,.120        3       3        J       3       6        6      11.3    39.9    38.8    36.8    22.6    22.6          Ili.#                    132.9          729.0
DelI.L                         6,000        910                                                                                                                toj... .   2 .4 .4 .2     I             04-U1iI
5c3.rotel (.3                          12~     ~~~     ~~~     ~~~     ~ 1i  37  3?  15  18  32.3    449 4.         .     48.1    46.1         23tu                                      i 
Total (a)                                                                                              W1S     9. 49.4         49.4    313.3   s.9           90.8                                2,0.
3.2.2  blitrict Lavel Wfile"
a.   elegle. 6 Alk",eeco
Boo.. 115                     39.000      2,230        1      26       36      40       40      40      16.2    "4.t    63.3    92.6   92.7    92.7           442.8                     W 4.8a      3.611.)
Vig0                         2o.000       2,90 gm              I       22      33       40      40       3.2    34.2    61.1    99.9   336.0   316.0          426.0                    426.0        1,939.6
bolver                         6,000        870      .        20      .3      .16     2!               __L.2   4LA    _Ll    _11-   .I~_S                 M~ 2 1         .ZA4                       1.214
Sobzi.1e3 (.3                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~21.4   131.0   172.4   134.0  241.9   23.  3,035.8  .1.62 ..  2,009.0
601 Al e.ee1e                                                                                            -.U.  II  JUJ14 Mi4  IL                              .!ai             o        _-0A            79I4
Tetal (a)                                                                                                                                                 3,3132 9.  1;1  -; 21.  1.4I-T.Il
3.1.3 Holeaommoca 4 5Spvlp Cast*
Ofilt* suoi.pe.                  400         60         -       828    34.34    4243    4446    4646     -        3.1     2.1     2.6     2.1      2.9          12.2                      625.
lfiles&.                                     14i     1,000  12,400  30,3300  15.000  35,000  33.000        .7     3.9     2.3     8.2     2.2      2.8          13.3                     *.i            8.0
0  36Veicle.                                         -        26       34      42      46                                                                                                        1 14.44.14M  21 
S.btotsl (a)                                                                                            .1    34.0    43.2   431.
0613ce8.q,ltee          ~~~~400      60          I       31      25      36      46       4       .        .3     3.2     23      290      290         33..                     13.2           21.1
Nileeg                                       14.    290.00  23,000  23,000  23,000  23,000  23,000       1.      3.1     3.1      3.1    3. 3    4.            18.0                     Is1.#         114.2
3,300500  121  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~    ~      ~      _        _J      22.3*-4I               -14          - I                     -i-W__         ---
tetal 3.2.)                                                                     8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~.4    14.1    68.2    21.5    92.8    95.8  298.5      3M0.6   8,253.
IjeKal 3.2                                                                                                     89.8   2291.8   301.1  360.8   419.1   420.3        3,502.0         .          W1,7.0     38,465.2
Total 3.8 (30  milweecoc for flee. l9?) lecree.e Io clery $..I.)                                              90.?   29.8   399.3   48. 8   343.0   146.4          8,149.31                 81.49.3      18,148.2



0014 c..c.           o       1       2       3      4       5       0       1       2      3       4       s        La";       V           T.ll          Tlotal
..151.    ..Jl...                   (I. ehvolc.3 ttol1.5                              022 W000l)                                W13 (@09)                     EISh
3.3 3w.Ice Iplete~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ut 00h                                                                                    '
3.3.1 Vised CIllce
8. saIrlee 4 611 c.s
CU                             1*000 am     .01        -    100    200    300    130    400           -     101.4  20L9   3L.1  3$5.0  405.7          1. 3".       -          1. US 3     O.44.2
81113                  5*~~~ ~      ~~~~400  190  -  200    400    000    100    am151.1  314.4  432.0  550.4  401.3                          2,13.0                 2,325.4    t4.634.2
tf*#           J co           7§0       -    Zo~~~~~~~~~~~~~o too    ISO    lto    200      ls.        s *1.so*s                      tls                        a.*       4'S  9s
CUrkt2y,ist                    6000          W10              s 50           ISO 0   15    200              40.5   90.0  130.4   12.1  173.6            58.          56.1                   4,8.9
8.,tbtsl (a)                                     -    350    10   I.0    1,22S   1.400          -    2          I..2   401.5   90.7 17..  1.200.8  479.                4 079.      2W 1.3
101 £Iloaect                                                                                                 1.  ee.7  90.7   105.U  120.9              40L.0 .W.0                       J4jjt2
T1o0l (.,                                                                                         -    329.1  868.2   91.4 1.1431. 1,321.7        4417.9        -         4.4*7.     30I 6.5
4. "Biecasmce S Sqply Leek.
01.. S."atl as5 .o 510                                 -    100    200        0     350    400               50.   305.4 1   52 50. 0 IQ  202              .                      5.2 
1.4.3 3.5.1                                                                                      -      7.I  7696 5IAq.6 1,501.5 2520.6          S,379.1                 5.173133    3.9
1.3.2  13.b1le CMltaee
*. -Iarla, 6 hll-ee.e
Co                             7.000       1.020       -       5          s          17      17       -       5.1     5.1    1.1   17.3    1r.           49.8                    49.6        343.6
FM3                            5,400           0       -       5       5       5      13     17       -       3.9    3.9     39    13s.4   13.4          30.5       -            5.5         25.1
wr                                           NO               15       t         S            l       _1             1    13 4    U                    __ 4 'I  0_e __ __                  -29__
T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~                                                                                                           ~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 14t    501  X    *1  101 
*. btiat.a.oce 4 Sp."I Costs
0  N V4hIlee                  1,000        I,5S0                       S *  5  11    II      31               9.0     8.0   27.1   27.1   27.1           97.3       -            97.3        671.4
TIl s                       500 1e0               -       e 5     o 3     * I        31  1             . *        .      13      1.2    1 S.o                  -             4.I .    --'LL
T.4.5 (16)                                         .     10      10      347    53       4                .4     9.4    2.3   28.I   28.4          loLl        -           101.9        102.5
T-1t- 3.3.2                                                                                             23.0   13.0    3.0   iv..    18.4           AS.        -           245.8      :06.I
-    40.   792.6 1t192.6 1.419.9 1       a11.0  541.9         -        141U.9      3.39-0.4
1T.1 J.3 (40  alla.wce for sev. 1973 imesa.s. in saisy scale)                                                343.9 1109.3 5,66.6 1,937.9 2,21t.       7.SP.3.                 1,384.5     52,346.9
3.4 ceotrco.ptle suepplie
815te                     860/1000  12011tO0 C-70D 300  300                  No   3.3    2,000  2,e0o         37.3  17.3       .4    14 .4    MA   16.1            -     904.6          904.6      6.241.7
0/1000  120/1000 rye.                100  Lao    ISO    200    230    300           12.4  12.4   18.6   24.8   33.0   37.3              -      124.1         2U.2          652.0
3. ts.
(Lao  4 1e..rter)        34e0ll0oo 05301000 c7cle.              20   20       2s     30      35      4         0.5  10.3   33.0   U3.6   38.2   20.               -       73.1           18.2        539.6
Otlece                   u 3a14,30    2010/1800 47455            1    1        6       a      9      10       10.4  10.4   12.4   16.1    1A.   20.1              -       10.?           18.1        34.
btatal                                                                                                 t10.6  U3.4  218.5  313.2  431.0               -    3.2857.         ,158.)     8,181.3
Contla-ea.c  -101 phyurcol                                                                                      -    1.1   14.3   21.9   31.4    4.7               -      U1.8          M1.4          '8.0
5n trtte c-paad1e   e1ly                                                                          -    3.5   IAt.    34.4   56.0  120.7              -      239.          22.2       l.52.2
Total 3.4                                                                                                       81.2  172.4  274.0  403.5  401.4              _    1,333.6        1333.6    10.S 1.1



I            3       I.43 - __                           2        3       4      1           L.   I      Fo.eI ~    h'.1.1             lotol
~~~  ISI                    E~~~~~~~ia phygi-o                         __ t-lt                                               -_ v_        Lo 'AS
lapic "ad Ie-ImEryl
3.9/CU (cao.eta of 24 -                  4141p.r.-.
week. PIK  - 33. .rrtreet )                rek           9                   03      1OS      io~       51      53        -      9.7      9.1      9.1      5.0      3.0           39.1        -39.j                        269.7
an/Cm. - ..k11. te..   Srt.  .             3/pr.
9 - 1P weak. 1Ic   57 e% ttrlgloc)        Weak           40                                    1 4                        -        .1              MD3.      -        -            33.1        -              35             93.2
Co lr.1..r/IoPervisoer  (robert. of    494/p.;..a
12 - a week. P3c . 13. .ttrlrl..3          rek          40           12      12       14       .                          .0     9.0      9.9       -                               1-3.9.     -              18.9          193*9
frap.red 1,..(coh-ort  of 92-6           414/p.r...
weeka - Vkuc - 31 .ttrtrlo..              week           90          14       12       17      17       -                7.0      4.0     8.1      8.5                             30.0         -30.0                       207.0
9119  (robert. of 30 - 4 wek FIK         414/pe.Ca"
- I veek Dietritr 2M3  trcrlt..)    W.e/200             960          .       40      n40      240      920    320         -     91.9    93.6    93.8    49.6    49.6              374.4        -              74.4        2,163.4
perm.            30
Hestritt
1119  - ..*11e Team  cohere. of          £141p.r.. m4.
* - Iw** k at   sW eek                                   90          -                         14       -       .2.2                               1.0       -                      1.2                        124.
1110 (raokota of 9 - 10-S  "eIks         414/p.r...-
VW     St. stre'tr)                      -ek          44           9       17       10        a       la              3.0      9.0      3.0      3.9     3.9       -2.                        21.8         239 14.2
Dow,twe (I week)                         30/p.rm..,        s0o                 -          I      1        Is3      3        *        -      0.4      9.3      1.3      8.4            3.3        -                .)           22.8
week
neIr...  (rob.ert  of t0- 4 week.)        414/p.r...       40          -         0       20       18      20      10        -       2.4     LB6      2.4      9.6      2.4            39.8        -             9.9           333.9
meglet.rea Wtore.  (cobert. .f           414/pet...,
30-35 - 4 weeks  JIl)                     wek            90          .       30       is       -       -                          7.4     61.1      -        -        -            19.1                       1 9.1         931.1
Seeter Extemsote   Workoer  & Caas.try
Leade.v  (robert. of 31 . 11243        200/p.r..,
sa4matma  . Dlisrict LeVel)                13d  days     30                 I 11     201      210      450    400         -      4.1      9.9      6.4    14.0    1896             32.9         -              2.9          392.9
lIi  t .te..ie. Worker &
Cera1ty Lead.t. (cohorts of
31 - 1.2x3 day .e.1,er. - District  2001p.reos
lewd)                                      3.1 deja      l0                 900      900   3.000   1.060  2,400                 18.6    28.0    13.5    351.9    74.51.                         210.1          3.         3,452.1
Leor4er.hip S.lO.at 891                   IC/per
(20.2.3 deja)                             prare"         40          -       40       90      300      100    120         -       1.)     2.3      4.1      4.1      1.0           34.2                       1 8.2         123.8
'NTC( ro be "te  of 26 - I Week /2 yr..414/posse.,
ke8lr.sIag 3rd Yoer   JUC)                 wetek         80          -        -        -      100      100    300         -                 -      9.3       4.2     9.2            18.9                      18.9           129.3
WMIN   - Sebtle t..am  I wea% j2 yr..  414/p.r...
Z Years kegla..j.Sl   rd Year             week           90          -        -       -         S       -   -             -                 .      0.3               3.1             3.4                       1.4             9.7
CoU Tcolc./Sp ... leer   (rob.wr.         414/par...
of1 3-Iweek, eoey year)                    wveek         90          -        I        31           44  49       9                0.6      2.2      2.9     2.9      2.9            31.1        -             3.7             60.1
IpIUs (rohert. of 30 . I Week at Wml  414/p.r...
.warj  lymarabg.&Il.6 in 3rd yr.           week          GO                   -        -      200      200    200         --                      92.4    32.4    24.9              49.1                      49.7           342.9
VIFS  "oIle tcame                         4141p.r...
(..&eekv.ry lyears)                       week           Go          -         \                                1 7       -                        0.3       -        .31.4                                    1.4             9.7
VIV0'. (rcokera  of 9-10 - I week         414/p.er..
Seery jeer)                                wee           4           -        la       25       32      46      41 .0                      1.9      2.6      2.9     2.9            10.4                       1 0.4          71.6
fteprewd I.t.r. (rhoert. of6  . I   I 414/per.ae
weack weaery 2 year.)                      week          Go4                  -        IA       12       31     29        -        -       6.6      0.1      9.9      9.6            1.2        -3.8                          31.9
10seat lett.er.                         20/1 day,        30          -        is       30       30       40     i0s               0.9    0A   .9        8.9 6.9     0.               4.4       ..              4.4            30.4
8wbt.1.l  3.1                                                                                                               36.4.    379.6   202.4   205.4    94. 3   189.7            649.                       46.3         9632.3
St pr ice Ce.ttI.e.oy ceeo.o.0de
Ammea 1y    Vr.  3-1                                                                                                                2        0 1    3  .      9  3    ) .          _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ __  _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _
tOTAL  1.5                                                                                                                   996      16     223.3    36.6 0    a.:   I4.



Unit Co..s               0          F   2    3     4      s             0                      * 2    3         4                                                  .         To#.3
.....1%  ...26L..            -      . uIr  Ic.  oliob                                         USs (GOO'                                        Uff j  0b
3.6  lsfor..IoO  & ld.,-t.ton
(have "I.di)                                                                                                                  _      29.6    144.9       t73.9    202.9    231.8         1,043.3                1,041.1          7,198.8
57, Irkse Cu tiugawy conoJd u,amu411y                                                                                                 30.4      16.0       20,1     24.1      29.4          120.8       -         IZ,0S
Total 3.6                                                                                                                              320.2    160.9       194.0    227.6    261.4         1,164.1        -       1,164.1          6.032.2
3.7 Ppglatlmn St.dl.. C nt.
sA..t.1 of t*,tpoTd0y lf ltttlI 60,090  ' ,696                                         1     1 1          I      I             -       8.7       S.7        *.        8.7       8.7          43.S        -         43.$             300.2
r.sonnal - S.l.rle.                                                                                                            -        -                 159.1    180.0    202.0          S41.9        -         341.9           3,739.1
.ec,rroot Cost.                                                                                                                         -         -        7.0       30.4     31.4           89.8       -           9.*
Subtotol                                                                                                                   -        l.7       17      019.0    219.9    242.0          613.2        -         675.2          4,858.9
St "ri. Coatf.n-y C.od4d -.. ly                                                                                                *       0.4       0,9       30.7     47.4       66.9         14.)        -         1461            1,009.5
t.t.l 3.?                                                                                                                        -        9.1        .6     226.5    267.3    309.0           021.5        -         821.5          3,668.4
T.YIAJ. Mark COSTS                                                                                                                325.2   2.012.3  2,674.6   3,613.5  4.14 3  4,762.2          16,026.8    1,S33.3  17.564.1           121,191.0



S  t  F t    It Y
IY Y e a r
0               1 '                           3              4                                o l                           .                     l
_________                                                _____                    uSS (000' !)        (000 *)             _ _Sh
1. Capitol Coots
1.1 Civil Works, liquipent and Furlniturc                                                                                                          12,446.8           5,229.5    11,676.3           121,966,5
1.2  Special Equilpeot                                1.0           222.1            87.7         101.2            43.5           60.3                                   515.5        515.0            3,559.0
1.3  Office Fqulpacyr                                7.6           109.2            96.2         210.3            32.9           34.7                   37.2            453.7         4S0.9           3,394.0
1.4  Vd,iclea                                         2.2           238.6           1214          471 4            1                    765$.1                                         885.1 6- 
Total Capital Coats                             10.8           569.9           309.3         782.9            91.2          121.7              12,484,0           7,1 4.8     19,56M.1          135,02h,7
11    ZLs'   A,slstanca
2.1  Avtwers 6 Cao ultata                            89.9            324.7          296.2          181.6           52.2            52.i                 249.1             747.6        996.7            6,877,1
2.2  Studies                                                         153.7          179.?           64.2           72.5            72.3                 435.8             106.6        542.4            3,742.6
2.3  rellewshipa    -                                   -             52.1           47.9           47.8           21.7              -                   ,                169.5        169.5            1,169.6
Total Techntcal Assistance                      89.9           521.9           528.1         297.9           146.4          124.4                 684.9           1,023.7       1,108.6          11,789.3
111. Other Costq
3.1  liw                                            219.t            550.3          599.5          543.$          538.1           546.5               2,995.6               1.7      2,997.3           20,681.4
3.2  Supervising Offices                             90.7            298.8          399.5         468.8           545.0           546.4               2,349.1                        2,349.1           16,208.7
3.3  service Points                                                  563.9        1,109.6        1,669.6        1,987.9         2,255.4               7,586.5               -        7,586.5           52,346.9
3.4  Contraceptive Supplias                             -             81.2          172.4          274.6          403.8           601.4                                 1,533.       1,533.6           10,581.4
3.5  Training                                         15.4           188.8          223.1          236.0          204.6           242.1                 ;; 1ia.0                                       7,672,8
3.6  Inforisation 6 Education (Kam. media)              -            320.2           160.9         194.0          227.6  .        261.4               1,164.1                        1,164.1            5,032.2
P.7  Population Studles mnd Research Center               _            9,1            9.6         226.5           267.3          309.0                  21.521 -                         i.            _5,668.4
Total Other Costs                              325.2         2,012.3         2,674.6       3,615,5         4,174.3         4,762.2              16,028.5           1,515.3    17,564.1           121,191.8
eRAWD TOTAL-                                        425.9          3,112.'7       3,501.7        4,692.0        4,411.9         5,014.3              29,197.7           9,643.1    38,540.8           265,007.8
'.



ANMEX 14
Page 1 of 4
Kenya:  Community Nurse Training Schools
and Rural Health Centers
Ca Training Schools (5)
1.        To expedite the integration of family planning with maternal and
child health (MIC) services and to expand the services to rural areas, the
'Oit is going to take three major steps in nursing education: (a) to expand
c..e training capacities of existing schools at present training enrolled nurses
(Els);  (b) to convert EN/midwife train ng to community nurse ((2) training;
and (c) to establish new 01 training schools. A total of 740-student places
are to be added during the first three years of the next development plan
oeriod, 1974-73. Table 1 provides a list of the new CN training schools,
the number of student places and the likely donor which will help finance
the schools. These new facilities will train Cis. With this increase in
the training capacity, the annual output of EN/Cis from Government schools
will be increased by 65% by 1980, up from the current level of 300 to around
500.
2.        The proposed IDA-financed component will include funds for five CN
training schools. Three existing EN training schools will be converted to
CN training schools housed in new facilities and two new schools constructed.
These facilities, with a total of 700-student places, would replace inade-
quate older buildings in some instances, but by new construction expand the
intake capacity by 500 places overall. The selected school locations are
at Nyeri, Machakos, Meru, Nakuru, and Homa Bay.  In addition to dormitory
accommodations each school will contain classrooms, a libary and recrea-
tional rooms. Housing accommodations will be provided for the teaching
staff and the housemother. Vehicles and teaching equipment will also be
provided for each school to improve training course contents.
Rural Health Centers (27)
3.        To provide clinical experience in the rural context for student
nurses training, the proposed IDA component will finance 27 rural health
centers which will serve as satellite facilities to the CN/EN training sch ls.
It is intended that four groups of 5-6 students per year will spend two
months in these health centers. To accommodate the needs of students in the
100-place schools, two rural health centers per school will be provided while
three centers will be constructed for each of the 200-place schools. In
addition to general clinical work, the students will participate in the
family planning program and may complete the 30 independent delivery ex-
periences required for graduation. The students will be supervised by an
itinierant public health tutor who will visit them on a weekly or bi-weekly
'oasis and will oversee their clinical work. During the one-month period
they will receive at least two wqeeks practical instruction on family planning
techniques and will have a chance to observe how the CM for FP/MCH motivates



ANNL  14
Page 2 of 4
ier client.  A teaching/demonstration room will be provided at each center
for use by the students and also by the clinicians for denotration in
connection with baby care, family plazming,nutritioa, public health, etc.
A dormitory will be provided for the students and the itinerant tutor.
4.        Tne rural health training centers will include clinics for curative
medicine, VP/I'EH and public health. The inpatient department will include
12 beds, mainly obstetrical, and a delivery unit with supporting services. In
addition there will be a laboratory for routine tests, a pharmacy, and a minor
surgery/ treatment room. Housing will be provided on the site for
professional staff only.
5.        The rural health centers will be staffed by 15 persons, 6 of whom
will be professional. Equipment for the rural health centers together with
vehicles for field activities will be financed from IDA funds. The locations
of the 27 rural health centers are listed in Table 2.
6.        The ibDH, jointly with the Ministry of Works, is conducting a nation-
wide inventory on rural health facilities, in order to provide a basis for the
planning of new construction and remodeling of old facilities at individual
localities in 1973. The programn is heavily dependent upon the results of the
expanded training program for paramedical personnel, particularly the CN.
The MOH will start the rural health training center project this year with
technical assistance from the World Health Organization and financial assist-
ance from the Norwegian Agency for International Development (NORAD). This
project will provide post-basic inservice training for paramedical personnel
at one rural health training center in each of the six provinces. Whereas
the IDA project will provide facilities for the basic education of COs, the
six rural health training centers financed by NORAD will provide post-basic
inservice training for paramedical personnel training teams which will staff
the rural health facilities. The basic approach will be to train teams of
rural health center staff and the proposed IDA project will provide facili-
ties for the basic education of the CNs.



ANNEX 14
Page 3 of 4
TABLE 1
Kenya: Location of Community Nurse Training Schools
Prospective Donors      Number of       Number of    Net
Rural Health   Student       Increase
Centers        Places
X{ombasz-'                                       3             260
Thikal/                                           2            145
'Huranga                                          2            150
Kisii                                             2            120             -
Machakos            World Bank Group              3            200           100
Nyeri               World Bank Group             3             250          100
Nakuru              World Bank Group             3             200          100
Kakamega            G0K/Federal Republic         3             200          100
of Germany
Kisumu              GOK                          3             200           40
Homa Bay            World Bank Group             2             100          100
Eldoret             DANIDA                       2             100          100
Meru                World Bank Group             2             100           100
M.athari-                                                      120            -
30          2,145           740
1/ Existing Facilities.



Pae 4 of h
Table 2
Key:  Locations of Rural Healtk Centers
Comwanity Parse Traiing
School to be served by                        Hab.r and Location of
Rnzl Health Centers                           Rural Health Centers
Mombasa                              3   - lariakazi., Vipingo, Raba±
T±ka                                 2   - Igegania, XUnYU
Murang'a                              2   - Makuyu, Sagaza
Xiaii                                2   - Marani, Ndu
Machakos                             3   - Tawa, Mwala, Matuu
Nyeri                                3.  - Endarasba, M1uDm, Kiy ga
Nakuru                               3   - Mogotio, Babati, Gilgil
Kisumu                               3   - Yala, Muboroni,  o aws
Homa Bay                             2   - Sindo, Isbania
Eldoret                              2   - Lassos, Tyrbo
Meru                                 2   - Ruiru, Karurumo
Source: MOH.



ANNEX 15
Page 1 of 2
Kenya
National Family Welfare Center and
Supporting Facilities
National Fanily Welfare Center (NFWC)
1.        The NFWC will be located on the Kenyatta Medical Center/Medical
Training Center complex in Nairobi and will house the following functional
div':sions: Clinical Services, Information & Education, Training, Evaluation
& Research, and provide accommodation for the Office of the Director of the
Center. The proposed IDA credit will he p finance the construction costs of
this headquarters building for FP/MCH activities together with supporting
facilities, namely a dormitory for trainees, a family planning clinic to
provide clinical experience and a Health Educational Unit for production of
family planning and health materials. The Ministry of Health (MOE) has no
facilities for accommodating an expanded central body to implement the ex-
panded FP/MCH program. The existing International Planned Parenthood Federa-
tion-sponsored national family welfare center, which comprises a small model
family planning clinic together with staff offices and a single lecture room
suitable for no more than a dozen people, is slated for demolition. Suitable
physical facilities are essential for fulfillment of basic functions of the
various functional divisions of the NFWC, the staff of which is expected to
reach some 60 persons within the next three-year period.
2.        The NFWC will provide basic and refresher training courses for
all personnel involved in dispensing family planning services, for medical
and paramedical personnel (medical assistants, registered nurses, etc.) who
supervise FP/MCH services, the family planning field workers responsible
for increasing the demand for family planning services, senior staff at the
NFWC, and orientation training courses for other development workers and opinion
leaders.  The MOH will carry out some of these training courses in rented pre-
mises while awaiting the completion of the NFWC.         1
3.        In addition to the need for a central training facility, the NFWC
will also house the Evaluation and Research Division which will evaluate the
impact of the Family Planning Program.
-+.      To support the training program, a dormitory accommodating 100
trainees will be constructed nearby.
Family Planning Clinic
i.        Clinical experience will be provided by the financing of family
planning clinic. The clinic will house the following functions: Family
Planning, Antenatal and Postnatal Care, Maternal and Child Health, Nutrition
and Home Economics. Fourteen clinic sessions per week are anticipated, the
largest of which will be the antenatal clinic where 180 patients are expected.
To achieve maximum use of space, all cor-ulting/examination rooms will be
multipurpose and not designated for particular clinical functions.



'ANM= 15
Page 2 of 2
Health Education Unit (HEID
6.        This Unit will provide space for the production of various types
of audiovisual materials and printed matter, a small cinma and ezhibition
hall for demonstration and teaching; offices for the staff and writers and
artists who will design material; televisioai and ciuena studios, workshop
and a priating press for production.  The ccistlng facility is inadequate
for the exapnsion of health education serviines necessary to support the
national health program iacluding family planning. The premises have ex-
hausted their useful life and replacement is essential. Fifty percent
of the total production capacity of the HEU will be spent on family planning.
The new facilities will also provide opportunities for inservice training
seminars on health education for a variety of health workers and students
at the Medical Training Center.



A£NN-LX  16
Page 1 of I
Kenya: Vehicles
The proposed IDA component will provide 87 of the 190 vehicles
required for the Family Planning Program during the Five-Year Plan period.
In particular, vehicles are required for the National Family Welfare Center
(NFWC -8), Health Education Unit (28), Population Studies and Research Center
(3), Rural Health Centers (30), and community nurse (CN) training schools
(18). These vehicles for the NFWC will transport trainees for field practice'
and be available for use by the headquarters staff. Vehicles for the CN
training schools are to transport trainees from the schools to the rural
health centers and from the rural health centers to villages and surrounding
clinics for practical experience. The four-wheel vehicles for the Population
Studies and Research Center will be used to conduct research in the Central,
Eastern and Western provinces, and the vehicles for the Health Education
Unit will transport health education and family planning material and health
education officers. .Operation and maintenance costs are included to ensure
the vehicles are in optimum running order. Mobility is needed to allow
wider and closer supervisory coverage at all levels to help extend and
improve tb quality of services, train personnel and ensure the most efficient
use of family planning staff.






So W    X1 7
?age I of 1
Kenya: Nursing Activities Study
Justi.fication and Terms of Reference ror
Short-Term NJurse Research Consultant
1.        A Nurse research consultant (12 man-months) will be required to
assist in the definition of hospital nursing staffing patterns, level of
skills required, and the facilities, equipment, and supplies needed for a
specified standard of care. The consultant should also assist in planning
the research design, data gathering methods, implementation, and analysis
of findings to activities and tasks performed in hospital inpatient units.
2.        Justification - In view of the nurse deficit and the large number
needed by hospital services, it seems timely to plan hospital staffing on
the basis of task analysis (referred to as activity study, utilization
study or work sampling) which would measure the extent to which certain
tasks could be performed by different levels of nursing personnel, or by
other categories entirely t/ (e.g., nursing aids, attendants, clerks).
3.        By classifying patients according to the degree of illnes8 or
dependency (e.g., intensive, intermediate or self-care) and by classifying
tasks according to their complexity and level of judgment required, the
category <c personnel necessary to perform each task, the total nursing
time required per patient day and the best mix of professional and non-
professional staff can be determined. The number of patients in each cate-
gory is multiplied by the average number of hours of nursing required for
patients in each category to obtain nursing staff requirements. Time studies
are necessary to determine the average number of hours of nursing care
required.
4.        Research design and data collection method should be decided in
collaboration with the Chief Nursing Officer of Kenya--whether it be self-
recording techniques, work sampling by instantaneous, intermittent observa-
tion, interview, questionnaire, or a combination of these. In addition to
an analysis of tasks with emphasis on what is done, though difficult to
standardize, why, how, and whether or not each task is essential are
extremely valuable information in judging the quality of service.
5.        The results of this type of study should be the basis for estab-
lishing realistic hospital inpatient staffing patterns. With this kind of
information, in addition to the rural health service staffing pattern result-
ing from the Ministry of Health's recent systems analysis of its rural health
services and the hospital outpatient department study previously done in
hachakos, it should be possible to make manpower projection requirements with
greater confidence.
1/   Nursing Manpower Development - A Review of Methods - WHD/Nurs/71.79,
pp. 7-8.            1
See also: Planning and Programing for Nursing Services Public Health
Papers 44, WHO, 1971.






Page 1 of 2
Kenya: Suggested Terms of Reference for Evaluation and Research Studv
1.        While the evaluation and research programs 1/ of the National
Family Welfare Center (NFWC) and the Population Studies and Research Center
will monitor program performance, collect and analyze service statistics,
undertake baseline knowledge, attitude and practice (SAP) surveys and conduct
studies on the broader implications and solutions to the population problem,
there is further need for several in-depth studies of the factors which
influence family size decisions. It is recommended that the Zvaluation and
Research Division of the NFWC in conjunction with the Population Studies and
Research Center at the University of Nairobi undertake these studies to assess
family size motivations in Kenya. Some US$100,000 has been included in the
project costs for such studies to be undertaken in consultation with the
Association.
2.        Oblectives:  The studies wotal  seek to examine the economic, social
and cultural determinants of actual fertility behavior and to clarify the
factors which influence family size decisions.  What are the socio-economic
and cultural factors which motivate and act as incentives for couples to have
large families? In contrast to KAP surveys which provide information on
attitudes towards family planning in general, these studies will focus on
actual familiar behavior patterns in relationship to the prevailing socio-
economic conditions in which family decisions take place. Several hypotheses
which might be tested by the studies include: the perceived advantages and
disadvantages of having another child in terms of the child's additional
contribution to the welfare of the family unit; the familial role of children
and wives; the value of children and wives in the relationship to the land
tenure and ownership system; how husbands and wives communicate on family
size matters and what factors influence a husband's decision to take on
another wife; the perception of the time frame in which the beLefits of a
declining infant mortality rate take hold; the possibility.for and perception.
of social mobility in the society; etc.
3.        Methodology:  It is recommended that the in-depth studies be under-
taken by Ken7an researchers in the second year of Five-Year Family Planning
Plan period. The studies should be cross-sectoral and be conducted in
different cultural settings in various Districts and Provinces in urban,
quasi-urban and rural.areas. They should be conducted on a random sample
basis by interviewers who live in and participate in the affairs of the
community. The interviewers should not only spend their time interviewing
families but should also observe and comment on working relationships and
patterns of behavior in the coamunity. The interviewers should not be too
closely associated with the family planning program and spend several months
in the community.
1/   For a detailed explanation of the evaluation and research programs of
the NFWC and the Population Studies and Research Center see Section HE
of the Population Sector Survey Report (No. 267-KE).



ANN= 18
P4go af 2
4.        Results:  The results of the in-depth studies shoul14 provlde opera-
tionally relevant information on how and what socioeconouic faetors Ixfluence
family size decisions. This information should be published iu a report which
recomends various practical policy masures to help reduce fertity.  This
report could then be submitted for action to the Intarministeri4 Working
Committee which is responsible for formulating population policies.



ANNEX 19
Kenya:  Schedule of Accommodation             Pa4    o
I. Rural Health Centers
Staff or                         2     Total Are&
Spacs '             Canacity   No. of Units   Area m          (m2 
A. Curative d pt.
Consultiug - A             1-2           2       x   12.30  -   24.60
Consulting - B               1            2      x    9.00  -   18.00
ExaminationL                 1           6       x    5.70  =   34.20
Subwaiting                  12           2       x   10.40       20.80
94.60
B. Pablic health dept.
Consulting - A             1-2           1       x   12.30  -   12.30
GC.sulting - B               1           1       x    9.00        9.00
Exmination-                  1            3      x    5.70  -   17.10
Subwaiting                  12           1       x   10.40  -   10.b.0
C. In-patients dept.
Male - general               2            1      x   12.90  =   12.90
Female - general             3           1       x   23.60  -  23.60
Ante-natal                   2            1      x   12.90  -   12.90
Pbstnatal                    5           1       x   39.80  -   39.80
Delivery                     1           1       x   23.60  -  23.60
Clean trtiIity               _           1       x    6.50  -    6,50
Sluice room                  -           1       x    4.20  -    4.20
Store                        -           2       x    4.20  -    8.40
Kitc'hen                     -           1       s   11.20  -   11.20
Laundry                      -           1       x   11.20  -   11.20
Store                        -           2       x    2.90  -    5.80
Visitors                     5           1       x    4.50  -    4.50
Toilets                      6           -       x   16.60  -   16.60
Nursea station               1            1      x    4.50  -    .50
IlT.70
D. Administration
Records and registration    2            1       x   24.10  -  24.40
Health visitor               1           1       x    9.00  -    9'00
Central office               4           1      x   24.40  -  24.40
Store                                    1       x    5.70  -    5.70
Toilets                      2           1       x    5.40  -    5.40
66.90



A25Y 19
Page 2 of la
I. Rural Health Centers (Continued)
Staff or                            Total Area
Snace           ~ Caacity   No. of Units   Area mn2        (1112)
E. Treatment deqt4'
Laboratory                  1           1     x   16.00        16.00
Injections                 1            .     x   15.00  -  15.00
Mior surgery                1           1      x   20.00  -  20.00
Dressings                   1           1      x   15.00      15.00
Pharmacy                    2           1     x   24.00      2L.00
Soiled utility              _1                 x    3.70       3.70
Clean utility               _1                x    3.80  -   3.80
Subwaiting                 12           1     x   10.40  -  10.ho
10 .20
F.   Anci ariee
Toilets                     6           1     x   21.00  -  21.00
Common roomi                8           1     x   17.20  -  17.20
Teach±ngJdexonstration    20           1      x   32.00       32.00
room                                                        70.20
G. Waiting
Main waiting                            1     x   83.20  -  83.20
Public bealth dept.         -          1      x   57.60  -  57.60
Curative dept.              _           1     x   72.30  -  72.30
Pnarmacy                    -          1      x   57.60      57.6o
170.70
TOTAIS                                                           850.00
Grossing factcr  30%
(Corridors, walls, partitions, etc.)            255 .00
GND  TOTAL                                                        1105.00
H. Covered ways                                                   100.00



ANMI 19
PaLge 3 of 18
II. 100 Place Community Nurse Training School
Staff or                                 Total Area
Space                Capacity    No. of Units  Area m2          (m2)
A. Dormitory
Bedroois                   1              96         8.25          792.86
Bathrooms                  -               6        1o.60           63.60
Toilets and
linen storage             -               6        10.60           63.60
Laundry                    -               6        10.60            63.So
Drying                     -               6         5.25           31.50
1,015.16
B. Teacl..ing and administration
Classroom                  25              a        53.80          107.60
Classroom                  20             2:.       42.80           85.60
General office              2              2        10.15           20.30
Visitors' lounge            -              1        10.15           10.10
Common room                15             1         32.20           32.20
Library                    10              1        28.10           28.10
283.90
C. Dining
Dining hal.                 _             1         70.50           70.50
Kitchen                     -             1         37.00           37.00
Storagx day/dry/veg.        -              1        30.00           30.00
Cloakroom, N.C. & shower    -             1          6.60            6.60
Receiving                   -              1         7.50            7.50
151.60
D. Housemother's apartment
Livingroom                                 1        20.00           20.00
Bedroom                                   1         15.00           15.00
Bedroom                                   1          6.50            6.50
Corridor, W.C. & Bathroom   -              3        14.60           14.60
Kitchen                     -              1         6.50            6.50
62 .60
E. Ancillaries
Entrance hanll                            1        193.14          193.14
Visitors w.c.               -              2         2.50            5.00
Elec. switch gear room
and refuse holding         -              2         5.20            5.20
203*34
TOTAL                                                                 1,716.60
Grossing factor 42                              720.Lo
MM)D TO2L                                      2,1437.00



?9 4    :10
III.  200 Place CovmunritY Nurse Trainin  School
Staff o                                To
Space                Capacity    No. of Units    ArL2         oa   e
A. Dormitory
Bedrooms                       2          102           11.7       1J192.7
Flats (housemothers)
including store,
kitchen and bath             1             2           71.14        142.7
.!ain store                                 3           25.6          76.9
Linen Store                                 9            6.1          54.8
Kitclhenette                                9            6.1          514.8
LausdI7                                     9            9.8          88.14
Showers, toilets              6             9           21443        218.5
B. Teaching and Adm-i±ntration
Offices/interview,room        1             2           20.1          40.2
Senior tutor's office         1             1           21.0          21.0
Library                      20             1           64.3          64.3
Library offices
and store                    2             1           16.4          16.4
Lecture room                100             1          130.5         130.5
Classrooms                   25             2           5o           100
Classrooms                   50             2          100.9         201.8
Male students' toilets        3             1           13.9          13.9
Female students' toilets      6             1           24.4          24.4
Cleaner                       1             1            6.5           6.5
General office                3             1           23.8          23.8
Telephone/enqotries           2             1           23.8          23.8
Housekeeper's office
in.cluding secratar7         2             1           23.8          23.8
Staff toilets                 4             2        .  12.1          24.2
mes                          25             1           74.5          74.5
Cozmon room                  30             1           74.5          714.5
Visitors                     20             1           49.6          149.6
Ml.2
TOTAL                                                                  2,742.0
G0swsing factor 40A                              1,096.0
GRAND TOTAL                                      3,838.0
Note: Dining and kitcben facilities vill be centralized in the mm
hospital ccmplex and will be separately fund  by G0K.



Location of Community Nurse Training Schools                   ADE   19
-                           SPas  5 of 1l
(a) 100 place School
Hom Ba
Ny0ri
(b) 200 place School
Machakoa
Nakram



A      19
IV. Vktional Faml1y Welfare Center and Suvortig Facilities
(a) National Family Welfare Center:
Staff or                            Total Area
Space                   Capacity   No. of Units  Area t2(D)
.A. Director's accodation
Director's office              1           1.    x   22.5           22.5
Secretary                      1           1     x   11.0           11.0
AnteroeC/waiting               5           1     x   11.0           11.0
3. Family welfare division
Chief nmdical officer          1           1    x    16.5           16.5
Sister's offices               1           2    x   11.0            22.0
Administrators' offices        2           2    x   11.0            22.0
Secretary/typist               1           1     x    20.0      -   20.0
Technical Assistant            1           1    x   13.5            13.5
C. Information & 3duc. Div.
Chief of division              1           1     s   16.8           16.8
Co-ordinator - field
activities                    1           1     x   11.0           11.0
Journalist/writer              1           1     x    11.0          11.0
Design office                  1           1     x     9.0           9.0
Radio/T.V. officer             1           1    s   11.0            11.0
P.R. officer                   1           1     x   11.0           11.0
Co-ordinator - mass media      1           1     x   13.5           31.5
Secretary/clerks               2           1     s   18.0           18.0
Store - stationery             -           1     Xs    9.0           9.0
Store - edlucational aids      -           1     x'  1&0            18.0
Technical assistant            1           1    x   13.5            13.5
Male lavatories                                       13.5          13.5
Female lavatories                                     13.5          13.5
waiting                                               27.0          27.0
Cleaners                                               4.5           4.5
Staff lavatoriea and changing                         22.5          22.5
D. Training division
Chief of division              1           1     X   16.5           16.5
Training officer               1           1     x   13.5           13.5
Training assistanta            2           1     x   22.0           22.0
Audio visual officer                                  11.0          11.0
Store - audio visual                                   9.0           9.0
InstrucLtors                   1           3    x   11.0            33.0
Secretary clerls               3           1    x    22.0           22.0
Training materials officer                            11.0          11.0
Technical assistant            1           1    x   13.5            13.5
Library - 2000 books                                  36.5          36.5



AN111t 1 9
Page 7 of 18
(a) National Family Welfare Center  (acxt±=*d)
Staff or                              Total Area
Space                    Caoacity   No. of Units  Area m2       ____
Lecture room                      60           1    x    72.5             72.5
Projection room,                                         2.1.0            11.0
Lecture room                      30           Z    X   36.0              72.0
Audio visual slide room            i           1    x    22.5             22.5
Audio visual store                 1           1    x    13.5            1.3.5
Study classroom                   15           1    z   2,3.5             23.5
Staff conference room             30           1    x    145.5            45.5
waiting                                                  514.5            514.5
Male lavatories                                          18.0             18.0
Female lavatories                                        18.0             18.0
Cleaner                                                   14.5             5.5
Male and female staff W.C.8                               27.5            27.5
Pantry/Kitchen                                             9.0             9.0
E. Evaluation and research div.
Chief of division                  1           1    x    16.5             16.5
Senior research associates         1           2    x    13.7             27.4
Research associates                2           1    x    22.0             22.0
Technical assistant                                      13.5             13.5
Keypuncher/verifiers and
machine operators                 5           1    x    40.9             40.9
Statistical clerks and
loaders                           4           1    x    36.4             36.4
Survey supervisors                 3           1    x    27.5             27.5
Secretary/clerks                   3           1    x,   22.0             22.0
Store                                                      9.0             9.0
Waiting                                                  27.5             27.5
243.0
Note: Lavatory accommodation shared with F. 
F. Administrative and services div.
Executive officer                  1           1    x    16.5             16.5
Accounts officer                   1           1    x    13.5             13.5
Technical assistant                1           1    x    13.5             13.5
Procurement officer                1           1    x    11.0            11.0
Supplies officer                   1           1   x    11.0              11.0
Librarian                          1           1    x    11.0             11.0
Housekeeper                        1           1    x    11.0             11.0
Cleaners/essengers                10           1    x    22.0             22.0
Copy machine operator              1           1    x    11.0             11.0
Cleaners' room                     1           1    x     4.5              4.5



(a) National Family Welfare Center (Continued)                        Pa.g8 of 18
Staff or                             Total Area
Space                    Capacity  No. of Units   Area 2         (m2)
Drivers' rest. rooms               5           1    x    22.0           22.0
Secretary/clerks                   3           i    x    22.0           22.0
:2- e                              1     1           x      9.0         9.0
Data & medical records                         1    s    22.0           22.0
24ale lavatories (public)                                  18.0         18.0
Female lavatoriea ( "   )                                  18.0        18.0
M.aie staff lavatories                                     27.0         27.0
FPmale staff lavatories                                    27.0        27.0
Main storage area                                          91.0         91.0
403700
TOTAL                                                               1,591.50
Grosaing factor 306                                  477.5
GRAID TOTAL                                                         2,069.00



ANNEX 19
Page 9 of 18
IV Nat;.onal Family Welfare Center and Supporting Facili.ties
(b) Hostel for 100 Trainees
Staff or                              Total Area
Space                   Capacity   No. of Units   Area m        (mL)
A. Donnitory
Double row                       2          40    x      311.8       472
Single room                       1          20    x      11.8         236
Laundries           ) 1 per                               14.6         73
Stores              ) each                                 9..1        45.5
Bath and W.C.s      ) bedroom                             29.1        145.5
Cleaners            ) floor     ,4.5                                   22.5
Lounge              )                                     30.9        15
B. Comnajl facilities
T.V. room                       12            1    x      31           31
Stores                                        1    x      23.5         23.5
Office                                        1    x      12           12
Vi itors/waiting                              1    x      12           12
Commnn room                                   1    x      54.5         54.5
Male/female visitors W.C.s                    1    s      29            29
Telephones                                    1    x       3.5          3.5
Pantry                                        1    x       7            7
Recreational area                             1    x      22            22
Cleaner                                       1    x       4.5          4.5
199.0
C. warden's accomaodation
Sitting/Dining                                1    x      27           27
Bedrooms                                      2    x      11           22
Bathroon/W. C.                                1    x       4.5          4.5
Kitchen                                       1    x       9            9
Store                                         1    x       2             2
Car port                                      1    x      18           18
Otfice                                        1    x       9            9
TOTAL                                                               1,439.5
Grosaing factor 336                            475.0
GBAND TOTAL                                                         1,;9145
Note: Trainees will use M.T.G. classrooms and dining facilities



ANNEX 19
18
IV. Natioral Family Welfare Center and S=,iport1Rg Facilities
(c) Health Education Unit
Staff or                        2    Total Area
Space                        Capacity    No. of Units  Area x2_ (m2)
Cinema/lecture hal               62           1    x     3110         110
Projection room                   2           1    x      24           24
Library/film store                1           1    x      32           32
Eatrance lobby                                1    x      32           32
Rxhibition room                               I   x      136          136
Printing shop with office
and dark room                   21           1   x      375          375
Studio with stores &
recording booth                              1    x     198          1298
Studio office                                 1    x      28           28
Large dark room                               i  x        24           24
Sm1a  dark room                               1   x       12           12
Stores                            1           1   x      176          176
Workshop                         10           1    x     114          140
Tecdiciants office                1           1    z      60           60
General office                    6           1   x      .48           48
Health edicator                   8           8   x                    614
Vari typist                       1           1   x       .12          12
Officer-in-charge              -  1           1    x      20           20
Deputy                            1           1   s       16           16
Secretary                         1           1    x      i2           12
Artdepartment                     3           1   x z                  60
W.C.s and cleamr                                           )           43
-sa pantry                                                 3            3
TOTAL
Grosing factor 26A                             430
GRAND TOTAL                                                         2,055



ANK= i9
Page 11 Of la
I7. National Famil Welfare Center and Su=vortin  Facilities
(d) Family Planning Clinic
Staff cr                               Tota  Area
Space                   CapacitT    No. of Units  Area X2
Main waiting                     200            1   x    182           182
Reception/registration            2             1    x     11           12
Patient lavatories (inocludo
clinettes)                                                23           23
Teaching/demonstration room      20             1    x      27          27
Weighing/meaauring room                         1    x     13.5         13.5
Dispensary store (pills, milk,
contraceptives)                               .1    x      5.5          5.5
Laboratory/test room              1             1   x        9.0          9.0
Treat"mnt area                                  1    x     16           16
Recovser                                        1    x      11          11
Sub-waiting,/edcational
areas                                          6   x       9           514
Changing areas                                  6   x       3.7         22
Clinical examiation and           1 M.D. &
history taking                    5 Nurses      6   x     16.3         98
Central work space/utility
area                                           1    x     36.5          36.5
Soiled utility                                  1   x        9.0          9.0
Storea                                                                    9.0
Cleaer                                                           .4. 5
Staff W. C. s                                                           13.5
Staff rest room                                                          16.5
Pantry/tea bar                                                           7.
TOTAL                                                                  568
Grossing factor 3O*                             170
QAND TOTAL                                                             738



AN= 19
--Pzgvo i8
Kenya: Cost Estimate
I. Rural Health Centers
K shi1lingl: 
Construction cost including covered                                          (a)
ways and water supply                            840,000            121,,800
Site works                                         8h,000             12,180
914.,000          133,980
Contungencies 7*                                   64,700              9,380
988,700           13.3,340
Provincial cost variation
(average 196)                                    1h8,300            21,500
l,l37,000           164,860
Professional fees 7.5 
(Architect & Eogineering 5.L> repetitive)
(MOw Building Inspection 26              )         85,280            12,370
1>,22,228           177,230
Surveyors fee                                      '6,000                870
Consultant's fee                                    2,300                330
Furniture and equipmnt                             50,000             7,200
Staff Housing
1 Category E for Medical Assistant                66,000              9,6o0
5 Category F for Profesaional Staff              200,000             29,000
1 Dormitory accomodating 8                       120,000             17,400
1,666,58o           241,600
Escalation 1973 (+8*)                        ( 1,799,900)         ( 260,980)
Escalation 1974 (+8&)                        ( 1,943,892)         ( 281,860)
Escalation 1975 (+8%)                        ( 2,099,400)         ( 304,400)
Escalation 1976 (+5%)                          2,205,400           ,319,620
Clerik of Works 1-1/? years shared by
2 Health Centers                                50.000              7,200
20255s,400          326,820
(a) l.s-US$.145



ANNEX 19
Page 13 of 18
II. 100 Place ComMunity Nurse Trii.nng School
- sin,  (a)
Construction cost                            i,926,000          279,300
Site works                                     192,600           27,900
2,118,600          307,200
Contingencies Th                               148,300           21, 50
2,266,900          328,700
Provincial cost variation
(average 7s)                                 158,700            23,000
22,425,600o        351,700
Professional fees 7..                          181,900           26,400
(Architects & sagineers 5.56 repetitive)     2,607,500          378,100
(MDW Building Inspection 26)
Aurniture and equipment                         90,000           13,000
Staff housing
1 Category C for sister tutor                  96,000           13,900
2 Category D for tutors                       176,0oo           25,500
2 CategorY E for instructors                   80,000           11,600
3,049,500          442,100
Escalation 1973 (+8%)                     ( 3,293,460)       ( 477,600)
Escalation 1974 (+a)                      ( 3,556,940)       ( 515,800)
Escalation 1975 (+86)                     ( 3,841,500)       ( 557,000)
Escalation 1976 (+2%)                       3,920,200          568,140
Clerc of Works 2 years                        120.000           17.400
4,040,200          585,540
Note': Provincial cost variation   Homa Bay 13%
Meru     8%
Nyeri    0
(a) lEs-US$.145             Average say   7%



ANNE 19
-i, . 200 Place CommunsTy Nurse Training School
K shillings
Construction cost                            2,820,000                      (a)
Site vorks                                      200,000             29,OCC
3,020,200            437,930
Contingencies 1C                               302,000             43t790
3,322,200            481, 720
Professional fees ii.5                         382,000             55,390
(Ar4^hitects & Engineers 9.5> repetitive)    3s704,200            537,110
(.'Vw Building Inspection 2$          )
lrniture and equipment.                        400,000              58,000
Furniture and equipment fee                      8,000              1,160
Staff housing
1 Category C for sister tutor                   96,000             13,920
3 Category D for tutors                        264,ooo            38,280
4 Category 1 for instructors                  160,ooo              23,200
4,632,2C0            671,670
Escalation 1973 (+8k)                      ( 5,002,760y         ( 725,io)
Escalation 1974 (+87)                      ( 5,4o3,ooo)         ( 783,430)
Escalation 1975 (+8A)                      ( 5,835,237)  .       846,110)
Escalation 1976 (+4%).                       6,072,000           880,000
Clerk of Works 2-1/2 years                    120,000             17,400
6,.19?,ooo          897,400
Note: Each school will be lbcated in the vicinity of a major supply center;
it is not necessary therefore to apply a provincial. cost ariation factor.
(a) lKs-11J$.145



ANNEX 1 9
Page 15 of 18
S7. National Family Wolfare Center and SuZport±fl= Facilities
(a) National Family Welfare Center
Comtrction cost                              1,820,000             263,900
Sits works, architects' estimates              300,000              43,5oo
2,120,000            307,.400
Design contigenc7 10A                          212,000              30,740
2,332,000            338,l140
Contrnction contingency 7Th                    163,200              23,660
2,,495,,200          361,800
Professional fees, including                   346,ooo              5q,l70
mOw Building inspection
2,841, 200           ls1,970
Furniture and equipzent                        200,000              29,000
3,O4l,p200           440,970
Escalation 1973 (+a&)                    ( 3,28&,50o)             4 lt76,250)
Escalation 1974 (+as)                    ( 3,547S,2501         ( 514,35o)
Escalation 1975 (+8%)                       3,833,000             555v5°°
Clerk of Worlm 2 years (shared)                30,000               4,35o
:.,863,000            559,850
(a) a-M3$.45



AhIE  19
P^p 16- Of 18
IV. National lFaily Welfare Cnter and Su=ortinz Facilities
(b) 100 Bed Hostel
(a)
construction cost                        1,880,000            272,600
Site v.rks                                 200,000             29,000
2,080,000           301,6o0
Design contingency 1C$                     208,000             30,160
2,288,000           331,760
Construction conting    7                  160,160             23,Z20
2,44.s8,160         354,980
Pofessional fees, ix l uding               3h0,000             L9,300
MOw Building ispection                   2,788,160            404,(280
PFrniture and equipnt                      160,000             23,;00
2,948,160           427,P48
Ecalation 1973 (4.)                    C 3,184,000)          (1461,680)
Escalation 1974 (+at)                  ( 3,438,730) ('98,62o)
Escalation 1975 (+8%)                    3,715,700            538,500
Clerk of works 2 years (shared)             30,000              4 300
X7i45,70o            542,800
(a) 1X-US$.145



ANNE 19
Page 17 of 18
1n. NatiomiZ FNu.Il Welfare Center and Su=ortim, Fcgiitte
(c) Health Education Unit
(a)
Construction cost                           1,1470,000           213,150
Site works                                  _ 234,000              31,030
1,684,000            244,180
Design contingency 10                         168,4oo             24,420
1,852,,400           268,600
Constriction contingency 7_ 129 ,.700                             18.1800
1,982,100            287,400
Professional fees including                   317,000              45,970
MVw Building Inspection
2,299,100            333,370
Furniture and equipment*                    1,200,000            174,000
3,499,100            507,370
Ascalation 1973 (+8%)                    ( 3,779,000)          ( 547,960)
Escalation 1974 (+8)                     ( 4,081,350)  -       ( 591,800)
Escalation 1975 (8%)                       4,4o.,200             642,050
Clerk of Works 2 years (shased)               30,000            _ 4,350
4,1460,200           646,400
*Nota: Excludes equip3nst independently donated by A:D as follows--
Fixed equipment Ks 430,000
Loose equipment Ks 176,000
(a) 1.s -US$.145



19
pap 1& of 18
IV. National Family Wefare Centar and Sup=orting Facilities
(d) Family Planning Clinic
K                             (s)
Construction cost                            588,000              85,260
Site works                                    58,800               st530
646,8oo              93,790
Design contingency 10;                        616,700              9,3
711,500             103,170
Construction contingency 7T                   49,800
761,300             110,390
Professional fees, including                 130,000              18,850
MOW Building Inspection
891,300             129,240
Furniture and equipmnet                       60,000      8.,700
Share of covered accosa way                    70,000             10,150
1,021,300             148,090
Escalation 1973 (+8>6)                   ( 1,103,000)          ( 159,93O)
Escalation 1974 (+87)                    ( 1,191,240)          ( 172,730)
Escalation 1975 (+8%)                      1,287,200             186,550
Clerk of Works, 2 years(shared)               30,000               4,350
1,317,200            190,900
(a) lKs-US$.145



F-* t 
-~~~~~W. V. -v t--
=~~~~                            -*' -  - =~' a- -                    7 -
A.                                                            4 ..-. _:_ ,020  410  170     580
B. ,                              30%    39,860   17,080   56,940   5,780   2,480    8,260
1. 200 Place Community
Nurse Training
Schools & Housing                   (4,680)  (2,000)  (6,680)   (680)   (290)    (970)
2.  100 Place Community
Nurse Training
Schools & Housing                   (5,120)  (2,190)  (7,310)   (740)   (320)  (1,060)
3. Rural Health Centers
and Housing                        (25,980) (11,140) (37,120) (3,770) (1,610)  (5,380)
4.  National Family Welfare
Center and Supporting
Facilities
a. National Family
Welfare Center                  (1,270)    (550)  (1,820)    (190)    (80)    (270)
b. Hostel                          (1,320)    (560)  (1,880)       (190)    (80)    (270)
c. Health Education Unit           (1,030)    (440)  (1,470)    (150)    (60)    (210)
d. Family Planning Clinic            (460)    (200)    (660)        (70)    (30)    (100)
C.   Fees and Supervision         0%    7,060        -       7,060    1,020       -       1,020
D.   Furniture & Equipment        20%    3,230       810    4,040        460      120       580
E.   Vehicles                   100%       -       3,170    3,170        -        460       460
F.   Technical Assistance         75%      460    1,400    1,860          70      200       270
G.   Project Accountant            0%      140       -         140        20      -          20
H.   Office Equipment            90%       130    1,180    1,310          10      180       190
I    Contingencies
a. Civil Works              30%   _8,690    8,010   26,700    2,710   1,160    3,870
b. Non Construction                   -         900       900       -        130       130
Total                              72,380   33,760  106,140   10,480   4,900   15,380



ANNEX 20
Table  1             Page 2 of 4
Kenya: Breakdown by Functional Category
Local    Foreign    Total    Local    Foreign    Total
KSh (in millions)           us $ (in millions)
A. Project Components
1. Cowmunity Nurse Training
Schools & Housing                 17.84      6.67      24.51     2.59        .97     3.55
2. Rural Health Centers and
Housing                           43.92    16.97       60.89      6.36      2.46     8.82
3. National Family Welfare
Center& Supporting Facilities      9. '1    3.47       13.38     1.43        .51     1.94
4.  Vehicles                            -        3.78       3.78       -         .5      .55
5.  Technical Assistance               0.46      1.38       1.84     0.07       0.20     0.27
6.  Office Equipment                   0.10     1.46        1.56     0.01       0.21     0.22
7.  Project Accountant                 0.14        -        0.14     0.02        -       0.02
Subtotal Project                  72.37    33.73      106.10    10.48       4.90    15.38
B. Other Donors-Construction Comonents
1.  100 Place Cou=nity Nurse
Training Schools & Housing         2.87      1.09       3.96     0.42'      0.16     0.58
2. 200 Place Ccumuuity Nurse
Training Schools & Housing         9.38     3.46       12.84     1.36       0.50     1.86
3. Rural Health Centers and
Housing  (3)                       4.66     1.79        6.45     0.67       0.26     0.93
Subtotal-Other Donors             16.91     6.34       23.25     2.45       0.92     3.37
Total                   89.28    40.07     12.935    12.93        5.82    18.75



ANNEX 20
Page 3of 4
Kenya: Estimated Disbursement: Schedule
IBRD Fiscal Year and Quarter                Cuaulative Disbursements at
End of Quarter
US $ (ia millions)
1973/74
June 30, 1974                                         0.10
1974/75
September 30, 1974                                    0.10
December  31, 1974                                    0.32
March 31, 1975                                        1.52
June  30, 1975.                                       3.21
1975/76
September 30, 1975                                    5.32
December  31, 1975                                    6.89
March 31, 1976                                         8.03
June  30, 1976                                        9.13
1976/77
September 30, 1976                                    9.88
December  31, 1976                                   11.18
March 31, 1977                                       11.48
June  30, 1977                                       12.00






ANNEX 20
Page 3of 4
Kenya: Estimated Disbursement. Schedule
IBRD Fiscal Year and Quarter                Cumulative Disbursements at
End of Quarter
US $ (in milios)
1973/74
June 30, 1974                                          0.10
1974/75
September 30, 1974                                     0.10
December  31, 1974                                     0.32
March 31, 1975                                         1.52
June  30, 1975                                         3.21
1975/76
September 30, 1975                                     5.32
December  31, 1975                                     6.89
March 31, 1976                                         8.03
June  30, 1976                                         9.13
1976/77
September 30, 1976                                     9.88
December  31, 1976                                    11.18
March 31, 1977                                        11.48
-- June -30, 1977                                       12.00






FISCUl YFAA      ___1__4__                                      197                                                                                                           p. k16,.oI9.
Q..arters                2  Ji   ~~~~~~~~. -   i   '~~   3      4      1     2      3     42                  3     4
ootIt5                   1,  hI] P54~~~~~~jrm . J J       P--                        --:D       M-A _-j  J-                                        -            -    --A 
3M.rse Trf!pnin JA"fsO3                 dtr-iags ~J                      or~to                    105ftcts
N.Y.        (100 Places) 
Ni.RY   (300 ?I cea                    ..                
Macha.kos    (200  ic.
H.sksr,,    (200 sacL 
tiond 3'..3y Welfare Coaent
croup I
Grou,p 111
8CIOIjLjS_3S10ANCE
_Iile   xirann u ~0.77_ 1.44  1.71.27_ 0.96  0.90  0.60  0.416  017  0.40                                                                                                   8384  6.81
Fees 6 Supervison                            l.a          0.41  0.08o  0. 09  0.03  0.03  0.06  0.04  0.05  0.06  0.03                                                      1.02  0.19
lorait,,re                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~0.03  0.03  0.23    -  -   0.03  0.04  O. 1u  0.01  0.05                                               0.38o  0.45
Coatimseac1eg                                              0.35  0.63  0.13  0.54  0.42  0.39  0.26  0.29  0.01  0.19                                                        3.81  2.98
Siht.t.1 Hardware                           0.10         3.S56  2.18  2.72  3.86  1.43  1.38  0.94  3.10  0.37  0.67                                                     114.31 11.03
Vehiclen                           ~~~~~~~~~- . 0.13    -     -      -   0.06    -       -      -   0.27    -                                                     .46  0.46 -                -     -      -
Techo3cCl Asslatence                            -          0.03  0.01  0.01  0.0   0.05  o.04  0.03  0.04  0.01   0.03 1                                                     0.26  0.20           - 
Otile 14ulpe.tn                         -      -          0.0         -         -   0.03    -           -      0.13             .    -     -                                0.19  0.19 --
Project Acco.nta.t                -                               0.01    -      -      -   0.01            -     -     -                                                    0.02   -                           -    -
Coatlnigencl*8-                                            0.03     -I  -        - 0.02    -         -      -   0.06                        -       -     -     - -          0.12  0.12-
$SkIot*l Software-                                       0.24 10.02 10.01  0.01  0.16  0.05  0.05  0.04  0.41  0.01                                                        1.061 0.917                            
CRAND TOTAIL                                 .0:10         1 .80  2:.20 J.73  1.87  1.59  1.43  0.99  1.14  0.a4  -0.68                                                      L.!.11 32.00
cueala1tive                                   0.10  0.30  1.90  4.30 16.83  8.70  10.29 11.72 12.71 13.85 14.69 15.37
Haerdware                                     0.10    -             -     1.8  1.68  2.10  1.43  3.30  1.06  0.72  0.851  090.52                                               _    11.0 
Software-                                               -         0.22  0.02      0.01  0.010.4  0.04  0.04  0.03  0.45  0.01    -09
Total                                       0.30             -0.32  1.20  1.69  2.131.5   1.14  1.30  0.75 ~1.30  0.30 0.52                                                ____   .0
c..1at3ve                                          0.30  0.10 00.32  1.32  3.21  5.32  6.89  8.05  9.13  9.88  33.18 13.48 12.00






ANNEX 21
Page 1 of 8
Kenya: Proposed Population Program Contributions
1.        This annex describes the likely size, phasing.and items the six
external donors (excluding IDA) have tentatively committed themselves to
financing over the Five-Year Plan period. The GOK expects to obtain external
commitments of at least US$10.6 million dollars from the above-mentioned donors
by the end of the fiscal year, largely to cover the costs of the Program dur-
ing the first three years of the Plan period. Table 1 summarizes the likely
donors' contributions by budget category.
Denmark (DANIDA - US$0.6 million)
2.        In response to a GOK request, DANIDA has agreed to finance the
construction of the 100-bed community nurse (CN) training school at Eldoret
included in the Program and to provide two (36 man-month) nurse tutor advisers
for the school.
The Federal Republic of Germany (US$0.9 million)
3.        The Federal Republic of Germany indicated it would finance the costs
of the 200-bed CN training school at Kakanega.
Norway (NORAD - US$1.8 million)
4.        NORAD will make available about US$1.8 million to be applied towards
either the capital or recurrent costs for the project.  The GOK has formally
requested NORAD's participation in financing: (a) the capital costs for the
construction of three rural health centers; and (b) part of the recurrent
costs of both the fixed service points and mobile clinics. A detailed break-
down of their likely contribution is found in Table 2.
The PoDulation Council (US$0.3 million)
5.        The Population Council has indicated it would be very interested
in providing technical assistance and recurrent costs for the Population
Studies and Research Center to be established at the University of Nairobi.
The GOK has also recently requested that the Council consider financing the
rental of short-term facilities in the Center. The Council is helping the
University develop the Population Studies and Research Center proposal.
Until the final report is available, the recurrent costs included in the
University draft proposal have been used to provide an order of magnitude
for the Council's likely contribution.
Sweden (SIDA - US$5.4 million)
6.        Sweden through SIDA has already finalized its contribution on the
basis of the GOK's earlier request. However, while there are some differences



ANNEX 21
Page 2 of 8
between SIDA's project cost estimates (US$6.0 million) and IDA's (US$5.4
million), SIDA is reasonably flexible in reallocating funds. so long as the
financing includes the following items: (a) technical assistance -a training
adviser (24 man-months) and an information and education adviser (36 man-
months).; (b) recurrent contributions towards the rental for interim accom-
modations for the National Family Welfare Center (NFWC); a portion of the
salaries and operating costs for fixed service points; the full cost of
contraceptive supplies; the full cost for the family planning training courses
(basic, in-service and refresher); and the full cost of information and
education dissemination through the mass media.  Details of SIDA's likely
contribution are spelled out in Table 3.
The LN Fund for Pooulation Activities (UNFPA - US$3.5 million)
7.        UNFPA is considering financing some US$1.2 million over the next
three years as part of a general commitment of US$3.5 million over the Five-
Year Plan period. In particular, UNFPA is interested in financing: (a) part
of the capital cost of office equipment and vehicles (US$0.15 million); (b)
technical assistance-Evaluation and Research Adviser, Clinical Services
Adviser, and the cost of the evaluation studies (US$0.5 million); and (c) part
of the recurrent cost for the NFWC, the supervisory offices at the provincial
and district level, and the fixed service points (132 operational clinics and
five mobile teams) (US$0.6 million). The implication of these actions is that
although UNFPA is willing to support family planning activities in Kenya, it
is not necessarily prepared at this stage to commit itself specifically to the
items request:ed by the GOK (particularly those beyond the third year of the
Plan period and those involving large recurrent expenditures) over the Five-
Year Plan period. Details of their requested contribution over the Five-Year
Plan period are found in Table 4.
United States (USAID - US$2.3 million)
8.        The USAID only commits funds on an annual basis and is interested
in continuing its present support.  It has indicated its willingness to
provisionally allocate US$2.3 million to finance the following items requested
by the GOK: (a) the capital cost of special equipment, i.e., equipment for
the evaluation and research division and the Health Education Unit (HEU);
(b) technical assistance, i.e., continuing to provide two advisers for the
.IEU (36 man-months) and bearing the full cost of fellowships (28); and
(c) meeting part of the recurrent costs of the NFWC, the supervisory offices
ac che provincial and district level, and the fixed service points. A
detailed financing plan reflecting USAID's likely contribution is given in
Table 5.



ANNEX 21
Page 3 of 8
GOK Firnancing (US$14.3 million)
9.        Some US$17.5 million including contingencies, which constitute 45%
of the total project costs, are required in operating costs over the Five-Year
Plan period. These operating costs will increase from around US$2.0 million
in FY 1975 to US$4.8 million in FY 1979. Nearly all of the donora were of the
opinion that these costs should be financed on a declining basis over the
Five-Year Plan period with the GOK gradually financing an increased proportion
such that by the end of the Plan period, it will be financing the costs in
full. For salaries and operating costs, the formula adopted is an azmual
decline of 20 percentage points in external financing. For fixed clinic
staff, for wtich the recurrent burden is particularly heavy, the formula is
a 15% decline per year in external financing, which would result in external
donors financing 40% of the recurrtant costs for fixed clinics in the fifth
year. The GOK will bear the full burden of these costs as well as the costs
for the sixth year and beyond.



JRMA  2 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....x.oA..                            JA0&Pjb t1                       A                                A it      pi                    t,34     I ..  1   .. 903A '1140  . il3 4? -fJ-W81 0       ,  ..        c      ~ .. aJ ~ L..i     ~
is) 8,3 .t1.3939  Slokoll.. 943, * ... I   33.414.)           344.    3.1295 3  II030 0                                                                      1.2.3
8.43(3 14.4903.9 9.30~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~156                                                                                                                                                                                            0.
3.3  0*14,t3iiIimsI:                               480.8              33.2    431.2      324.9  44.9    33.3         is.3 I                                                                                                                         8.       38.3
3.' !skkLu0                                        S8.3     . I88 -1.                    141.0  83.8    12.0         8.3 1                                                                                                                         244.1     30.0
Votes                                 38.3S.3          la.488.6   1.04. 1  31.803.9   86.3   140.2         0.?   421.3       2.3                       343,0      3.3     431.0      1.1       881.4        4.S                       S 1.04  1    38.4
3.3  Ad,sos  .d CeS..3."t.                         88.                49.1    341.6       93.0    9.3   304.8       19.3    317.2      33.1     383.3    38.3    -          -       33.3    M11?                                                    41.3t      4.4
3.1  st9tos*  R"5 99   009                          43.4             431.3S    188.4     304.9   19.6   394.8        34.1                                                   -       ..                 --                                           1.       44.4
3.3.3                        3~~~~~~     ~     ~~~.1084  8 64.91.3033.1  392.0   31.8   493.8   38.1   38.6.      22.0      183.3    3 0.5                      118.1      9.C                        I                        39M.       3.3
I I  P1Slo...  F..Ilt 9.lf.ro C..3.v             3,993.3           3,2.4W        3.1  .                  20.0  -   3.0  883.0          33.0    314.2    32.8                                                                            .343                   4
3.3  S.r.R.Jo4.-, 0113oo. (ft..3.e.1 4,
*3.llol3     ~~2,349.3          3,14.1.                               18.  1        .3   1 44.8     34.2 I                                                                                 --                  381         1.
3.1   ooo.131                                    1.3.,88.)        3I'.$&.                                 1146.       3.0  441.0        1.8  1,038.       33. 1 .01390    31.4                                                                    4.94118     64.1
'l.4  C..op3.9.11.31533.4                                          .         3,333.4   .                                    .         .         33346   300.0     .                  ..                 ..                    .-
I.?  3.3J~311.0,                                                   3,333.0                                                  .                 31.33.4   300.0     .                  -.                 ..
3.8  3,Io..-.ilo.   d I4-.oEiI  (3l..i, 339.)    1,344.,           3.33   -                              -           -. I                     1.164.1   380.0     .                  ..                 ...                                      .-
3.3I P.p.l...I.3, 83.43., .,, Ida.....o. E ..c.o   ..II               21.1                                                                                                                                                     0.         48       333        8.
lOlol                   31.1.44.3         34,038.8   1,311.3   -                 381.3.03.4 3.4.68              8.1   3.314.a    39.8  3.0)1.0      3.9     .                                          0.          .1    8,940.4      30.9
380' 1.~~~~~i              38,840.8          38,3~~~~~~~93.31  9,843.3  33.8000   38.8 3.3)4.1   3.2 2,33J.5       4.0   3,391.9    33.9  3,339.0      4.6      314.1      3.3       803.4        3.3    309.0        .8   14.5113.      34.8
3..o31  0, (us 4  t411..1                  16.9              39.3a      9.8      33.0                                 &Ak  .              .4               3.8                 .6                   .9                                      It 34,33
0,' -, 093rlso3lm9 ..,4.4.  .,31  us,04ot. 91000  s.3..tood.h..  - di.....0                   at ot .3.0  3.,03 3.s9...o 10co "A4 d.. 5ew
.1  slut.  she, Seat .131991.9, 93-   &.5*.*  4133..tsoe  3,.od  b.1.9 8198 .333s Res  A               we3330380  3*"4 se, 189 138  8909.93  A.0.93i .3.     Th.y A. .93, 03-I33, .dll, HIRA'R CIA... .. ki T0.3    bas.es90
9909 Rho .03s3.9  1-ye9, 13lo solhossi... Xlec. 8AM4 h.. 8"loo33       its 33.    g..3013.i.t.s lRb091 Swloto to 86. 84.0 .3330.. (te..3.ll 0  tho 41.'. .d1ll3., C.1fl3.03.4  .13. tk. t4h.13  %Ml.. RAT 3e4
1/ b8Jo38  t.rt0.3 Sesti313.0, 1.1School .0 vi34.t..
J,  to tor-e  3. 34. sm0 9.9se.  NW 1 3....3.1 a.9.l.              A bel34.49wl It3. cl .t b .~..    .1..3e beeed   omt t   000 911.3.433438w ever lbo 9990 three 3Wor me put of a  ..-,.3   RslommOt.0  of USI3.3.33 sit        eort 9. el3..?... t3.
P..l.d.  Allh."e  39,30 ho.  .ot  so*4 .. it.0.3394 4..011.          , b,      h.d    Shia y.  .5 Lb. 13.9 p-.o04. 01 to lee.l94ls"    .03 . .9911...99901393          el the es1.   41411.3310.  3t t345 mat3 the 8.1. Ftwo-Toe 3849983
(v,Lf 3 SmIms.).~3 Rho sm ..t..031433 will 3. "4.0.4 I., 9- 1633.8 .3313e..
So



ANE  21
Page 5 of 8
Table 2
Kenya: NORAD Proposed Population Program Contribution
Foreign  Local   Total
TY Year-by-Year Breackdown         Exchaute  Cost    Contribution
- US Z (OOm)-!
74 75    76     77     78     79
CAPITAL COSTS:
1.1.    Construction:
2. Rural Health Centera(3)  -       -      -     -        -     222.4    519.4    741.8
RECURRENT COSTS:
3.3.    Service Points:
3 .  Fixed Clinics         -  131.0 196.4  229.6  195.9  141.3   -       894.2    894.2
2. Mobile Clinics          -   22.3  19.0  29.1  41.6  30.3   -          142.3   142.3
AL RECUERRENT             153.3 215.4  258.7  237.5  171.6   -      1036.5  1036.5
} O                    -  153.3 215.4  258.7  237.5  171.6  222.4  1555.9   1778.3



ANNB= 21
Table  3                       Pago 6 of 8
Kenya: SIDA Proposed Population Program Contribution
PY Year-by-Year Breakdown               Foreign    Local   Total
US  $ (000's)                    Exchange   Cost    Cobtri-
llS   (00's)
7*      75      76       77     78       79
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
2.1       Advisers:
I. (c)  Training        18.1    36.2    18.1       -                -     18.1      54.3      72.4
1 (e)  Information
& Education        -     36.2    36.2    36.3       _        -     27.2      81.5     108.7
TOTAL TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE       18.1    72.4    54.3    36.3       _        -     45.3    135.8      181.1
RECURRENT COSTS
3.1       NFWC:
2 (b)  Rental Costs     58.0  144.9   144.9    28.9                 -    376.7        -      376.7
3.3.1     Service Points:
Fixed Clinics       -    76.6   150.6   226.6   269.8   306.2            1,029.8   1,029.8
3.4       Contraceptive       -    81.2   172.4   274.8   403.8   601.4        -   1,533.6   1,533.6
Suopiplies
3.5       Training (Super-
intendent &
Staff            16.0  188.8   223.1   238.0   204.6   242.1 1,112.6           -    1,112.6
3.6       InformAtion
& Education         -   320.2   160.9   194.0   227.6   261.4 1.164.1               1.164.1
TOTAL
RECURRENT         74.0  811.7   851.9   962.3 1,105.8 1,411.1 2,653.4  2,563.4   5,216.8
GRAND
TOTAL             92.1  884.1   906.2   998.6 1,105.8 1,411.1 2,698.7  2,699.2   5,397.9



ANNEX 21
eage I ox 8
TABLE 4
Kenya: UNFPA Proposed Population Project Contribution
FY Year-by-Year Breakdown          Foreign    Local   Total
US $ (000's)                Exchange   Cost    Coutri-
74    75    76    77    78    79       us_0_0___          bution
US $ (000' s)
CAPITAL COSTS
1.3.3   Office Equipment        -    59.1  48.0  61.2  25.0  23.2   218.5                 218.5
1.3.4   Vehicles (for
service pts.)          -   113.6  41.3  95.7  10.9  23.8   285.3          -       285.3
TOTAL CAPITAL COST    -   172.7  89.3 156.9  35.9  49.0   503.8           -       503.8
TECRNICAL ASSISTANCE
2.1     Advisers:
l(b)  Clinical Services    30.4  60.9  47.8    -         -     -    104.4    34.8       139.2
l(d)  Evaluation and
Research              20.7  77.6  80.1    -       -      -    133.8    44.6       178.4
2.2     Studies:
(b)  Program Evaluation    -   153.7  37.7  64.2  72.5  72.3    -           400.4      400.4
TOTAL TECH.ASST.      51.1 292.2 165.6  64.2  72.5  72.3   238.2   479.8         718.0
RECURRENT COSTS
3.1     NFWC:
1   Director's Office
and Staff             15.4  19.2  15.4  11.5   7.7   3.9    -           73.1       73.1
4   Clinical Services
Division               5.5  17.5  16.1  12.1   8.0  -4.0    -           63.2       63.2
5   Training
Division              14.2  61.1  41.0  30.8  20.5  10.3    -          177.9      177.9
6   Evaluation and
Research              15.2  52.3  41.8  31.4  20.9  10.5    -          172.1      172.1
7   Info. and
Education Division    7.9  24.7  19.8  14.8   9.9   4.9    -            82.0       82.0
SUB-TOTAL             58.2 174.8 134.1 100.6  67.0  33.6   -           568.3      568.3
3.2     Supervisinp Office:  30.0  99.1 105.9  92.8  12.5  36.3    -           376.6      376.6
3.3     Service Points:
Fixed                  -   131.0 196.4 229.6 195.9 141.3               894.2      894.2
TOTAL RECURRENT       88.2 404.9 436.4 423.0 275.4 211.2    -    1.839.1   1,839.1
GRAND TOTAL          139.3 869.8 691.3 644.1 383.8 332.5   742.0 2.318.9  3,060.9



-ANNE: 21
b,&& 8 of 8
TABLE 5
Kenya: USAID Proposed pg2ulation Pro1ect Contribution
Foreign    Local   Total
FY Year-bX-Ye.ir Breakdown             ExchaM   Cost,  Contribution
US  $ (000's)                          US $ (000's)
CAPITAL COSTS                   74    75    76    77    78    79               -
1. Special Equipment:
HliJ. Evaluation
Equipment &
Service Points            -   214.4  80.9  89.3  36.6  41.1  462.3           -
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
2.1 Advisers:
l(e) Health Education Unit   -    72.4  72.4  72.4   -         -    162.9      54.3    217.2
2.3  Fellowships:              -    43.4  52.2  52.1  21.7   -    169.4           -     169.4
TO'A.L TECH.ASST.         -    15.8 124.6 124.5  21.7           332.3     54.3    386.6
RECURRENT COSTS
3.1 NFWC:
2.  Administration Division  -    27.0  25.3  19.0  14.6   7.5   -             93.4     93.4
7B  Health Education Unit    -   132.0 147.4 150.3 111.1  56.8    1.5    596.1    597.6
Sub-Total                 -   159.0 172.7 169.3 125.7  64.3    1.5    689.5    691.0
3.2  Supervising Offices:       -    99.1 105.9  92.8  12.5  36.3  -           346.6    346.6
3.3  Service Points:
1. Fixed Clinics              -    65.4  98.2 114.9  97.9  70.6  .           447.0    447.0
TOTAL RECLMRRNT           -   323.5 376.8 377.0 236.1 171.2    1.5  1,483.1  &  484 6
GRAND TOTAL               -   §53.7 582.3 590.8 294.4 212.3  796.1  1.537.4  2.333.5



US? L    CZIflOCA  AL1 trariiuc~?~I.
YE"~~~~~~~~~~~5
MAICu                                               uc.,  wll"At-I      - "      .. t
PAti St   MM1OA                         AEC & OW  ILl btildt1.54 O 5d   p hsT"WIT.                        MM-.    Is,~tt,s . oA..-4..  MM:5W
IC ~   ~     tS CYI Sxc            e.dZ 4u Ln u the  C-sbt.  7U   m7cot.  u.   ea  e 
A         i~~~'~~C-'m                                                                               4d51.
LO. V* IL  I        PII   .&.         C    11.'C    /, I sonoyp"S U1kC5 CLw4  mIIls        cC     r 4 w DI?4LJ & tviw  .p.h2iw. 6 te. ofLI.MO.s/ysc:
(Y   t.5Jeu. I)                       imle  "  I PWI4                     "I .yt Let        U T. my   Mt.                                             L
* ..  I                            ~~~~~~~~~~~the WmC.                                  241  UA 1U451    rMCLtt9tt5.         -*.esL-g ZOO.TCSII-
ofI     o"OlOO961 'll 4e110i"  f.515..16  4ttht.tO MU  d PTAa
___________ ___________ __________ ___________ _____   *1 1. . at 1CSICflj   od"oe 621  VM1 l s   -
'0 M  "L C~tl   5.1  PrcAIII.PdlU115 LaS 1.'.
PeiIe(.01.5.15  &p..stles:-3 -  a-&    ~o
TI  3VTC- MIC
Pt2 "EC  'AIC!*CIp   (*lA 4                                  14 15.1153)-o. "   P         SI C A 311 Of: la IMg. -d 200 YPIW. e .etV. pets.
VIC -                               Id PeUdtA.1 pwooooo5. Lw pbhlLm 15.111 tth±g$
I VIC - PlC                         -auC d DIP ILl112' WI0I 0 l  zw4mS
TIC   S.'8   Pt                  IM41415Mol Of Ib..tes AetWUl... Stadp J.~
(SX .o. -I-,
..~ ~ ~~~rC. 8 ,...                              uc(.  *ts wit *Xi-S Diwul..hW_-
Jan.                                                                                               Ir
rL                                                                                                    rIAIfU  ISIs    vs  s CXap pftCSp.tI ., Qi _ @' ;.J g- LaIVrQ,%  t S..G  CsIIsco
; { lo e * .L     It  C                                  A p.LLint.    L                         tt.tu  WC  115 A p l IL _S e 2  V MCt t  * T *   I *t  D r
1             9 'tOC - SITm                                                                            .t?,
120 VIC  AMC                       -UC&W il. 100 WaOs NedW  2SK.
5 IC   1151. OOl.,
2      .5       ft..41   55 IL   L
-A I  4CS9im.15t-to                          .OPt*           -  Is     5. 5- ..             I'.L          *f;  . '-Jfb     6  LI 7Std
S w 9v4 p.   ti PC3k A"                                                                                                 Q IeI2iQ _1  S*ttI 12  .
-d 1  sif_ _        Pt.                    154 t..e osia_
J      TIC 5? it" . o.f rte.            M  4Ll I .th. .- I7O-St  La                              SuAtt_W. A."  ,  X,.
I V                          I                                                                        I       t C-4M
_                 _       _        _                            ..                               __                         _       ___                          :
4~~~~~IOO .m tol                       L g.o
+2 LtVCIfCrteti F*rentts)t5_  fs t7swr
;  1: I_______ --       frrb  t_rAtt



- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~S A"t :2
LII? 79 CYC ?9AL AC20I   (...94. *,4                                         21 t5 t 
_  | n YW,                   'Y~~~~~VLCAs T:il  AND                                                        kcvt'G -  mC,                         a1  flCA rus*t:inzr .1Cm
Y8A ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~paad  t.os ,d
I Yt97 I/
_1".tea I"wtw                                                                                             m ;   o
UCd. 3- _......  off,h .  * t                                  r                                                                          .--   Of..5.1.
i! ~ ~~~~~~         &I 4vsX-rtyls_ _                                             ,,                 12re   472 1.59..4.  5,446
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I   c:| ~1              W     .64 1     ~        *5 s455*td                                     V .*$  4 17* f5  Me snm..:.
l ) K~~~-id  t1n<h um r .. itit  -v  Wlttalol tXtr" $ -8WVary;@tc   of A.Otrtas ft_1 * tnft -ufi F
7 7" 5                                                                                                                                   ebII C. .ln Wn  0144   4.4. t U9 ot .6 n _ n9  ci -.  ' ' ^ L A  4 am1 ct Dc.11n  01.t.. L  n
(..y  .,C.1   454  4445    .6stlS  S.99W);f4tI,.49  a44=  4 456949        I5~,O92S.  -tIt4 I,401.*, S IO.t4 .L -IS.tas  ,.5d.p43          .40IwA.v9   ..r5.s
--    ~    Sot sec.  c.rc                            7..d.2to%,s -sr  .9eeIdane                           .1 .SItCc  .Jl1ryp,0 1 3,   ih415S4.9.l....f...1r
'   .1n 1,   N49,- mt S"esm -  b   I,A.S CO 5tu1._,;  0....rsn      *.          or.  *;: f- c   n
, 1      .z        YL         wtfn  ;e DZ;YLM  na~      -.Yt ;acB   ;nt" r-        the *  eaw
! 5.9 944499 ,4-1f17 .  -9cI.       Irfart |1.94:1 . l .h .t.I                             i S 5tal 2r   tor t461 5                   4
I  7.1 coBl9.4l*. 1..L..,1. 445   481)      -U  6.44 rlI S".6.d *_                   -.u
'p 71  .f'q= -jv-L"Ilde    -  .595apart.    ~ .  sc.s...gnsIt6  4.4U1-
Ir    +  ~~cIC h.. .r I 66.1  .9..514 ler44 I; tat 54..9.St1 LC5                                              ..  a...  sewhltl   so.. .ctrr, trt.tr..rtrL    lerE lr
-W                               4-A. .-Mr   -yt
L.:c.c, ..1... fars p.11911                                                                                  p .ce.5 .t.t  I  618
!C C. 04i 2X 14-  t4 r  r-t                                                 *72.lccIc  ., 210 uICN.tse.17 L5.  -4 s           O 3_S"   .I ea          .9 .tL o", ..1ic.4.r.
' \ :^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A23)  I-tw X-&-  Mc __ret iso J-tae Utr-tey* s  ;r;; SZ- 
!-rI~ontw (sievu* _d p_-CL3.). L  LyearI MA                                   0         00 _
PI.tcc  .4 ul*ttIS b  W Isq  *.,J. _  .. Wt  ....  0... 
C~IlS51.. .5    tly  ~    2  S - MAB 4.444
IICeapintra ef rslti  -1--41_ r_tt
ur~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~z U& SI .1t 0t Ps. wigt c t40Sat *. r1mc                                                              0=430t._1 e : IL I4..Ich Idc.ti   5Ift..9.,
Ill                                                                                           75.15794 544.tl..                                     1 5.451, .1 %-,-L,  ..2Cq...
til                      2                                                              7 _  W  *, |              L, ic m   aa 10-7   Ift r  r   ONWSl ?   i   16 
_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~bnl . rMt  L7roMr lr..l VAt;  _m . 71Z.1Awany  L                                                                     nI
-VW                                    1~~~~~~1 4. ..  0 aammo. 210 64511  15.1  mean "
Yr1 184111       Itisr"r.w*-   4568 19 e                                   o I    e, 10 70 6.5.m6teatt 4.95 *d  Inani  lesion,
265 SM5a6                                                    100 Leaders. .5A 1,594.4*r ofIs
1-~ 964.9.661.654.
41  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.s~,30 IA.25 64n&  .410"L416~    *1.  gs1h~.&e    s.
YEW                                                                                            i             atr t. L04O g. 6 _t_ wste   a" ime aly 14.4.9   111am r  t"tm  cows r,Ills,.
I"" i   .,.1
C_ Tt1664* rt 46g1g5? 4.444*444   ~                                       120 1664gr, .9rrtr,4 1,64.6  -. a -144. W
Gsi14t144 6. I441sI- .94 6Is rdote'
s~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~656  CI |q .964 rA'M- _19*. _1 4. 1 .
C _Sp*tl_ Pt"nearly _             P*_t                                   lad14"a
C_l tt rt *_____________                                                                                                                                   _ _l_tt    _tTp(
_                               y*9064  n4.    in.6s.  mWt*.n     t                                                                           ________________________________



Pam 3 of 1
tlST Cr CRITCAL ACT1CS   (ttd..)
;-                    c h cSW?LnAPaN.TAArMt.                                         OTOJ2cT COhTRS'tON Ult'T         |                                AIM 5Dtl 
19,73/41
_Azc &.g *e 0i*t.ow, DaIty Dirteoto s4 $OOtcacr for
-vS
2'
__                    0. _4W  00.  brft             boLo_t iotoulc ct-I wrK  '   tt
405 pOLl.                   Soot f  (U. 0415...t rid                                                               n oC -is cc
100 tvsLL
AMC  & AO o: Posrm A,iv...Ae ..c Oc.Qtfi Srw. SpplY *                     Tvoo   Oorim."100 SdStn       ,oOL-e d by Dir*Ctot 0d  Orpcy
p.R0 OHio.,  I d.f.r. I Soelfp1.a diog. So- ftrI  .*d                      5t 0,.cott oSt  C   to Iatrodoc Fi-. Toor t  ily  P1SAStg
t                                              I 1ft;  3 odIv,  tst 5 foiooro 100 SoSti.CSl.; .   J0 C7.o/&Vtputic        71 _    d    goite Prtwr_   liop_C to a Sofr tad
£0. to W .   pt,;  rA_ roo,al of t_or ry po_ioa* ftr Mc.                   O4t SW.
a= & DsU   otf  I llbt Lo. 1 hIo   y..kor. 2 driwr,                       Fia±ob Pr-t.lo   eit11ot the cho  lC         p_or .IL
L .opy , 7p006 & a 6                    1.o.r/cl   15 Id dro   fonr       tooit  pooh t so.
IIVIS    , 'Mo.;  t00. r  tol of C04  r"* y iOtolOItt   fto
5. 0 0 Dli of             -DOIOW         02 ot . oo.t104  000?w4? yIO000S *V0   &                    i .0.0k ro t_ 1*i_  by  -9  of SIC; .o..*LIoL.   ot
540 pill*                  y*to to ptor.oI ?ottr kiSptj,rtotSIottt of 0                             Y.0.ly pr0sr?- r wPot.
4.0                         40tI1o dOD1.4D .oofi64 p100 of      the an.i.go     3 YO*00 .PaLl1as
Tf 5.000            oa~t ch. atff±    of.pt..   f oo    4 flo
_            ~~6 .00015    _            00210  ootr                                                      ___________________________________
YES                                                             or                                                              ADoui otlfatD  spootitg eOh  r    by 5G
I~~~~~~~~~~~~ |                        I PE; 004 SD oI,lerc/ypoao. Iot *.o,toa polIt
tI                                               tiM  &m MP .4    . 4,4,o. fp Ou t:  9 otort?  Co, Kris
Aoq    goaof  of boo gtp Of  L.,. 1-   -I  h-1lh..tbV..
197*
137_
- ~~~~~~~~~i                                                                                                                 -- ..        .    ... I _   .  _ _
7.L 04G  * MP= ta         by staff of NIcT
jOWILAtloo  of y.aoLy poop..* r.P°c
PR &M  ot                       iC o      aG Ot 7 0rtyor. f h/ rrs   F rps    d 50 cl.r0t                 Aoogl       t oetto.  hobetrd by GCI
l~ ~ ~~~           0  pi'OOcoa              typtoa t     .oe -L.. PWCtbt
200tE
_   7Yt51SI          i oS th.,.
=. .                  0 '
Ki4-ot.ro ",A-. by IDA (S-.ioaoo  by 5.00 O
_ _k .. e  ..-tc. of 2.4  hb.. P.opslot. Po.oot)
4                                                                                                                           I .aa  N._-  11_., by St.ff of WVC; cpIX.oItO
cf 7cty pvv*oi.o  osot
IVTFf A. moo.                                         Ur * 5? of, 4 Driv-  tor U0    S o                                         A"",; 75 cln.  o.0o.. Otlafitt &a ^La4  d.4 by 
2     p.LU                  tUl        for it  ocr     pt; DO 11 dt.Y   it, wbhlo
I 150 .15D                       _               e
_  977                3        . 'b  S och r_                             __                  _                    -
2001
I  v04  Not?   I.oio;    pil    Sto ot yr.w.y
t                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~pro* ?,PE
YUA                     P o5no;                         .5 a. .00 0   .35  NPr typUat               Pt. .trtc   AIav4l *17t12tn  2oS1- 4 012400  by GM
1P74 ~        4
V                  7.~~~~~400 IUD'.
attoos .0005114 raa.og CoOby W7 C.5
LSmaiO.oosetoootod    Iotlodod in A.*S  35 of thil fopwt p0001064 4.64±104 IIaSt10st  M- Sb.otoSe"totm. S04 oo.
%SOlt&tLS   bo o.,



la? OF Citl..CAL AY1OllS (0   .)
-ox.sy                                     ddO r4tosi. elln 4                 - _
*7  crLALio  by ir/s of 30 bw-..
(10 per to.th)
_              Thorly  Wit                                           F?  tr LL2. br li/S of 30 -.4.
Yo Coot.. p?0w000 of? Po..-                           I F? troin±    by grY/ of 30 .as.
21
p.0.1.                                              7~~~~~~~~~~~~? tr.W.$o by IT/S of 30  .t
S_tt                                                  7? Ctrawt   by NETIS of 20 ow
II.rs- ;too  .o1i d0.C1  ..d qole
OFAI                     CF t5 1ratJl2  by IITS et 30 20                                           "
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r trmt Pteoit araum  tl/ ot10m
4-:
YE,           ,orl              _   .        _    ._
S00.It bdgt  0R-tq      tor'
2                _J_                 _          _ .__
1                            .
-.'
I             Shw1.0.1 7 i2 tO " t1".a C.              Al   !!o                                 t      rOWn
C.2lIt l                                                       frh ro",botoll Newt-
___  .Y107d        _iSt    FoII                                                                      151-  00
Ill  -~~o.J~~k ~~dotC1oo UolO
21-'-    i  .awl.doo.   :Ctod. sod ir  YUC
-m y41.. F*t. Aciof Cos
1@ss71
r   l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ar
s ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~r Irt.a  btcI_br olz
l~ ~~~~Iml           pl "           S i   Ch                                                                __  _.



ANNEX 23
Page 1 of 8
Demographic and Socioeconomic Analysis of Program Impact
Demographic Analysis
1.        The Five-Year Family Planning Program will considerably accelerate
the rate of siuch fertility decline. The implementation of the expanded Fam-
ily ?lanning Program is expected to help reduce the rate of natural increase
of the Kenyan population from about 3.3% in 1974 (the base year) to 3.02% in
1980 and eventually to 2.81% by year 1999. 1/ It is possible that this goal
may be achieved more promptly if some further breakthrough occurs in contra-
ceptive technology or a major improvement in public attitude to and accept-
ance of family planning occurs in the near future.
2.        The crude birth and death rates, the rates of natural increase
and the total fertility rate of Kenya with and without the Program are
shown below:
Projected Vital Rates Without and With the Program
Without Program                        With Program
Crude Birth Crude Death Rate of Natu- Crude Birth Crude Death Rate of Natu-
Year     Rate        Rate      ral Increase      Rate        Rate      ral Increase
1975     47.7        14.7           32.9          47.3        14.7          32.3
1980     46.3        12.'7          33.6          42.5        12.3          30.2
1985     44.8        10.8           33.9          41.5        10.6          30.9
1990     42.4         9.3           33.1          39.5         9.2          30.4
1995     40.2         8.0           32.2          37.4         8.0          29.5
1999     38.5         7.2           31.3          35.3         7.2          28.1
Source:   Mission Estimates.
3.        The total fertility rate with the Program will fall from 7.2 in
1975 to 4.7 in the year 2000.
Total Fertilitv Rate in Kenya
Years               Without Program            With Program
1975                      7.309                    7.201
1980                      6.908                    6.278
1985                      6.510                    5.870
1990                      6.115                    5.463
1995                      5.716                    5.055
2000                                               4.733
Source:   Mission Estimates.
1/   The demographic effects resuicing 'rom the family planning program are
based on the fertility decline achieved during the Five-Year Plan
period alone.



ANNE. 23
Page 2 of 8
4.        The total population size in Kenya without the Program will rise
to 29.3 million in the year 2,000, whereas with the Program the total,popu-
lation will reach 27.4 million, an increase of 14.6 million or 114% over
the next 25 years. The annual rate of population growth will be reduced
from around 3.3% in 1975 to 2.8% in 1999.  Without the Program, the total
population,will increase nearly 16.5 million or by 128.9% in 25 years with
the annual growth rate falling from 3.3%. in 1975 to 3.1% in 1999. The aver-
age annual growth rate in the latter case will be more than 3.3Z. The dif-
ference in the total population s:tze without and with the Prograz will
exceed 0.9 million in t990 and 1.9 million in 1999.
Projected Mid-Year Population of Kenya
Without and With the Family Planning Program
(Figures in 000s)
Year      Without Program                  With Program       Difference
1975          13,227                          13,222                  5
1980          15,614                          15,451               164
1985          18,501                          18,014               487
1990          21,880                          20,997               883
1999          29,258                          27,369             1,889
Source:   Mission Estimates
Age Composition and Dependence Burden
5.        The proposed National Family Planning Program is expected to
improve considerably the age structure of the population thereby helping
alleviate Kenya's economic burden and facilitating the attainment of her
developmental goals.
6.        Currently, close to half (48.7%) of her total population are
younger than 15 years of age. Less than half (46.5%) of Kenya's population
are in the reproductive age group of 15 to 59. The dependency burden,
therefore, is high; being 114 dependents who have to be supported by each
100 persons in the productive age group. With the Program this ratio will
decrease considerably to 104 in 1980, 94 in 1990 and 87 by 2000 with the
proposed Family Planning Program.
7.        The age structure of population by quinquennial age groups with-
out and with the Family Planning Program are shown below. Chart 7880 shows
the population pyramid of Kenya without the Family Planning Program, super-
Imposed with the Family Planning Program for selected years.



ANNEX 23
Page 3 of 8
Proportion of Population by Three Broad Age Groups and
Dependency burden of the Kenyan_Population
Without and With the Family Planning Program
Age                   1980                1901999
Group   1974    Without    With       Without  With    Without    With
0-14   48.6      47.4       46.9       46.8    44.6      44.6       42.2
15--64   46.7    48.6       49.1       49.6    51.6      51.6      53.7
6N-      4.7      4.0        4.0        3.6     3.8       3.8        4.1'
Total  100.0    100.0      100.0      100.0   100.0    100.0       100.0
Dependency
Burden 114       106       104        101     94        94         87
Source:   Mission Estimate.
Female PopulLLtion of Childbearing Age, Potential Male Labor Force and
School Age Populations
8.        It takes about 15 years for a female baby to reach minimum age for
childbearing and similarly, boys usually become eligible to participate in
the labor market at the age of 15. In the short-run, therefore, the pro-
posed Family Planning Program will have little impact on these factors. The
difference in female population of childbearing age 15 to 49, which also
constitutes the potential female labor force, without and with Family Plan-
ning will be 214,000 in 2,000. The difference in the potential male labor
force without and with Family Planning will be 207,000 in 2,000. In the
long-run, however, these differences will further increase at an accelerat-
ing rate, generating a significant demographic and economic impact.



Age Composition of Kenya Poulationt Without and With FaD1ll Elarg
Program (Expressed in Perceritage, of the Total Population)
1^974, 1980, 1990 & 2000
1980
Age             1974               Withhout Iio-ran          With Profram
Group    Total  Male  Fmale    Total  Male  Female   Total  MalW   Female
0 - 4     19.2   9.7       9.5    19.1   9.6        9.4    18.3   9.3       9.1
5 - 9     15.5   7.8       7.8    15.6   7.8       7.7    15.6   7.8        7.8
10-14     13.9   7.1       6.9    12.8   6.4        6.4    12.9   6.5       6.3
15-19     10.6   5.5       5.1    11.7   5.9        5.8    11.7   5.9       5.8
20-24      8.4   4.3       4.2     8.9    4.6    h4.3       9.0    4.7      4.4
25-29      6.6   3.2       3.4      7.0   3.6      3.5      7.0   3.6       3.5
3_314      5.7   2.6       3.1      5.5   2.7      2.8      5.5   2.7       2.8
35-39      4.5   2.2       2.4     4.7   2.1       2.5      4.7   2.2       2.5
4°-44      3.7   1.8       1.9      3.7   1.8       2.0     3.7   1.8       Z.0
45-49      3.0   1.5       1.5      3.0   1.4      i.5      3.0   1.4       1.5
50-54      2.4   1.2       1.2      2.4   1.2      1.2      2.4   1.2       1.2
55-59      1.8   0.9       0.8      1.9   0.9      1.0      1.9   0.9       1.0
60-64      1.5   0.8       0.7      1.3   0.7      0.6      1.3   0.7       0.6
65-69      1.3   0.6       0.6      1.0   0.5      0.5      1.1   o.6       Q.5
70-74      0.9   0.5       0.5      0.8   0.4      0.4      0.8   0.4       0.4
75+                         _ 5     o.8   0                   8  0.
Total    100.0  50.0    50.0   100.0  50.0    50.0   100.0  50.0    50.0
S e   M
Sourcet Mission estimates.                                                                               c



Aze Composition of Kean P   1 jji .nd With               ilyu Panning
Program (Expressed in Percentage of the Total Population)
1971. 1980, 1990 & 2000
1990                                                2000
Age           Without Pro                With Program        ,       thout Proram            With Program
Group       Total  Hale  Female    Total  Mle   Femuale    Total  Hale  Female   Total ' Male
-  -                      -      -         -      -
0 - 4        18.3   9.3       9.0    17.2   8.7         8.5      17.0   8.7       8,3    15.8    8.0       7.8
5 - 9     1  15.4   7.8       7.7    14.6   7.4         7.2      14.8   7.5       7.3    li.1   7.2        6.9
lo-]],       13.0   6.5       6.4    12.9   6.5         6.4      12.9   6.5      6.4    l2.4    6.3       6.2
15-19       1.0.9   5.5       5.4   U1.3    5.7         5.6      ll.o    5.6      5.5    10.7   5.4        5.3
20-2Ij        8.9   4.5       4.4      9.2    4.6       4.6       9.2    4.6      4.6      9.4    4.7      4.7
25 2y         8.0   4.0       4.0      8.3    l-2       4.1       7.7   3.8       3.8      8.2    4.1      4.i
30-314        6.1   3.1       3.0      6.3    3.?  '   3.13       6.2   3.1       3.1      6.7    3.3      3.4
35-39         4 .'   2.4      2.3      4.9   2.5        2.h       5.6   2.8       2.8      6.o   3.0       3.0
40-hii         3.7   1.8      1.9      3.8   1.9        2.0       ls.2   2.2      2.1   4 .5   2.3         2.2
45-49          3.1   1.4      1.7      3.2    1.5       1.7       3.2   1.6       1.6      3.5   1.8       1.7
50-54          2.4   1.1      1.3      2.5   1.2        1.3       2.5   1.2       1.3      2.6   1.2       1.4
55-59         1.8   0.9       1.0      1.9    0.9       1.0       2.0   0.9       1.1      2.1    1.0      1.1
60-6h         1.4   0.7       0.7      1.5    0.7       0.8       1.5    0.7      0.8      1.6    o.8      1.0
65-69          1.0   0.5       0.5     1.0    0.5       0.5       1.0   0.5       0.6      1.1   0.5       o.6
70-79          o.6   0.3      0.3      o.6    0.3       0.3       0,7   0.3       0.4      0.7   0.3       O.4
75+            0.6            0.3            o             . 0.4  0 .6   0.3    ALI        0.7   0.3 52-
Total     j 100.0  50.0    50.o   IQO. 0   50.0        50.0    100.0  50.0    50.0   100.0  50.0    50.0
Source: Mission estimates.
co



ANNEX 23
Page 6 of 8
7.        A more imediate demographic implication of the proposed Family
Plaaning Program is the difference the Program will make in the school age
populations. Although education in Kenya is not entirely free, the Govern-
ment has been investing a considerable propoition of its limited resource
for construction and expansion of school facilities, in training of teachers,
and in other educational activities. Since it takes only about 6 years for
a child born to reach the elementary school age, the Family Plaxming Program
impact will be more readily realized.
8.        The projected school age population without and with the family
planning program will be:
Prolected Elementary and Secondary School-Age Population
Without and With the Family Planning Program
(00(1.)
Primary School (6-12 yrs.)   Secondary School (13-18 yrs.)    Total
Year  Without  With  Difference    Without  With  Difference         Difference
1975   2,696   2,696      0           1,837   1,837      0                0
1980   3,061   3,061      0           2,252   2,252      0                0
1985   3,684   3,601    83            2,446   2,446      0               83
1990   4,341   3,994   347            2,967   2,944    23               370
1995   5,082  .4,582   500            3,499   3,265   234               734
2000   5,821   5,201   620            4,130   3,733   397             1,017
Note:     The figures may not add up because of rounding.
Source:   Mission Estimates.
9.        With an increasing amount of savings from educational expenditures,
the Government will eventually be in a better position either to improve the
quality of education and to expand       educational facilitias.
10.       Capital for investment and skills learned by the people are gen-
erally regarded as the two most important factors necessary to enhance pro-
ductivity for economic development. Since improved skills are attainable
only when more people are better educated and trained, it is logical to
predict that the Kenyan Government will pay increasing attention and make
increasing amounts of investment for improvement of the educational level
of the people. The proposed Family Planning Program will considerably
facilitate the attainment of such goals.
Socio-Economic Impact       I
11.       A simple analysis of the socioeconomic cost of a continued high
rate of population growth and the impact of its slowing down on (a) per cap-
ita income, (b) public education, and (c) unemployment is outlined below.



ANNEX 23
Page 7 of 8
Per Capita Income
12.       A decline in fertility as envisaged with the Program will auto-
matically result in an increase in per capita income due to the smaller size
of population. It is assumed that the relatively slower growth of population
will not adversely affect the growth of income. This assumption is not
unrealistic because the labor force, ages 15-59, would not be reduced
to any great extent by 1990, and even in the latter years it is doubt-
ful that the scarcity of labor would cause a decline in the national
product.
Mid-Year                     Percent Increase
Population   Per Capita GDP   In Per Capita
(US$ Millions)              (00as)          (US$)       GDP With Program
Without  With         Without  With    Without   With
Year Program Program        Program Program  Program  Program
1970  1,574  1,574         11,250  11,250       140       140         _
1975  2,480  2,486         13,230  13,222       187       188         -
1980  3,388  3,388         15,615  15,451       217       219        0.9
1985  5,026  5,026         18,500  18,014       272      279         2.6
1990  6,664  6,664         21,880  20,997       305      317         3.9
Source:   Mission Estimates.
13.       As the above table shows, the per capita income would not be
affected until 1975 as the impact of the Program would be negligible until
then.  By 1980, however, per capita income would increase by about 1% as
a result of a smaller increase in population because of the Program.  An
increase in per capita income even by this small amount would require addi-
tional GDP of more than US$ 30 million in the absence of the Program.  Obvi-
ously, the investments for creating this stream of GDP per year would be
three times as large (assuming the capital output ratio to be 3:1) or about
US$ 90 million. The increase would be more than UTS$ 129 million in 1985
and US$ 263 million in 1990. The required investments for increasing the
GDP by these magnitudes would be larger than the total capital and recurrent
cost of the program.
Population and Public Education
14.       If the present rate of population growth were to continue, the
school age population would increase from 4.5 million in 1975 to 9.9 mil-
lion in the year 2,000. With the Family Planning Program the school age
population will rise to 8.9 million in the year 2,000, 1 million less than
without the Program. The financial' implications of this for achieving
universal primary education would be sizeable, diverting resources away
from other development efforts.



ANNEX. 23
Page 8 of 8
Population atd Labor Force
15.       Beginning in 1975, the labor force will be affected by the slow-
ing of the rate of growth of the population after 1990. Meanwhile, of
course, a reduction in dependency ratio, increase in savings rate, etc.,
may help to create a larger number of Jobs. The increase in labor force 1/
up to year 2000 is sum-arized in the following table:
Without Project                  With Project
(000Os)                        (000L5)
Year        Male       Female       Total      Male    Female    Total
1974        2,769       1,336      4,105       2,769    1,336    4,105
1980        3,519       1,692       5,211      3,519    1,692.   5,211
1990        5,043       2,416       7,459      5,043    2,416    7,459
2000        7,284       3,447      10,731      7,077    3,350   10,427
Source:   Mission Estimates.
16.       By the year 2000 the labor force without the Family Planning Program
will rise to more than 10.7 million. Therefore, in the next fifteen to twenty
years the country would not only have to create an adequate number of jobs to
remove existing unemployment and underemployment but also will need to create
3.4 million additional jobs - about the same as the total size of labor force
in 1970. With the Family Planning Program, the labor force in the year 2000
will be reduced by around 300,000 persons.  As mentioned earlier, it seems
highly unlikely that the employment situation during the next two and a half
decades would improve so much as to eliminate unemployment to a substa3tial
extent. This is because rapid industrialization without the intensive devel-
opment of the services 'sector may not provide that many more jobs due to the
capital intensive nature of modern technology.
I/ The estimates of the, labor force is based on the assumed participation
rate of 95% for males and 45% for females in the age bracket 15-59 years.
These participation rates are those assumed in labor force estimates
given in the Kenya Statistical Digest, June 1971, p. 4.



KENYA: ADMINISTRATION OF THE
NATIONAL FAMILY PLANNING PROGRAM
AT PROVINCIAL & DISTRICT LEVELS
LMinistry of Heath
Direcor of Med        er
|Director ofl
the National Familv
Welf  COniter
Provincial Medical Officer f
cist   urse                                        Provincial Family
Provinciel NurseJ                                    Planning
nor Supervisor                                       Field Officer
|District Medical Officer of Hoeet
Dstric Nursa                                        District Farnily
Trainer/                                               Planning
pebrviuwr                                           Field Officer
Community /  |                                   r Family Planning
i Enrolled      |iFedWre 
WorF 8aniid WorkersI
World Bank-7946(2RI






KENYA: PROPOSED FAMILY PLANNING ORGANIZATION CHART
|Minister of Health|
Interrninisterial Working Commitrea
Director ot Medical Swvice|
Office of the
Oir ctor of the
National Famiiy
W lXtre Centaf
CJinic l Service                              Medical Comittes
~~~~~~~0_Informato  Euion, Education &I
nr__ & ~~<s: gn : _ Training Comrnittee 
Evaluation & Reearch                            ustion & Rese
Committee
Treining                                              a
World Bank 7945(R)






KENYA                                       1J
BIRTH, DEATH ANO'NATURAL INCREASE RATES 197471999
4a.2         BI8RH RATE
35 -   RATE OF NATURAL INCREASE                                                                              35.3
33.0    _                                                     ----------
g  3,a   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~   ~   ~  ~   ~  ~   ~         7      S    .~~~~~~~~~81
0 25 _ 
z.
1i.2
tS ;_ OEATH RATE
th ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~7.2
O _ _ | _ _ r I I ... .. _ __ .. ] -- 0                                                                                            YEARS
1974                190                   198ti                1990                 1995                  19fl
_         With tti -ag..latloo PD4eam    1i    The otbw prowctorns itflecl oily the niapct f tih  FiveY. er Poplatiori Dro.
-_-  Wlthout tha    l.latl@n saf rramn uP to 190 nand tdo not tvk* mto accolt,t the tffect of a f*utt thtiOl*             World Bansi-7S7d
ticn 0O fwn.lv planntng Octwv.tie altee 1960 which the p,ograrn will make posseble.






KENYA 1 /
MID-YEAR POPULATION, 1974-1999
30
,o29.3
{/a
X27.4
25 -
20 _
in   ,/I_                            __  |                     1                    1                    1YEARS
1974                1980                           197                  1995                           199
With the oopulatlon a ogr.,    I/1   The above projections reflect oniy the impact of the Fiva Ya r Population Pro.
. _ _  h* lhut the propulation prograr  gram up to 1990 and do not take into account the oftact of a further expan-    World Bank-7879(R)
sion in famtly planning activities after 1 980 which tho, p orirwn wvill make pamble






-4
2  -                                                                                    C
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-






HEALTH ADMIINISTRATION IN KENYA
Ministry of Health
Headquarters
> Provincia Medical Offilcer
Prvincial  "th                             Provincial Mospi I                            Prvncia bltram
I nspector                                   Secretaryl
. ~~MedjIca Officer of Health 
ict   /a                                 | Assistant Hospital |      \                         ^ 
Inspector                  /Superintendent\  
, I  /                      ~~~~~~~Health Ca n/
Health A sinant                             Medical A*sis-nt                 _      Nu
Soure: MOH, Appendicus to the Proposal for the Improvement of Rural Hselth Servicess p.30
World Bank-7947






KENYA: HEALTH CENTER ORGANIZATION
STAFFING AND LINES OF RESPONSIBILITY
District                         Mdical
Officer of
Level                  ~~~~~~Health
Nursing                             Health
Sister  1                            nspector
Health
Center                            Medical                       l         
Level                            Assistant                     EN       EM       PHN                   Health Assistant
Work in                                    Work out of
the Health                                the Health
Center                                    Center      2/
EN   - Enrolled Nurse
EM   = Enrolled Midwife
PHN = Public Health Nurse
1/ This represents the typical situation where the district level nursing
sister provides direcion to the EN, EM, PHNs because of the scarcity of
registered public health nurses.
V Although the enrolled PHN works primarily out of the health center she
may at times, help with child welfare clinics in the health center.                          World Bank-7948






KENYA: ANNUAL INDICES OF FIRST VISITORS AND REVISITORS
FOR NATIONAL FAMILY PLANNING PROGRAM AND
THE TOTAL OF KENYA FOR THE YEARS
1970, 1971, 1972
200
0192,279
RV
175
0 50
125
c
0
K13 -  N                                  - - P  Program133,095
FV          -           Fint n108,899
R- -e
79,122
75
-------   48.5205
35,136   ~------FV
35,269                      FV
25
1970                        1971                         1972                        Year
Key: --National Family Planning Program
-Total of Kenya
FV -First Visitors
A first visitor is a woman wvho visits a reporting clinic for the first time.
RV R- levisitors
A revisitor is a woman who attends the same clinic in which she is
registered as a first visitor for 2nd or consecutive time.
Total of Kenya
These figurn include those women visiting family planning clinics
reporting to the Ministry of -ealth as well as those who visit clinics run by and
reporting to the Nairobi City Council.
National Family Planning Progratn
Thes figures incluip ;hose women visiting family planning clinics
reporting to the Ministry o  -ealt.
Sour       MOM, Section tor Epidemiology anc Mecical Statistics, Family Planning
Attendances, 1972, Report No. 7, March 1973.
World gank-7949






ANNUAL INDICES OF ACCEPTED METHODS FOR
NATIONAL FAMILY PLANNING PROGRAM
AND THE TOTAL OF KENYA FOR THE
YEAR 1972
35,000
30.000
KEY
2 6 g   Nationd Family
Pl nning Program
Total of Kenya
20,000
5,000
5,0Q0  _         S                ~~~~~~~4679                                          -     -
o-   4,000
U.
z
<   3,000
2.000
1,000
PILL                IUD             INJECTION            CONOOM          OTHER METHODS
S ; MON. Section for Epidemiology and Medical Statistics, Family Planning Attandances,
1972. Report No. 7, IMuch 1973).
World Bank-7950






U D A N                                        _-                                  KENYA
_r \5dX          2 }'             EXISTING  HEALTH  FACILITIES
/    ,E T H  I O            P I A                                /
*                    t<                                                      -      /!
K  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~'.~~~~~~~'
I >.,,..                   _                                                --./J
REPUBLIC
(%~ ~      ~ ,.  .v I8\w                     (t's                  
,UGANDA
~~~~~~'*/                                    *                      '/nd,an ,co
=se'l_   ,      \    |   ( &            t           \\                        0          tee~~~~~~~0   ,
O A I 't  NgnT'JION  (erA                        - < X         t       ;  
'dISSION  INS'lTUT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ONSIGRIS
0:t N
.. o roS. t l ' 0\~ _ \ * -~¢-9 /2 /rw d S o  O c e oI
_.       ,.,_ 
=.ERlNu otYL:~~  dld
*   fae                   = 5 - 5                                    tT                                               _   -
O   l , h f      I O . 5 o                      \ .         @E            e   7                 1    A   F   R   IAC  
|.+ CA UHRT NTTrosI*O__\t//SF_r,_<
.........                                                                       ' .S.'      o   e.        r % V               xPYA,.H
.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d asS0 IISIuTOS                                  CC e° ]  0v 17       ii
*   H spl ol't                               ,              w\           t   '.    §        8}I                    .    _ 
GOMI 14MENS T  lO N5  (wALS   O X R AL  ' .       , ,    ,    _<                      '       
§ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~ ~  ~ ~ .  5pps(^lrg M0lY ihNl9H-"              ,> S b              o     






\A4d,, Abqbo
S U D A N                        f                                                               E   T  H   I  O   P  I  A
4  /    /   : t i:.\  2~~~I ::q-_.:: 
V                                                                                                                                                    /  .  :f,: .........-.s\....,
~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                                                                    /ss                                                                   . .{J'  ;: ::   ........  . -    ...  /-
~~~~~~1-I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
~~~~VL .,kt                                                                                                                                                                  i.: .......::m S  /  _
.N~~-                                                               \                             \ ;ztY....       
I.k.
-' C                                                                                                                                                        m    .................... . . . .      < A    z
e    -                                                                                  L
/ICTCA                                          ".                      :                :                                                o
SE -    e .                  ...,. .               . I',S
le  n. N.                                                                                                                                                   -\4 
(S    I
PHYSICAL PROJECT FACILITIES
NURSE TRAINING  SCHOOLS  ANO RURAL HEALTH  CENTERS                                                                                   0 t                   MA1LULIe0             , ND/A  N
WOALO dAUK Cl0  SNAA! PAClIUTIES             .1HA*I ftAU  I?N HE wo                  ,OCEAN/ 1 
+F    P*O5ED3 NUMATAIMO a^"icSOCOLS             MAIN ROAM\                                 s-    
*     R     O  URLAL HEALTH    Eg                           s                                                                                                        A  _
TO BE FI#AC50 WV OTUERWN031AOMtFVPS An      M A.C R  IRNO
Gs OV.3QMEWT 3$ KENYA                                                                      \                                                                                                         Ai,     i  r     
IAB AR CAT IEC                              TOl. OMVILLAGET\.ILS
$104071NOTIA33L AGAll:llLllY\  Jf,E
|  ** H5*E-A1YAIrZG                       -*-*  MIRNAEtTIOS.GOlLROARIE          1A  1                                                                                   /f Rw/  CA-
O                   1          110
I  O,o 50   lr                                                                           ,                 _                     1                                   cOP
M1LET   5,C ,LBBA,                                              h        O,e.n1                                                                                     -M



