-vCIRC- RULATING COP -r,
F-)~ AM         RERTIJR'NEDTQOREPORTS DESK
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. P-1339-KE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR A
POPULATION PROJECT
March 6, 1974
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



Currency Unit              =      Kenya Shilling (KSh)
US$1                       =      KSH 7.1L (through March 1973)
=      KSh 6.90 (until January 1974)
-;  =   US$2.80 (through March 1973)
1/
=      US$2.8985 (until January 197h)
=      US$2.80 (since January 1974)
Fiscal Year (Government) July 1 to June 30
The exchange rate used in this report.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA FOR A
POPULATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recomnendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Kenya for the equivalent of $12.0
million on standard IDA terms to help finance a Population Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "The Second Decade:  Basic Economic Report on
Kenya"l (Report No. 201-KE, dated January 15, 1974) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on February 20, 1974. An agricultural sector survey on
Kenya (Report No. 2rh-KE) will be distributed shortly. A special economic
mission visited Kenya in February 1974 to review the economy's prospects and
aid requirements in the light of the changes in commodity prices including
increased oil prices.  A country data sheet is attached in Annex 1.
3.        Kenya has recently celebrated the end of the first decade of Inde-
pendence. In looking back over the period, Kenyats achievements are notable.
On taking power at the end of 1963, the Government inherited a difficult
challenge. While Kenya was already rather more developed than many newly
independent African nations, the dualistic nature of the economy which con-
centrated much of the wealth within the European and Asian communities, tended
to overshadow the underlying poverty of the mass of the African people. In
1963 the per capita income in Kenya was around L30 or $85 a year. But the per
capita income of the African population was probably no more than $50 a year,
and poverty in the rural area, where 90 percent of the population lived, was
as serious in Kenya as in most African countries.
4.        In terms of overall growth, Kenyats economic performance since
Independence has been imLpressive in almost all respects. During the period
since 196h, GDP has grown at an average rate of about 7 percent in real terms,
whlich has allowed significant gains in per capita income despite the high
population growth rate. Average per capita income in 1972 had risen to $170,
which is about the median for African countries. This growth rate has been
triggered by a high and growing rate of investment in both the private and
public sectors. In recent years, fixed capital formation has accounted for
over 25 percent of monetary GDP, which is an exceptionally high investment
rate.  However, this has inevitably put a strain on Kenya's economic resource
base, and subsequently on the balance of payments, despite the fact that
Kenya's domestic savings rates (19-20%) is one of the highest in the developing
world.



- 2 -
5.        The Government's fiscal and monetary management has been one of the
factors responsible for the generally sound performance of the economy. On the
fiscal side, the public sector's performance has been very good. In 1964,
Kenya had a recurrent budget deficit, a relatively insignificant development
budget and depended heavily on external aid.  Since then, by virtue of its
increasing tax effort and disciplined control on spending, the Government has
(i) converted its recurrent deficit into a substantial surplus (which in
1970/71 accounted for 23 percent of all national savings), (ii) expanded its
development budget at an average rate of 27 percent a year, and (iii) consi-
derably reduced its relative dependence on external aid. The fact that Kenya
achieved these results with only negligible internal inflation and without
resorting to expensive forms of external financing makes this performance even
more notable.
6.        While Kenya's performance in sustaining a fast rate of overall
growth over the past ten years has been very good, some aspects of development
. ave been less satisfactory,and several important issues inevitably emerge as
Venya oreDares to embark upon the second decade of development. By common
.onsensus among the Government, the recent Ii.C/UNDP Report and tlie Bank, the
miost worrying aspect of Kenya's past performance has been the failure to diis-
tribute the benefits of development as widely as the Government would like and,
in particular, the growing umnemiployment and the continuing poverty.  It is
easy to criticize prngress in distributing the benefits of development, and
always possible, in retrospect, to suggest a somewhat different set of policies.
But no one Pretends that there are any quick or easy solutions to rural poverty,
the growing pressure on the urban areas or the lunemployed school Jeavers. The
fact that the G,oiernment reqi-,osted; the i](l t. rndertake a major mission and
that, after caref uL consideration, has anccpted the general strategy of the
,(.)Is i.nnovative report, is eidence of a commitment to wider distribution.
,.        In looking towards the ensuing decade, the lonk has con-
cluded that the first prerequisite for launching a more effective attack on
unemployment and rural poverty is to maintain or even increase the past rate
of growth. However, a nuMber of indicators suggest that it may be more
*i fficult for Kenya to maintain the momentum achieved. in the past without somie
significant Lvdjustments in the pattern of development and the style of manage-
ment. Capital-out-put ratios, whdi3e still reegsorably low or the average, have
oeen rising, both househcla and public savings show some sign of levelling off,
and the increasing resource gap has put pressure on the balance of payments
which has exceeded the supp:Ly of external capital.
*9.       In several respects, therefore, Kenya  may be at a turning point
-n her development and will need to determine how the economy can be made to
-erform more efficiently.  In part. the problem arises from the very success
of Kenya's past performance:  for example, the domestic savings rate and tax
efforts have been so good that there may be little room for improvement.  But
the position is also partly due to the fact that by the end of the first decade
Kenva had accomplished many of -the more obvious and easy tasks, and that the
futuLe plaaning and management of the economy must inevitably be more complex.



Thus,in agriculture, the impetus provided to the sector by the major programs
of land transfer and settlement is slackening, and future development will have
to give more emphasis to the difficult task of increasing productivity and
employment among the smallholders, many of whom live or, holdings which seem tLo
be too small or in marginial production areas.  Similarly, in manufacturing,
the process of replacing imports, often at high cost, by encouraging foreign
investment, has reached the point of diminishing returns, and Kenya is having
to devise a whole new set of measures designed to make manufacturers competitive
in export markets, and to foster small business: inr which African entrepreneurs
can develop and nrosper.
Thus, in ½+,king to the fututre, the Bank has recommended a shift in
emphasis away from infrastructure, a s'jower growth of expenditure on social
services and a larger allocation of resources to the directly productive sectors.
The major emphasis of the recent economic report was on agriculture and resource-
base-'. manufacturing.  Agriculture and related manufacturing use resources more
"efficiently" in creating incomes and employment, conserving scarce capital
and skilled manpower. relistributing income, generating foreign exchange and
perhaps even stimulating savings than other sectors. Moreover, in the context
of Kenya, the possible policy dilemma of having to "1trade-off" growth against
employment (and income distribution) does not seem to arise since both grouth
and equity goals can be achieved through restructuring the pattern of growth
in favor of the directly productive sectors. Rising impcort prices and the
increased cost of fuel is likely to encourage greater use of Kenya's most
valuable domestic resources -- land and labor.
10.       In manufacturing, it appears that while Kenya may well have a compa-
rative advantage in agricultural-based processing, the protectaon given to
import substitution industries has not only encouraged the establishment of
some inefficient industries and discouraged exports by distorting input prices,
but has discriminated against agriculture.   Import incentives for efficient
resource ailoction may result from the incipient moves towards uniform tariffs
and incentives for exports which the Kenyan authorities are already coritemp]alttin
in collaboration with the other two Partner States of the East African Community.
11.       But restructuring growth is not easy, in any count-:y, and Kenya will
face a number of v'articular problems of her own. The first is to create the
appropriate environment of price and other incentives to induce the orivate
sector to develop rapidly and make better use of the resources available to it.
A second problem Kenya faces is the capacity of the public sector to accelerate
growth in the preferred sectors, particularly in agriculture. The problem is,
of course, largely one of skilled manpower, and it is clear that Kenya's
development potential will continue to be curtailed by the scarcity of skills
for a long time. The recent basic economic report and the agricultural sector
survey have both emphasized the resultant problem of low absorptive capacity
in agriculture. For industry, the dearth of managerial skills adversely affects
small-scale business development and hinders efforts to screen new large-scale
industrial projects. Much of the Bank's assistance to Kenya is aimed directly
or indirectly at helping to overcome these constraints.



12.      In adopting its ne!w development plan, covering the period 1974-78, the
Kernya Government hn.s already taken an important step towards inltiating the kind
of economic reforms we have noted. However, following the recent increases in
oil prices and the expected rise in the cost of other imports, the ambitious
targets of the plan may have to be reduced, and sane adjustments will need to
be made to the inrvestment program. Preliminary estimit.es made by the Bank
staff indicate that the net additional cost of oil to the Kenya economy in
1974 will be around $65 million, and that, taking into account the anticipated
cost increases in other imports, Kenya may face a residual external financing
gap  of about    $100 million in 1975.  The Kenya Government, in close coopera-
tior with the Bank, has already started to draw up an emergency program to deal
witih the new situation.  The likely components of this progran are reinstitution
of import controls and a cuirtailment of devei  erit effort in the short term,
together with an accelerated. move towards restructuring the pattern of long-
term growth. The initial response of Government has been positive and realistic,
and the new stringencies imposed on the economy by the rapid deterioration in
the terms of trade will probably accelerate some of t.he necessary long-term
economc reforms. But, if the momentum achieved in development is not to be
coo severely curtailed, the Kenyan economy wil_ nteOl additional external capital
during the next few years of adjustment.  Much of this will have to be on con-
cessionary terms, and somae non-project assistance will probably be required
towards the end of 1974 according to preliminary forecasts of the balance of
payments position.  Tee Corthcoming meetfng of the Consultative Group is
expested to give p.-rticular attention to Kenya's short-term prospects and aid
Kenya's outstanding external debt increased from $258 million .,t the
end of 1963 to $510 million at the end of 1972, of which $353 million had been
disbursed.  Thus, since Independence, Kenya has accumulated externnl debts at
about 7-I/L percent a year, or only slightly faster than the average rate of
growth of GDP. About 35 percent of total external debt is now held by the
Bank Group (more or less equally divided between IBRD and IDA), but because
IBRD lending has only recently become a significant proportion of Kenya's debt,
debt service to the Bank Group in 1973 was still less thar, 10 percent of all
debt service payments; for the same reason, the Bank Group's share is expected
to rise in future.  in addition to its own external public debt, Kenya is also
Jointly responsible, together with the other two Partner States, for the debts
incurred by the East African Comrmunity and its institutions, which amounted to
some $277 million in September 1972. About half of the Community's external
debt is held by the Bank Group. If a notional one-third of the Community's total
debt is allocated to each Partner State, Kenya's debt service burden is in-
creased by roughly a quarter, blat stil1 rcpresonts less than 6 percent of her
foreign exchange earnings.



14.       At the present time, Kenya's debt service burden is comparatively
light. l-d creditworthiness presents no obstacle to additional borrowing.
However, the recent increases in the cost of oil and other imports, on which
Kenya's future development depends, make it difficult to project the likely
evolution of the burden of debt or to assess Kenya's creditworthiness in the
future.  Ac indicated above, the new situation increases quile considerably
both the immediate external financing problem and the motivation to adopt long-
term corrective measures. The ultimate impact on Kenya's debt service burden
will therefore depend on the extent and terms on which the necessary additional
financing can be obtained and the speed with which longer term reforms can be
instituted.  The Faink staff will be giving priority to these questions during
the coming months.



- 6 -
PAR.T II - BANK GROUP LENDING TO KENYA
15.       Kenya has to date received nine Bank loans and thirteen IDA credits
amounting to $129.0 million and $88.7 million, respectively. In addition,
Kenya has been one of the beneficiaries of ten loans totalling $229.8 million
which have been extended for the development of common services (railways,
ports, telecommunications and finance for industry) operated regionally for
the three Partner States of the East African Community -- Kenya, Tanzania
and Uganda.  Armex II contaiLns summary statem«ents of Bank loans and IDA credits
to Kenya and the East African Community organizations, a suwmary of IFC
investments in Kenya, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
16.       Ongoing neo;ects in Kenya are on the whole progressing satisfactorily,
but manpower constraints in engineering and other techndcal fields continue
lo nresent problems and have slowed down progress on some projects. Because
of the diffi culties in attracting qualified expertise, no immediate remedy can
be exr,ected; however, the gradual increase in suitably trained Kenyans to fill
such positions should eventually alleviate these problems.
17.       Most of tihe Bank Group's direct lending to Kenya in the past has been
for infrastructure, particularly transportation and power, although other
sectors such as agriculture and forestry, education and water supply have also
received support.  We intend in the future to give greater emphasis to agricul-
ture and other directly productive sectors, particularly for projects which
are likely to bring more immediate benefits to large numbers of people and will,
as muchl as possible, increase Kenya's foreign exchange earnings. With such
objectives in mind, the Bank agreed with the Government on a program for expand-
ing the Bank's technical assistance in agriculture, beginning with the agricul-
uural sector survey that was mounted in late 1972. We have offered an expanded
program of ;ssistance in project identificition through the Regional Mission in
i,asterr. Africa, and have provided a senior agricultural advisor to assist the
Goverunnent in charting a longer-term strategy for the agricultural sector.
10.       This expanded technical assistance is starting to show results. A
Crop,osed IDA credit o:" t21 .5 million, with complementary financing likely from
lnada>, the United Kingdom and the United States, for a second livestock project
wALich co.ers a five-year beef ctavelopment program calling for a total invest-
ment of $52 mii      has been negotiated and will soon be submitted for consider-
,ir, ry _' e :  ,K ve Directors.  A proposed loan of $1O.L million for a third
tea croject covering the development of factories reouired to process green
leaf from existing plantings was negotiated in January 1974 and is expected to
be presented to the Executive Direl-ors shortly. Preparatory work is under
way for a diversified smallholder production project for the drier areas of
dastern Y.enya, an irrioat:i.c;r prc-iect in the Tower Tana River Basin, and for
project to rehabilitate the currently underutilized large commercial farms
in the hig[ Trotential areas. While these results of our joint efforts are
encouraging, they are only a begirming. To support adequately the develop-
mert of agriculture and the rural areas of Kenya will require sustained
efforts. The Government has now studied both the Agriculture Sector Survey
Report and the Basic Economic Report cnd largely agrees with their con-
clusions. Apart from assisting project preparation in agriculture, we
foresee the need for complerr,entary development of infrastructure



- 7 -
We have therefore held preliminary discussions on programs for development of
rural water supply and rural access roads.
19.       Concurrently with efforts to promote the development of the rural
economy, substantial investment will continue to be required to keep public
services abreast of economic growth, and we expect to continue financing key
infrastructure projects. To provide a more efficient and economic means of
moving increasing volumes of petroleum products from Mombasa to Nairobi,
an oil pipeline project is under preparation. A power project to keep pace
with Ke4ya's rapidly growing demands and a water supply project to alleviate
water shortages in Mombasa are now being prepared.  And as a first attempt
to accommodate squatters in Nairobi with suitable housing, a sites and services
project with an upgrading component is rxpected to be appraised later this
year.
20.       Although no projects are planned in the near future for the cosmmon
services organizations of the East African Community, the Bank, through its
supervision missions of ongoing operations, is discussing further assistance
for telecommunications, industry and port development. Additional loans to
the East African Railways Corporation, however, will have to await resolution
of the f-nancial problems being encountered by that Corporation.
21.       In addition to Bank and IDA activities, IFC has investments total-
ling $23.0 million in three enterprises in Kenya: $14.7 million in the
Panafrican Paper Mills, Ltd.; $5.9 million in Kenya Hotel Properties, Ltd.;
and $2.4 million in Tourism Promotion Serv-ices, Ltd. (Kenya). A further
investment proposal in Panafrican Paper Mills, Ltd. was recently approved by
tlhe Executive Directors.



- a -
PART III - POPULATION PRESSURES IN KENYA
Background
22.       Kenya, with a land area of about 583,000 sq. km. is estimated to
have a population of about 12.5 million. Its per capita incom.e of about $170
in 1972 reflects an economny which, wliile growing at a very healthy pace,
nevertheless has had over half of this growth absorbed by the increase in
population since Independence. While average population density is about 20
people per sq. km., over 80 percent of the population is concentrated on the
less than 17 percent of the total land area considered suitable for cultiva-
tion within present technological constraints. Population density ranges
from 120 per sq. km. in the highlands to 200-300 per sq. km. in the more
C'ensely populated areas in the western part of Kenya. Migration to urban
centers, particularly Nairobi and Mombasa, contirues at a rapid rate. The
number of people now living in towns over 2000 is estimated at about 1,250,000.
This represents about 10 percent of the population and constitutes an increase
of 670,000 over the urban poptulation at the time of the 1962 Census.
The Rate of Population Growth
23.       At the time of the 1969 Census, Kenya's crude birth and death rates
were estimated to be about 50 and 17 per thousand,respectively, yielding a natural
populatLon increase of 3.3 percent per annum.   As the growth at the time of the
previous Census (1962) wras estimated at less than 3 percent, a significant
acceleration in the rate of increase has taken place. The total fertility rate
has also increased over this period and was estimated at 7.6 in 1969.   The rate
of popuTition growth and the total fertility rate are amorLg the highest in the
world. Without family planning, prospects for slower population growth rates
are slim. For example, there has been no apparent reduction in the fertility
rate since 1969, infant mortality is continuing to decline, and traditional
customs such as polygamy, under which child spacing was practiced, are now
less prevalent. If present growth rates are projected, Kenya's
population would triple in the next 30 years, i.e., the population could be
34 million by the year 2000.
Economic and Social Implications
24.       It is by now a time-worn but still valid cliche that a rapidly
;ncreasing population imposes severe strains on the pace of the economic and
Focial programs, particularly in the developing countries.   In Kenya's case,
these strains are acutely reflected in: (i) burgeoning urban unemployment,
particularly aimong youth; (ii) pressure  on arable land which leads to un-
acceptably low levels of subsistence especially among the rural population;
(iii) an extremely high dependency burden caused by the very high birth rates
and (iv) steadily increasing claims on government resources for social services
in education and health.



-9-
The Employment Problem
25.       The rapid rate of population growth exacerbates the intense problems
of underemployment and unemployment in rural areas and the drift to towns.
In the urban areas, the expansion of employment opportunities has been in-
adequate to provide earning opportunities for the existing urban adult popula-
tion, much less for the annual influx of new job seekers from the rural areas.
At present, there are about 680,000 wage earners employed in the monetary
sector representing only about 20 percent of the current total labor force.
If the population growth continues at its present rate, by the year 2000 the
labor force will more than triple to about 11 million. It is highly unlikely
that even a rapidly growing economy can provide adequate Job opportunities for
such 2 population.
The Rural Subsistence Problem
26.       While the pressures of unemployment in the cities are the most
obvious and possess the greatest potential for social disruption, the problem
of poverty is most pervasive in rural areas. Ninety percent of the Kenyan
population live in these areas, relying mainly on agriculture for their live-
lihood. Population pressure on land of good agricultural potential is growing
at a disturbing rate. In 1965, Kenya had L.2 acres of potentially productive
land per person, which is low in comparison to other African countries. If
the population continues to grow at the present rate, there will be only 2.6
acres per person by 1980, 1.5 by 1995 and 1.3 by the year 2000. Roughly half
of rural households (some 5-6 million people) already live on small holdings
of 5 ha. or less and a quarter are on holdings of less than 2 ha. Many of
these smallholders are extracting a meager livelihood under harsh conditions.
And about 16 percent of the rural population is landless. The pressure of
population on the better agricultural areas force people to migrate to
marginal, high-risk production areas or to the towns in search of work.
27.       Our recent economic and sector work on Kenya has emphasized the need
to increase productivity in smallholder agriculture if the majority of the
Kenyan population is to progress. But even the most optimistic economic
growth projections show that rural incomes will barely keep pace with popula-
tion growth, and that per capita real incomes can only improve if population
growth rates slow down.
The DependencY Burden
29.       As in other developing countries that have rapid population growth,
Kenya exhibits an unfavorable age distribution with a consequent high depen-
dency burden. In 1962, about 40 percent of the population was under 15 years
of age and 5 percent over 60 years of age. In 1969, the percentage figures
for the same age groups were 48 percent and 5 percent, respectively. Assuming
these two age groups to represent the tdependent" segment of the population,
and those between 15 and 60 years of age to represent the "productive" segment,
Kenya in 1962 had a dependency ratio of 104 (i.e., 100 productive persons



-10 -
had to support 10)4 persons) which had risen to 116 in 1969. A population
policy aimed at a decline in fertility would favorably affect the dependency
burden of the adult population. A reduction in the dependency burden would
free, for job-creating investments, resources which are currently being used
to provide services for the dependent segment, and would also raise average
incomes per head.
Financial Burden of Social Services
29.       The cost of providing social services are increasing in developed
countries with low population growth rates. But in Kenya,as in many develop-
ing countries, the situation is worse. Not only does Kenya have a rapidly
growing population laying elaim to resources, but she was left with such a
poor level of social and community services that she was forced to spend
steadily increasing shares of government revenues on expanding and improving
them. Recurrent annual expenditure by all levels of Government for social and
community services has increased from about $39 million in 1964-65 to an
estimated $164 million in 1972-73. These rates of growth have already
imposed heavy demands on domestic resources, and particularly the government
budget. In percentage terms, the share of total Government recurrent
expenditures for such services has risen from 24 percent in 1964-65 to 43
percent in 1972-73, while the share of capital expenditures for these has
increased from about 30 percent to over 50 percent. These expenditures have,
of course, made some dent in improving social services. For example, the
number of educational institutions of all kinds increased by 28 percent,
pupil enrolment by 75 percent, and teachers in service by over 100 percent.
The ratio of doctors to population is about 1:11,000 -- a fairly good
ratio for an African country. But while the doctor-patient ratio is quite
high in urban areas, it is as low as 1:250,000 in rural areas. Similar
discrepancies also exist for other levels of health service staff. Compared
to many African countries, health facilities are also quite good.   There
are 183 hospitals and the hospital beds ratio was about 1.13 beds per thousand
people (1973). In the rural areas, however, the health facilities are still
poor. There are about 600 Government rural health facilities consisting of
185 health centers and subcenters and 414 dispensaries.   Each health center/
subcenter, which serves as a referral point for the dispensaries, cares for
large numbers of people ranging from L8,000 to 90,000.   The goal of the
Ministry of Health is to raise the existing health center/subcenter ratio
from 1:58,000 to 1:31,000 by 1984. A desirable ratio, however, would be
1:20,000.
30.       One of the reasons for poor health and nutritional standards in
ruiral Kenya is the lack of water supply service. Only about 9 percent of
the rural population were aedequately serviced in 1972. The rest of the people
have to carry water long distances and consequently poor hygiene and sanitary
conditions prevail. People in these areas are highly susceptible to diseases
and create heavy demands on curative services, if they are available at all.
Practically all town dwellers in Kenya are served with water today.   However,



- 11 -
the rapid growth of urban centers imposes heavy strains on both water supply
and sewerage systems.  The Government target is to provide water service   to all
Kenyans by year 2000. For 22 million people, it would cost about $500 million
at constant prices; for 34 million, which would be the population size at
current growth rates, the cost would be proportionately higher.
1h       These figures reflect the magnitude of the effort made by Kenya
to overcome the backlog of social and community services and to improve their
quality. But, as the recent basic economic report points out, these efforts
are putting an increasing strain on the budget and have diverted resources
from the more directly productive sectors. If Kenya is to avoid massive un-
employment and offer some hope of improved living standards to the mass of its
rural population, she will have to invest heavily in the productive sectors.
Yet with her limited resources, this mus- inevitably mean reducing the relative
share of resources going to social and community services, which will be
most difficult to accomplish as long as a rapidly growing population continu-
ally feeds the demand for an even faster growth in social expenditures.
Kenya's Pozulation Policy
:;2.      For a number of years the Kenyan Government has been concerned about
rapid population growth, but while recognizing the severe implications of such
growth, the Government at the same time had to contend with resistance to
family planning.  In articulating its population policy, it had to take into
account traditional attitudes such as the value attached to having many
children both to increase family income and assure security in old age, and
the importance attached to maintaining, or increasing, the size of the tribe
to bolster its political power. Partly as a result of this, the Government
adopted in 1967 the following main principles: (i) that the program should
be viewed as an integral part of the development and employment creating
efforts towards social and economic progress; (ii) that it was to be linked
to maternal and child health services; (iii) it should be voluntary with full
respect for individual customs and values; and (iv) it was to emphasize child
spacing rather than absolute limitation of births.
These principles still provide the basis for the Government's family
planning policy, but they have beer nmdified to ensure a more effective popula-
teor program. For example, the Government is now prepared to use mass media
and other campaigns to influence attitudes toward having smaller families.
Furthermore, while child spacing was stressed initially as a more readily
acceptable first approach toward family planning, there is now widespread
recognition that child limitation (the average family in Kenya is about o
children) needs to be increasingly stressed in the interests of general family
welfare.  lhe Government, however, does not rely either on positive direct
incentives, such as money or other payments to acceptors, or on negative
incentives such as withholding social services, on the grounds that such
measures appear anti-humanitarian and are politically unacceptable to riany
-Seg::-r't  Of rthe popLO atic.



- 12 -
Health and Family Planning Services
34.       The Government's health services, administered by the Ministry of
Health, are centrally organized and carried out at the central, provincial
and district levels through a network of hospitals, health centers and
dispensaries. Although this system is designed to provide both preventive
and curative services, many rural health facilities are overwhelmed by the com-
pelling demands for curative services and part-time family planning servi-
ces are only offered in some 200 out of the 600 government rural health facilities.
35.      Because of the acute shortage of paramedical personnel to provide
preventive and family planning services, the Ministry of Health now emphasizes
.he rc.le of multipurpose community nurses rather than specialized nurses.
Community nurses receive training in several disciplines including public
health, family planning, midwifery and general nursing. The Ministry of Health
plans to greatly expand the total number of community and enrolled nurses
from 2,650 in 1973 to 5,400 in 1984. This is still short of the minimum of
5,510 required to staff adequately the health services.
36.       Specialized training courses in family planning have been conducted
for paramedical and medical personnel, nutritionists, home economists, agri-
culturists and extension workers. But these courses have been hampered by
small, inadequate facilities, few trainees, and ad hoc training programs and
are far from sufficient to meet Kenyan needs.
Organzation
37.       The Ministry of Health has overall responsibility for implementing
family planning programs through the Director of Medical Services who also
chairs the Advisory Working Committee which helps formulate policy and
coordinates the activities of participating agencies. The Family Planning
Section within the Ministry of Health is in charge of day-to-day operations
and receives support from related sections within the Ministry.



-13 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
38.       The Government of Kenya has prepared a Five-Year Family Planning
Program in close association with the Population and Nutrition Department of
the Bank. A combined sector review and field appraisal, which took place in
November/December 1972, covered all aspects of the Program. Two reports
entitled "Kenya - Appraisal of a Population Project" dated February 20, 1974
(Report No. 266-KE) and "A Sector Review of the Five-Year Population Program
of Kenya" (Report No. 267-KE) dated February 28, 1974 are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately. Apart from serving as background
documents on the Project, they contain a review of the population sector and
the national program over the next five years and are designed to provide
background information for other participating donors. During the stages of
project preparation in Washington and field visits to Kenya, Bank staff have
kept in close contact with potential donors to the Kenyan population effort
to ensure effective coordination of external financing. This culminated in
a donor coordination meeting chaired by the Government in October 1973 in
Nairobi where interested donors made financial commitments.
The Program
39.       The Program, which would be financed by several aid agencies in
parallel, covers the entire five-year plan. Its objectives are first
to improve maternal and child health, and second to lay the foundation for the
long-term development of family planning in Kenya. The Government expects to
achieve this by:(i) improving the quality of family planning and maternal and
child care services in those parts of the country where family planning
practices have already gained some acceptance, while gradually extending
services to the rest of the country; (ii) stepping up training programsfor all
categories of health staff; (iii) expanding health services and facilities;
(iv) intensifying family planning information and education; and (v) streng-
thening the institutional base to ensure a well supported national focus on
fami-ly welfare.
4o.       The specific components of the Program include:   (i) eight community
nurse training schools; thirty rural health centers; a national family welfare
center (NFWC) with a family planning clinic and a health education unit;
(ii) general, special and clinical equipment and about 190 vehicles; (iii) tech-
nical assistance (360 man months for specialized advisory staff and 28 fellow-
ships for national training albroad) and evaluation and research studies;
(iv) operating costs of the Program including contraceptive supplies, educa-
tional materials and staff sstlaries.
41.       As the Program obj'ectiDes are closely linked with those of the
Project, the Government has agreed to carry out the overall Program and consult
with the Association on any material changes. The total cost of the Program
is estimated to be $38.8 million, of which 17 percent is contingencies. The
foreign exchange cost of $9.7 million is relatively small, representing 25
percent of total Program costs.



- 14 -
The Project
42.       The proposed IDA credit, which would be the Association's first for
a population project in Kenya and for Africa south of the Sahara, would assist
ir. financing primarily the capital cost components of the Program, with an
important contribution toward technical assistance. The proposed credit would
finance: (a) the construction of five community nurse training schools, 27
rural health training centers, a National Family Welfare Center with a family
planning clinic attached, and a Health Education Unit; (b) equipment and fur-
niture for the above institutions; (c)87 vehicles; and (d) technical assistance,
including manpower and evaluation and research studies. A Credit and Project
Summary is attached as Annex III to this report.
3.        The community nlrse training schools would provide places for about
700 students, most of whom upon graduation would take the lead in providing
daily family planning and maternal and child services. Each training school
would be associated with a major provincial hospital and would have attached
to it two or three rural health centers. These health centers would provide
two months field experience for the community nurses. The National Family
Welfare Center would be the national focus of family planning activities and
would provide support services for the entire Program. The Health Education
Unit would help design and produce audiovisual and printed materials to sti-
mulate the demand for family planning and maternal and child care services.
The vehicles are required for carrying trainees and supervisory staff in the
field and for transporting f'amily planning and health education materials to
the rural areas. To develop a standard staffing pattern for the most efficient
use of personnel in rural health institutions, a Nursing Activities Study has
been included in the Project. The evaluation and research studies provided
for are expected to provide the Government and the Association first4and
information on progress and assist the Government in formulating future family
planning programs.
4L.       The total cost of the Project would be US$15.4 million including
contingencies calculated at 26 percent. The foreign exchange component is
estimated at $5.0 million representing about 42 percent.  An IDA credit of
US$12.0 million would cover the foreign exchange cost and 78 percent of total
costs. The Government would finance the remaining $3.4 million. The IDA credit
would cover about 31 percent of the total cost of the entire Five-Year Program
(See paragraph 41).
165.      For the physical implementation of the project, a Project Construction
Unit would be established in the MJinistry of Health. This Unit would be
headed by a Director who would report directly to the Permanent Secretary of
the Ministry of Health. In addition to the I)irector, who would be appointed
in consultation with the Association, the Unit would be staffed with a procure-
ment officer, an accountant, and an architect, who would all be appointed within
90 days of effectiveness,



Organization and Institutional Aspects
46.       Among the primary objectives of this Project as well as the Program
is the setting up of a strong and effective national organization -- the
National Family Welfare Center (NiWC) -- for designing, coordinating and super-
vising family planning services. This organization would be given policy
guidance by an Interministerial Working Committee, which would be established
as a condition of oreodit effectiveness.
47.       The NFWC will be headed by a Program Director responsible to the
Director of Medical Services in the Ministry of Health. He will be assisted
by a Deputy Program Director primarily responsible for administration, and by
a Program Advisor, whose salary would be finmnced-eiit-of the proceeds of the
Gredit. The NFWC will have four other fintional divisions --
clinical services, evaluation and research, information and education, and
training. The NFWC would be responsible for the planning of family planning
and maternal and child health activities. Although it will use the field
atiinistrative structure of the Ministry of Health in implementing the family
planning program, it would cooperate closely with the Ministry of Education
in its training activities, with the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting
in carrying out its information and education programs, and with the Office
of the Registrar-General and the University of Nairobi in undertaking its
evaluation and research program. The Government has already appointed a suit-
ably qualified Kenyan as a Program Director. The Association woul.d be consulted
on the appointment of the Deputy Director and the Program Advisor who,
together with the heads of the four functional divisions, would be appointed
within three months after credit effectiveness.
Training and Manpower
48.       The long-term goal of training in family planning is to reach and
educate all levels of medical and paramedical health personnel as well as
workers in extension services and in the private sector who have contact with
the rural population. While this over-all goal will gradually be met through
the expansion of physical facilities, there are two major constraints which
affect the short-term requirements of the Program and the Project: the shortage
of nursing personnel and qualified field workers to provide the necessary
services, and the need for teaching personnel to provide technical support
for the expansion of the nurse training schools. These constraints would
be alleviated both through the development of suitable training courses, and
the training of additional nursing tutors. In addition, the project also
provides for improvement of the curriculum. The detailed outlines of the
structure and content of the different theoretical and practical courses for
various categories of staff (clinical staff, field workers, NFWC staff, non-
medical staff) would be developed by mid 1975 in consultation with the
Association.
49.       To improve staffing of rural health facilities, an adequate man-
power accounting system, together with a staffing plan covering the next three-
year period detailing the staffing of provincial and district level offices
and health centers, would be developed within a year of the date the Credit
becomes effective.



- 16 -
The staffing plan would be coordinated with the output of trained paramedical
and field worker personnel and would be subject to periodic review.
Procurement and Disbursements
50.       The Association's normal procurement procedures requiring inter-
national competitive bidding; would be applicable to all contracts for civil
works and vehicles except for a few costing less than $30,000. Since contracts
for furniture and equipment will be small and unlikely to attract international
competition, they will be procured locally under the Government's procedures
for competitive tendering; a number of overseas suppliers are represented in
the local market. A local suppliers' preference of 15 percent, or the exist-
ing rate of import duties for competing imports, whichever is lower, will be
applied for purposes of bid evaluation as would the new policy of a 7½ percent
preference to domestic civil contractors. The Government of Kenya requested
the Association to finance retroactively expenditures incurred on or after
October 1, 1973 for essential consulting services for site surveying and
selection and for preliminary architectural design work. Considering the need
to speed up construction of health training facilities and thereby accelerate
the output of trained personnel, the credit provides up to US$100,000 equivalent
to cover such costs.
51.       Disbursements will be made against:  (i) 80 percent of the total cost
of all civil works and equipment and furniture; and (ii) 100 percent of foreign
costs or 80 percent of local costs of professional services and of vehicles and
office equipment.
Financing of the Balance of the Program
52.       For the rest of the Program outside of the Project comprising mainly
recurrent costs and technical assistance, the Government approached seven other
external donors. The participating agencies, the likely size of
their contributions, and the major items which they would finance (all on a
grant basis) are shown below:



- 17 -
Other Donor Support to
Kenya's Five-Year Family Planning Program
Country/Agency                 Amount                  Items Financed
US$ Million
Denmark/DANIDA                   0.6              Nurse training school at
Eldoret
The Federal Republic
-f Germany                       0.9              Nurse training school at
Kakamega
Norway/NORAD                     1.8              Three rural health centers;
recurrent costs.
Sweden/SIDA                      5.4              Technical assistance for train-
ing and information and
education; recurrent costs;
contraceptive supplies; train-
ing programs; mass media
program costs.
USA/USAID                        0.7              Special equipment; technical
assistance for health education
unit, and fellowship support;
recurrent costs.
The UN Fund for                  1.2              Office equipment; vehicles;
Population Activities                             technical assistance for
(UNFPA)                                           clinical services, evaluation
and research; recurrent costs
for the first three years.
Expected Firm Commitment        10.6
Expected future commit-
ments by the US, including
Population Council.              1.9
Total                           12.5
53.       The total cost of the Program, $38.8 million, would be covered as
follows: IDA $12.0 million, other donors $12.5 million and the Government
of Kenya $14.3 million.



- 18 -
54.       It is a condition of effectiveness of the IDA credit that the Govern-
ment make satisfactory arrangements for obtaining the $10.6 million of external
financing for which firm commitments are required. Considerable progress has
already been made in this direction. Sweden and Denmark have already signed
agreements with the Kenyan Government. The Federal Republic of Germany, the
NCRAD, the UNFPA and the USAID expect to negotiate their grants by the end of
this fiscal year. Because the USAID operates on an annual funding basis, it
can only commit itself for a year at a time ($0.7 million in FY75), but it is
expected to contribute an additional amount of $1.9 million over the ensuing
four years.  The UNFPA's contribution of $1.2 million towards the cost of the
first three years of the Program will form part of an "umbrella agreement"
of $3.5 million for family planning activities in Kenya not necessarily con-
fined to the Program.
55.       A distinctive feature of this plan for financing the Program is the
number of external agencies involved. While each of the agencies will be
responsible for supervision of their respective components, it is generally
recognized that the agencies will have to coordinate their supervision. In
addition, the Government intends to invite representatives of the participating
agencies for annual briefing sessions to review Program developments and
discuss problems that may arise.
Program Objectives and Project Justification
56.       The main objectives of the Program are to improve maternal and child
health and to strengthen and extend the delivery of family planning services
through the health care system. The Five-Year Family Planning Program and
associated components of the Health Development Plan are expected by 1984
substantially to reduce malnutritional and communicable diseases, thus reducing
mortality and in particular infant mortality. Furthermore, it is expected that
the Program would result in the recruitment of some 640,000 new accepters and,
consequently in averting 150,000 births by 1979. This would help reduce
the crude birth rate in Kenya from about 48 per thousand in 1974 to 43 in 1979,
resulting in a decline in the rate of natural increase from an estimated 3.3
percent to about 3.0 percent.  Projected to the year 2000, this would mean a
reduction in the fertility rate from 7.6 to 4.7 per woman. This would have
several beneficial effects. With the Program, school age population would be
reduced by some 1 million by year 2000, and the male labor force by 300,000.
In addition, other valuable, through unquantifiable benefits could accrue from
the Program. For example, by extending health and family planning services to a
large number of people, mostly in rural areas, the Program will support the
Government's policy of rural development and help to reduce present inequalities
in the services enjoyed by the Kenya population.



- 19 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
57.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Kenya and the Association, the Report of the Cimmittee provided for in Article
V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association, and the text
of a resolution approving the proposed credit are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. Subject to the financing arrangements outlined
in paragraph 54 of this report and Section 8.01(a)of the draft Credit Agreement,
the legal structure of and the provisions contained in the draft Credit Agree-
mern conform to the pattern generaIly used for the Association's credits for
population projects.
58.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
59.       In formulating this proposal, it has not been possible to take full
account of the consequences of recent increases in petroleum prices. However,
available information indicates that the proposed credit remains fully justified.
60.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by J. Burke Knapp
Washington, D.C.
March 6, 1974






Annex I
Page 1 of 3 pages
OOUNT¶Y DATA - K,Y
ARNNA                                                  POPULATION                                     DENSITY
k,, in                                            11.7 million (mid-1971)                            1.1.  Per keD
Per keeDof arabie land
SOCIAL INDICAI'ORS
Reference Countries
Ronya                      U. K.      Ta.n-zania  C=olIoe.bl~a
DEN' PEN CAPITA USE (ATLAS BASIS) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ..           1~50           2,270            100           340
DEMDKPAPHIC
Crude birth rate (per thousand)                                      5o Ia          5il                              47           4o
Crude death rote (Per thousa.nd)                                     20 75          16               11              21           10
Infant mortality rate (per thousa..d live births)                   *               .1                   b       1015I             0/
Lieexpectanc.y at birth (years)                                 50-45 /a           9              72              43           59
Gross reproduction rate /2331.32                                                                                                 31
PoPulation growth rats                                             ..              3.1              0.6             32.          3.2
POPulation groth rate - urban                                      ..7/1sf                          0.5               7            5ZLi
Age structure (percent)
1045                                                              hi /hi         LOI/b            2454 5557
1565 sdzse,                                                        51 h-           67b7            63             53            50
65,,a.dnd ovr.t.                                                     3/hi             75            13              3             3
Dereendency ratio IS                           ..            ~~~~~    ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~                 ~~~~1.2 EL  0.8  1.1 /k  1.7
Urban population as preroat of total                                  8lf,i         1 O/h_f          78              ilc          56IL
Family planning:   No. of acceptors cumulativs (thous.)                            ...                              .316
No. of users (% of cmarre    womn)                              ...
EMPLOYMENT
Total labor force (thousands)                                       .            5,180 lb.      25,200           5, 800       6,200
Percenitage employed is agriculture                               ..90 Ib3                          3             91            h1
Percentage noemployad                                             ...3.2                                         .               7
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Percent of -naikocal income receicod by highest 5%                                                                                40...  .h
Percent of national ihooms recived by highest 20%......                                                                           68
Percent of national inomeo received by lowost 2C%                   .              .....2
Percen,t of  ationol income received by lowest 50%
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND O.NERESHIP
% owned by top 10% of owners
% owned by msaliest 10% of owners...
HEALTN AND NUTRITION
Populat-ion-p-er physloisn                                      P2   Ofl1       12,11 /c   n        890 /c      21,570 Ic     2,230
Population Per nursi-ng person                                   'rio    t       3,10 75t           2 O          21980 75 n2700
Population per hospital bad                                         61   5"         30 7E   ~       130 Ic        '780 7         h'20
Per capita calorie supply an 9 of requirements IS                    9A .p           1              120             69            83
Pen capita protein supply, total (grams pen dayr-/6                  72 7' o                         88             53            55
Of which, animal and pulse                                        32              1                56             23            23
Death rots I-4 years I?..7                                                                          0.9            I. 
EDUCOATION
Adj.si5d /8 primary school enrolleni ratio                           13             a?               98 /b          37            95 Id
Adjusted 75 secondary sciool enrollment ratio                         3              3               58 To           2            21 7d
Tears of schooling pr-vided, first and second level                  13             13               13-            13            11-
Vocational ecrn1lsent as % of sec. school enrolment                  22                               5 /c           6            22 Id
Adult literacy rate 9                                               . .             S  /d            97 75b_
ROUSING
Averge No. of persns par r... (Orion)                              iS       ~      .                0.6 /s,c
Percet of uccopled unite without piped water                        .               ..                              20 /u
Access to eleotnicity )eas 9 of    tetl population)......                                                            3            70
Percent of tonal population connected to electricity                .......                                                       36
CONSUMPTION
Radio reciver    pen lOO peplat-on                                    V5/,0                         324 /b          11          105
Passenger cars par 1000 population                                                                  215               2 /b0        7
Electric power consumption (kwh p.c.)                                27             453           5,293  /b          29n7'       378
Newsprint co-supticn p.o. kg per year                              C.7.            i .5              28            0.1   -      2.4
Noteo:   Figure  roPe   slum- tv the   .Lotes  poniod,o,  t aloc                 ofenio      etul tenperatare, body weights, and
the intent yeao.-    Latent peniodo refer in p,inco,ple to               distrhh-tico by age and se    of national populations.
the yearn 1956-63 or 196f6-70; tin intent yearn in PAin-             16  Protein standards (reqoiowennts) for all countries as esetab-
cip1e to 1960 -c 1370.                                                   licedn by USDA Ecocn-ie Research Ser,vice pro-ode for a minimum
Li   The Per Copito G:P Ont~i-.e -s at oo     t o-a     it> -ol1eawoce of 60 gran of total proteir. Per day, and 20 grams of
corecit  tir l,A,ccicolatedby  n ,en  ucacoi:.  aima  an  peer  rotin,of which 1I grams shoold be animal
tec hnique ontc 0h 931 ho, .d10ŽSti-s.                               protean   These standards are oooeahat lower than those of 75
L2  li-roge comber of deughter     per oo--. rf reprcducLio              gra-n of total protein and 23 gram     of animul protein as an
age.                                                                 average for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
LiFPp.!.i-oget        om    cc   o    b.dn        eAiog m.             Se-ey.
1960 end 1370'.                                                 /7   Sces stodien bas   seggenited teat crded death rates of children
LRatio of undor 15 cod 67 end 00r          be-rockc, L.                agmo I throogh 4 nay he coed as a firet approximation mAdes of
Jho~e In labor force brcict.l of   fe15 tho...gh 6Lnaototcc
Li PAl reference    t.r-dee-dc orse      physoltbgi-ol re-           /e  Perenhtage enrolled of corresponding popalatioc of school age
qeirre'chto fee ocrd    activit'y end heolto t.  rv                  as defined for each country.
/a  g  -t-.at   for Ifroco   popuietive, cood on an1ynin of dote foon337          past-.nanal oample o--cy:      lb I1Q/5.  /r   07
75d  198    /    962-69;   If 2,000 or more incaiitants;     Li Ppoic        liogtanceu            of250      rmre isaatno
75h  19c2;  7? wIsed on com.plete    noarto       of non-Africa    populolocoo 001 of orbac, Afnioan popolation and on a 12 percen.t
-   asple of   -oel Acoic- population;       j Labor forein t  ago bracket 15-59;    /k Ratio of population coder 55 and 65 and ocer
to total labor force;    /I Correspooding to tie saumier of regiateres personneT; not all of then are practicing ic the
ceoutry;   Is Ec-lodiug .edical ancistants;      /n Tangavyika only;    5' Including midwives, assistant sdle          and asoisiant
-s-re;    1-J9ol-i 3;   La Innie,ding  toeootaIning of toe t1nird level;         Ir UN estimate;    In 1966;'aI Birian and rural;
/o   Urbn- only;   Iv Estimate.
Merch 5, I9T



A'7NE'- I
Page 2 of 3 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1972                ANNUAL RATE OF C-ROWTH
t%, Constant 1974 Prices)
US$ Mln.     %     196.3-70  1970-72  1973
GNP at Market Prices        1,964    100.0     8.2       6.4
Gross Domestic Investment    473      2L4.1   16.6       7.3
Gross National Saving        403      20.5     5.8       6.o
Current Account Balance       -52     -2.7
Exports of Goods, NFS         550     28.0     6.4       0.0
Import of Goods, NFS         602      30.7     9.1       0.5
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1971
Value Added    Labor Force 2/ V. A. Per Worker
US$ Xin.   %    Mln.    %       U           %
Agriculture                504    31  4,647   86        109      36.0
Industry                   201    13    1141   3      1,423      47.5
Services                   387    24     301   6      1,286      42.9
Unallocated                520    32     208   5_     1,000      60.2
1, 615  100.0 5,377  100.0      300    100.0
GOVERNMENT FDIANCE
General Government 2/           Central Goveryment
(b Mln.)   % of Monetaty GDP   (L Mln.) % of Monetary GM
1971/72   1971/72   1967,X0   1971i77   1971/72   1967/70
Current Receipts             15 .1     34.7       23.6     141.2     31.0     20.2
Current Expenditure          1314.2    29.5      22.1     118.5    25.        17.5
Current Surplus               23.9      5.2        1.5     22.7       5.2      2.7
Capital Expenditures          63.3     13.9       6.6      53.8      11.8      6.1
External Assistance (net)       -        -         -        9.4       2.1      1.5
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES         1966   1969   1 970  1971   1972
TMillion ; outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money             94     132    168    183   204
Bank credit to Public Sector      -        5      7     16    26
Bank credit to Private Sector     52      66     87    111    124
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
196L    1969    1970    1971    1972
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP    22.6    25.4    29.2    28.5   28.7
General Price Index (1963 = 100) 2/ 100.5   104.7   107.6   111.2  116.8
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                   0.7     1.7    2.8     3.3     5.0
Bank Credit to Public Sector 
Bank Credit to Private Sector         6.9     8.3    31.8   27.6    11.2
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate
prevailing luring the period covered.
1/ Total labor force includes estimates of informal sector empJ,o>vient and self-
employment; agriculture is assumed to be the residual employer. "Unallocated"
consists mainly of unemployed workers seeling their first job.
2/ Central and local government only.
31  GDP deflator.
not available
not applicable



Annex I
Page 3 of 3 pages
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALAkNCE OF PAYMENTS                         MERC'HANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1964-72)
1964  1970  1972
(M llions US $)                          US $ Min    %
Exports of Goods, NFS       337   469   550  Coffee                      59     19.5
ImDorts of Goods, NFS       286   407   602  Tea                         25     10.9
Resource Gap (deficit = -)  T     -28   -52  Petroleum Products jl       82     12.5
Sisal                        8      3.1
Interest Payments (net)      ..    ..        Meat                         9      3.5
Workers' Remittances         ..    ..        To E. A. C.  /              68     26.5
Other Factor Payments (net)  24   -26   -28  All other commodities       61     23.8
Net Transfers                36    20    34         Total                 9    100.0
Balance on  Current Account   0   :57   -70
EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1972
Director Foreign Investment  ..    42    46
Net MLT Borrowing            ..    45    45                               US $ Mln
Disbursements
Amortization              ..    ..    .. Public Debt, incl. guaranteed    353
Subtotal                        7     91  Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Capital Grants               ..    ..    .. Total outstanding & Disbursed    3T
Other Capital (net)          16     2     2
Other items n.e.i.          -25    -1    .. DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1972 3/
Increase in Reserves (+)    -T:     7    28
Gross Reserves (end year)
Net Reserves (end year)                      Public Debt, incl. guaranteed  4.6
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
RATE OF EXCHANGE                             Total Outstanding & Disbursed 7
Through March 1973                 IBRD/IDA LENDING, DECEMBER 31, (Million US $)
US $ 1 .00 = K.Sh. 7.14
L 1.00 = US $  2.80                                             IBRD   IDA
Since January 14, 1974             Outstanding & Disbursed          7.9   55.4
Uf $ 1.00 = K.Sh. 7.14             Undisbursed                     72.6   33.3
L 1.00 = US $  2.80             Outstanding incl. Undisbursed 121.5    88.7
Since June 30 1973
US $ 1.00 = R!Sh. 6.9
L 1 .00 - US $ 2.0985
1/ Including exports to EAC.
2/ Excluding petroleum products.
3/ Ratio of Debt Service (excluding notioral 1/3 share of EAC debts) to Exports
of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
.not available
not applicable
February 7, 1974






Annex II
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits as at December 31, 1973
Us $ millions
Loan or                                                         Amount (less Cancellations)
Credit No.      Year      Borrower            Purpose            Bank    IDA     Undisbursed
Nine (9) loans and credits fully disbursed                          8.62  36.30      -
119          1968       Kenya       Tea Development                    2.10      1.98
129          1968       Kenya       Livestock Development               3.60      .64
639          1969       Kenya       Highways                    23.50            1.62
641          1969       Kenya       Forest Plantations           2.60            1.35
185          1970       Kenya       Education                          6.10      3.90
714          1970       NCC         Water Supply                8.30             3.75
224          1970       Kenya       Road Maintenance                  12.60      3.22
745          1971       TRDC        Hydroelectric Development  23.00             7.48
276          1972       Kenya       Highway                           22.00     17.84
826          1972       Kenya       Nairobi Airport            29.00            24.40
344          1972       Kenya       Agricultural Credit                6.oo     5.70
932          1973       Kenya       Highways                   29.00            29.00
946          1974       IDC         DFC                          5.oo
Total                                            129.02    8*
of which has been repaid                         6.6_
Total now outstanding                             122.37   88.7
Amount sold                            5.14
of which has been repaid          4.31         1 .83
Total now held by Bank & IDA                              88.7
Total Undisbursed                                  72.60  33.28   105.88
a/ Prior to Exchange Adjustment.
B.  Statement of IFC Investments in Kenya as at December   31. 1973
Amount in US $ Million
Year           Obligor                 Type of Business    Loan   Equity   Total
1968 & 1973  Kenya Hotel Properties        Hotels               5.1    0.8      5.9
1970     Pan African Paper Mills       Pulp and Paper     10.6     4.1     14.7
1972     Tourism Promotion Services    Hotels               2.4     -       2.4
Total Gross Commitments                          18.1     4.9     23.0
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                             5.9    0.9      6.8
Total Commitments now held by IFC                 12.2     v      16.2
Total Undisbursed                                  5.4    0.2      5.6



Annex II
Page 2 of 4
C. Projects in Execuxtion 1/
Credit 119 - Tea Developmentl $2.1 million Credit of June 17, 1968-
Closing Date: December 31, 1973. This project is a continuation of the pro-
ject financed under Credit No. &-KE. KTDA has carried out its expansion
program under the project with minimal recourse to the funds provided under
the credit because its revenues were greater and its costs lower than antici-
pated. Under tiis project 35,000 acres were to be planted over the period
1968-1973, but this program was accelerated and planting has been completed.
The balance has now been cancelled.
Credit 129 - Livestock Development; $3.6 million Credit of September
26, 1968; Closing Date: December 31, 1974. A Swedish Credit of the same
amount has also been made for this project. Initial implementation was slow
in part because of the project's pioneering nature, for which Kenya had little
prior experience. Progress on project execution has improved greatly during
the past two years, and all f.unds for ranch development have been committed.
The bulk of the Credit has already been disbursed but to allow for retention
money to be paid, the Closilng Date has been postponed by one year until
December 31, 1974.
Loan 639 - Hihwas; $23    million Loan of October 10, 1969; Closing
Date: June 30,, 1975. Constr-uction is substantially completed except for two
contracts which have been delayed by changes in specifications and construction
standards. These delays required postponement, of the Closing Date from
December 31, 1973 to June 30, 1975. There has been a 30 percent increase above
original cost estimates due mainly to design changes.
Loan 641 - Forest Plantation' $2.6 million Loan of November 7, 1969;
Closing Date: December 32,_J975TPogressis satisfactory and at disburse-
ment are proceeding faster than envisaged, and the loan is expected to be fully
drawn down a year before Closing Date. Planting and technical aspects are
satisfactory.     Preparation of a second phase project is now well under way.
Credit 185 - Education; $6.1 million Credit of May 20, 1970; Closing
Date: December 31, 1975. Construction is proceeding at a slower rate than
anticipated. As remedial actian has been taken, it is expected that all project
institutions except two will be completed pri-or to the December 1974 project
completion date; the remaining school for which the Government is proposing
jl These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems
which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy them.
They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they
do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses
in project execution.



Annex II
Page 3 of h
modifications is expected to be completed about July 1975, six months prior to
the December 31, 1975 Closing Date.
Loan 714 - Water Su  1Y  $8.3 million Loan of November 7  1969;
Closing Dae    Mac31195         Godporshabenmdonteai
project items,and water should be delivered to Nairobi on schedule in March
1974. A twelve-month postponement of the Closing Date, however, will be
required to enable completion of ancillary items. The Water and Sewerage
De-artment is experiencing serious staffing shortages in its engineering
and commercial sections due to inability to attract and retain staff. The
Government and City Council have agreed on urgent remedial action.
Credit 224 - Road Maintenance; $12.6 million Credit of December 28,
1970: Closing Date: June 30. 1975. The Project is proceeding satisfactorily.
AlU designated posts in the MOW have been filled. Most of the equipment has
been installed and the Highway Training Center is operational.
Loan 745 - Kamburu Hydroelectric; $23.0 million Loan of June 7,
1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1975. Project construction has slipped, and
completion is likely to be as much as six months behind the original scheduled
date of February 1974. This should still permit beginning commercial opera-
tions by November 1974 -- the start of the rainy season. Costs have increased
by about 7 percent due principally to the last US dollar devaluation and
increased costs of consultants services as the construction period lengthened.
Credit 276 - Highwys $22.0 million Credit of June 5, 1972; Closing
Date: March 31, 1976. This project, which is jointly financed by a Swedish
Credit of $6.0 million, made a slow start due to delays in obtaining govern-
mental approvals to issue tenders. Because of high bid prices, overall costs
of the project show a 10 percent increase.
Loan 826 - Nairobi Airport; $29 million Loan of June 2, 1972; Closin
Date: December 31, 1976. The major contracts have been awarded and work has
commenced, but inadequate supervision by the key contractor and administrative
delays by the Government have led to delays in the physical execution of the
project. The financial management, which was poor, has now improved, and a
financial manager to help establish commercial accounting systems has been
identified.
Credit 344 - Agricultural Credit; $6.0 million Credit of Novembe 2,2
1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1976. This Credit was declared effective March
2, 1973. The Agricultural Finance Corporation has started a second phase of
lending operations, following the completion of the first under Credit 105.
Progress is proceeding well, except that on-farm credit supervision could be
improved. Consultants for an agricultural credit study are being selected.
Loan 932 - Highways; $29.0 million Loan of September 6, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1977. This Loan was made effective on November 9, 1973.
Bids will be invited shortly.



Annex II
Page 4 of 4
Loan 946 - Industrial Development Bank; $5.0 million Loan of
November 29, 1973; Closing Date: March 31,, 1978. This loan is not yet
effective.
D. Statement of Bank Loans for Common Services Guaranteed by
Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda as at December 31, 1973
(U.S. $ million)
Amount less cancellations
Borrower                        Bank     Undisbursed
Three Loans Fully Disbursed
638 EA  1969    EAHC      Harbors               75.0
67L4 EA  1970   EARC      Railways              35.0       12.3
675 EA 1970     EAPTC     Telecommunications    10.4        1.6
843 EA  1972    EADB      Development Finance    8.0        8.0
865 EA  1972    EAHC      Harbors               26.5       24.2
914 EA  1973    EAPTC     Telecommunications    32.5       30.0
Total                                  229.8       99.0
of which has been repaid           24.1
Total now outstanding                   205.7
Amount sold:                   24.14
of which has been repaid  22.5       1.9
Total now held by Bank j                203.8
Total undisbursed                        99.0
1/ Prior to Exchange Adjustment.



A 101  III
page 1
KENYA
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                       Republic of Kenya
Amount:                         US$12.0 million equivalent
Terms:                          Standard IDA terms
Project Description:            Population Project: The project will
focus on: (a) training adequate numbers
of paramedical and field personnel to
extend family planning seivices; (b) strength-
ening the rural health system infrastructure; and
(c) developing an appropriate institution to
suppoIrt family planning services. To this end
it wil1 incluide (a) construction of: 5 community
nurses training schools, 27 rural health centers
a national faiuily welfare ceniter and
supportling facilities, including a family
planming clinic and a Health Education Unit;
(b) provision of around 90 vehicles and office
equipment; and (c) technical advisory assistance
_(Program Advisor) and nursing activiti.es
evaluation studies during the implementation
period.
Cost of Project:
_-      (US$ million)    _
Items                   Local           Foreign           Total
Site Development               .4               .2              .6
Construction                 5.7               2.5             8.2
Fees and Supervision         1.0               _               1.0
Furniture and Equipment        .5               '1              .6
Vehicles                      -                 .5              .5
Technical Assistant            .1               .2              .3
Office Equipment              -                 .2              .2
Contingencies
Civil Works                2.7               1,2             3.9
Non-Construction            -                 .1              .1
10.               T5 15.T4
Financing of Project
(US$ million)
Local           Foreign          Total
Proposed IDA Credit          6.7               5.3            12.0
Government of Kenya          3.4                               3.4
15.4



Annex III
Page 2
Estimated Disbursements
Fiscal Year
(US'OOOs)
1974     1975      1976     1977
100      3100      5900     2900
Procurement
Arrangements:           Contracts for civil works and vehicles of more than
$30,000 will be awarded on basis of international com-
petitive bidding. Domestic civil works contractors
will, however, be accorded a 7½^ percent margin of
preference, while domestic manufacturers will be
accorded a margin of preference equal to the existing
rate of customs duty or 15 percent of the CIF costs
of competing imports, whichever is the lower. Contracts
for equipment and furniture are unlikely to attract
international attention because of the small size of
the bid packages, and wrill be obtained.by competitive
tendering locally where a number of overseas suppliers
are represented.
Appraisal Report:       Report No. 266-KE dated February 20, 1974.
Map:                    A map of the proposed physical project facilities is
attached.



S U D A N                                                           KENYA
,'              *14\          e°K>eje       EXISTING         HEALTH FACILITIES
.                LOK I I                                             /
)4 /                                                      E T H IOP I A                           .--'
A.                                              N                   X,
*                                        ~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T.Add,Abl,o 
N        I'                                                                       /1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. 
A Lod ~\,      I-                                                          M A L I
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
~~p  *MOr.~~b~~ISOMALIC
UGANDA            ' \
T.  S~~~~~~~~~  m~.-
*~~~~~~~ K'~ ~ ~~~IK
I F C; les onddi.wns   ,< +1\ '  t4 l   <on
*    KI Inenloc oiPcl             **g8b5l     t     i  S   \61                  j
_. [lnserndion                                            Qoun
F_  IRIV9rX  Inhubituntc per ccucTbmile   \-t   t   a        0     olndiI~ 
Tf..  Rlentol                           drX 10-50  \  X   @    f. -  o t/l   ,             A  F R  C  A 
G. ~ ~ ~ ~  ~   ~  ~   o
S ~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ,,d.,           IKbO.d                          eI}.                J
3THER ENSEIinTIORS (PRIVATE, INDUSTRISC. ETC.);  ,__=____,,_____________________r
4   105P lot (Incdudlno MaT,n,t19 a  NOISflqg Konmoo)  norn  ToQro.b                           . 9 ./



