CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 468 KE
Development Credit
Agreement
(Population Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED APRIL 1, 1974


﻿CONFORAIED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 468 KE
Development Credit
Agreement
(Population Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED APRIL 1, 1974


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 1, 1974, between REPUBLIC OF KENYA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to   Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02(h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02(i) into 6.02(h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the, context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Project Construction Unit" means the unit to be established by the
Borrower pursuant to Section 3.01(b)(i) of this Agreement;
(b)   "Project Construction Director" means the head of the Project
Construction Unit to be appointed by the Borrower pursuant to Section 3.01(b)(i)
of this Agreement;
(c)   "Inter-Ministerial Working Committee" means the committee to be
established by the Borrower pursuant to Section 3.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement;
(d)   "Program" means the Borrower'"s Five-Year Family Planning Program
(1974-79) as described in the Association's Sector Survey Report No. 267 KE dated
February 28, 1974 as such Program shall be amended from time to time; and
(e)   "Program  Director", "Deputy Program   Director" and "Program
Advisor" mean, respectively, the director, deputy director and advisor to be
appointed by the Borrower pursuant to Section 3.03(a) of this Agreement.


﻿4
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to twelve million dollars ($12,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed under the Development Credit Agreement; provided,
however, that, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall
be made on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is
not a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in,
or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1978 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on February
I and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each February I and August I commencing
August 1, 1984, and ending February 1, 2024, each installment to and including
the installment payable on February 1, 1994 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.


﻿5
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project and the Program
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project and the Program,
through its Ministry of Health, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial, technical, engineering, public health,
population and family planning practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Borrower shall establish and maintain (i) in its Ministry of
Health, to carry out Part A of the Project, a Project Construction Unit, the staff
of such unit to be headed by a Project Construction Director appointed in
consultation with the Association and to include suitably qualified procurement
officer, accountant and architect to be employed within 90 days after the Effective
Date (or such other date as may be agreed upon between the Borrower and the
Association); and (ii) until completion of the Program, an Inter-Ministerial Working
Committee, under the chairmanship of the Permanent Secretary of the Borrower's
Ministry of Health and composed of representatives of the Borrower's ministries,
agencies and institutions concerned with public health, population and family
planning including, except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Permanent Secretaries of the Borrower's Ministries of Health, Finance and
Planning, Information and Broadcasting, Cooperatives and Social Services,
Education, Agriculture and Lands and Settlement, or their nominees for such
purpose, and representatives of the University of Nairobi, the Family Planning
Association of Kenya and the National Council of Social Service, the functions
and responsibilities of the said Committee to include the coordination of the
activities of the said ministries, agencies and institutions in the execution of the
Project and the Program, the review of progress therein and the formulation of
related policy recommendations. The said Committee shall be assisted by specialized
technical advisory sub-committees, as required, and shall convene in full session
at least once every three months.
Section 3.02. In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
architectural consultants acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, within 90 days after the Effective Date
(or such other date as may be agreed upon between the Borrower and the
Association), appoint:
(a)   a Program   Director and Deputy Program    Director of the National
Family Welfare Center who shall be responsible to the Director of Medical Services


﻿6
of the Borrower's Ministry of Health for the overall administration and operation
of the National Family Welfare Center, and a Program Advisor who shall act as
technical advisor to the Program Director, the recommendations for the said
appointments to be made in consultation with the Association; and
(b)   a suitably qualified chief officer for each of the four functional
divisions of the National Family Welfare Center, namely (i) Information and
Education, (ii) Training, (iii) Evaluation and Research and (iv) Clinical Services.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, within 90 days after the Effective Date
(or such other date as may be agreed upon between the Borrower and the
Association), acquire temporary rented premises for the National Family Welfare
Center until the facilities constructed therefor under the Project are available for
occupation.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall ensure that:
(a)   by December 31, 1974 (or such other date as may be agreed upon
between the Borrower and the Association), a detailed staffing plan for all teaching
positions in Community Nurse Training Schools of the Borrower, including the
Community Nurse Training Schools to be constructed under the Project, shall have
been prepared in consultation with the Association; and
(b)   by December 31, 1976 (or such other date as may be agreed upon
between the Borrower and the Association), an adequate number of tutors for
all such Community Nurse Training Schools shall have completed their training.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, by June 30, 1975 (or such other date
as may be agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association):
(a)   develop, in consultation with the Association, a detailed rural health
services manpower planning system together with a personnel record system which
will provide a sound basis for the allocation of medical and paramedical personnel
to rural health services;
(b)   prepare, in consultation with the Association, the structure and content
of all specialized family planning training courses, including refresher courses, to
be undertaken throughout the Program by, inter alia, medical and paramedical
personnel (including Enrolled Nurses/Community Nurses, doctors, registered Public
Health Nurses, Medical Assistants and tutors); Family Planning Field Workers;
community leaders and extension officers; and


﻿7
(c)   furnish to the Association a suitable staffing plan for the ensuing three
years detailing the staffing of provincial and district level supervisory offices and
outlining the staffing of field service points.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, throughout the Program, employ a
sufficient number of adequately trained nurses required for the purposes thereof.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be used exclusively for the purposes
designated under the Project.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to
examine the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all
such information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project
and the Program, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods
and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall take all such action as shall be necessary
to acquire, as and when needed but in any event within 12 months after the
Effective Date (or such other date as may be agreed upon between the Borrower
and the Association), all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be required
for the construction (and operation) of the works and facilities included in the
Project and shall furnish to the Association, promptly after such acquisition,
evidence satisfactory to the Association that such land and rights in respect of
land are available for purposes related to the Project.


﻿8
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall ensure that all works, equipment, furniture
and vehicles financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and all works and facilities
necessary to the proper and efficient operation thereof, will at all times be properly
and efficiently operated and adequately maintained and repaired in accordance with
appropriate technical and engineering practices and standards.
Section 3.12. The Borrower shall consult with the Association with reference
to any material change to the Program sufficiently in advance thereof to enable
the Association to consider such change and to exchange views with the Borrower
thereon.
Section 3.13. The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the
Association, promptly upon their preparation, all progress and final reports on
evaluation and research studies to be carried out under the Program by the National
Family Welfare Centre and the Population Studies and Research Centre.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof, including the Project Construction Unit.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations, resources and expenditures of the
Project Construction Unit and, in respect of the Project and the Program, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any part
of the Project and the Program, and other matters relating to the purposes of
the Credit; and


﻿9
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations, resources and expenditures of the Project
Construction Unit and, in respect of the Project and the Program, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any part
of the Project and the Program.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.


﻿10
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon, and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified:
Any event shall have occurred which shall have operated to suspend the
right of the Borrower to withdraw, in whole or in part, the proceeds of any grant,
loan or credit (other than the Credit) agreed to be made available for the Program,
and the Borrower shall not have entered into arrangements satisfactory to the
Association whereby other resources will be made available to the Borrower in
substitution therefor.
Section 7.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified:
The event specified in Section 7.02 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   That the Borrower shall have entered into arrangements satisfactory
to the Association for foreign grants, loans or credits to the Borrower (other than
the Credit) amounting in the aggregate to not less than the equivalent of ten million
six hundred thousand dollars ($10,600,000) to be used to finance the costs of
the Program.


﻿11
(b)   That the Project Construction Director shall have been appointed in
accordance with Section 3.01(b) of this Agreement.
(c)  That the Inter-Ministerial Working Committee shall have been
established in accordance with Section 3.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement.
Section 8.02. The date July 1, 1974 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for Finance is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of
the General Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Treasury
P.O. Box 30007
Nairobi, Kenya
Cable address:
FINANCE
Nairobi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿12
IN  WITNESS    WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through      their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
By /s / Leonard 0. Kibinge
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Bernard R. Bell
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿13
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
I.    Civil Works,                   8,000,000         80% of total
Equipment and                                     expenditures
Furniture, and
Associated
Professional
Services, under
Part A of the
Project
II.   Vehicles and Office             650,000           100% of foreign
Equipment under                                   expenditures
Part B of the Pro-                                or 80% of local
ject                                              expenditures
III.  Program Advisor                  90,000           100% of foreign
under Part C                                      expenditures
of the Project                                    or 80% of local
expenditures
IV.   Nursing Activi-                 110,000           100% of foreign
ties and Evalua-                                  expenditures or
tion Studies                                      80% of local
under Part C                                      expenditures
of the Project
V.    Unallocated                   3,150,000
TOTAL         12,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)  the term   " foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower;


﻿14
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories
of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and local
expenditures.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals may be made in respect of Category I on account of expenditures
for professional services incurred after October 1, 1973 in an aggregate amount
not exceeding the equivalent of $100,000; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed directly under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount
represented by the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph
I above in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all
such taxes, such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the
Credit will be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second colunn of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association   shall have reasonably  determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, no expenditures for such


﻿15
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association may,
without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category I or
of local expenditures under Category 11 shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit
are available for reallocation to such Category, the Association may, by notice
to the Borrower, adjust the percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's Five-Year Family Planning Program
(1974-79) and consists of the following:
Part A:    Construction, equipping and furnishing of:
(i)        5 Community Nurse Training Schools, as described in Annex
1 to this Schedule, as such Annex may be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association;
(ii)       27 Rural Health Centers, as described in Annex 2 to this
Schedule, as such Annex may be amended from time to time
by agreement between the Borrower and the Association;
(iii)      a National Family Welfare Center and supporting facilities,
including a Family Planning Clinic and a Health Education Unit,
as described in Annex 3 to this Schedule, as such Annex may
be amended from time to time by agreement between the
Borrower and the Association.
Part B:    Purchase of about 87 vehicles, (including about 18 for Community
Nurse Training Schools, 30 for Rural Health Centers, 8 for the National
Family Welfare Center, 28 for the Health Education Unit and 3 for
the Population Studies and Research Center), and office equipment.
Part C:    Provision of technical assistance including (i) employment of a Program
Advisor (about 36 man-months), (ii) the carrying out of a Nursing
Activities Study (about 12 man-months) to develop a standard staffing
pattern of hospital services for the most efficient use of personnel
and (iii) evaluation studies.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1977.


﻿17
ANNEX 1
Five Community Nurse Training Schools for Enrolled Nurse/Community Nurse
training to dispense Family Planning/Maternal and Child Health services, each school
containing: classrooms; library; recreation rooms; dormitory and staff housing
facilities; at the locations and with approximate number of student places set forth
hereunder.
Location                          Student Places
Machakos                               200
Nyeri                                  100
Nakuru                                 200
Homa Bay                               100
Meru                                   100


﻿18
ANNEX 2
Twenty-seven Rural Health Centers, at the locations set forth in the second column
hereunder, to be linked to the Community Nurse Training Schools set forth in
the first column hereunder and to provide about 2 months' clinical training of
Enrolled   Nurse/Community    Nurse  students,  each   center  containing:
teaching/demonstration room for use by clinicians and students; clinics for curative
medicine, family planning/maternal and child health, public health; in-patient
department; laboratory; pharmacy; minor surgery/treatment room; dormitory and
staff housing facilities.
Community Nurse Training
School to be served by                  Number and Location of
Rural Health Centers                     Rural Health Centers
Mombasa                          3 - Mariakani, Vipingo, Rabai
Thika                            2 - Igegania, Munyu
Murang'a                         2 - Makuyu, Sagana
Kisii                            2 - Marani, Nduru
Machakos                         3 - Tawa, Mwala, Matuu
Nyeri                            3 - Endarasha, Munyu, Kinunga
Nakuru                           3 - Mogotio, Bahati, Gilgil
Kisumu                           3 - Yala, Muhoroni, Kombewa
Homa Bay                         2 - Sindo, Isbania
Eldoret                          2 - Lessos, Turbo
Meru                             2 - Ruiru, Karurumo


﻿19
ANNEX 3
1.    The National Family   Welfare Center, to serve as a focus for Family
Planning/Maternal and Child Health activities, located in the Kenyatta Medical
Center/Medical Training Center complex in Nairobi and containing the
following divisions: Clinical Services, Information and Education, Training,
Evaluation and Research, and Administration, including an Office of the
Director of the Center.
2.    To support the training program, a dormitory accommodating about 100
trainees.
3.    Supporting facilities for the National Family Welfare Center, to include:
(a)   a Family Planning Clinic, located in proximity to the National Family
Welfare Center to provide practical clinical training and in-service training
of health staff, and containing multi-purpose accommodation to provide for
Family Planning, Ante- and Post-Natal Care, Maternal and Child Health,
Nutrition and Home Economics.
(b)   a Health Education Unit, to produce family planning information and
health education materials, and containing accommodation for the production
of various types of audio-visual materials and printed matter, a small cinema
and exhibition hall for demonstration and teaching, offices for staff, writers
and artists, television and cine studios, workshop and printing press.


﻿20
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    Contracts Governed by Guidelines
With respect to any contract for civil works or vehicles estimated to cost
the equivalent of $30,000 or more:
1.    The goods and services shall be procured on the basis of international
competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the-Bank in April 1972, as revised
in October 1972.
2.    If bidders are required to prequalify, the Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Association in detail of the procedure to be
followed and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as the Association
shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders, identifying those eligible
for preference under D hereafter, together with a statement of their qualifications
and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification or
eligibility for preference under D hereafter, shall be furnished by the Borrower         -
to the Association for its comments before the applicants are notified and the
Borrower shall make such additions to or deletions from the said list as the
Association shall reasonably request.
3.    Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
4.    After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, together with the reasons for the intended
award. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in this Schedule 3,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿21
5.    The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
6.    Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of any such contract.
B.    Contracts Governed by Local Competitive Bidding
With respect to any contract other than under A above:
1.    The goods and services shall be procured on the basis of local
competition in accordance with standard government procedures.
2.    The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its
execution and prior to the delivery to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of any such contract,
two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract is not consistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in this
Schedule 3, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
C.    Supplemental Rules on Bid Evaluation and Comparison
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids, customs duties and
other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and similar taxes on locally
produced goods, shall be excluded, except to the extent hereinafter provided, and
bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for
imported goods, or the ex-factory price for locally produced goods. The cost to
the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery
of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be taken into account in
the evaluation of bids in accordance with paragraph 4.7 of the Guidelines for
Procurement.
2.    For purposes of the provisions hereinafter set forth, the following terms shall
have the following meanings:
(a)   Preferred Domestic Bid means a bid offering goods manufactured in
Kenya if the bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and


﻿22
the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value added in
Kenya of not less than 20% of the ex-factory bid price.
(b)   Non-preferred Domestic Bid means any other bid offering goods
manufactured in Kenya.
(c)   Foreign Bid means any bid other than those specified in (a) or (b)
above.
3.    For goods included in Categories I and II of the table set out in paragraph
I of Schedule I to this Agreement, a margin of preference may be granted by
the Borrower to Preferred Domestic Bids. Such preference shall be granted by
adding to each Foreign Bid, for the purpose only of comparison with Preferred
Domestic Bids, an amount (hereinafter called "Domestic Preference Margin") equal
to the smaller of (i) the amount of customs duties and other import taxes which
a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the goods offered in the bid, or
(ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods.
4.    If Preferred Domestic Bids are received, the comparison among all evaluated
bids for each contract shall be made in the stages and with the preferences indicated
below:
Stage                     Bids to be Compared                     Preference
I.         All Preferred Domestic Bids and Non-preferred        None
Domestic Bids.
II.        (a)  Lowest evaluated bid under Stage 1, if           Add Domestic
Preferred Domestic Bid, with all Foreign        Preference
Bids;                                           Margin to
Foreign Bids
or
(b)  Lowest evaluated bid under Stage I, if           None
Non-preferred Domestic Bid, with all
Foreign Bids.
III.       If lowest evaluated bid under Stage II is not        None
the lowest evaluated bid under Stage 1, all
Foreign Bids.
5.    The bidding documents shall clearly indicate any preference which will be
granted to Preferred Domestic Bids, the information required to establish the


﻿23
eligibility of a bid for such preference and the methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give effect to such preference.
D.    Preferences for Domestic Civil Works Contractors
1.    With respect to any contract for civil works included under Category I of
the table set forth in Schedule 1 to the Credit Agreement, the Borrower may
grant a margin of preference to domestic contractors, as determined by the
Borrower, in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   Contractors shall be required to prequalify. Applicants applying for
preference shall be asked to provide such information, including details of
ownership, as the Borrower shall require to determine whether according to the
Borrower's established classification a particular firm or group of firms qualifies
for a domestic preference.
(b)   The bidding documents shall clearly indicate any preference which will
be granted and the method that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison
of bids to give effect to such preference.
(c)   After bids have been received and reviewed by the Borrower, responsive
bids will be classified into the following groups:
(i)   bids offered by domestic contractors eligible for preference; and
(ii)  bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount equal to 7-1/2%
of the bid amount shall be added to bids received under group (ii) above.


