Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 21853
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-2378-BUR)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 11 MILLION (US$15 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
BURKINA FASO
FORA
PUBLIC INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 29, 2001
Public Sector Reform and Capacity Building Unit
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed
without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  =   CFA Francs
US$1   =   739 CFA Francs
CFA Franc I       US$0.0013
Appraisal, March 1992  US$1      272 CFA Francs
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCEAO   -    Central Bank of the West African Monetary Union
CAS       -    Country Assistance Strategy
EDI       -    Economic Development Institute
ENAM    -   National School of Administration and Justice
ENAREF  -    Ministry of Finance Training Institute
INSD      -   National Institute of Statistics and Demography
PFP       -    Policy Framework Paper
PIDP      -    Public Institutional Development Project
PRSP      -    Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
SAC       -    Structural Adjustment Credit
SAR       -    Staff Appraisal Report
SDA       -    Social Dimension of Adjustment
SYDONIA -    Customs Computerized Management System
SYGASPE -    Civil Service and Payroll Management System and Database
Vice President    Callisto Madavo
Country Manager/Director    Hasan Tuluy
Sector Manager    Brian Levy
Task Team Leader    Catherine Laurent



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BURKINA FASO
PUBLIC INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                             1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                            1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry  2
4. Achievement of Objectives and Outputs                                    6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                      10
6. Sustainability                                                          11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                           12
8. Lessons Learned                                                         15
9. Partner Comments                                                        17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                       18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                       21
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                       22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                       23
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components       24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                          25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                      26
This docurnent has a restricted distribution  and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be othervise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






1
Project ID:  P000301                Project Name: Public Institutional Development
Team Leader: Catherine Laurent      TL Unit:     AFTI2
ICR Type:    Core ICR               Report Date: May 29, 2001
1. Project Data
Name:  Public Institutional                 Credit IDA-2378-BUR
Development                       Number:
Country/Department: BURKINA FASO                       Region: Africa Regional
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ O ffi ce
Sector/Subsector: BI - Institutional Development
Key Dates
-::  i . ::                          ~~~~~~~~~Original --- Revised/Actual
PCD:  N/A                           Effective: 09/28/92        03/22/93
Appraisal:  11/04/91                       MTR: 10/94              06/96
Approval:  06/04/92                      Closing: 03/22/97         12/31/00
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOVT. OF BURKINA FASO / Ministry of Civil
Service/Prime Minister's Office
Other Partners: ___________________________
STAFF                      Current                   At Appraisal
Vice President:             Callisto Madavo             Edward V.K. Jaycox
Country Manager:            Hasan Tuluy                 Katherine Marshall
Sector Manager:             Brian Levy                  Mamadou Dia
Team Leader at ICR:         Catherine Laurent           Joseph Ingram
ICR Primary Author:         Jerome Chevallier
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L-Likely, UN=Unlikely,
HUN=Highly Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome:   S
Sustainability:   L
Institutional Development Impact:   SU
Bank Performance:   U
Borrower Performance:   S
QAG (if a-vailable)           ICR
Quality at Entry:                             S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Y



2
3. Assessment of Development Objectives and Design and Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Burkina Faso is one of the poorest countries in the world. Its economy is heavily
dependent on agriculture. In the 1980s, economic growth was fueled by a large, but
unsustainable, expansion in public consumption and investment, as a result of a socialist
orientation of the Government. Increased macroeconomic imbalances led Burkina Faso
to seek the help of the Bretton Woods institutions. A Policy Framework Paper (PFP) was
agreed in 1991 and the Bank extended a first Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC 1) in
June 1991. The objectives of the credit were to improve public resource management
and create incentives for private sector development. Two technical assistance projects
were designed to help the Government carry out its reform program, the project under
review and the Private Sector Development Project approved in March 1993.
The objective of the Public Institutional Development Project (PIDP) project was to
support the development of Burkina Faso's major public institutions for economic and
sector management. The project was designed to help the Government implement its
program aimed at transforming key public institutions, the laws supporting them and the
personnel staffing them by improving: (i) information; (ii) budget management and
programming; (iii) public procurement; (iv) civil service performance; and (v) the
judiciary system. Parts of this program were already underway or being considered for
support through coordinated financing from a number of bilateral and multilateral donors.
The objective of the project was consistent with the economic reform program
supported by SAC 1, emphasizing the transformation of the economy from state control
to market forces. Inplementation of the reform program required profound changes in
the role of public administration. In October 1991, the Government adopted a strategy
and program for the modernization of its public administration. The main components of
the program included (i) creating an institutional framework conducive to more efficient
public administration; (ii) improving the management of the civil service; and (iii)
modernizing the management of central and local government finances through a
progressive decentralization of administrative functions. The objective of the project was
considered essential for the success of the Government's economic reform program. It
was fully consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), which aimed, inter
alia, at helping the Government improve the management of its public sector.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The objective of the project was not revised, but over time, the emphasis was
increasingly put on the development of tools for improving economic management,
including budget administration and data collection.



3
3.3 Original Components:
The project consisted of selected activities which were part of the larger
Government program for the modernization of its public administration, over a- four-year
period. The project included six inter-related components in the areas of information and
data management, budget management, public procurement, civil service management,
legal and judicial system, and public information.
Information and Data Management
The collection and analysis of economic and financial data were seriously deficient.
Major donors were providing assistance in this area, and IDA's contribution was a minor
one, at about 10 percent of the total.
Under this component, the project was to support the transformation of the National
Institute of Statistics and Demography (INSD) into an independent institution providing
statistical services. More specifically, the project included (i) the establishment of a
National Statistics Committee to design and monitor a long-term strategy and work
program for data collection and analysis; (ii) a comprehensive audit of INSD; (iii) a series
of economic and poverty-focussed studies on the social dimension of adjustment (SDA);
and (iv) the design and implementation of a training program.
Budget Management
There were serious weaknesses in budgetary management, including insufficient
operational and management control and lack of strategic planning. The project was to
support (i) the preparation of a unified information management system for the Ministry
of Finance; (ii) the monitoring of the public investment budget; and (iii) the audit of the
public expenditure cycle. The audit was expected to lead to the strengthening of three
critical functions, including financial control by the Financial Control Department in the
Ministry of Finance, auditing by the Inspector General of Finance, and public accounting.
Customs services were also to be strengthened through computerization and training.
This component was designed in close cooperation with the French Government, which
was providing the bulk of assistance.
Public Procurement Reform
The public procurement system was far from operating satisfactorily, with
overlapping of regulations, duplication of functions, and inadequate training of agents.
The project was to support (i) the revision and consolidation of regulations; (ii) the
dissemination of good practices; and (iii) the training of staff.
Civil Service Reform
Despite a relatively modest size (about 34,000 employees), the civil service
accounted for 64 percent of current expenditures in 1990. Tools for managing the civil



4
service were lacking. Promotions were based on seniority, not on merit. Under its
reform program the Government sought to contain the wage bill, while improving the
efficiency of the civil service through better incentives and staff training. The project
was to support: (i) improved management of the civil service through a civil service
census, the revision of the civil service wages and remuneration system, and wage
planning and forecasting; (ii) a series of training seminars and a study to review initial
training for the civil service; and (iii) pilot actions, patterned after the experience of
quality control circles, to improve productivity in four public institutions.
Legal and Judicial Reforms
The legal and judicial system had been undermined by the revolutionary fervor of
the 1980s, and was in need of complete rebuilding. In close coordination with French
bilateral assistance, the project supported a number of activities to help in the areas of
judicial strengthening and legislation reform. In the first area, the project included: (i) a
study to determine the necessary legal and institutional framework required by
arbitration, technology to ensure the production, safe storage of all court decisions and
their ready availability and communication; (ii) upgrading of the Supreme Court's library
facilities; (iii) the rehabilitation and modernization of facilities for preparing the Official
Journal; and (iv) the training of magistrate and members of paralegal professions.
In the area of legislation reform, the project included: (i) technical assistance and
equipment for the sub-committee of the Law Revision Committee in charge of revising
the commercial code; (ii) the preparation of reforms to the mining code and related-
legislation concerning land-tenure; (iii) and the training of two lawyers and two
economists expected to work with foreign experts in preparing the new legislation.
A number of prior actions were agreed upon in the framework of this component.
Four conditions of credit effectiveness provided for: (i) the establishment of a legislative
drafting division in the Ministry of Justice to advise ministries in preparing legislation;
(ii) the establishment of the sub-committee in charge of revising the commercial code;
(iii) the abrogation of the law which created the revolutionary tribunals in the 1980s; and
(iv) the creation of separate commercial courts in Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso, the
two main cities.
Four conditions of disbursement for the legal and judicial component provided for:
(i) the completion of the processing by the Bar Association of the backlog of outstanding
applications for admission to the Bar; (ii) the appointment of a librarian for the Supreme
Court; (iii) the adoption of legislation pertaining to the training of attorneys and
magistrates and the reinstating of notaries and legal clerks; and (iv) the submission of a
training program for magistrates and attorneys.
Public Information on Economic Policy
The project supported the travel and subsistence costs of about 36 journalists
selected to attend courses developed by the Economic Development Institute (EDI) of the



5
Bank and the Central Bank of the West African Monetary Union (BCEAO) for
journalists in the, sub-region.
3.4 Revised Components:
The design of the project was revised during implementation, but not formally so.
Project activities were adjusted in an incremental way, with increased emphasis put on
improving budget management and statistics, which eventually became the two key
components of the project.
3.5  Quality at Entry:
The project was critical for the success of the first adjustment program after years
of socialist orientation. It was developed in close consultation with the departments
concerned and the donors involved in public administration reform. It was part of a
larger government program discussed with key stakeholders in the country. It was fully
in line with the CAS.
The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) indicated that lessons from experience had led
to adopting four principles in designing the project. These principles included: (i) taking
into account the changing role of the State in the context of an economic and political
liberalization program and its impact on the function and form of administration; (ii)
critically examining the concepts underlying existing or proposed public sector
institutions; (iii) excluding from the project what cannot be carried out and managed by
the administration itself; and (iv) setting a definite timeframe for project activities within
a clearly defined conceptual framework.
The project components, as designed, were all important for the implementation of
the reform program. The design of the project was too complex, however, particularly in
view of the limited capacity of the Government. The involvement of several donors in
most components was a complicating factor. Drawing on Bank-wide experience, no
project implementation unit was created. Instead, a coordinator was designated for each
component.   Overall responsibility for program  and project coordination and
management was entrusted to the Ministry of Civil Service. This decision proved to be a
mistake, given the poor capacity of this ministry. A detailed implementation manual was
prepared, but was not put to good use by the executing agencies. There were too many
special conditions for credit effectiveness, all of them, with the exception of the standard
ones dealing with financial management and auditing, related to the legal and judicial
component. These conditions were not essential for ensuring a satisfactory framework
for project implementation and contributed to unwarranted delays in declaring the credit
effective.
The benefits of the project were cast in general terms and are difficult to measure.
No attempt was made to define performance indicators. Two risks associated with
project implementation were considered, namely the possible weakening of the
Government's commitment to reform and the Government's limited capacity to manage



6
and implement an ambitious and innovative program. The support given to the reform
program by all political parties, including those in the opposition, and the Government's
strong commitment for building a national capacity were considered positive factors.
The analysis on the government commitment to reform was insufficient, however.
Political parties may give their overall support to a reform program, and at the same time
fight measures likely to hurt their constituencies. The overwhelming influence of trade
unions in Burkina Faso's politics was underestimated. To address the second risk, the
best approach would have consisted in simplifying the project design. Also, if an
institutional assessment of the Ministry of Civil Service had been carried out, it is likely
that other project implementation arrangements would have been proposed.
Using today's standards, the quality at entry of the project would be rated
unsatisfactory. Ten years ago, however, when the project was prepared, the quality at
entry would have been assessed as acceptable. The project was a key element for
ensuring the success of the Government's reform program. It was prepared in great
detail, and in close coordination with internal and external stakeholders. Finally, it was
one of the first PSM projects to have a vision of future public finance accountability
requirements, for instance for the HIPC initiative or the future PRSCs. Considerable
technical work had been invested in the design and implementation arrangements of each
component.
4. Achievement of Objectives and Outputs
4. 1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project was designed to help Burkina Faso build up its major public
institutions responsible for economic and sector management. While the project did not
address weaknesses in technical ministries, it contributed to a significant development of
capacities in the Ministry of Finance, the Statistics Office, and to a lesser degree, the
Ministry of Civil Service, and the legal professions.
The project helped the Government implement its adjustment program, particularly
in the field of public finance management. The capacity to prepare and manage the
budget has been considerably strengthened. The tax system has been rationalized and
modernized. The quality of public expenditure has improved. The reduction of the share
of the wage bill in total expenditure allowed the Government to increase expenditures for
priority sectors, such as education, health and infrastructure maintenance.
The project also helped the Government build up a good data base on poverty
issues. The surveys conducted in 1994 and 1998 with project support provided a solid
understanding of the nature and determinants of poverty. The results of these surveys
were used by the Government to launch a highly participatory process leading to the
preparation of sector strategy papers, which were eventually consolidated into the
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) for 2000-2003. The PRSP is considered a best
practice.



7
The project helped Burkina Faso prepare a far-reaching reform of its civil service,
which was approved by Parliament in April 1998. The reform provides for a two-tier
civil service, including a small core of permanent civil servants and a large number of
contractual staff The first tier would consist of personnel dealing with policy issues and
sovereignty functions. Staff involved in program implementation, such as teachers or
nurses, would form the second tier. By introducing more flexibility in the management
of different categories of personnel and a widening of salary scales, this change is
expected to remove a major constraint to increasing the delivery of basic services. The
civil service reform also provides for a merit-based promotion system. Because of
staunch opposition from trade unions, however, implementing decrees of the 1998 law
have not been enacted and the reform is not yet effective.
The project was instrumental in rebuilding a cadre of magistrates, lawyers and
other legal and para-legal professionals after the disruptions caused by the popular system
of justice introduced by the Government in the early. 1980s. Progress has been made in
this area, but much remains to be done to improve the efficiency of the judiciary system.
The operating budget of the Ministry of Justice is far below the minimum required and
much lower than the budget of ministries with an equivalent wage bill size, such as Youth
and Sports or Communications.
The outcome of the project is rated satisfactory. Without support from the project,
Burkina Faso would have been unable to implement its reform program, improve the
management of its budget and formulate a realistic poverty-reduction strategy. The
outcome of the two components, which became the major focus of attention during
project implementation, budget management and statistics, is fully satisfactory.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Information and Data Management
The establishment of a framework conducive to an improved performance of the
INSD, the Statistics Office, was considerably delayed. The audit of INSD was carried
out in 1993-94 and led to structural changes to improve.efficiency. A law on statistics
was enacted in November 1996 and the National Statistics Committee was created in
September 1997 to define a long-term strategy and monitor implementation of work
programs by INSD. There were further delays in appointing members of the Committee,
which became operational in late 1999. INSD has remained a weak institution, plagued
with brain-drain problems: statisticians well trained under the project have left for the
BCEAO and the WAEMU.
Two priority household surveys were conducted in 1992-95 and in 1997-99. A
poverty profile was prepared in 1995.  Results of these exercises were widely
disseminated through a number of workshops. The work done with project support has
allowed poverty outcomes to be measured and has contributed to a better understanding
of the relationship between poverty and key determinants, such as geography, family



8
composition, gender and occupation. The availability of data over a five-year period has
been invaluable for analyzing poverty trends.
The project supported the establishment of a price monitoring system in all regions
of the country. Data are published regularly.
The formulation of a comprehensive training program in data collection and
analysis is underway. Seminars were conducted to train agents in data processing, survey
management and household living conditions.
The Information and Data Management component is rated satisfactory for the
work done on poverty, but unsatisfactory as regards the institution building aspect of the
project.
Budget Management
The budget nomenclature was revised in 1993 and an audit of the budget
expenditure process was completed in 1994. An integrated financial management system
was initiated for budget expenditure. Investment budget and debt management were also
computerized but they still have to be connected to the overall system. Financial
directorates in all ministries were connected to the Ministry of Finance. Equipment and
extensive training of staff and technical assistance, both national and international, were
provided to make the system work. A computerized system was developed to manage
the wage bill and was connected to the main financial management system in August
1999. The Treasury also created a comprehensive computerized accounting system,
including its regional offices. Its archives were sorted, thus allowing for submission of
budget execution reports to Parliament beginning with the 1993 budget. The connection
by optic fiber of all offices involved, throughout the city of Ouagadougou, was completed
in May 2000. Finally, the Finance Controller's office was strengthened, and later (1998),
de-concentrated to some line ministries (social sectors) and in the regions. Burkina Faso
is one of the few African countries with up-to-date budget and treasury management
instruments in place.
A large training program was implemented for all staff to use the new systems.
Computer engineers' skills were upgraded so dramatically that computer units in Finance
and civil service ministries suffered from brain-drain. Customs agents were trained in the
use of SYDONIA, a computer program for the management of customs duties. About
500 agents were trained in public accounting, and a number of other public servants in
accounting and budgetary procedures. The training center of the Ministry of Finance
(ENAREF) received computer equipment and pedagogical materials.
A building for the Tax Directorate was financed under the project. Works were
recently completed after considerable delays.
The budget management component is rated highly satisfactory.



9
Public Procurement Reform
In 1993 a Committee was established to revise and consolidate procurement
regulations. A new set of regulations was enacted in 1996 to reform procurement.
Seminars and workshops were organized to train procurement officers and disseminate
the new regulations. A user guide was prepared. In spite of these efforts, much remains
to be done to systematically train the staff responsible for procurement in technical
ministries and local governments. The pervasive lack of training is a major constraint to
the implementation of the new regulations. A reform program was envisaged to
empower line ministries and regional offices, and to unify the current dual system
(national budget/external financing) for contract awarding, but was not implemented. A
recently completed CPAR (November 2000) concluded that procedures are still highly
centralized, and the decision-making process is cumbersome and not transparent enough.
The CPAR has proposed further reforms which have yet to be agreed upon with the
Government.
The public procurement component is rated unsatisfactory.
Civil Service Management
The project supported the preparation of the civil service reform. A central roster
was established in 1991-92. A census was conducted in 1994-96. Studies on salaries
were prepared. Organizational audits were carried out in all ministries. A database for
civil servants (SYGASPE) was created and is to be completed shortly. It will be
managed jointly by the Ministry of Civil Service (personnel and career management), and
the Ministry of Finance (payroll). Sensitization seminars for the reform were conducted.
A large training program for human resource personnel was implemented. Human
resource management units were created in all line ministries to delegate the current
centralized management by the Ministry of Civil Service to the line ministries. When this
de-concentration is enacted, the latter will also be connected to SIGASPE. The National
School of Administration (ENAM) received support under the project. It was audited and
its programs were adjusted as a consequence. It also received computer equipment.
As indicated above, the civil service reform law of April 1998 is not yet effective.
Implementing decrees have not yet been approved, and the assessment of staff
performance has not yet been introduced, in spite of a large information campaign of civil
servants, because of strong opposition from the unions.
Pilot programs were implemented to introduce the concept of quality control circles
in four public institutions, the two social security agencies, the Yalgado national hospital
in Ouagadougou and the Tax Directorate. Seminars have been conducted. A Permanent
Secretariat was established and received equipment under the project. A training center
was built and equipped with project support. Its operating expenses are covered by
trainee's fees and a Japanese contribution.



10
The civil service component of the project is rated satisfactory for the
improvements made in human resource management across ministries and for the
development of the reform, but unsatisfactory for its implementation.
Legal and Judicial Reforms
The project supported a large training program. The initial training of magistrates
was reinstated and 44 students graduated from ENAM from 1993 to 1996. A total of 29
attorneys were trained during the same period. A total of 13 training seminars were
organized during the period 1995-1999' for members of the legal and para-legal
professions. The central library on legal issues was rehabilitated and re-equipped. A
national forum on justice was held in 1998 with project support. The mining code and
the land tenure law have been revised. Some equipment was also provided to courts.
Finally, the Official Journal was stored electronically and is now published on a regular
basis. In spite of these improvements, however, the judiciary system does not operate
satisfactorily, and is a major constraint.to private sector development. It continues to
suffer from: (i) limited independence, integrity and professionalism; (ii) inadequate
access to, and delivery of, quality legal and judicial services; (iii) poor accountability and
transparency; and (iv) inadequate resource allocation and management.
The legal and judicial reform component is rated unsatisfactory.
Communication of Economic Policy
The project supported training courses for journalists in basic economics and
adjustment organized by the Economi'c Development Institute of the Bank and the
Central Bank for the West African Monetary Union.
The component is rated satisfactory.
Institutional Development Impact
The project has made a substantial contribution to the building up of capacity in
the central government institutions responsible for the management of the adjustment
program.  The project supported the development of a transparent computerized
expenditure and monitoring system and the strengthening of revenue collection systems.
The project was instrumental'in establishing a strong national capacity for analyzing and
understanding poverty issues. The project helped put in place the basic tools for an
improved management of human resources in all ministries and the legal framework for
civil service reform. The project also helped the judiciary make some initial steps on the
road to recovery after its demise in the 1980s, but budget allocations to the judiciary have
continued to be less than adequate, with detrimental impact on the efficiency and morale
of the staff. The institutional development impact is rated satisfactory.



11
5.   Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5. 1  Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The devaluation of the CFA franc in January 1994 gave a strong impetus to the
reform program. It re-established economic growth, which averaged 5 percent per annum
in the second half of the 1990s. The new economic environment facilitated much needed
reforms supported by the project. The devaluation contributed also to an increase in the
amount of the IDA credit expressed in local currency, allowing for additional activities to
be carried out.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The Government was not sufficiently committed to the civil service and judiciary
reforms. The project provided support to technical development of these reforms, which
remain to be fully implemented.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The Ministry of Civil Service proved unable to fulfill its coordination
responsibilities in the early years of project implementation. Project management was
chaotic until 1996. The 1995 audit report conclusions led to a freeze on project activities
from October 1996 to July 1997. It was then agreed with the Bank that overall project
coordination would be transferred to the Prime Minister's Office.
In March 1997, a project coordinating unit was created within the Prime Minister's
Office, under the authority of the Secretary General, and project implementation has
dramatically improved thereafter.  The unit was effective in the recruitment of
consultants and the management of project resources. It closely monitored project
activities and produced progress reports on time.
5.4 Costs and financing:
The 1994 CFAF devaluation (50 percent) explains some of the cost variations. For
instance, expenditures for training were much lower than originally estimated, despite the
great number of training activities carried out under the project. Cost for works was
further lowered by out-contracting for the building of the Tax General Directorate to the
national public works implementing agency, Faso-Baara. The project supported the
acquisition of a larger number of computers and of more related equipment than initially
planned, because of greater demand triggered by the success of all computerized
management systems.
Disbursements were extremely slow in the early years of project implementation.
At the end of 1994, 20 percent of the amount expected to be disbursed by that date was
actually disbursed. By the original closing date of March 31, 1997, only about 37 percent



12
of the credit had been disbursed. The closing date was extended three times to December
31, 2000. Poor project management until 1997 accounts for these delays.
IDA financing was in the amount of US$15 million or 88 percent of project
estimated costs. The amount disbursed under the Credit is US$14.3 million (92.5
percent). The Government's contribution is estimated at US$1.6 million.  Project
financial management became satisfactory in 1997 after ineligible expenditures were
reimbursed to the Bank. Audits were carried out in a timely fashion, and auditors'
recommendations were implemented. The final audit has been completed.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating.
The sustainability of reforms implemented with support from the project is likely.
Reforms took a long time to prepare, in part because of the participatory process
involved. Once approved, however, reforms take hold in Burkina Faso, and it is unlikely
that a new government would backtrack on reforms implemented with project support.
The improvement in budget management, which became the most important project
component during the course of project implementation, has been fully internalized. On
the other hand, strong opposition from the unions has blocked implementation of the far-
reaching civil service reform adopted by Parliament in 1998.
The sustainability of changes introduced with project support hinges on the ability
of ministries and agencies concerned to continue strengthening the qualifications of their
staff and upgrading their equipment. Without external support, government agencies
have difficulty providing adequate funding for in-service training and for maintaining and
replacing the large number of computer equipment provided under the project. By
avoiding the financing of operating expenditures, however, the project has contributed to
ensuring that allocations are made in the recurrent budget to meet them. Renewal of
equipment financed under the project needs to be fully taken into account in preparing the
budget, with the expectation that it would be funded by both internal and external
resources under a programmatic approach, currently discussed with the borrower.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The improved budget management system is operating satisfactorily and has
enabled Burkina Faso to make solid progress in mobilizing revenues and allocating
resources. The new system has allowed the Government to prepare a medium-term
expenditure framework for 2001-03 and to take steps for introducing a programmatic
mode of support in close coordination with its external partners. The National Statistics
Institute is still in need of strengthening. Donor support is and will continue to be
available for that purpose. The reform of the civil service has been prepared, but not
implemented because of opposition from the unions. Its implementation should now be
pursued on a sector basis, starting with education, which employs more than half of all
civil servants. Further international support from the European Union, combined with



1 3
increased internal funding for the judiciary, is already in place for the justice system,
which remains a major constraint to private sector development.
7.   Bank and Borrower Performance
Project implementation went through two different phases.  The first phase was
characterized by poor management in-country and poor supervision by the Bank. The
restructuring of project implementation arrangements in 1997 led to a second phase,
which was characterized, on the contrary, by good management and adequate
supervision.
Bank.
7. 1 Lending:
Benefits of the project were described in general terms.  They included (i)
improved management of information and the budgetary process in priority sectors; (ii)
more effective management of the civil service; (iii) a transparent and more efficient
public procurement system; (iv) a legal framework giving confidence to private investors;
and (v) increased public understanding of economic policy and reform. The appraisal
report did not provide performance indicators for measuring achievement of project
objectives.
The Bank's performance during project identification, preparation and appraisal is
rated marginally satisfactory. The project was clearly needed to support the changing
role of the State in an adjustment process. It was consistent with the reform program
adopted by the Government and with the Bank strategy. Its components were important
for the successful implementation of the adjustment program. It was designed in close
coordination with other donors, which ensured that major aspects of the far-
encompassing government program were covered. The design of each donor contribution
was not optimal, however. All key donors were involved in all key components, making
it difficult for the Government to cope with different procedures. A division of labor
among donors, with each one taking responsibility for a component, would have resulted
in an easier-to-manage program for the Government. As designed, the project was
complex, and prone to implementation difficulties and delays. Detailed implementation
schedules and terms of reference for consultants were prepared, but the implementing
agency's capacity to implement the project was not adequately assessed.. The major flaw
in designing the project was to entrust the Ministry in charge of the civil service with the
responsibility for overall project coordination and administration, even though its past
performance had been considered inadequate and the bulk of project activities was not
within its mandate. Performance indicators were not formulated, and the way the lessons
from experience had been taken into account in designing the project was not particularly
convincing. The risk analysis was not adequate.



14
7.2 Supervision:
As indicated in the SAR, successful project implementation required systematic
and adequate Bank supervision. In the early years of project implementation,.however,
the supervision was neither systematic, nor adequate. The project was approved in June
1992. The first substantive supervision mission took place in April 1993. A previous
mission by a represent 4tive of the Legal Department visited Burkina Faso in December
1992, but its focus was limited to reviewing progress in meeting credit effectiveness
conditions.
Short technical missions took place in 1993 and 1994 to review progress under the
procurement, statistics and budget management components. A mission in May 1994 by
the budget management specialist reported considerable delays in procurement. It also
indicated that no accounting system was in place. An accounting and an audit firm had
been selected, but their contracts had not been signed. The project was subsequently
rated unsatisfactory for both implementation progress and development objective. A
mid-term  review  took place in June 1996.  The mission reported that project
implementation was totally unacceptable. In its follow-up letter, the Bank indicated to
the Government that it would not act on its disbursement requests as long as: (i) accounts
were not revised and updated, (ii) adjustments were not made to the special account, (iii)
a complete assessment of activities was not completed, and (iv) a concrete proposal on
project coordination was not made.
In March 1997, the project was restructured and the closing date of the credit was
extended by 18 months. As conditions for credit extension, (i) a 12-month work program
was approved; (ii) the Government transferred the responsibility for overall project
coordination to the Secretary General in the Prime Minister's office and appointed a
manager and a procurement officer; and (iii) the Government reimbursed an amount of
about CFAF 122 million to the special account for ineligible expenditures, in line with
the assessment made in the audit for the 1995 accounts. Supervision missions visited
Burkina Faso regularly and were particularly helpful in ensuring a satisfactory
implementation of the work program. The resident mission played a critical role in
ensuring that progress was made under the project.
The formal restructuring of the project was mostly concerned with project
implementation arrangements. There was no formal agreement between the Borrower
and the Bank on changing the project emphasis from a broad effort at institution reform
to a more narrow focus on public finance management and data collection. This de-facto
restructuring was reflected only in the change of disbursement categories allocations. The
change in project focus should have been better documented.
Bank supervision is rated unsatisfactory.



15
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, Bank performance is rated unsatisfactory. The project was critical for the
success of the Government's adjustment program, but the implementation arrangements
were not appropriate. Supervision in the early years was highly inadequate. Corrective
actions were taken, but only in 1996-97, which eventually led to the salvaging of the
project. The decision to extend the closing date of the credit in March 1997 was a
difficult one to make. It proved appropriate, however, as it enabled the Government to
make a fresh start and complete a number of activities that were crucial for its reform
program. The changes in project emphasis were not adequately documented.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The performance of the Borrower in preparing its program of administrative reform
is rated satisfactory. The Government program was a systematic effort to identify
institutional weaknesses and define activities in a coherent and complementary manner
around a common set of objectives. The Government was successful in mobilizing donor
support for the full financing of its program.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The performance of the Borrower in the overall implementation of the project was
highly unsatisfactory, until corrective measures were taken in late 1996-early 1997.
Performance was satisfactory thereafter, in spite of delays in implementing the revised
work program. The performance of individual ministries and agencies concerned. with
the project was uneven. The performance of the Ministry of Finance in establishing new
budget and Treasury management systems was highly satisfactory. Burkina Faso is now
one of the most advanced countries in Africa in that respect. The performance of the
Statistics Office has been satisfactory overall, though institution building was not given
sufficient attention. The performance of the Ministry of Justice was inadequate because
of slow progress in improving the performance of the judiciary, after a good start in re-
establishing the foundations of a typical system following its destruction in previous
years. The performance of the Ministry of Civil Service has been highly unsatisfactory in
its project coordination role. It was satisfactory in the design of the civil service reform,
but unsatisfactory in promoting the reform of the civil service among civil servants and,
more generally, the public opinion at large, which could have built consensus and
allowed its implementation.



16
7.6 Implementing Agency:
As indicated above, the performance of the agency in charge of overall project
coordination and management was highly unsatisfactory until that responsibility was
transferred to the Prime Minister's office in early 1997. The performance of the new
project unit was satisfactory. The revised work program was implemented, albeit with
some delays. The project unit kept good records of project implementation and prepared
a comprehensive completion report.
7.7 Overall Borrower Performance:
The overall performance of the Borrower is rated satisfactory, in spite of the serious
problems encountered during the early years of project implementation. Excellent
progress has been made in budget management and in poverty analysis.
8.   Lessons learned
*  Critical public sector reforms are possible in a politically fragile environment.
The public finance reform was internalized because there was a consensus that
without improved budget management, government activities would simply grind to a
halt. On the other hand, the sensitive civil service reform, which was well prepared
and disseminated among high level civil servants, has not yet been implemented,
because of the time needed for a major change in mentalities. The procurement
reform was only partially carried out because of entrenched interests and reluctance to
reorganize ministries.
*  institutional development is uncertain, takes time and requires a sustained and
skilled engagement on the part of both the Government and the Bank. The
lesson here is that consistency, patience and flexibility are required for success in this
area. Opportunities for changes during the project implementation should be seized
when they arise.
*  Information technology can be successfully introduced in a poorly developed
human resource environment. In the Burkina Faso case, this was achieved because
a local team received consistent support from a member of the Bank team. Excellent
external assistance, close attention to technology transfer from   international
consultants, and a good training program for all potential users were key ingredients
in the success of the programs.
*  Training may have negative as well as positive effects on capacity building.
Computer training throughout the administration was successful. On the other hand,
since incentives in public administration were not adequate, highly specialized
training led to a brain drain, as was the case for statisticians and computer engineers.



17
*  Minimizing the financing of recurrent costs under the credit is important for
project sustainability. The consistent approach taken by the Bank in that respect has
helped the Government take early responsibility for meeting operating costs of
institutions supported by the project.
*  It is important that all donors support a key program  of institutional
development such as the one under review. However, instead of having each
component of the program financed by several donors, as was done under the project,
it is better to give the most influential donors a leadership role in a specific area of the
national program.
9.   Partner Comments
a) Borrower/Implementing Agency
On the design of the project, the Borrower underlines as positive: (i) the support to public
sector modernization; (ii) the broad consultations; and (iii) flexibility during
implementation allowing for re-programmation when needed. The negative aspects are:
(i) the limited number of agencies involved; and (ii) the burden of recurrent costs on the
national counterpart. On the impact of the project, the Borrower's ratings are: (i) for the
information and data management component, notable; (ii) for the public finance
component, highly satisfactory; (iii) for the civil service, positive; (iv) for the judiciary,
significant.
On the Bank's performance, the Borrower mentions some weaknesses: (i) disbursement
procedures slowing the activities; (ii) the ban on hiring civil servants as short term
consultants; (iii) slow reaction from the Bank, notably on procurement. On its own
performance, the Borrower puts the stress on the second phase of implementation, rated
satisfactory, including the quality of dialogue and interaction with the Bank, whereas the
first phase is rated unsatisfactory. It acknowledges weaknesses on the part of government
agencies (Customs directorate, Cooperation Directorate) that were active counterparts of
the project management unit. Finally, the Borrower rates the technical assistance from
consultants as excellent, whereas they encountered some difficulties with their goods
providers, mainly in terms of delays.
b) Co-financiers
None.
c) Other Partners
Not applicable to this project.



18
Annex 1: Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
X ;;  Components/Objectives WLE Q......Outputs.  ..  C          Outcomempact_ -
lmprove information and data
management
Strengthen the National Statistics  Creation of a national statistics    Better coordination of statistics
Institute.                    committee in 1997, installed end   demand within the government
of 1999.                      and the donor conununity is
expected, not yet effective.
Training of statisticians.    Better quality and reliability of
Computer equipment            statistics supply.
Provide data for economic      Completed two household       PRSP rated as best practice.
management.                   surveys (poverty studies).
Monthly publication of price  Better economic monitoring and
indexes on a regional basis.  projections.
Improve Budget Management
Computerize financial         Revenue directorates (customs  Improved revenue collection.
management.                   and taxes) computerization.
Budget expenditure process    Less delays in expenditure;
computerized, including line  greater transparency at all stages.
ministries, after auditing and
reforming the expenditure
process.
Treasury management           Greater reliability and
computerized.                 transparency of public accounts.
Production of monthly balances
of accounts. Budget execution
reports to Parliament now
submitted.
Training of all staff involved in    Systems were used as soon as
budget and Treasury management they were ready:
____________ ___ _   in computer use.
Computerize payroll and civil  Computerized database, shared    Improved wage-bill control and
service files.                by the ministries of Finance and   human resources management.
of Civil Service (completed in the
Finance Ministry as of this ICR
date).
Improve budget management     Equipment and modernization of  ENAREF provides better trained
skills.                       the Training Institute of the  tax, customs and treasury
Ministry (ENAREF)             officers. It is expanding its
training activities beyond
.___________________ _  Burkina.
Improve national comptroller  Computer equipment and training  Rationalization of procedures,
performance.                   in computer use and in budget  and de-concentration of control at
management.                   the line ministries level and in
regions.
Improve Tax Directorate       New building                   Better revenue collection.
performance.                                                I



19
ConDOUentsiObjectlves                   Outputs                      Outcome/lmpact
Public Procurement Reform
Revise legislation.              New decrees adopted in 1996.     More transparent procedures.
Implement the new legislation.   Training of staff in charge of   Better practices in bidding but
procurement.                     procedures are still too
centralized and decision-making
cumbersome and not enough
transparent.
Adoption of a user's manual.     Improved transparency of
procedures.
Strengthening civil service
management
Reform civil service statutes.   Laws passed in 1998.             Legal possibility to hire
government personnel by
contract.
Improve civil service efficiency.   Merit-based promotion system.    Adopted decree, March 2000, not
enacted.
Improve civil service            Conduct a civil service census.  Updated data on personnel and
management.                                                       better wage bill accuracy.
Database shared with ministry of   Better wage bill and personnel
Finance (see supra).             management.
Study on reform of the civil     Financial sustainability
service social security.         reestablished by implementing
proposed reforms.
Training of Human resources and   De-concentration of day to day
of finance directors in all      management and of staffing
ministries.                      projections to line ministries, not
yet enacted.
Improve public service quality.    Building of a training center for    Creation of professional training
quality circles.                 supply capacity.
Introduction of quality circles in   Improved service quality in the
public services by training of   beneficiary institutions.
Social security (private sector and
civil service), Tax directorate,
National Hospital personnel.
Legal and Judicial Reforms
Provide qualified personnel to the  Initial training of 44 magistrates.   Extension ofjudiciary system,
judiciary.                                                        improved justice availability.
Initial training of 29 banisters.
Professional training of all
notaries, court ushers and clerks
of the court.
Reform commerce legislation and  Compilation of commerce          Provide legislation that
justice.                         legislation, reform of mining and   encourages foreign and national
of land tenure legislation.      private sector investment,
Creation of two courts specialized  Provide speedier justice to private
in commerce law.                 sector.



20
::t:  Components/Objectivest:t-:  -; t :00- ;0 :;iOutp uts:;  tSE; A ; E-- $0 4i    Outcome/Inipact     ::: 
Legal and Judicial Reforms
(continued)
Equipment ofjustice entities.    Provide central justice library   Improve working conditions and
with books and equipment.        availability of basic material for
justice personnel.
Office equipment, vehicles and
books for courts.
Official Journal consolidation.  Equipment of the Official Journal  Regular publication of the
offices (computers, books).      Journal.
Electronic storage of all issues  Creation of a legal and justice
since its creation.              database.
Communication of Economic
Policy
Provide journalists with basic   Training of 36 journalists.       Better coverage by the press of
skills in macro-economics.                                         adjustment programs.



21
Annex 2: Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
.,;.... y., ..... :....... ..:.:. -.:-::.:-...   :- :. :.::: :.::.....  ::::. :.::.:. : :: .......  .......-  ::-.
.....~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..     .2. ,......... .  SS  ,,..   .... .  ;...... .........    ....... . ...    ...........  '  ':.,
-- it-.-$  -- l e a _     =            5 qii1 PI. l.N'i                      = -D-"INp    -
Support to Strengthen Information &                        8.6                   9.2                107%
Budgetary Management
S pr to linprove Public Procurement                      0.102                  0.21               206%
Strengthen Civil Service Management and                    3.4                   4.6               .135%
Services
Reforms to the Legal & Judicial System                     2.8                   0.55               20%
Training of Economic Journalists                          0.09                   .02                22%
Total Baseline Cost            14071 14. .8                              97.26%
a                   9Total Proect Costs    16.96                 15.90             94.10%
Total Financing Required               16.96                 15.90              94.10%
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Apprasal Estimate (USS million equivalent)
Eei~~~flture                     P~~rocutrem ent Met4 4:
Categr                         IC            ,C                         O the- re--nM.   :   ~.F-    , .Tot; 
1. Works                         2.0                      1.70               1                        3.70
2. Goods                         3.9                      0.80              0.15                      4.95
3. Services                                                                 5.80                       5.94
4. Miscellaneous                   -                        -               0.75         1.60          2.35
Total                     5.9                      02.5              6.84         1.60        16.96
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate (US$ million equivalent)
-                                                           - .   .   zi  ?   .. .... ... .    . ,, ; . , $ p? C reme nt ? efbd:: . ? :. - :; . ,? ? ? ? ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.   . ... ...
i~ ~ ~ ~~Bn -Govt  :--E:..      >--.-           .C-oF.    s Ban  Got -  Co.     Bank     Goit    CoF.3. 
1. Works                        0.85        0                               1.68                      2.53
2. Goods                        4.49                 -    0.07               1.41                     5.97
3. Services                                                                 5.80                       5.80
4. Miscellaneous           .                                                             1.60          1.60
Total                    5.57                      0.07              8.49         1.60         15.90
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
C7omponent            Appraisal Estffmate          Actual/Latest Estimate        Percenbtge-opf Appraisal 
Bank    Govt.       CoF.      Bank       Govt.    CoF.       Bank       Govt.  |CoF
All components           15        1.6      0.30       14.3       1.6      0.29      92.5%      100%   |97%



22
Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable



23
Annex 4: Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle             No. of Persons and Speciality     Performaiice Rating
(e.g. Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)
Month/Year                                  Implementation Development
Count          Specialty       Progress          Objective
Identification/Preparation          10    PSM, CO, L, S, TE, M      N.A.           N.A.
1991
Appraisal/Negotiation               10    PSM, CO, L, S, TE, M       N.A.           N.A.
March 1992
Supervision
April 1993                   6     S, O, PSM, L               2              2
May 1994                     5     S, A, PSM, L               U              U
June 1996                    3     PSM, OA                    U              U
March 1997                   4     PSM, P, S                  U              S
March 1998                   6     PSM, E, P, S, TG           S              S
March 1998                   4     PSM, E, P                  S              S
March 1999                   2     PSM, E                     S              S
October 1999                 1     PSM                        S              S
February 2000                2     PSM, D                     S              S
May 2000                     2     PSM, 0                     S              S
ICR                                  3     PSM, O                   N.A.           N.A.
December 2000
Abbreviations:
PSM    =  Public Sector Specialist         OA    =   Operations Analyst
CO     =  Country Officer                  A     =   Auditing Specialist
L      =  Lawyer                           D      =   Disbursement Officer
S      =  Statisticial                     P     =   Procurement Specialist
TE     =  Trade Economist                  E      =   Economist
M       =  Mining Specialist               TG    =   Training Specialist
0      =  Operations Officer
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                        Actual/Latest Estimate
No. of Staff Weeks                 US$ (,0}         --
Identification/Preparation                  25                           87,500
Appraisal/Negotiation                       25                           87,500
Supervision                                120                           420,000
ICR                                         6                             21,000
Total                          216                           615,000



24
Annex 5: Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
Higlyghlhl                                                              Not
Objectives/Oututs          Satisfactory      Satisfactory     Unsatisfactoi y    Satisfactory     Applicable
Macro Policies                                          S
Sector Policies                                                                                             X
Physical                                                                                                    X
Financial                                                                                                   X
Institutional Development                               S
Environmental                                                                                               X
Social:                                                                                                     X
Poverty Reduction                                                                                          X
Gender                                                                                                     X
Other                                                                                                      x
Private Sector Development                                                                                  X
Public Sector Management                                S                                                   X
Other (specify)                                                                                             X



25
Annex 6: Ratings of Bank and Borrow Performance
S-Atisfactory:        Satisfactory      .Uus-  is actor
..............             q       itisfact        USA         r        nsatiaytor
.................'   .- "'."" .X.:;..  . .   ...................   . .. .. . .. .. .
Bank Performance:.
Lending                                   X
Supervision                                                         X
Overall                                                       X
Borrower Performance:
Preparation                                   X
Government
Implementation                                                          X
Performance
Implementing Agency                                        X
Overall                                  X



26
Annex 7: List of Supporting Documents
1.   SAR      =    Burkina Faso, PID, Report No. 1033 2-BUR.
2.   Borrower's "Rapport d'achevement du programme d'appui ei l'administration "
(November 2000) - Burkina Faso's own ICR for this project.



