Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. 10332-BUR Type: (SAR)
!NGRAM, J./ X34653 / J9 081/ AF5CO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BURKINA FASO
PUBLIC INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
VOLUME I
MAY 12, 1992
Country Operations Division
Sahelian Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution mnd may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit               =             CFA franc (CFAF)
US$1.00                     =             CFAF 272.00
CFAF I million              =             US$3,505
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: METRIC
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
This report is based on the findings of a World Bank appraisal mission which took place from
March 9 to 27, 1992 and which consisted of Messrs. Joseph K. Ingram (Principal Country
Officer and Mission Leader), Gerard Boulch (Public Sector Management Specialist), Rajen
Soopramanien (Lawyer), Bhajat Achikhache (Social Dimensions of Adjustment Specialist), Gosta
Westring, S. Zalinski, J. Gaeremynck and A. M6n6menis (Consultants). Mmes. Olga Jonas
(Country Economist), Laurence Telson (Consultant), Messrs. Hiroaki Suzuki (Public Sector
Management Speciaiist), Salomon Samen (Trade Economist), Boubacar Traore (Economist), Leo
Maraboli (Mining Specialist) also contributed to the preparation. Assistance was also provided
by Mr. Justin Baro (Public Finance Specialist in the Resident Mission). Participating jointly in
the appraisal on behalf of the UNDP were Messrs. X. L. Nguyen and L. Goreux, on behalf of
the French Ministry of Cooperation Mr. C. Colombe, and on behalf of the German Government
Mr. R. Meier. Ms. Barbara Nunherg was the lead Advisor, and Mr. Kadir Yurukoglu and Ms.
Francoise Bentchikou acted as peer reviewers. Mr. Mustapha Rouis reviewed the operation for
the Regional Front Office. Ms. Katherine Marshall is the Department Director, Mr. Emmerich
Schebeck, the Department Project Advisor. Mr. Franiois Laporte, the Department Lead
Economist and Mr. Jean-Louis Sarbib, the Managing Division Chief. Support in project costing
was also provided by Ms. Ilene Photos (Operations Analyst). Secretarial support was provided
by Mrs. Rathna Chiniah.



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB          African Development Bank
BIP           Banque Integree des Projets
CARFO         Public Service Pension Fund
CESAG         Centre Africain d'Etudes Superieures en Gestion (Dakar)
CNSS          National Social Security Fund
DAAF          Administrative and Finance Department
DCF           Financial Controller's Office
DEF           Department of Financial Execution
DEP           Research and Planning Department
DEPSI         Programming and Monitoring of Investment
DINAME        Public Procurement Office
DGAR          Director General of Administrative Reforms
DGD           Customs
DGI           Internal Revenue Department
EDI           Economic Development Institute
ENAM          National Public Administration School
ENAREF        National School for Public Finance Management
END           National Customs School
IGF           Inspector General of Finance
INSD          National Institute of Statistics and Demography
ITC           International Trade Centre
LDD           Legislative Drafting Division
MCSAR         Ministry of Civil Service and Administrative Reform
NATCAP        National Technical Cooperation Assessment and Program
ONMP          Office National de Marches Publics
PIAF          Programme Integrd d'Applications Financibres
PMU           Project Management Unit
QCC           Quality Control Circle
SISP          Systeme d'information et de suivi des projets
SOE           Statements of Expenditures
TPG           Controller General
TVA           Value Added Tax
UMOA          West African Monetary Union
UNDP          United Nations Development Program
This document has a ratricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



BURKINA FASO
PUBLIC INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Credit and Project Summary ..................  i
.. BAKGROUND                                                                 .I
Introduction .                                                                I
Overview of the Economy.                                                      2
II.   PUBLIC INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT-CONSTRAINTS AND REFORMS 3
Lessons Learned from Previous Bank Experience ................ 6
A.      Budgetary Management .........                ....................... 6
1.     Operational Control ............................. 7
2.     Management Control ............................. 9
3.     Strategic Planning ..............................  10
B.      Public Procurement ..........               .......................  12
C.      Civil Service Management .............................  14
D.      The Legal and Judicial Context .......................... 15
E.      Communication of Economic Policy ....................... 16
Hi.  THE PROJECT .......................................... 17
Objectives ........................................ 17
Summary Project Description  ........................... 17
Detailed Project Features ..............................  18
A.      Information and Data Management ........................ 18
B.      Budget Management  .........                ....................... 20
C.      Public Procurement Reform  ............................ 20
D.      Strengthening Civil Service Management .................... 23
E.      Legal and Judicial Reforms  ............................ 24
F.      Strengthening Communication of Economic Policy ....               .......... 26
G.      Rationale for IDA Involvement .......................... 27



IV.     PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING AND PROCUREMENT  ....                          .......... 27
Project Costs ..................................... 27
Financing Plan  .     ................................... 29
Procurement ...................................... 29
Disbursements  .      ................................... 31
Accounts and Audits ................................                       32
V.      PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ..............................   32
Project Management ................................  32
Annual Work Program and Reporting .........             ............. 33
VI.    BENEFITS AND RISKS  ................................    34
VII. AGREEMENTS ................................. 35
Agreements Reached  ...............................   35
Recommendation ......... ......................... 37
ANNEXES
Annex A:  Summary Program of Assistance by Major Donors to PID .38
Annex B: Project Cost Tables .40
Table 1: Project Components by Year - Base Costs .40
Table 2: Summary Accounts by Year - Base Costs (CFAF) .41
Table 3: Summary Accounts Cost Summary -
Local and Foreign (CFAF/US$) .42
Table 4: Summary Accounts by Year -
Including Contingencies (CFAF/US$) .43
Annex C:    Consultants by subcomponent    ......................  44
Annex D:   Summary Disbursement Schedule ......................  46
Annex E:    Project Supervision Schedule  ......................   47
MAP
IBRD 20660



BURKINA FASO
PUBLIC INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summar y
Borrower:           Government of Burkina Faso
Implementing
Agency:             Ministry of Civil Service and Administrative Reform
Amount:             SDR 11 million (US$15 million equivalent)
.Terms:            Standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years
Joint Cofinancing:    Government of Norway: US$0.30 million equivalent
Coordinated Financing:
UNDP: US$12 million equivalent
Government of France: US$10.7 million equivalent
Government of Germany: US$1.5 million equivalent
AfDB: US$1 million equivalent
Project
Desicription:       The central objective of the proposed project is to support the
development of the major public institutions in Burkina charged with
economic and sector management.  The project will facilitate the
implementation of the medium-term macroeconomic adjustment program
introduced in 1990. The project is a four-year time slice of a wider
government program of institutional development/technical assistance
intended to reinforce the process of economic reform and public sector
management which a number of other donors are also supporting. The
strategy to sustain institutional development in Burkina includes: (i)
ensuring adequate legislative and administrative rules in targeted
institutions; (ii) revising existing procedures and adopting new ones for
resource/budgetary use in those institutions; and (iii) beginning to build
national capacity to plan, manage, and communicate resource
management issues, through training Burkinabe, rather than through
widespread long-term technical assistance. Specifically, the project will:
(i) reinforce information and budgetary management functions in the
Administrative and Finance Departments (DAAF) and the Research and
Planning Departments (DEP) of four priority ministries (Finance, Health,
Education, and Civil Service); (ii) finance a civil service census and
introduce new procedures for civil service management and training; (iii)



i,
support an updating of Burkina's public procurement code, legislation,
and procedures; (iv) through legal, procedural reforms, and training,
assist Burkina in creating a favourable business climate with appropriate
commercial laws, judicial practices and personnel; and (v) finance the
training of Burkinabb journalists in economic journalism so as to improve
the quality of analysis and reporting of economic policy.
Estimated C=ss
USS Millions
I       6% of
Local        Foreign         Total            Forign
l__ __ __ __ ___ __ __ __ __   _Exchange
A. Infonnation and Budgetary
Managernent                       2.35           5.41           7.76             70.0
B. Prcurement Reforms               0.02           0.08           0.10             80.0
C. Civil Service Reforms            0.87           2.28           3.15             72.0
D. Lega: and Judicial Refoms        0.88           1.97           2.85             69.0
E. Traiiing of Joumalis             0.045         0.045           0.09             50.0
F. Audits                           0.02           0.06           0.08             75.0
0. PPF Refinancing                  0.00           0.75           0.75             100.0
Total Base Costs                  4.19          10.60           14.78            72.0
Physical Contingencies            0.46           0.92           1.38             67.0
Price Contingencies               0.36           0.43           0.79             54.0
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS               5.01          11.95           16.96            70.0
Financing Sources:
Corimancing
USS Millions
Local      J       Forign                Total
Government of Norway                  0.03                0.27                 0.30
IDA                                   3.38                11.68                15.06
Government of Burkina Faso            1.60                0.00                  1.60
[ T        OTALL 5.0 1J                                     11.95                16.96
ThT  i the nuncing plan for e    5                   I I.9S        part of a concered effort wi
other donors for which tmaing ha been coordinatcd. The total contribution of other donors is about USS25.2
milion, of which USS12 milion for the UNDP. US$10.7 mitlion for Franee, USSI.5 million for Gennany,
and about US$I million for the African Development Bank.



iii
IDA Fiscal Year
(USS Millions)             _     _
._   =  . .        -9R2        '993         1994    (    1995          1996
Annual          0.75    J    5.12         4.67    |    3.65          0.81
Cumuiatiiv      0.75         5.87         10.53         14.18        15.00
W    ll'h  u        disburscment profilo for TA/ID projects in Africa is about 84 uionths. For the ollowing reasons,
we expect this credit to disburse in about 48 months: (i) the SUCCCes to date in implementing SAL measures in
Burkina; (ii) the already advanced state of a number of project actions; and (iii) the special arrangements for
IDA-ftnanced procurement under the project.
Project Benefits
and Riskg:             Project benefits would be: (i) improved mana6 ment of information and
of the budgetary proc.ess thereby reinforcing the adjustment program; (ii)
more effective management of the civil service including training
responsive to financial constraints and personnel requirements and,
ultimately, improved working conditions thereby allowing the
Government to more easily retain higher quality staff; (iii) a transparent
and more efficient system of public procurement; (iv) creation of a legal
framework providing confidence to private investors; and (v) increased
public understanding of economic policy and reform through building the
capacity of local journalists and editors to analyze and report on
economic  policy  and  management.   In  addition  to  facilitating
implementation of Burkina's economic reform program, the project
would also serve as a vehicle for better coordination of technical
assistance and cooperation from the major donors. The main risks for
the project are: (i) that the political reform process to be completed by
June 1992 is delayed or produces a result which does not allow the
Government to sustain its macroeconomic reform program; and (ii) the
Government's capacity to manage institutional development operations
proves inadequate. The first risk is mitigated by the fact -that the
economic reform program is supported by virtually all of Burkina's
major political parties. Similarly, the project components entail such
basic improvements that the project would enjoy broad multipartisan
support. The Government's strong policy commitment to building up its
national manpower and institutional capacity should result in a
strengthening of its capacity to manage institutional development
operations. The Government's strategy of deconcentratii,g management
of each component to the line ministry concerned, with overall
administrative coordination to be given to the Ministry of Civil Service
and Administrative Reform (MCSAR), should minimize the complexity
of managing a multi-component operation. In addition, the project will
be implemented in accordance with well-defined work programs,
including a mid-term review, which permit flexibility and mid-course
amendments where necessary. Because of its link to the SAL, the
project will also receive close supervision from the Bank in the course



iv
of its implementation, and the SAL supervision plan will be amended to
ensure proper coordination.
Pconomic Rate
of Return:          Not applicable
Mam:                IBRD 20660



BURKINA FASO
EUJJC INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
L.BACKGROUND
Introduction
1.    The Government of Burkina Faso is implementing a structural adjustment program for
which, in June 1991 IDA approved a first SAL of SDR 60 million. The main objective of the
program is to transform the iconomy, which has been dominated by a strongly centralized and
all-encompassing public sector, into an economy which gives the primary initiative for economic
growth and development to the private sector. Though the SAL provides the policy framework
for such a transformation, it is not intended to reform institutions, thuugh it underlines the need
to do so.
2.    The Government realizes that the procedures and competence of its administration, and
the legal context in which economic activity takes place, are not adequate to switch smoothly
from a role which has focussed on centralized control and law and order, to a development role
responsive to and supportive of a liberalized economy in a more open political environment. In
May 1991, the Government presented its structural adjustment program at a Roundtable of
donors, and at the same time described initial efforts to strengthen its institutional capacity to
manage the program../  The preliminary results of a National Technical Cooperation
Assessment and Program (NATCAP) survey launched by UNDP was also presented and
concluded that (i) technical cooperation be used in the future to build national human resource
capacity rather than just providing technical skills through technical assistance (TA); (ii) TA,
where necessary, be limited to the priority sectors (Primary Education, Health, Infrastructure)
and; (iii) the use of TA and technical cooperation be better managed and coordinated. Since
then, in collaboration with a number of donors, the Government has refined its approach to
institutional development, and in October 1991 adopted as Government, policy the
recommendations of two institutional development strategy framework papers.2/ The principal
objectives set out by Government are summarized as: (i) the reestablishment of a constitutional
state with laws guaranteeing civil liberties and private sector activities; (ii) the peaceful and
equitable development of the country, ultimately requiring an effective decentralization and
deconcentration of government functions; (iii) the progressive integration of Burkina's economy
into a harmonized West African economic union, thereby mitigating the effects of Burkina's
[j    "Reflexion sur la capacite institutionelle de gestion economique" et "Cooperation
Technique: Document d'orientation". Premibre conference de Table Ronde, Geneve 23-
24 mai 1991, pp. 61-87.
Z/    "Cooperation Technique: Document Cadre de Politique", Ministbre des Finances et du
Plan, Secretariat d'Etat au Plan, Nov. 1991. and "Plan d'Action de Modernisation de
l'Administration Burkinabb; Programme et Strategie", approved by Council of Ministers,
October 1991.



-2 -
landlocked position and relatively small market; and (iv) successful economic adjustment due in
part to more rigorous budget and public expenditure management.
3.     On this basis, the Government has formulated a national program for institutional
development intended to reinforce those ministries most critical to the success of its structural
adjustment program. Though some of its actions have been ongoing with donor support for some
time, the Government's program systematically groups these and newly identified activities in a
coherent and complementary manner around a common set of objectives. The principal elements
in this program include: (i) creation of an institutional framework (includ;ng the legal context)
and administrative organizations conducive to more efficient public ad-   ration; (ii) better
management of the civil service and its evolution in size and in quality; (i'.. :dernizing the tools
for managing the public sector wage bill; and (iv) modernizing the means for improving
management of central and local government finances through a progressive decentralization and
deconcentration of administrative functions. Interested donors have coordinated their support to
the overall program, which is fully financed. The activities to be financed by the proposed IDA
credit are a four-year time slice of selected components of the larger Government program.
4.    During June-August 1991, IDA worked with the Burkinabb authorities in defining the
activities to be financed by the proposed credit. Preparation was further refined during a
preparation mission in November 1991. A Project Preparation Facility advance (P-704-BUR) was
approved in October, 1991 for US$750,000. PPF funding has supported: (i) studies to reorganize
and improve information and budgetary management in the departments for research and
programming (DEPs), and the administrative and finance departments (DAAFs) of the Ministries
of FSinance, Public Service, Education, and Health; (ii) restructuring and computerization of the
customs service; (iii) initial studies on indemnities and indexing of civil service remuneration; (iv)
initial studies on civil service otganization and the preparation of job descriptions; (v) a civil
service census; (vi) harmonization of civil service and payroll updating procedures; (vii) studies
on upgrading the computerized payroll system and creation of a compatible civil service
information management system; and (viii) with trust fund financing from the French
Government, preparation of legal reforms including a review of needs for regular publication of
the Official Journal. Project appraisal was completed in March 1992.
Overviev of the Economy
5.    During most of the 1980s, the economy enjoyed relatively good growth, as real GDP
grew by 3.7 percent a year between 1982 and 1990. Much of the growth was, however, derived
from two unsustainable sources: (. i -n expansion of public consumption and investment spending;
and (ii) a high agricultural growtn t6. 1 percent per annum in 1982-88) due to good weather and
to bringing of new land, recently freed of onchocerc3asis, under cultivation. In contrast to a
rapid growth of construction (fueled in part by high public investment spending) and an expansion
of transport and other services (driven largely by the good performance of agriculture),
manufacturing stagnated during the 1980s, even though highly protected by import controls. The
reasoi:s were several. Structural factors such as poor technical skills, high energy and transport
costs, high wages, worker benefits, and rigid price and trade controls hurt competitiveness. The
policy framework was complex and sometimes contradictory while special tax exemptions and
protective measures deterred efficiency gains. Real GDP declined by 0.4 percent in 1989 and
grew only by 1.3 percent in 1990, largely because agricultural output fell with a reurrence of
poor rainfall and because the public spending spree could not be sustained.



- 3 -
6.    The cumulative overall budget deficits of the Central Government which averaged 12
percent of GDP ir 1986-90 (excluding grants), produced a mounting debt service burden.
Administrative inefficiencies, a disappointing tax revenue performance linked to the stagnation
of the formal sector, and the priority given to other expenditures, pushed Burkina into arrears
on its domestic and external debt service obligations. At the end of 1990, external principal and
interest arrears amounted to roughly CFAF 49.4 billion, while domestic arrears were etimated
at an additional CFAF 34.0 billion. Combined, these were approximately equivalent to one
year's fiscal revenue. A realistic borrowing policy and a Paris Club restructuring effort started
in March 1991, have since become indispensable components of the Government's program of
adjustment in the public sector.
7.    By 1990, the structure of current public expenditures had also become a subject of
concern. The wage bill was increasing too fast, crowding out investment and operating
expenditures. The amounts allocated for maintenance of basic health services and primary school
education were not sufficient to substantially increase coverage and enrollment rates, which
remained well below the average for similarly poor countries.  Increasingly, recurrent
expenditu es of economic or social importance were being financed by external grant or simply
being eliminated. The modern sector continued to be dominated by public enterprises, an
increasing number of which were in serious financial difficulty, despite generous fiscal
exonerations and protection from competing imports. The government-dominated banking system
had also fallen into disarray, with disquictingly low levels of liquidity and high levels of non-
performing loans in the portfolios of some of the major banks.
8.    Burkina's external accounts have developed relatively favorably during the 1980s, thanks
to increased cotton and gold export revenues. The current account deficit (excluding official
transfers) improved compared with the performance in 1977-82. Net capital inflows sufficed not
only to cover the current account deficits during 1982-88, but also to build up gross official
reserves to the equivalent of almost 7 months of imports at the end of 1988. In 1989, however,
Burkina's BOP position weakened dramatically due to a deterioration in the trade balance, a
larger deficit in the service account, lower net private transfers and the Government's iiability
for additional arrears following the liquidation of the former Cote d'Ivoire/Burkina owned railway
company (RAN). Although the external trade balance improved slightly in 1990, the situation
and the outlook for the early 1990s, remained fragile.
9.    In 1990, the Government accepted the need to address structural problems both in public
resource management and in the unattractive framework for private sector development, so that
a major crisis could be averted and economic growth accelerated and sustained. Following a
lengthy internal debate intended to mobilize domestic support for reform, in early 1991, the
Government adopted a macro-economic policy framework with support from the IMF and a
structural adjustment program supported by the first SAL from IDA. In 1990 and 1991, the
authorities made progress in addressing key budgetary issues and adopted strong measures to
effect a further improvement in 1992. Though some delays in implementation have occurred as
a result of the political reform process, so far, program implementation is on track.
H. PUBLIC INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT - CONSTRAINTS AND REFORMS
10.   Since the colonial period, Burkina Faso has developed a public administration whose main
tasks have been to maintain order and to collect fiscal revenue. Management functions such as



-4-
financial and economic forecasting, investment planning, and personnel management have been
lacking. The Treasury Department has been more important than the Budget Ministry. In a
relatively stable internationai =somic environment, the need for change in this basic heritage
was not felt. At the time of independence !here were, therefore, very few reasons to question
the role of the State and consider reform of the administrative system. Some of the functicns
fulfilled by the colonial power (eg. budgeting) were transferred to Burkina at the time of
independence, and others (eg. investment planning) were introduced later. It is notable, however,
that both these functions had remained peripheral to the functioning of the State.
11.   The inherited "administrative culture" has been solidly implanted in Burkina's institutional
context. It presents the administration as a neutral instrument, subservient to the political
structure, with its own rationale (public service), its own legal system, and distinctive
characteristics.  Indeed, this bureaucratic philosophy assumes that: (a) the civil servant is
politically neutral (the famous "devoir de reserve"), acccptable to changing political leaders
ensuring the permanence of the administration, and the fair treatment of all citizens, and (b) the
civil servant is propertyless, thereby ensuring the absence of conflicts of interest. Remuneration,
career and employment protection are viewed as fundamental pillars of the administration and not
simple management variables.
12.   In post independence Burkina, as in many other African countries, political and/or
economic events led, with various degrees of brutality to (a) a fairly rapid surrendering to the
political will of whatever little initiative the administration had or was willing to exert,
reinforcing its passive role, and (b) a de fagto abandonment of the two fundamental characteristics
of political neutrality and security of tenure. Following the 1983 revolution, political activism
(formal ideological tests) was required to remain in or to join the administration; and the scope
of State involvement encompassed virtually everything. Nonetheless, the administration kept
doing exactly what it was doing before ind-pendence: enforcitr, order, collecting taxes and
execxting decisions made elsewhere.
13.   Oil shocks, primary product price instability, droughts, international economic recession,
an overextended and not very well managed public sector, led the country along the path to
external as well as internal financial difficulties. In 1991, these developments resulted in the
Government's structural adjustment program. As noted earlier, one of the main objectives of this
program is to open up the economy and return economic initiative to the private sector. In the
short term, its main stabilization objective is to reduce financial imbalances in external and
internal accounts, in which the public wage bill looms the largest. The policy framework agreed
upon by the donors and the government explicitly requires: (i) a change in the role of the State,
and (ii) short term financial measures, such as a reduction in the public deficit and the wage bIll.
The structural adjustment program;n itelf, however, provides only limited ways and means to
achieving these objectives.
14.   Recent political events, culminating in the promulgation of a new constitution, the
restoration of a multi-party democracy and free elections, are now being reflected in the structure
of the Government, beginning with the abolition of 'party-State" structures. The consequences
of these economic and political choices, however, have yet to be fully felt in the administration,
which does not have the national caDacity to reform and transform itself in response to the new
demands of a liberalized economic and political system. In particular, emphasis needs to be
shifted fron control to management through deconcentration of decision making, delegation of



authority within and outside the administration, relinquishing of powers appropriated by the
executive (legislative and judicial), and responding to citizens demands for better public services.
15.   Because of such deficiencies in its administration, the Burkinabe state has never been able
to formulate policy, implement programs and deliver services as effectively as desired. To offset
these deficiencies, Burkina received, and still receives, a sizable amount of TA, which according
to Government estimates currenty represents about 35 percent of external assistance. Presently,
Burkina benefits from some 30 institutionally oriented TA projects financed by three major
multinational agencies (UN system, the European Community, the AfDB), and half a dozen
countries (USA, France, Germany, Switzerland, Canada, Italy). Other donors such as Norway
and Japan are showing a growing interest 3/. For the 1989-1994 period, these projects
represent a total of about US$28 million. Most of these TA projects, however, were designed
with the former conception of the State's role in mind: they were not designed around a coherent
Government strategy with respect to technical assistance and institutional development. Rather,
they can be characterized by (a) an emphasis on technical inputs, to resolve narrower technical
problems, (b) often supply driven TA, (c) substitution TA, both individually and/or
institutionally, and (d) reinforcing a dirigist philosophy of Government.
16.   Despite limited benefits to Burkina of past TA, useful lessons have been identified from
previous experience, both in Burkina and from elsewhere in Africa. The relative lack of success
in building effective national institutions can be largely attributed to three broad factors: (i) the
traditional project design approach, characterized by the strong preference for a narrow set of
technical objectives which led to components consisting of newly designed institutions with the
provision of equipment responding to immediate and more narrowly identified problems; (ii) an
ensuing piecemeal and uncoordinated approach to institutional support; and (iii) the proliferation
of specialized project management units (PMUs) unrelated to the institutions to be reinforced or
reformed, staffed with seconded civil servants often remunerated on a different scale effectively
resulting in a disowning of the projects by staff of the institutions themselves. A focus on the
performance of critical functions, not necessarily institutionally specific, such as information use
and management, budgetary management and accountability, and the role of the State, have
largely been overlooked.
17.   As for civil service reform in Burkina, donors have been providing support hampered by
the absence of a coherent Government reform framework. Some have focussed exclusively on
dealing with reform in the short-term through wage bill containment, while others have
concentrated on personnel management in the long-term with no concern for the wage bill and
the budget constraint. Activities have often been at cross-purposes and may also be complicated
in the short-term by Burkina's restoration of democracy. Security of tenure and income
protection are now resurfacing as priorities, with former civil servants fired by the previous
regime taking advantage of the more liberal political environment by seeking to have their rights
restored. Current civil servants, througlh their unions, are strengthening their demands to end
the financial freeze on promotions agreed as part of the adjustment effort.
/    IThe Bank has not yet financed any free-standing TA or institutional development project
in Burkina.



- 6 -
Lhmsons learned from Previous Bank Experience
18.   Though TA in Africa in the form of long term expatriates, has been reasonably successful
when aimed at flxing specific technical problems (eg. computerization), because it has often been
supply driven with a short-term focus, it has been less than effective when seeking to build
durable public institutional capacity. Indeed, key lessons learned from free-standing IDA-
financed TA/Institutional Development projects in Sub-Saharan Africa (including three Sahelian
TA Operations in Mali, Senegal and Niger) include: (i) the importance of a link between the
degree of Government commitment to the TA project in question and to a parallel adjustnent
operation; (ii) the need to define as early as possible in-country training programs based on
borrower needs and resources and a well-defined strategy and eligibility criteria, thereby
strengthening national training capacities and limiting overseas training to justifiable exceptions;
(iii) the importance of clearly defining the responsibilities of any project management unit
established and ensuring it does not take on a life of its own during or after project completion;
(iv) providing systematic ano adequate supervision, with appropriate technical expertise, both
from headquarters and from the Resident Mission; (v) limiting and close monitoring of
unallocated funds to ensure that financing requests are in line with project priorities; and (vi)
minimizing the financing of recurrent costs. Identified as equally important on the basis of past
experience, is the need to allow for greater flexibility during implementation rather than setting
up a rigid "blueprint approach" more suited to capital investment projects.
19.   Lessons from experience have led to adopting the following principles in designing the
proposed project: (a) taking into account the changing role of the State under the adjustment
program and in the context of the political transition and its impact on the function and the form
of administration, (b) critically examining the concepts underlying existing or proposed public
sector institutions, (c) excluding from the project what cannot be carried out and managed by the
administration itself, and finally (d) limiting project activities to a finite time frame, within a
clearly defined conceptual framework. Accordingly, the project focuses on five major areas:
budgetary and information management, public procurement, civil service management, the legal
and judicial framework, and improved communications.
A.    Budgetary Managenent
20.   In the context of today's adjustment programs, the economic functions of the Burkinabe
State have been defined by the Government as being to stabilize the economy (including the
generation of employment and the control of inflation), promote sustainable economic growth,
and to achieve greater equity in income distribution. In performing these functions, the
Government intends to intervene largely through regulation and legislation, and through public
expenditure, the mix of which has macroeconomic and distributional effects. A functional legal
environment is indispensable for the former, while budgets are the principal management tools
for the latter.
21.   Generally, budgets have three basic functions mirroring the functions of the State
described above: (i) operational control (i.e. ensuring execution of the budget), (ii) management
control (implementation of programs in accordance with objectives) and (iii) strategic planning
(policy formulation). Burkina possesses some elements of the first function, with budgets in an
accounting form providing some control at the execution phase. It very much lacks the second
function, the purpose of which is to evaluate expenditures in terms of results against stated
objectives, and on that basis to mobilize and allocate resources in the most efficient manner,



-7-
including manpower and organizational resources. In spite of expensive efforts undertaken with
external assistance, it also lacks the third function, the purpose of which is to define and clarify
objectives and determine policies. The paragraphs below define and detail the current state of
these functions in Burkina Faso.
1.    Operational Control
22.   Operational control of the budget process verifies that budget execution is in accordance
with procedures and rules of disbursement ("contrOle de conformite"). Generally, this is achieved
through financial control, public accounting and procurement.
23.   Financial control verifies the integrity of expenditures from commitment to disbursement.
Unfortunately, until now Burkina's separate treatment of investment and recurrent budgets has
not permitted effective control of externally financed expenditures (investments, grants and TA).
Moreover, a significant part of externally financed activities or projects (especially TA) are not
even recorded by the Government, while some external donors modify the destination of funds
without prior consultation with budgetary authorities. Thus, bilateral and multilateral agencies
often make it difficult to respect the integrity of the budget process for external funds.
24.   The structure of Burkina's external credit administration is further complicated by its
having to comply with numerous donor disbursement procedures. A Department of Financial
Execution (DEF) was established at Independence as a financial office to manage the financial
execution of projects. With the merging of the Ministries of Finance and Plan, the DEF's role
is to accelerate disbursements.  Consisting of some 20 staff, it also participates in the
management, supervision anid control of public procurement, overlapping with the Financial
Controller's Office in the Ministry of Finance (DCF). It is also to follow-up on external debt,
duplicating the work of the Debt Service Department of the Ministry of Finance. Despite the
presence of other agencies with similar responsibilities, DEF has often been unable to even certify
the execution of particular disbursements creating further uncertainty regarding the level of debt,
debt service and arrears. In certain priority ministries, (eg. Agriculture, Basic Education), in
addition to the existing Departments of Administre!ive and Financial Affairs (DAAF), new
Departments were created to follow the financial execution of externally financed projects, further
weakening the role of the DAAF and the DEF.
25.   Financial control is ostensibly carried out through two agencies of the Finance Ministry.
The DCF comprises five services: (i) commitments, (ii) studies, (iii) procurement and bids, (iv)
financial controllers delegated to other ministries, and (v) administration. The Department has
54 staff, of which only 4 are higher level. There are not enough qualified controllers to staff all
positions and therefore many double as local and provincial controllers with vast territorial
responsibilities and no means of transport or data processing. Controllers assigned to technical
ministries were abolished in the late 1980s for lack of staff. For the same reason, payroll control
has been reduced to the minimum. The first micro computer was only introduced in the DCF
in 1991. Because the DCF does not control the DEF, control of major external financial
commitments of the State, including debts charges, has beeni effectively left to external financing
agencies. Similarly, the DCF exercises no de facto control over the national procurement
agencies, thereby excluding a significant portion of State expenditures from normal financial
controls.



- 8 -
26.   The Inspector General (IGF) is the other controlling service attached to the Ministry of
Finance. It is empowered to control even the DCF, though this does not happen as the Inspector
General and the DCF Director have the same rank. With only 10 operational inspectors, the IGF
has not been able to do much more than review the finances of selected private enterprises doing
business with the State.
27.   Public Accounting is the responsibility ofa central department in the Ministry of Finance,
the Department of Public Accounting (DCP) charged with executing public payments. Payments
are made through the Treasury Office (TPG) which supervises II principal treasury offices, and
70 revenue services throughout the country, as well as two accounting services (postes
comptables) in the Paris and Abidjan embassies; altogether 84 accounting services, including the
central office. Although theoretically a verification unit, the DCP exists to control all accounting
services. It does not operate effectively, however, due to a lack of competent staff.
28.   To improve the transparency of public accounts, a new accounting system  (Plan
Comptable) was developed with French technical assistance and introduced in January 1992.
Training in Burkina of public accountants was initiated in June 1991. Although introduction of
the national accounting system was supposed to be buttressed by the introduction of a
computerized monitoring system (TABOR), its performance thus far has been disanpointing, and
the Government is considering a better accounting system which requires less computerization.
Compatibility problems with the new budget nomenclature, however, remain to be resolved.
29.   Revenue management even more than expenditures, has been the focus of most economic
management projects supported in Africa by the Bank, the Fund, France and other key donors,
and Burkina has been no exception until now. The Internal Revenue Department (DGI) and the
Customs (DGD) have benefitted from a steady assistance which on the whole has been helpful.
Most of this TA, however, emphasized the upgrading of existing functions, often with the
introduction of new management tools (eg. the SYDONIA customs management system). Project
objectives were largely technical, however, and narrowly defined with short-term outputs in
mind.
30.   In Internal Revenue, in addition to helping with the strengthening and eventual
reorganization of the Finance Ministry, activities being supported by the French Government
include the rewriting of the tax code, which is virtually complete, and the revision of certain
taxes. The French Government will also assist in the introduction of a value added tax (TVA)
in 1993, in collaboration with the IMF. An attempt to rebuild the land registry (cadastre) has
been less successfui to date. An on-going i-ench Government and IDA supported urban project
will finance the con- '""tion of 5 decentralized revenue offices which would be the contact points
with the public in monilizing additional tax revenues.
31.   Several problems, however, remain to be tackled in the revenue area. l'he most
important is the reorganization of the revenue services by function, rather than by origin of taxes.
To do this would require bringing the personnel of the services physically together. This is
prezently not possible due to lack of space. Second, the DGI is vastly understaffed, (60 people,
of which 41 higher level), and staffing should increase to about 100, of which 80 higher level,
within the next 4 years (as envisaged under the SAL and the IMF program). There is therefore
an urgent need for expanded office facilities for the central services. Another serious problem
is the lack of a fiscal litigation framework and jurisprudence, which may prove a serious
impedirr.ont to the liberalization of the economy (see paras. 60-64 below). Moreover, the



-9 -
accounting profession, recently organized and reinstated following persecution of the "liberal
professions" during the revolutionary period, needs training in fiscal litigation. While the French
Government continues to assist Burkina in preparing a comprehensive computerization of the
Ministry of Finance (within the framework of a regional project (PIAF) intended to strengthen
financial management throughout the franc zone), the DGI would need some modest assistance
in setting up computerized tax and fiscal programs.
32.   As for the Customs, they too are being assisted by the French Government in installing
the SYDONIA system, which is becoming a standard throughout francophone Africa. The
operation is self-contained and on track. Because it is so highly standardized, however, a number
of essential activities, such as computer site preparation and upgrading of some custom services,
were not included in the SYDONIA project.
2.    Manugement Control
33.   The main management tool for effective resource allocation and evaluation should be the
budget. Except for its use in tracking the deficit, however, the budget in Burkina has not been
used as an effective tool for resource management. Successive reviews by various donors
(including the Macro-Economic roundtable in May 1991) have consistently stressed the problems
arising from poor budgetary management (the growing deficits, large wage bill, military
expenditures, and arrears. etc.), but not often the problems of the budget process and structure
themselves. With the exception of an isolated attempt to reformulate the budget with IMF
assistance, the Budget Department (and the rest of the Ministry of Finance) has not benefitted
from the same high levels of assistance received by the ex-Ministry of Plan.
34.   In Burkina, the preparation of the budget is done roughly as follows. Technical Ministries
submit their requests in response to budget instructions issued by the Ministry of Finance.
Following arbitration at various levels, the budget is normally assembled by the Budget
Department and adopted at the end of November. Until 1990, budgetary preparation was
essentially an incremental exercise, building on past budgets. Budgets did not cover externally
funded public investments. They were characterized by a high degree of inconsistency in the
presentation amongst budget titles, and were therefore difficult to analyze. Most of the recurrent
budget funds were consolidated in common interministerial expenditure lines, reflecting a heavily
centralized management.
35.   To help improve the process, in 1991, a new budgetary nomenclature and consolidation
of the investment and recurrent budgets were introduced with IMF support.  This new
nomenclature will ultimately permit analysis and presentation of the budget by nature, function
and Government agencies/services/departments of the State. This will take some time, however,
since existing data is not yet sufficiently disaggregated to permit such a degree of refinement.
This is especially evident for investments for which disaggregation by nature of expenditure is
unavailable. Under current practices, collection of the relevant data requires a return to the
individual investment project, since projects (87 percent externally funded) tend to follow the
budgetary rules and accounting procedures of the financing institutions. The effective integration
of investments into the consolidated budget will also take some time, requiring the introduction
of a project accounting framework compatible with the budget, as well as extensive training.
36.   Effective budgetary management is fully meaningful when done against measurable
objectives. This is rarely the case in Burkina, however, as the present budget process does not



- 10 -
readily permit the Government to evaluate either the efficiency or the effectiveness of
expenditures. In 1991 with help from IDA, efforts were initiated to express the budgets of two
priority ministries (Primary Education and Health) in the form of simple programs attached to
clear operational objectives. Although both of those ministries are now preparing projects with
IDA, and therefore should be more likely to possess adequate data, the exercise will take time
and require further training of staff in each of their DAAFs.
37.   The public auditing function in Burkina - the other tool for effective budgetary
management and accountability - is in effect moribund. The Government's General Auditing
Department was unable to function effectively during the revolutionary period. In 1988, an
Auditor General's office (IGE) was created with vast powers on paper, but very few means to
apply them (14 inspectors with no support staff). Moreover, because no law closing the books
of the fiscal year (Loi de reglement) has been promulgated for the past ten years (under the Fund
program a "Loi de reglement" is to be promulgated for the current fiscal. year), it has been
impossible for any auditor to have a clear picture of the year-end treasury and budget accounts,
particularly concerning arrears and carry- overs from one year to the next. Thus, the ihree
principles on which a budget is founded, namely its unicity, its universality and its regularity are
not generally respected, rendering difficult its evaluation and effective use as a management tool.
3.    Strategic Planning
38.   Investment planning and programmin. Throughout the late 1980s, investment was
relatively high in Burkina, peaking at 26.9 percent of GDP in 1987, largely because of increased
public investment. Much of this investment, however, went to large new infrastructure projects
with marginal economic returns. External aid finances almost 90 percent of public investment.
Some of the misconceived public investment projects were financed by forced lending from
domestic banks and financial institutions (eg. from the social security fun'ds), contributing to the
increasingly precarious situation of the financial institutions themselves. The overall efficiency
of investment has been relatively low.
39.   The choice and monitoring of public investments, as well as the coordination of aid have
been weak. Technical ministries include a DEP supposed to prepare, program and follow the
physical execution of investments. The DEPs are the corresponding agencies for the Finance and
Planning Ministry's Department of Studies, Programming and Monitoring of Investment (DEPSI).
In general, however, all these services are weak, with the agencies understaffed and under-
equipped to carry out their job. To remedy this situation, the Government, with past technical
assistance from the UNDP and the Bank, had established procedures for formulating a three-year
rolling investment program (PIP) and for monitoring investments identified from the 2nd five-
year Plan (1991-1995).  For the following reasons, however, these efforts have been only
marginally successful to date: (i) the existence of two agencies, attached to Government
institutions (the SISP in the Presidency, and the BIP in the Planning Ministry), but effectively
outside the administration, with one created with support from the Bank (support for the SISP
was provided beginning in 1985 under the Fertilizer Credit) and the other from UNDP, with
overlapping responsibilities for investment planning and monitoring; (ii) with both staffed by
seconded civil se.-vants remunerated at a much higher level than other civil servants, with their
budgets and management effectively independent of civil service rules and budgetary procedures;
(iii) with neither connected to the budget cycle and control, since externally financed investment
expenditures were not included in the budget; (iv) with the availability of consistent, reliable and
complete project implementation data, financial and physical, often wanting; and (v) with



procedures lacking for systematically assessing the operating and maintenance needs of investment
projects.
40.   The major consequences have been: (i) a high degree of uncertainty regarding the level
of investments, as externally financed projects contain a high level (estimated at 30 percent) of
recurrent expenditures; (ii) uncertainties regarding the real status of projects; (iii) a lack of
administrative cooperation with the BIP and the SISP resulting from resentment at the differential
treatment enjoyed by their staff; (iv) the priority given by the BIP and the SISP to their donors'
requests, often at the expense of the Government's needs; and finally (v) underfunding of
operating costs for completed projects (particularly acute for primary health centers and primary
education).
41.   The Government has now recognized that linkage between the public investment program
and the budget is vitally important when determining the level of public investment and selecting
investment projects. In June 1991, the Ministries of Finance, and of Planning were merged to
respond to the request of the IMF and the Bank for a unified budget. Investments and recurrent
expenditures were formally subjected to the same budgetary rules (ordonnateur unique). Because
of the political transition, however, effective integration of both ministries has been slow, and
preparation of the 1992 investment budget by the Budget Department has also suffered.
42.   Under the SAL the Government is preparing proposals on: (i) a system of macro-
economic projections to provide a macro-economic framework for budgetary and investment
planning; (ii) an assessment of the underfunding of recurrent costs in the principal sectors
(excluding road maintenance and primary education, for which estimates have already been
made); (iii) procedures for assessing the recurrent costs of projects in the PIP; (iv) procedures
for estimating the recurrent costs of future investment projects; and (v) improvement of the data
base on public investment, notably through better coordination, and a merger of the BIP and the
SISP.
43.   The completion of these actions, however, presupposes the existence of usable
information, as well as a common budgetary framework and common budgetary procedures. To
this end, the IMF is providing technical assistance to consolidate the investment program within
the Government's budget, through a revision of the budgetary nomenclature. During a June-
August 1991 IDA mission, it was established that information management and data availability
including, but not limited to statistics, were major problems, and a simple revision of the
budgetary nomenclature would not be sufficient to ensure the preparation and execution of an
operationally consolidated budget. The information management and data problems (see paras.
47 and 48), as distinct from computerization, remain to be dealt with therefore, while the
budgetary system, particularly as it pertains to the expenditure cycle, would need to be reviewed
in its entirety. For the latter, a committee composed of all Directors of Finance and Plan and
the Director of the BIP, has been created to prepare a position paper on the budgetary system,
including a global audit of the expenditure cycle.
44.   Economic and Financial policy rormulation. In preparing the PFP, and the various
IDA-financed adjustment operations, the Burkinabe authorities took much of the initiative and
responsibility, though with considerable donor assistance in the area of macroeconomic
management. Out of a total of US$ 28 million in external flows for institutionally oriented TA
projects, about 35 percent are iirected to economic planning and investment programming
(UNDP support accounts for about 15 percent). To help assure effective implementation of this



- 12 -
broad based reform program, it was recommended at the Macroeconomic Roundtable in May
1991, that a "technical" secretariat be established to follow up on the SAL and oversee the
reforms. Though initially delayed and still somewhat subject to the effects of the incomplete
merger of the Ministries of Finance and of Plan, the secretariat has been operating effectively to
date.
45.   As for the newly merged Ministry of Finance and Planning, though its reorganization is
still incomplete, there will be no future 5-year plans and the economic planning function will be
largely indicative in nature, involving a large dose of economic forecasting. On the financial
planning side the problem is similar, with numerous departments and agencies having overlapping
responsibilities, and being preoccupied with daily operational concerns rather than financial
planning and economic forecasting.
46.   Although a considerable amount of TA has been provided to Burkina in the past for
macro-financial planning, due to uncoordinated support for the creation of several agencies with
ill-defined roles, such assistance too has been largely ineffective adding to the neglect of macro-
economic and financial forecasting.
47.   Statistical Information. Statistical deficiencies in Burkina have been recognized as a
serious constraint to effective economic and budgetary management. The National Institute of
Statistics and Demography (INSD), created in 1974, has the responsibility for producing official
statistics, but its work has been seriously wanting due to (i) the absence of a coordinated work
program and a mismatch between the demand for statistical data and INSD's capacity to supply
it; (ii) a lack of analytical and publishing capacity leaving a wealth of unanalyzed data from
numerous uncoordinated surveys; (iii) a lack of financial resources and skilled professional staff;
and (iv) an ambivalence as to the extent to which INSD should indeed have exclusive
responsibility for statistical data in Burkina.
48.   Despite INSD's de jure monopoly for producing statistics, other public and private
institutions also produce statistical data. Accordingly, the Government has recognized the need
to design and implement an integrated national information system, including a decentralized
stat 1tical capacity whereby data are produced and used at the regional level, and where the
capacity exists to do relevant policy analysis based on a standardized national accounting system
and compatible nomenclature. As noted in the SAL program, the absence of this analytical
capacity has been especially critical in limiting the Government's ability to pinpoint needs arising
from poverty and effective social and economic policies to deal with them.
B.    Public Procurement
49.   In spite of several reform initiatives by the Government during the 1980s, the public
procurement system in Burkina Faso has functioned poorly and has been identified - by donors
as well as by Government - as a process which needs improvement so as to minimize public
resource waste. The basic procurement regulations date back to 1970. They were modelled on
the French national regulations existing in the late 1950s. Although some piecemeal reforms
were introduced in the 1980s, they have not benefitted from the modernization of public
procurement methods in France since that time. An assessment by the Bank in 1986 of the
acceptability of the regulations for use in Bank-funded projects noted some objectionable features,
such as private bid opening and numerous bid bond exemptions, while concluding that the
regulations on the whole conformed to minimum Bank requirements.



4                               - 13 -
50.   What has come to be observed by the Bank and by the Government as a more serious
problem has been the overlapping of regulations and the ensuing duplication of functions between
the various entities involved in the public procurement process. As an example, a new national
procurement directorate, the rINAME, was established under the Ministry of the Budget in
1986, without sufficient resources nor a clear delineation of its powers vis-a-vis those of the
technical and planning ministries to act efficiently. The result was an increase rather than a
decrease in overlapping functions. In practice, the DINAME did not obtain the powers formally
assigned to it. A decision was taken by the Government in January 1991 to create a successor
agency, the Office National de Marches Publics (ONMP). This was done and DINAME has been
replaced by ONMP, which remains ineffective, however, since the detailed arrangements with
regard to the resources and mandate of the agency remain unclear. Until the Ministries of
Finance and Planning were merged in 1991, a further complication arose from the fact that the
Minister of Finance was given authority to approve contracts funded by the national budget, while
the Planning Minister was to approve externally funded contracts (See para. 41).
51.   The understanding and application of public procurement regulations has obviously
suffered from these regulatory overlaps and contradictions. In the first place, few officials have
complete knowledge of the various laws and regulations affecting public procurement; much less
placed in a position to apply them effectively. In this environment, ad hoc decisions, based on
political opportunism  rather than objective criteria, have tended to flourish.  Also, since
DINAME, and subsequently ONMP, have not been afforded the means to work effectively, there
is inadequate statistical knowledge of the volume and nature of public procurement. In addition,
there is a perception - again hard to verify because of the lack of data and of proper audit - that
contract supervision is lax. As pointed out in para. 25, public procurement also has not been
subject to the normal financial controls which the DCF is supposed to exercise over other
budgetary expenditures.
52.    Adding to the problems caused by overlapping and confusing regulations are the delays
caused by the numerous and overstaffed commissions involved in the procurement process. In
1984, for instance, the number of members of the central tender board was increased from eight
to twelve, and that of the sectoral commissions from three to six. The size of the coimimissions
reduces their ability to meet at short notice, and to take decisions promptly. In addition, most
members remain passive, or absent, in their respective capacities. As a result, frequently the
review by the commissions not only lacks in depth and quality but also renders the procedure
cumbersome and lengthy. As a result, disbursement of foreign assistance, including IDA, has
been slower than necessary, entailing heavy costs to the Government through price escalation of
delayed contracting and a lack of counterpart funds. With a budgetary system under whic.l
spending authority lapses unless allocations are used within the fiscal year, there is a real threat
of having to start the procedure from scratch in a subsequient year due to delays in the process.
53.    Finally, there is no academic or vocational training path leading to positions in
procurement; nor is there a stated policy in Burkina Faso to establish and promote the
professionalism of a procurement cadre. Thus, for instance, while financial controllers receive
extensive training from ENAREF, there is a lack of training facilities in public procurement both
for those in the technical branches who are initiating and implementing procurement action and
for those in the controlling functions, who are supposed to watch over the proper application of
the rules.



- 14 -                               4
C.    Civil Service Manafiement
54.   Despite its relatively modest size (about 34,000 employees on the payroll compared to
118,000 in COte d'lvoire for roughly the same population), and its relatively modest cost (CFA
55 billion compared to 270 billion in Cote d'lvoire), the Burkinabe public wage bill represents
a very high share of current expenditures, growing from 54 percent in 1986 to 64 percent in
1990. The Government has realized that such increases in the wage bill are not sustainable, and
that the structure of the wage bill threatens economic growth in the longer term, especially since
a large portion of wages goes to military personnel at the expense of basic education and health.
55.   A key objective of the SAL, therefore, is in the short-term to contain the wage bill as of
1993, at no more than 55 percent of current expenditures, without detrimentally affecting the
efficiency of the central administration. Under its program for 1991, the Government has
attempted to tackle the size of these expenditures in part through a three-year freeze on salary
increases resulting from promotions, through limited voluntary departures in 1991 and through
reductions in the military wage bill. It has chosen not to use the direct reduction of wages
(adjusting indices), because of the limited benefits and the demotivating and destabilizing effects
of such measures in neighboring countries. The Government has been particularly sensitive to
these considerations during the current period of political and electoral reform.
56.   Yet lacking even a central civil service file, the Government does not have the necessary
information to deepen its analysis of the wage bill nor the management structure and tools to
effectively control the size or growth rate of the bill in the long-term. No salary review
mechanism exists and the existing civil service statutes are t},emselves limited in scope.
Moreover, the policy of the then-Ministry of Employment and Civil Service had itself been to
generate employment and protect formal sector workers under the provisions of the Labor Code,
rather than managing the civil service as a whole.
57.   With Government recognizing the undesirable effects of this approach on the public sector
wage bill, in June 1991, the Ministry was renamed the Ministry of Civil Service and
Administrative Reform, and its mission, as its *.sw name indicates, was shifted to improving civil
service management and quality. The Government requested and obtained limited assistance from
the UNDP for the new Ministry. At the same time, the Budget Department in the Finance
Ministry attempted on its own, to set up a forward budgeting system specifically for wage
expenditures. This effort has so far met with limited success due to a lack of means and lack of
coordination with the new Civil Service Ministry.
58.   Finally, all of these attempts to improve civil service management have suffered from the
inadequacies in training of key civil service personnel. Ostensibly, local training for the civil
service is done through three schools: the National Customs School (END), the National Public
Administration School (ENAM), and the National School for Public Finance Management
(ENAREF), created in 1988 to replace the Ministry of Finance training center. In 1990, the
END produced only four graduates at the highest level, and ENA suspended its activities, as the
civil service ceased recruiting for general administration as part of the Government's adjustment
program. ENAREF is active, however, with 370 students presently enrolled for training and
retraining. Although the school is presently limited to training Ministry of Finance staff, it is
only partially responding to the real staffing needs of the Ministry, which is not represented on
the school's Board. The result is that enrollment in the school is seen largely by civil service
staff as a vehicle for promotion.



- 15 -
59.   This situation in respect of training creates two types of problems for the civil service:
a) an ambiguity in the role, status, and scope of ENAREF, and b) serious deficiencies in the
school's operations and management. In the case of the former, ambiguity as to whether
ENAREF is a professional school geared to retraining, or a "graduate school" providing
university equivalency has resulted in civil service criteria for promotion which impose
unnecessarily long course curricula and degree requirements. The automaticity in promotions
arising from training has resulted in a high cost to the wage bill, and often produced absences
of two years for training, rather than a few months, thereby limiting the number of civil servants
who can be trained during the period. In the case of ENAREF's internal operations, a technical
audit in July 1991 revealed that there are insufficient operating resources which, combined with
the ambiguous status of teachers (most of whom are full-time civil servants) has resulted in an
unmotivated and often incompetent staff with poorly conceived programs. The school is currently
housed in five different sites, pending completion of a new building partially financed by UNDP
and the Canadian Government.
D.    TDe    al and Judicial Context
60.   From the time Burkina's adjustment program was conceived, it has been apparent that
unless appropriate legal reforms are implemented, the economic reform program cannot have
more than a limited impact on investor confidence. This consideration underlies the initiative
taken in October 1991 by the West African Monetary Union (UMOA), with French assistance,
to harmonize commercial and business laws throughout its member countries, as a priority in
transforming them from a monetary to an economic union. Burkina's program is amongst the
first to be addressed in this regard.
61.   At the height of the revolutionary fervor in the early 1980s, the Government decided that
the system of justice as it existed had been designed to serve only the rich. It therefore created
a 'popular" system of justice which did not altogether supplement the existing courts, but
operated alongside and independently of them. It consisted of a network of "revolutionary" and
popular tribunals competent to hear all cases involving persons and public property that they
deemed fit to hear, as well as most criminal cases involving public officials. All tribunals were
required to apply revolutionary principles of justice. There was no systematic right of appeal or
review provided against decisions of these tribunals.
62.   In parallel, although it stopped short of doing away completely with the so-called liberal
legal professions, the Government did create a new legal cadre, ("songdas"), consisting of
qualified magistrates on the civil service payroll, to compete for the business of private lawyers.
The rest of the legal profession (namely notaries and legal ushers) was abolished and its functions
taken over by the chief registrars ("greffiers en chef") of the popular tribunals, and by a new
breed of civil servants known as "mandataires de justice". Considering that the "songdas" have
no fixed costs and that all public enterprises (no matter the size of the state's capital share) are
required by law to use their services, their existence has created fear and resentment by both the
legal profession and industry. The current Government has therefore decided to pave the way
for a return to the use of the "liberal" legal professions. All "revolutionary" tribunals have been
either eliminated or frozen. The Government has also agreed to juridically abolish "songdas";
only the timing is still at issue.
63.   One of the results of this revolutionary legacy is that only 28 lawyers are practicing in
Burkina, hence driving up the cost of their services to business, and reinforcing the views of



-16-
those who might wish to retain the "revolutionary" professions. Similarly, since the elimination
of the Department of Legislation in the Ministry of Justice, there has been virtually no
centralizing of legislative drafting. Legislation is initiated and prepared in almost autonomous
fashion by line Ministries. Coupled with the haphazard and unreliable publication of the Official
Journal, it produces a chaotic and unclear picture of the legal/legislative context in which
investment and business can take place. Even the Supreme Court is incapable of publishing its
own decisions. The administration of justice is slow and inefficient with an inadequate number
of magistrates, aggravated by the suspension of activities in the magistrates department in the
Ecole Nationale de l'Administration et de la Magistrature (ENAM). Combined with the absence
of any real source of accountability, magistrates dispose of widely abused discretionary powers
to postpone cases for the flimsiest of reasons. Moreover, such inefficiencies have little bearing
on decisions regarding promotions in the service. Finally, there is no specialization and no
special jurisdiction for commercial law cases, although for labor disputes such separate
jurisdiction is provided for by law.
64.   The existing body of commercial laws are in a similarly chaotic state. Largely inherited
from colonial days, they have undergone haphazard revision and amplification particularly in the
last decade. Though the core is basically sound, there is a need to consolidate the laws,
streamline proceedings and adapt them to the needs of modern day commercial transactions. In
particular, there is a need to review the provisions governing the entry, mobility and exit of
companies, as well as those relating to debt recovery both in a commercial and in a criminal law
context. This includes the Mining Code, which governs an activity of growing economic
importance to Burkina. The revisions arising from such a review would, however, need to be
carried out within the framework of current efforts to achieve economic integration within
UMOA. Similarly, although the new land tenure law (RAF) adopted in June 1991 provided
individuals the right of land ownership, the latest version of the law does not sufficiently address
issues of ownership and credit security, particularly in a business context. The result of these
various deficiencies is that the legal system is slow, frustrating and never easily predictable. Tne
local business community has done its best to stay clear of the system, and the consensus is that
in its present state, the process of justice will have an adverse impact on the business
environment.
E.    Communication of Economic Policy
65.   Since the current Government took office and began moving Burkina towards a more
open system, the private media has begun to flourish. In addition to the three government-owned
publications, and a government radio and television station, a privately-owned radio station is
now operating, and three privately-owned daily newspapers, 7 weeklys, 5 monthlys and 5 other
publications are now being publicly sold. There are estimated to be 200-250 journalists active
throughout Burkina, with the vast majority still in the publicly-owned media.
66.   Because people in the Sahel are primarily exposed to the written media (especially in
urban areas) and radio - amongst the few effective instruments for generating public debate and
understanding - it is important that journalists (including editors) comprehend the objectives and
impact of economic policy and reform. This is especially so in societies in which, until recently,
free market economics.was officially viewed with hostility, as in Burkina. Difficult adjustmnent
measures applied by Governments can be unravelled easily by opposition forces, sparked by
journalists who lack basic training in market economics. Very few of the journalists in Burkina,
or elsewhere in the Sahel, have had such training, and the Government is therefore giving a high



- 17-
priority in its focus on adjustment and capacity building to training journalists in some form of
economic journalism.
111. THE PROECT
ObJectives
67.   As indicated in the preceding chapter, effective economic management not only requires
good policy, but also strong institutions, an appropriate legal framework, and skilled individuals
to implement and communicate the policies throughout the administration and the public at large.
The objective of the program of actions to be financed by the proposed IDA credit is to support
the Government's broader effort to transform key public institutions, the laws supporting them,
and the personnel staffing them, thereby helping sustain the economic reforms which the
Government initiated with SAL support. Parts of this larger program are already underway or
are being considered for support through coordinated financing from a number of other bilateral
and multilateral donors (see Annex A for a more complete description of the Government's
program of public institutional development, and the coordinated support being provided by
various donors).
Summarv Prolect Description
68.   The proposed credit will finance a four-year time slice consisting of selected components
of the Government's institutional reform program. The program itself is based on a policy
framework for technical assistance and cooperation (see para. 2). The project, to be financed by
the IDA credit, is limited to actions which can be effectively completed within four years, and
which will result in lasting improvements in key areas of civil service and administrative
behavior. To this end, the project will help introduce greater effectiveness, accountability, and
transparency to public sector functions critical to the long-term success of the structural
adjustment program. Specifically, the credit will finance the following components:
(a)    Support to strengthen Information and Budgetary Management (US$8.6 million).
The credit will finance short-term TA, training, computers and civil works to
strengthen the information and budgetary management functions in the
Administrative and Finance Departments (DAAF) and the Research and Planning
Departments (DEP) of four priority ministries (Finance, Health, Education, and
Civil Service) as well as the capacity to produce and analyze statistical
information in the INSD;
(b)    Support to Improve Public Procurement (US$ 102.000). Through tinancing short-
term TA and equipment, the credit will assist the Government in preparing new
legislation and strengthening institutional procedures to improve the public
procurement process;
(c)    Strengthening Civil Service Management and Services (USS3.4 million). Support
will include financing a civil service census and studies, as well as introducing
training and new service quality techniques to improve the management of the
public sector wage bill and the civil service in general;



- 18 -
(d)    Refbrms to the Legal and Judicial System (US$2.8 million). Support will include
financing specialized assistance, training and civil works necessary to undertake
the formulation, communication, and application of new commercial and business
laws and practices; and
(e)    Training of Economic Journalists (US$90.000 . The credit will finance training
of Burkinabe journalists so as to improve the communication of economic policy
and reform measures to the public at large.
69.   As noted in Burkina's NATCAP study and in the Government's TA framework paper,
past institutional development efforts have been largely uncoordinated and unsustained. The
proposed credit, in financing elements of a larger government program developed around a
common set of objectives linked to the SAL, will also serve to coordinate donor support for
technical cooperation and institutional development. Other elements of the Government's broader
program of institutional support for economic management are currenmly being financed by
France's Ministry of Cooperation, the UNDP, the AfDB, Germany, and Norway.
Detailed Project Features
A.    Information and Data Management
70.   The success of the Government's program to strengthen economic management through
institutional development depends very much on the availability and quality of economic and
financial data. At present such data is seriously deficient in Burkina. As a result, Burkina's
major donors have committed themselves to providing support for data collection, management,
analysis and economic forecasting. Indeed, total donor support for such activities is now
estimated at about US$8 million equivalent during the 1992-95 period, of which about 10 percent
will be financed from the proposed IDA credit.
(i)    Strenghening INSD: To strengthen the collection and management of economic
and financial data, the Government intends to transform the National Institute of
Statistics and Demography (INSD) into an independent institution providing
statistical services under contract to government departments and institutions.
The French Government and IDA will support INSD's transformation in
accordance with a regional effort within the monetary union to harmonize and
strengthen statistical services. Specifically, tihe IDA credit will support: (a) the
establishment, prior to August 1. 1992, of a National Statistics Committee to
design and monitor a long-term strategy and work program for data collection
and analysis; (b) a comprehensive organizational audit of the INSD leading to
improved operations including statistical management; (c) a series of economic
and poverty-focussed SDA surveys and studies identified as part of the
adjustment program; and (d) the design and implementation of a training program
in statistics for staff of INSD and of the DEPs and DAAFs of key ministries.
Selection of the auditors would be completed prior to August 1. 1992, while
completion of the audit and implementation of its recommendatior.; would be
done in accordance with the timetable in Volume II Annex 1. As part of the
Government's effort to deal with the social dimensions of adjustment, the series
of priority household surveys will be done by INSD. These surveys will be
supported by the IDA credit with joint cofinancing from Norway, and



- 19-
coordinated financing from the French Government, the UNDP, the AfDB and
Canada, which is financing an ongoing rural-based survey. In addition, the
UNDP will finance a household budget survey intended to allow Government to
establish meaningful consumption price indices and improve national accounts
data.
(ii)   Information Management: The IDA credit will support the preparation of a
unified financial information management system for the Ministry of Finance,
including the review and updating of various nomenclature (some of which have
remained unchanged for 30 years) notably for the budget, with IMF assistance.
The credit will finance consultant services, including one long-term consultant
(an Information Manager) whose role would be to set up the system, constitute
a team from local staff, and recommend candidates for specialized training.
Because the effective management of financial information is critical to the
success of other project components and to SAL monitoring, agreement on the
TORs for the recruitment of the Manager were completed during negotiations
(see Volume II, Annex 2), and his recruitment would be effective no later than
September 1. 1992. The Information Manager function will be the responsibility
of the Secretary General of Finance, who with IDA financing would ensure the
financing of computers, training and hardware management. Creation of a
central civil service file (harmonizing the currently separate files of the Payroll
Office in the MCSAR, and the Budget Ministry) through the purchase of
computer hardware and training, is being financed under the PPF.  The
establishment of the information management system in the Ministry of Finance
will be closely coordinated with support from the French Government and the
UNDP;
('ii)   Analysis: Although the UNDP has been providing support to the BIP for several
years, monitoring of public investments remains a serious problem for SAL
implementation. One of tne primary objectives of the institutional development
project therefore is to deal with this problem through reforms to the budgetary
expenditure process (see para. 71 below), and through a closer coordination of
UNDP and IDA support for the production of better public investment data. At
the same time, the UNDP and the French Government will assist in the
preparation of more accurate national accounts, indispensable for economic
forecasting and management.  The establishment of the new information
management system to be financed by the Credit will improve Government's
ability to analyze information, thus contributing to monitoring of public
investments and to the preparation of national accounts by INSD; and
(iv)   Economic Forecasting: In the context of the adjustment program, both the IMF
and the Bank are interested in improvements to Burkina's economic forecasting
capacity. This constitutes an integral part of the Government's program to
strengthen the use of financial and economic information. Although the IDA
credit will not finance such support directly, the German and French
Governments, as well as UNDP, will provide the necessary financing to develop
this capacity in the Ministry of Finance. The UNDP will also include support
for the preparation of industrial and commercial strategies, as well as for a
national long-term perspective study.



- 20-
B.    Budget Management
71.   Sound budgetary management will be critical to the success of the adjustment program
and to the redefinition of the role of Government in the economy. The project will support this
redefinition by financing actions to strengthen the critical budgetary functions described earlier
in paras. 20-46. Although the French Government will continue to provide the bulk of support
for government revenue collection services, the IDA credit will complement those efforts by
financing the construction of a central tax services building and installation of a computerized
management system in the customs service (SYDONIA system). The IDA credit will also finance
a global audit of the budgetary expenditure cycle, a need identified after close collaboration with
the IMF. Already underway with PPF financing, this audit exercise (to receive coordinated
financing from the French Government) will review recurrent and investment expenditures made
by the Ministry of Finance and other Government ministries and agencies. On the basis of its
results, Government will be able to reorganize budgetary expenditure processes, thereby more
effectively managing public resource use and economic reforms more generally. The results of
the audit, to be completed no later than the end of the first year of the program, are expected to
result in a strengthening of the following functions: (a) reinforcing the Financial Control
Department (DCF) of the Ministry of Finance, thereby extending its reach of effective control
to the whole budget while streamlining complex control procedures and allowing more effective
delegation to the technical ministries (the procurement reform component described in paras.73-
76 below is an integral part of this effort); (b) strengthening the Inspector General of Finance
(IGF) and the Auditor General's office. Pending completion of the audit, the credit will finance
the purchase of equipment and costs of training for the IGF; (c) strengthening public accounting
through support for harmonizing the budgetary nomenclature with the new public accounting
framework. This new system will be tested on a pilot basis in Ouagadougou, Bobo Dioulasso
and Koudougou. The credit will also provide for the development of a computerized accounting
system over the next three years, including staff training. On this basis, the Government will
provide its assurances that by December 31, 1992 the general balance of accounts and aggregate
balances from the principal accounting service and the Treasury will be completed; (d)
strengthening of the customs services through computerization and training will be closely
coordinated with French assistance. In addition to the audit, program budgeting and annual
public expenditure reviews will be introduced in the priority ministries (Health, Education and
Equipment), and extended to other Ministries in years 2-4 of the project;
72.   Finally, while the global audit mentioned above will help the restructuring of a number
of institutions intimately involved in the budget expenditure process, the French Government will
also be assisting with the reorganization of the Ministry of Finance and Plan, as well as with
direct support for the Auditor General and the Comptroller General's Office.
C.    Public Poremient Reform
73.   In keeping with the objectives of: (i) administrative deconcentration expressed in the
Government's institutional development strategy paper, and (ii) reinforcing budgetary expenditure
controls expressed in the SAL, as an alternative to its earlier proposal to creating an autonomous
national public procurement office (see para. 50), the Government will adopt an approach which
deconcentrates procurement authority, eliminates duplication and ensures greater financial
accountability in the process. This new approach would strengthen the administrative capacity of
technical ministries to carry out their own procurement, subject to reinforced budgetary
expenditure controls exercised by the Ministry of Finance.



- 21 -
74.   To this end, the credit will support the following actions to reform public procurement:
(a)    Revision and consolidation of the regulations. The Government will appoint
a high level committee, as a condition of credit effectiveness, charged with the
task of preparing a revised and consolidated set of public procurement
regulations. The committee will be chaired by the Minister in charge of the
budget and include the Directcr of the Financial Control Department of the
Ministry of Finance and representatives of the most important sectoral ministries
affected by the public procurement regulations, as well as the Ministry of Justice,
the Auditor General and a representative of the private sector. The committee
will be assisted by a secretariat and will draw on the advice of short-term
international expertise financed under the credit. The objectives of the reform
work will be to:
revise procurement regulations and consolidate them into one set of
regulations, including ancillary texts in the form of standard general
conditions of contract for goods, services and civil works;
clarify existing regulations in order to increase the speed and
transparency of public procurement procedures;
enable delegation of authority to line ministries and contracting agencies
with commensu-ate accountability to the Department of Financial
Control;
eliminate duplication of responsibilities between organs of the state
involved in public procurement, distinguishing between organs of control
and contracting agencies and treating procurement expenditure as normal
budgetary expenditures;
meet criteria of non-discrimination, efficiency, transparency.;
apply regulations uniformly, regardless of the source of funding, unless
agreement to the contrary with any foreign donor is reached and duly
ratified.
(b)    Action to promote better application of the procument-r=llons. The
Ministry of Finance, (through the Department of Financial Control, DCF) will
promote the better understanding and application of the regulations by those
concerned. For this purpose, the Ministry will, in consultation with other
concerned ministries and drawing on advice from relevant expertise financed by
the credit and by UNDP:
-     add model documents to be used in conjunction with the standard general
conditions mentioned above, demonstrating good practice in dealing with
different kinds of contracts (models for invitations to bid, instructions to
bidders, particular conditions of contract, bid forms, etc.) and producing
and distributing among users diskettes containing models of the kind
referred to above;



- 22 -
prepare a commentary on the new regulations in the form of a manual,
giving practical hints and examples of dealing with expected problems;
give a wide dissemination to the new regulations and accompanying
models and explanatory documents;
guide the responsible government agencies in applying the new
regulations in a proper way, through current advice and by taking
initiative to train procurement staff;
collect and organize statistical data on relevant aspects of public
procurement; and
devise ways and means to increase respect for the procurement
regulations, including means to contravene illegal and negligent
practices.
(c)    Sff Development and Training. In accordance with terms of reference agreed
to during credit negotiations (see Volume II, Annex 2), the Ministry of Finance,
will systematically review the staff resources having been or currently engaged
in public procurement work in Burkina Faso. This inventory of staff will
distinguish between contracting agency staff and staff engaged in controlling
functions. Core common skill requirements will be identified, along with
additional knowledge required in specialized areas, such as technical
specifications, contract monitoring and assessment of supplier/contractor
qualifications. Based on such an inventory, a staff development plan will be
drawn up uy 31. 1993, and action for implementation taken in accordance with
the implementation schedule in Volume II Annex 1.
(d)    Based on the staff inventory, the Government will devise in-service training
programs, to be financed by the UNDP, for staff engaged in public procurement.
These programs will consider training opportunities at the national, sub-regional
and international levels, as necessary. In a first phase, a specialized training
program will be organized for a limited number of civil servants, lawyers and
professors of public administration. This program will include study visits to
institutions specializing in procurement. As far as national training facilities are
concerned, the Government will identify resource staff to be employed by
ENAREF for the purpose of sponsoring a basic training program, which can
subsequently be enlarged to cater for particular needs in various sectors and
subjects (see para. 78).
75.   The credit will finance about 1.8 manmonths of short-term consultants, as and when
required, to set up a consultative arrangement between the Government and a group of
procurement experts, partly local, partly foreign, which would intervene intermittently In the
work of the government committee charged with reform of the regulations, and support the
secretariat of that committee through drafting advice and access to international experience and
data bases. The kind of expertise required would cover such subjects as public procurement
policies and methods, legal drafting techniques, and commercial and technical aspects of
procurement. This assistance would include help in drafting manuals and model documents of



- 23 -
various kinds which would be used as tools to promote the smooth introduction of the
procurement reform. The expert group would also help plan training activities and organize
introductory workshops. In order to enable the Government to set up a well-functioning public
procurement system, the credit would also finance computers, office equipment, document
production, and reproduction equipment for the institutions concerned.
76.   During credit neiotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on a timetable
and an action plan for dissolution of ONMP and associated technical and sector commissions, and
a transfer of their staff to DCF and to the key technical ministries. It was also agreed that the
Government would designate the Minister of Finance to act as coordinator on its behalf with
respect to any matter concerning the implementation of the procurement reform component of the
project. The high level committee (para. 74 (a)) would hire, in the first instance, the experts
needed to prepare and introduce the reform. This reform will institutionalize transparent
procedures including public bid opening, and disclosure of all bid evaluation criteria to bidders.
Assurances were also provided during negotiations that this reform will expedite procedures, by
applying the principal that review and clearance of all public procurement decisions will be
completed within a fixed period of time. Subsequently, with UNDP financing, an umbrella
agreement would be made with a qualified organization to provide the training and technical
assistance services required over a longer period of about three years.
D.    Strengthening Civil Service Management
77.   In order to meet short-term financial targets under its adjustment program, in 1990-91
the Government adopted a combination of measures to better manage the growth of the public
sector wage bill. These included inter ali freezing financial increments for promotions over a
three-year period, and a limited number of voluntary departures. At the same time, for the long-
term, Government is preparing a program to improve the efficiency of civil servants. This will
be done through introducing better incentives and trair.ing to increase staff motivation, as well
as adopting management tools for controlling the rate of promotions, the levels of remuneration
and the number of civil servants. These measures will enable the Government to better manage
the evolution of the public sector wage bill without continually having to resort to unpopular
compression measures. The credit will finance short-term TA and equipment for: (i) a civil
service census, as well as preparatory studies based on the central civil service file prepared with
UNDP assistance and with PPF financing; (ii) revising civil service wages and remuneration
based on PPF financed studies of civil service remuneration and grading; and (iii) a system of
wage planning and forecasting linking personnel management to budgetary objectives. The credit
would finance a series 'of training seminars during the first two years of the project to better
associate unions and other key social groups with the Government's new wage and civil service
reform policies. Agreement was reached during negotiations on a training strategy for civil
service agents (See Volume II, Annex 4 for copy of strategy). A major principle of this strategy
is to stop the practice of training leading to automatic promotions, and instead to introduce
promotions based on merit. The credit would also support the examination of alternative
approaches to a career civil service, intended in part to minimize the loss and demotivation of
senior civil servants. Implementation of the actions described above would be completed in
accordance with the schedule presented in Volume 11 Annex 1.
78.   With respect to ensuring training for the civil service, in close coordination with UNDP,
the credit will assist in strengthening the capacity of Burkina's schools for public administration
to provide appropriate training for a transformed civil service. To this effect, a study will be



- 24 -
done to review ENAREF's scope, role, and status, including the possible merger with the
National School for Public Administration (ENAM) and the Customs School, extending coverage
by the new institution to the entire administration. The regional scope of the school would also
be explored in the context of an ongoing initiative sponsored by the French Government to
identify regional institutions for economic and public resource management. Selection of the
consultants for the ENAREF study would be completed by October 31. 1992 and implementation
of its recommendations, to be reviewed with IDA, are to be completed by the end of Year 2 of
the project. Ultimately, the program would seek to ensure that, with only well-defined
exceptions, virtually all civil service training and retraining would rely mostly on local permanent
and non-permanent teaching staff. The credit would finance senior teachers for short-term
courses (1-3 months) recruited from higher-level civil services abroad. Training in computer use
would also be financed by the project through the purchase of equipment and software, as well
as the design of specialized training modules for different government services covering about
1000 civil servants.
79.   Finally, the credit would also finance a series of pilot actions intended to directly increase
productivity and improve service quality in the public administration. These actions would build
on the positive results shown to date from applying, with Japanese Grant and SPPF funds, quality
control circles (QCC)4/ in selected Burkinabb industrial enterprises over the past three years.
These actions would use group dynamics, a technique more akin to Burkinabe cultural traditions,
to help develop the concept of service to the public tax payer in Burkina, and increase motivation
through developing a greater sense of teamwork. To this end, under the supervision of expatriate
experts, local QC experts from the QC Promotion Unit in the Ministry of Industry and from the
National QC Association would, in accordance with the timetable detailed in Volume II Annex
1, help install the QC system in four public institutions considered under the SAL as providing
priority services to the public: (i) the Yalgado National Hospital in Ouagadougou; (ii) the Public
Service Pension Fund (CARFO); (iii) the National Social Security Fund (CNSS); and (iv) the
Income Tax Department (DGI). The credit would finance training, short-term TA, and logistical
support for the proposed activities. Under this component, support would also be provided to
the Burkinabe Consumer Association to develop a broader constituency of users of public
services. The project would provide TA and logistical support to the Association to assist it in
developing indicators of public service quality, and monitoring service delivery from the targeted
public institutions.
E.    !gal and Judicial Reforms
80.   Although the Government's institutional development prograni' focusses broadly on the
legal and judicial context, the proposed IDA credit will support those reforms which most directly
affect business and commercial activity. The Ministry of Justice will have primary responsibility
for implementation of this component. A Steering Committee (which started meeting on an
informal basis in November 1991) consisting of broad government and legal representation,
including the private sector, will be established to advise the Minister of Justice on matters
relating to this component. Prior to credit negotiations, the Government adopted a decree
i/    QCC is a system aimed at increasing the productivity of the working unit using small
group dynamics. By giving all workers a sense of participating in the restructuring of
production techniques and processes, the system has not only raised productivity and
efficiency where applied, but also reduced labor/management tension.



- 25 -
ratifying its existence and setting out its role and composition. As a condition of credit
effectiveness, to strengthen legislative drafting, the Ministry will establish a Legislative Drafting
Division (LDD), which is to advise all Ministries and provide a coordinating mechanism for
legislative drafting. Staff for the Department will be recruited and trained locally during the
project period. At the same time, under the SAL, the Government undertook to establish a Law
Revision Committee to compile, revise and publish, in a consolidated form, existing laws.
Within the framework of this Committee, and under the chairmanship of the Director of the new
LDD, a sub-Committee to review the Commercial Code and Legislation (as well as the new land-
tenure law) will be created to recommend and prepare revised legislation. The credit will finance
short-term TA, and material and equipment for the Department and for the sub-committee. The
appointment of the Director and his core staff (3 magistrates), and the establishment of the sub-
committee (all members acceptable to IDA) are conditions of effectiveness. Abrogation of the
law creating "songdas", and the elimination of revolutionary tribunals, will be completed prior
to credit effectiveness, but because of political sensitivity, is recorded in a Side Letter to the
Credit Agreement.
81.    To increase the number of practicing lawyers, the Government will prevail upon the Bar
Association to resume its functions as vested in it by law, including processing without further
delay, the backlog of outstanding applications for admission to the Bar.  Prior to credit
disbursement against this component, Government will confirm that all outstanding applications
have been fully processed. In the course of negotiations, assurances were also obtained from the
Government that a legal aid mechanism for poorer clients including its operating procedures,
would be established no later than December 31. 1993. At the end of each year of the project,
the Government will provide IDA with evidence to show that all trainee advocates admitted for
training in the preceding year, have secured trainee positions either in a law firm or, when
justified, in the judicial service.
82.   With respect to the courts, for the lower courts of Ouagadougou and Bobo Dioulasso, the
Government will set up separate commercial courts to relieve the overburdened magistrates and
to provide a specialized and better equipped court for prompt and efficient disposal of commercial
cases. These commercial courts will be presided over by specially trained magistrates. In view
of the shortage of qualified magistrates, the lower court positions will need to be filled in the first
year of the project from amongst those who relinquished their functions as "songdas". These
courts will also establish a registry to maintain a register of companies. This registry will also
serve as the court registry. The adoption of legislation creating separate commercial courts in
Ouagadougou and Bobo Dioulasso is a condition of effectiveness. Furthermore, in order to guard
against possible abusive postponement of proceedings by magistrates, the project will require
from them, monthly reports giving to their supervisors details on output and performance, with
deadlines fixed to ensure that judgements are made within a reasonable time. Administrative
instructions to this effect were discussed during ne2otiations. The same instructions will make
it clear that the criteria for promotion will be revised to include compliance with the instructions.
83.    As an alternative for investors and businessmen to the overcrowded courts, the
Government has agreed to encourage more widespread recourse to arbitration for resolving
conflict. The credit will finance a study to determine the necessary legal and institutional
framework that arbitration requires, and result in the adoption of legislation and appropriate
institutional arrangements. The study will be completed no later than June 30. 1994 with its
recommendations to be reviewed by IDA and put into effect no later than December 31. 1994.
The credit will also finance technology to ensure the production, safe storage of all court



- 26 -
decisions and their ready availability and communication as part of a legal database. With
coordinated financing from the French Government, the credit will also finance upgrading of the
Supreme Court's library facilities, the,appointment of a suitably qualified librarian, and the
rehabilitation and modernization of facilities for preparing the Official Journal. In the preparation
of legislation and in the sale and distribution of the Official Journal, the General Secretary of the
Government (SGG) will take a more active role. Administrative instructions to this effect were
discussed at negotiations and will be adopted no later than September 30. 1993.
84.   To fill the new positions in the commercial courts and in the LDD, the project will
finance part of the costs of training magistrates, prospective business notaries and legal ushers,
as well as specialized training in commercial and labor law matters for sitting magistrates. For
lawyers and magistrates, the Government has agreed to amend the law governing training
requirements for access to the profession, thereby improving the piocess of recruitment and
training qualified legal staff. Specific programs, including reactivating the magistrates department
at ENAM, have been identified, and criteria for selection to these programs are being prepared.
Draft legislation for training these specialized professions, as well as reinstating notaries and legal
clerks, was submitted to IDA for discussion during negotiations, and will be adopted prior to
disbursement against this component. Submission of a detailed training program, including the
proposed criteria for candidates selection shall be agreed upon prior to disbursement against this
compgnent.
85.   In terms of specific legislation, the mining code and related legislation also need to be
addressed urgently if Burkina's significant mining potential is to be tapped. Recent negotiations
with foreign mining firms concerning the Perkoa Zinc and the Tambao manganese projects drew
attention to the absence of much needed mining legislation. With coordinated financing from
UNDP, the credit would finance: (i) preparation of reforms to the mining code and related
legislation including the land-tenure law; and (ii) on the job training of two Burkinabe lawyers
and two economists to work with foreign experts in preparing the new legislation. During
negotiations. agreement was reached with IDA on terms of reference and schedules for technical
assistance, and on the timing for completion of draft mining legislation (see Volume II, Annex
2).
86.   The actions financed by the IDA credit to strengthen business laws in Burkina will be
buttressed by support from the French Government as part of a wider effort within the countries
of the UMOA to harmonize not only business and commercial law, but also basiking controls and
regulatory mechanisms, insurance, and social security legislation, the ultimate intention being to
transform the monetary union into an economic one.
F.    Strengthening Communication of Economic Policy
87.   Cognizant of the training deficiencies in economic journalism mentioned earlier (paras.
65-66), the Ministry of Information in Burkina has given high priority to providing journalists
from both the public and private media with a better understanding of basic market economics,
and adjustment. Four other Sahelian countries have indicated the same priority. Considering the
Bank's recent support for building-up Africa's human resource capacity in economic policy
formulation and management, as well as its commitment to improving the communication of
economic policy, the project would help strengthen the understanding of those who analyze,
interpret and mold public opinion on issues of economic and social policy.



- 27 -
88.   To this end, in collaboration with EDI and the BCEAO, a course module for training
francophone journalists in basic economics and adjustment (3 man-weeks) has been developed.
During the program implementation period, several courses would be held at the BCEAO in
Dakar to which journalists from other Sahelian/UMOA countries would also be invited, at their
Government's own expense. The Burkinabe Ministry of Information has identified some 36
journalists (from both the private and public media) to be trained in the first 2 years of the
project. The credit would finance the travel and subsistence costs of the Burkinabe journalists
concerned, with course materials supplied by EDI. Because the countries to be invited are
UMOA members, the BCEAO will provide the facilities, and the French Government has agreed
to finance the general costs incurred by the BCEAO, as well as the costs of some of the trainers
required.
G.    Rationale for IDA Involvement
89.   Because IDA is a privileged partner in the macroeconomic and sector policy dialogue
concerned with helping to improve economic management, and because the sustainability of the
adjustment reforms depends on the capacity of the GOB to implement the SAL supported
measures, IDA is well placed to extend its dialogue to institutional and process reform.
Experience from Burkina and elsewhere in the Sahel, as well as IDA's comparative advantage
in mobilizing and coordinating international support for structural adjustment, will also help the
GOB better coordinate its overall program of institutional development in economic management,
albeit ensuring that other donors continue to support those activities for which they have a clear
comparative advantage.
IV - PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING. AND PROCUREMENT
Proiect Costs
90.   Total project costs are estimated at US$16.96 million, (excluding taxes and duties, from
which the project is exempt). The estimated foreign exchange component is US$11.95 million,
or 70 percent of total cost. The costs by project component are provided below, while detailed
estimates are provided in Annex B.



- 28 -
TABLE 1: ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS
USS Millions
Z- - 
Local       Foreign        Total        % of For.
A. Information and Budgetary Reforms
Ministry of Pinance                2.22          4.22          6.44           66
INSD/Statistics                     0.13         1.19          1.32           90
Sub total                          2.35          5.41          7.76           70
B. Prourement Reform                 0.02         0.08           0.10           80
C. Civil Service Reforms
Census                             0.07         0.20          0.27           74
Studies                            0.05         0.18          0.23           78
Tmining                            0.50         1.00           1.50           67
Quality Control Circles            0.15         0.33          0.48           69
Civil Service Ministry             0.10         0.57          0.67           85
Sub total                          0.87         2.28          3.15           72
D. Legal and Judicial Reforms        0.88          1.97          2.85           69
E. Training of Joumalists            0.045        0.045          0.09           50
P. IDA Crcdit: Auditb                0.02          0.06          0.08           75
G. PPF Refinancing                   0...          .75           0.75           100
Total Base Costs                   4.19         10.60         14.78           72
Physical Contingencies             0.46         0.92           1.38          67
Price Contingeies                  0.36         0.43          0.79           54
Total Project Cos                  5.01         11.95         16.96           70
91.    Base cost estimates are in mid-1991 prices. Physical contingencies amounting to about
10 percent of base costs are included. Price contingencies have been estimated at about 5.4
percent of base costs. Annual rates of inflation used are those projected in the March 1991
Policy Framework Paper and are estimated at about 3.7 percent for intemational inflation in the
cost of foreign goods and services, and about 3 percent for local inflation.



- 29 -
Financing Plan
92.   The proposed IDA credit of US$15 million equivalent would finance approximately 88
percent of total project costs, net of duties and taxes; this would cover approximately US$11.7
million of foreign costs and US$3.3 million of local costs. A PPF in the amount of US$ 0.75
million was approved in October 1991. Up to US$1.5 million of retroactive financing could be
required and is reflected in the legal documents. The Government's contribution to the project
will finance operating costs of about US$1.6 million equivalent (see para. 97). Norwegian co-
financing estimated at US$0.3 million would finance strengthening information management as
it relates to the social dimensions of adjustment. The financing plan for the project is set out
below:
TABLE II: FINANCING PLAN
[                          | I  GOVr. OF                   % of IDA   1
IDA    JNORWAY           BURKINA        TOTAL        CONTR.
US$ Millio-s 
Training          2.4          0.15                        2.6            96
Consultant
Services         3.4                                       3.4           100
Civil Works      3.7                                       3.7           100
Equipment/
Vehicles         4.7           0.15                        4.9           96
Operating
Costs                                        1.6            1.6           0
IDA Credit:
Audits           0.08                                      0.08          100
PPF
Rorfuancing      0.75                                      0.75          100
|TOTAL         r    n0.30 n                     1.6  I       16.9    [      9
Due to rounding numbers may not add up exactly.
93.   Because of the complexity involved in attempting to establish formal co-financing
arrangements with donors already providing assistance to the Government's program of
institutional development, coordinated financing has been worked out which includes additionally
about US$1 million from the AfDB; US$12 million from the UNDP; US$10.7 million from the
French Government, and US$1.5 million from Germany. Financing for recurrent costs will be
limited essentially to maintaining INSD vehicles, and the maintenance of computers financed
under the project.
Procurement
94.   Procurement under the credit would cover the net of tax cost of goods, consultant services
for technical assistance, studies and training, and civil works. The total cost of goods - largely



-30-
computer equipment, legal texts, and a small number of vehicles - would be approximately
USS4.7 mil'ion. Since adequate local representation exists, and the contracts will be relatively
small, the vehiUes (which include a half dozen cars, motorcycles, and mobylettes) and smaller
items of equipment (including local publication of legal texts for the law library), the total costing
about US$800,000 equivalent, would be procured through local competitive bidding (LCB)
procedures acceptable to the Association (}e at prices comparable to UN/IAPSO). Computer
equipment and software, photocopiers, typewriters and fax machines totalling about US$3.9
million, would be purchased through ICB. Civil Works (involving several contracts) construction
of an intemal revenue central services building totalling about US$2 million equivalent would be
procured through ICB, and renovation of facilities for the Official Journal, INSD, and the Civil
Service Ministry totalling about US$1.7 million equivalent, would be procured through LCB
since there are capable local contractors and the contracts in question would be relatively small.
LCB documents, however, would be reviewed by the Association, and foreign firms would not
be precluded from participation. All contracts of US$100,000 equivalent or more will be subject
to prior review by the Association, while contracts below will be subject to ex post review by
the Association. All import goods financed by IDA are subject to pre-shipment inspection for
quality, quantity and price verification by pre-shipment inspection firms, except that IDA-financed
ICB procurement would be exempt from price verification.
95.   The IDA credit would finance some 27 consultant contracts totalling US$4.8 million
equivalent (of which about US$2.3 million for training), with each contract costing on average
US$175,000 equivalent. All consultants financed by the credit would be hired in accordance with
IDA's guidelines on the employment of consultants. Cofinanced consultants are expected to have
specific terms of reference with verifiable goals to be achieved, in the same way as those financed
by IDA. Draft terms of reference (TORs) for all major consultant contracts financed by the
credit were discussed during appraisal and confirmed at negotiations (TORs for major contracts
are found in Volume II as Annex 2). Overall procurement arrangements are summarized in Table
MII below; a listing of the contracts to be let for consultants and studies is attached as Annex C.
Training costs under the project include some consultants, equipment and materials for local
training, as well as a limited amount for training abroad. The consultants associated with training
to be financed by the credit are separated into approximately 8 contracts, including 5 individuals,
and 3 firms. Two firms would provide services for the QCC component, and the third for
strengthening training in the ENAREF. In each case, sole sourcing would be used since the
expertise required in the case of the QCC component is highly specialized and limited, while in
the case of ENAREF, the Government's preference is to use expertise for training civil servants
in budgetary management techniques most compatible with their current systems of public
resource management. On average, these contracts would cost about US$250,000 equivalent.
About US$366,000 equivalent of training abroad will be procured under the credit in recognized
training institutions agreed to with IDA.
96.   Although reviews of IDA's investment portfolio in the Sahel over the last several years
have established that Burkina's is amongst the best managed, a recurring problem has been the
delays in public procurement. Procurement bottlenecks have also been identified as a serious
source of delay in implementing TA projects throughout Africa. Because of these problems, the
project addresses system-wide procurement reforms in Burkina. During the transition, however,
to avoid bottlenecks to project implementation arising from slow procurement, procurement
authority for contracts under CFAF 50 million financed under the credit will be given to a special
commnittee to be chaired by the Department of Financial Control of the Ministry of Finance.
Details on the scope and composition of the Committee were agreed to during negotiations.



- 31 -
TABLE IlL: AMOUNTS AND METHODS OF PROCUREMENT la
Ploject                          Procuremcnt Method e
Project                                                                                      S
Elemont           ICa             LCB              Othcr            NBF           Total Cost
(USS Millions)                                 l
Training                                             (2.40)                           (2.40)
0.15                             0.15
Consultant
Services and
studies                                              (3.39)                           (3.39)
Civil Works        (2.00)           (1.70)                  _                         (3.70)
Equipment and                                                                          (4.8)
Vehiclc   _         (3.9)           (0.80)           0.15              ....            0.15
Operating
Costs                                                                 1.60             1.60
PPfi                                                (0.75)                            (0.75)
Total               (5.90)          (2.50)--         (6.54)    -                  (5.00)
(5.90)          (2.5)     1      0.30             1.60             1.90
Ia      Contingencies and expenditurns finanncd by thc PPF arc includcd in the amounts above. IDA contribution is in
parentheses.
Due to rounding, numbers may not add up exactly.
Disbursements
97.    The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed against: 100 percent of the costs of
training, consultants, studies, civil works, and equipment, vehicles, and materials. The credit
wili refinance the PPF upon effectiveness. The Government's contribution to the project will
finance 100 percent of operating costs defined as: (i) upgrading and refurbishing of buildings; (ii)
rental; and (iii) consumables such as operating supplies. These expendi:ures, equivalent to about
US$1.6 million (about 10 percent of credit) will not recur after project completion and will
therefore not represent incremental budgetary expenditures. This approach will minimize
implementation problems otherwise arising from the splitting of invoices between the Bank and
the Borrower. In addition, the Norwegian grant funds will be disbursed at 100 percent for
training and vehicles. A summary disbursement schedule is attached as Annex D.
98.    The standard disbursement profile for TA/ID projects in Africa is about 84 months. For
the following reasons, however, we expect this operation to disburse in 48 months: (i) the success
to date in implementing SAL measures; and (ii) the already advanced state of a number of the
project actions.



- 32 -
99.   IDA would disburse against certified Statements of Expenditure for consultant services
whose contract value would be less than US$50,000, for equipment and vehicles for contracts
valued less than US$100,000. The Director General for Administrative Reform (DGAR) in the
Ministry of Civil Service and Administrative Reform (MCSAR) would retain the documentation
for expenditures and make it available for the independent auditors and for review by IDA during
supervision missions. Conditions of disbursement are described in para. 113. The closing date
for the Credit will be March 31, 1997, six months after project completion.
Accounts and Audit
100.  The Ministry of Civil Service and Administrative Reform (MCSAR) will be responsible
for ensuring that accounts for all expenditures funded under the project Credit, are submitted to
it on a regular basis by the various implementing ministries. In order to facilitate access to
project funds for numerous small payments, a special account equivalent to US$1 million will be
opened in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA. The project accounts will be maintained in
accordance with sound and internationally recognized accounting principles and practices
satisfactory to IDA. MCSAR will provide interim and annual financial statements to reflect the
financial performance and position of the project. The project would also finance the hiring of
a local accounting firm to assist the MCSAR in doing so. The TORs for the consultant
accountant were agreed to during negotiations (see Volume II, Annex 2) and the hiring of a
consultant acceptable to IDA would be confirmed prior to effectiveness. Project accounts would
be audited annually by independent external auditors satisfactory to IDA, including an audit of
Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). The audit reports, of such scope and in such detail as IDA
shall reasonably request, would be submitted to IDA no later than six months following the end
of the Government's fiscal year. The auditor's report will include a statement on the adequacy
or otherwise of the accounting system and internal controls, the reliability of statements of
expenditure as a basis for loan disbursement, and compliance with financial covenants.
Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations. The Burkinabe delegation provided a
short-list of auditing firms to IDA for approval during negotiations. The appointment of an
auditing firm to audit the project accounts over a four-year period is a condition of effectiveness.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Project Management
101.  As noted earlier, an often critical flaw in institutional/TA projects has been the creation
of independent project management/coordination units (PMUs) whose existence has depended on
the continuation of the projects themselves. Bank sector work in this field has concluded that
instead of creating new PMUs to manage the implementation of institutional development
projects, the management of institutional reforms should be an integral part of the day-to-day
responsibilities of the ministries concerned. Based on this experience, the specific program for
each component in the project, has been largely formulated by and will be implemented by the
Ministries and agencies themselves. Although the project is intended to reinforce weaknesses in
institutional capacity in these ministries and agencies, Burkina's administration is recognized on
the whole as being relatively capable, and as noted earlier, portfolio management has consistently
been amongst the most highly rated in the Sahel.



- 33 -
102.  Overall responsibility for program and project coordination and administration would lie
with the newly reoriented MCSAR. The Director General of Administrative Reforms (DGAR),
supported by his staff, would ensure this responsibility on behalf of the Ministry. Each of the
three implementing ministries would designate a project liaison from its existing staff to report
to the Director in MCSAR and ensure that documentation and reporting on project progress is
provided as necessary.  Government confirmation formalizing those project management
arrangements was provided prior to negotiations (see Volume II, Annex 5).
103.  The main responsibilities of the DGAR would include:
(a)    ensuring coordination among components and between implementing agencies,
and IDA and the cofinanciers;
(b)    assisting implementing agencies in the preparation of their annual work plans and
compiling project expenditure documentation in a program budget format,
including information on Government counterpart financing;
(c)    preparing quarterly progress monitoring reports; and
(d)    coordinating project related training activities of participating agencies with
training institutions.
104.  In those areas where appropriate administrative or technical capacity on project-related
tasks does not already exist in the administration, the agencies concerned may subcontract the
capacity from outside the agency. No incremental civil service positions would be created or new
staff hired with project financing, nor would any salary supplement be paid under the project.
Annual Work Program and Reporting
105.  Project implementation will be carried out on the basis of annual work programs for each
component, thereby enhancing flexibility in planning and monitoring, and allowing objectives for
each component to be attained independently. Each annual work program would include: (i) an
evaluation of the previous years' work program; (ii) a statement of monitorable objectives to be
pursued, and a description and timetable of the activities to be carried out to realize these
objectives; (iii) detailed budgets and financing plans as well as a procurement program and
timetable; and (iv) staffing and training plans.  WVork programs are to be prepared and
implemented by each agency concerned. They would all be submitted to the DGAR who would
synthesize them and prepare a project-wide budget and procurement plan to be submitted
annually, prior to the end of the previous fiscal year cycle, for IDA review and approval. A
mid-year review of implementation would be held with IDA and the other financing agencies.
The first year work program covering the first 12 months of the project period was agreed to
during neotiation (see Volume II, Annex 1). Supervision of the project would be undertaken
jointly with representatives of the French Ministry of Cooperation and the UNDP (see Annex E
for Project Supervision Schedule). Representatives of the AfDB, and the German Government
would participate on an ad hoc basis at their request.  Representatives of the Norwegian
Government would be invited to jointly supervise the information management component dealing
with the priority surveys.



- 34 -
106.  The DGAR would also prepare quarterly progress reports for submission to IDA, and
would prepare the project completion report and submit It to IDA no later than 9 months after
the credit closing date. Each implementing agency would be responsible for providing the
MCSAR with the documentation needed to enable it to prepare the progress as well as the
completion reports.
107.  As Annex A shows, a number of different donors are already supporting or intending to
support the Government's overall program  for institutional development.  As a result,
Government is in the process of establishing a mechanism which will minimize donor overlap and
at the same time allow the identification of additional TA needs in the program as they develop.
To this end, a coordinating commission on TA/ID will be established. It will be chaired by a
Government representative and will, in addition to Government officials, include representatives
from the donor institutions supporting the Government program. The UNDP will serve as
Secretary to the Commission. The Commission would convene several times per year, and would
ensure that an inventory of donor support for institutional development was kept up to date.
Agreement with the Government was reached during negotiations on the role and the composition
of the coordinating commission. (See Aide Memoire of Appraisal Mission, March 18, 1992, in
Volume II, Annex 3 and Annex 5).
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
108.  The project to be financed by IDA is integral to the Government's strategy and larger
program to implement and sustain the economic reform program supported by the SAL. It would
also help support the Government's policy to focus TA/ID from donois around a common set of
principles and objectives, thereby minimizing the often disparate nature of past technical
assistance. Specific benefits from the project would include: (i) improved management of
information and the budgetary process in the priority sectors defined by the structural adjustment
program; (ii) more effective management of the civil service including training responsive to
financial constraints and personnel requirements, and ultimately, improved working conditions,
thereby allowing the Government to retain higher quality staff more easily; (iii) a transparent and
more efficient system of public procurement; (iv) creation of a legal framework giving confidence
to private investors; and (v) increased public understanding of economic policy and reform under
the Government's macro-economic policy framework through building the capacity of local
journalists and editors to analyze and report on economic policy and management.
109.  The main risk associated with project implementation is the possible weakening of the
Government's commitment to the economic reform program. On the one hand, the uncertainty
in the outcome of the political reform process, and the composition of the new National Assembly
following legislative elections scheduled for May 1992, adds to this risk. On the other hand, the
support for the economic program from virtually all the major opposition parties mitigates the
risk. Moreover, the politically neutral nature of the project's objectives and components should
enable it to enjoy broad support, which is unlikely to be lost under a different Government. A
second risk arises from the Government's capacity to manage and implement what is both an
ambitious and innovative program. Although the MCSAR is relatively new, the Government has
a strong commitment to building national capacity, has on its own taken the initiative to produce
a strategy framework paper and policy guidelines to realize this commitment and has been
relatively effective in managing donor financed projects. In addition, the Government's strategy
of deconcentrating management and integrating implementation of each component into the line



- 35 -
ministry concerned (with overall coordination given to the MCSAR) should minimize the
complexity of managing multiple components. The project will be implemented over a 4-year
period in accordance with independently defined work programs which permit flexibility and mid-
course adjustments as necessary. Because of the proposed project's link to the SAL, the SAL
supervision plan is being amended to take account of the project, which will as a result benefit
from close IDA supervision during implementation. Since this is a Category C project, no
enviromnental analysis is needed.
VII. AGREEMENTS
Agreemenls Reached
110.   Prior to negotiations:
(a)    GOB adopted a decree to ratify the existence of a Steering Committee to advise
the Minister of Justice on matters relating to legal and judicial reforms including
the TORs and composition of the Committee (para. 80);
(b)    GOB submitted to IDA draft decrees to ratify the existence of (i) a Coordinating
Commission for the overall TA/ID program; and (ii) IDA project management
arrangements (paras. 102 and 107).
111.  During negotiations:
(a)    Agreement reached on TORs and hiring of the Information Manager (para. 70
(ii));
(b)    Agreement reached on TORs for the study pertaining to the Ministry of Finance's
systematic review of staff resources presently engaged in public procurement
work (para. 74 (c));
(c)    Agreement reached on timetable and action plan for dissolution of ONMP and
related commissions, the integration of their functions and transfer of staff to
DCF and to technical ministries no later than January 1, 1994 (para. 76);
(d)    Agreement on a training strategy for civil service agents (para. 77);
(e)    Agreement reached on administrative instructions concerning the role of SGG in
preparing the Official Journal (para. 83);
(f)    Confirmation provided on TORs and schedules for TA related to the mining
sector, and on the timing for completion of draft mining legislation (para. 85);
(g)    Agreement reached on the TORs for the Consultant Accountant whose services
the MCSAR will use to identify the accounting and administrative management
needs of the Administrative Reform Department (para. 100);



- 36 -
(h)    Agreement reached on first-year work program including procurement actions
envisaged under the project (para. 105);
(i)    Agreement reached on a short-list of auditing firms for the project (para. 100);
(j)    Agreement reached on the scope and composition of the Committee to review
IDA procurement financed under the credit (para. 96);
(k)    Agreement reached on scope and composition of coordinating commission for
TA/ID (para. 107).
112.  Conditions of effectiveness:
(a)    Appointment of a high level committee, chaired by the Minister responsible for
budget preparation, and including the director, to prepare a revised and
consolidated set of public procurement regulations (para. 74 (a));
(b)    Establishment of a Legislation Drafting Division, recruitment of the Director and
magistrates, and establishment of the sub-committee in charge of the codification
of commercial law (para. 80);
(c)    Adoption of legislation creating separate commercial courts in Ouagadougou and
Bobo-Dioulasso (para. 82);
!d)    Recruitment of Consultant Accountant for the MCSAR (para. 100).
(e)    Selection of auditors for the project (para. 100);
113.  Conditions of disbursement (legal component):
(a)    GOB to confirm that the Conseil de l'ordre has ruled on all pending applications
for admission to the Bar (para. 81);
(b)    Upgrading of library facilities and appointment of librarian (para. 83).
(c)    Adoption of laws pertaining to training of attorneys and magistrates (as well as
their prospects for entering the profession) and to .he reinsertion of legal ushers
and lawyers (para. 84);
(d)    Submission of a detailed training program for magistrates and other attorneys,
including the criteria for selection of candidates (para. 84);
114.  Assurances provided by Government during negotiations:
(a)    Review and clearance of all public procurement would be decisions be completed
within a fixed period of time following approval by the financier (para. 76);
(b)    Establishment of legal aid mechanism not later than December 31, 1993 (para
81);



- 37 -
(c)    Issuance of administrative instructions on monthly reports detailing output and
performance of proceedings by magistrates (para. 82);
(d)    Issuance of instructions on the drafting and follow-up of legal texts, and on the
distribution and commercialization of the Official Journal no later than September
30, 1993 (para. 83);
(e)    Completion of study for establishment of arbitration facilities not later than June
30, 1994 (para. 83).
Recommendation
115.  Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project is suitable for a credit of US$15
million equivalent to the Government of Burkina Faso on standard IDA terms with 40 years
maturity.



ANNEX A
- 38 -           Page 1of 2
lI
___  *i Ail  I!;ffiiI t
3 Z X   1}   axile Xli Xt I
3 WX       t 0| I      iIl  00Ilt{
___ rJ 7I     if l f t_      _ __ _ _  _ _



- 39-~               ANNEX A
Page 2 of 2
I   r                 =   0    l   " -
iiX}ij]S }iti    
LIIs          ii IT I   l    Ii          Ibe2$a
ii {i li1  X~j         .      1 -l  1             ll



BURKIN FASN
PUBUC LITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CFAF
Project Components by Year
Bas, Costs                           Total
1993      1994      199        199    CFAF     USS
A. Budgeary  gt.. Reforms
1. Ministry of Finance         442527.0  592461.7  590420.0   63426.9 1684840.7    6194.3
2. Stattetics/INSm             178988.8   73932.3   73866.0   19173.2  342999.1    1261.0
sub-total                        61565.6  666394.0  67M281.1   72699.1  2027839.8    7466.3
B. Credit Manag eet                66.0    66M.6    666.6   6556.6   22926.4             81.0
C. Civi I Service Reform
1. Coosus                       76544.5       e.o       *.o        9.o   76344.6      277.9
2. Studies                      6883.2        0.0       9.9        9.0   69385.2      265.1
S. Schools                     16656.6  159374.3   68954.9   38282.5  392367.3    1442.6
4. QualIty Control Circles      685.9   6887.0         368.8     368.8  1206W4.1      476.7
5. Civil Service Minlstry       86058.4   7199.8   17862.6   18934.6  190966.4        702.6
Sub-total                        45851.6  267331.8   76275.3   55575.9  857714.5    3163.4
D. Procur_mt. Reforms             1196.9    8854.3    6679.3    1380.0   27876.4        102.6
E. Lepl A Judicial Reform        286969.2  262766.8  171214.6   6676.2  7765.2    2854.8
F. Training of Journalist         1221.6   12921.6        0.0        9.0   24943.3      88.4
G. PPF RefInanciog               24 .           9          .9        0.0  20466.0      760.0
Tot*l BASELINE COSTS            1595632.5 1212873.6  92986.8  291636.8 3989999.6   14486.3
Physical Contingncies         182109.9  122837.7  107809.2   13294.3  375961.1    1382.2
Price Cotoingncies             26068.1   70658.6   90628.6   27446.5  216586.6       792.6
Total PROJECT COSTS             1754645.4 1465319.9 1128290.5  242267.6 4531647.4   16669.1
Tax"                               9.0       0.9        *.0 9.6             9.6       6.6
Foreign Exchange              881066.9  974124.5  648361.3  170496.8 8174646.6   11671.6
Valuo Scaled by 1011.09 6/81992  17:61
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1



BURKINA FASO
PUBLIC INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CFAF
Sumary Accounts by Year
Base Costs                               Foreign Exchange
1993       1994       1996       1996      Total          X     Amount
======_  ==
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Equipmsnt,Fureiture,Uats       676903.4  876280.1   52668.8   64866.4  1095903.7              89.2  946499.4
8. Civil Works                     45111.8  254892.8  494980.4    4102.0  798867.0               48.8  369887.0
C.  Vehicles                       67876.8         5.6        5.5        5.5    578.8           89.6    51656.1
D.  Training                      226139.9   198279.2   130466.4    48331.9   663216.6           50.3   353846.0
E.  Consultants                   303296.0   263363.8   143117.7    21637.3   811314.8          74.0   655200.6
F.  PPf Ref IinocIn               204505.0         0.0        0.0        0.0  204056.0         100.0  204005.5
Total INVESTMENT COSTS           1493128.0  1091616.5   821197.3   128637.6  3534678.8          70.6  2494889.1
II. RECURRENT COSTS
0. Vehiclo 0 A   Costs            25940.5      7158.2     7168.2     7168.2    47415.0         69.0    32709.9
H. Equipment 0 i U Costs           73901.7   111437.1   101601.3    66841.5   352681.1          69.0   243302.4
1.  Rent                            2662.3      2682.3        0.0        O.0     5324.7         58.8     3133.4
Total RECURRENT COSTS             102504.5   121257.7   108659.6    72999.2  455420.8           68.9   279146.8
Total BASELINE COSTS             1595632.6  1212873.6   929866.8   201636.8  3939999.6          70.4  2774034.8
Physlcal Contingencies         132159.9   122837.7   107809.2    13204.3   375961.1          66.7   25525.2
Price Contingencies             26903.1    75608.6    90528.5    27448.5   215586.           89.8   149986.6
Total PROJECT COSTS              1764845.4  1406319.9  1128294.5   242287.6  4631547.4          70.1  3174646.6
Taxes                               0.0        .-         0.0        0.0        0.0         05.         0.0
Foreign Exchange              1381886.8  974124.6  648361.3  170495.3  3174646.6            155.0  3174646.6
Values Scaled by IM.0 5/6/1992 17:61
0'Z
NW



BURK3HA FASO
PUBLIC INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Suary Accounts Cost Sumary
CFAF                            USS                              Total
______ __ -- -_-_-------_______--   --------------------------   X Foreign       a.s"
Local   Foreign      Total      Local  Foreign   Total       Exchange     Costs
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A Equipment,Furnlturn1aste      114604.4  945499.4 1069608.7        401.9  3493.3  3895.2           89.2       26.9
B. Civil Works                  408980.0  389807.0  798867.0       1468.6  1488.5  2937.0           48.8       20.3
C. Vehicles                       602.6   616.1   57676.8            21.2   190.0   212.0           89.6        1.6
0  Training                      299670.6  803604.0  808210.6      1075.6  1142.2  2217.7           60.3       16.3
E. Consult nte                  211114.2  666286.6  611814.8        749.1  2238.8  2982.6           74.6       20.6
F. PPF Refinancing                   0.0  204660  294060.0            0.6   760.0   760.0          100.0        5.2
Total INVESTMENT COSTS          10U9689.? 2494889.1  3634678.8     3716.3  9278.5  12904.8          76.6       89.7
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Vebicle 0 A   Costs           14705.0   32709.9   47415.0        52.3   122.0   174.3           69.0        1.2
B. Equip ment 0 a   Costs        109378.7  243302.4  362681.1       389.0   907.6  1296.6           69.0        9.0
C. Rent                           2191.3    3183.4    6324.7          7.8    11.7    19.6           68.8        0.1
Total RECURRENT COSTS            126275.0  279145.8  405420.8       449.1  1041.4  1490.5           88.9       10.3
-------~-------               ------------------ ---
Total BASELINE COSTS            1166964.8 2774034.8  3939999.6     4165.4  10319.9  14466.3         71.2      106.0
Physical Contlngencies        125335.9  250625.2  376961.1       486.8   921.4  1382.2           86.7        9.5
Price Contingencies           666.0  14996.0  2156688.           382.4   430.2   79.6            54.3        6.5
Total PROJECTS COSTS            1356960.8  3174648.6  4531647.4    4988.6  11671.6 l2M.L            70.1      115.6
Valu" Scaled by 1.m - 5/6/1992 17:62
Em2



0WKINA FASO
PUBLIC INSTITUTIONAL DEVELDOPMENT PROJECT
Summary Accounts by Yer
Totals Including Contingencels                           Totals Inc uding Contingencies
CFAF                                                      US3
1993      1994       1996      1996      Total          1993      1994       1996      1996      Total
T. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Equipment,Furnlturo,Mate       046e88.8  485639.0   03326.2   68131.0 121O894.9          2375.3    1691.2      232.8     260.5    4469.9
B. Civil Works                     62745.4  607743.4  618052.4    6293.4  983834.6           193.9    1131.4    2272.3        19.5    3617.0
C. Vehicles                        64595.9       0.0        0.0       9.9   e4695.0         237.5        0.9        9.0       0.0      237.6
0. Training                       262928.1  229218.7  156827.8   59658.4  6976831.1          929.9     842.7      572.9     219.3    2654.8
E. Consultants                    429041.6  305165.7  171674.3   26744.3  928262.9         1577.4    1121.9       631.2      98.3    3428.8
F. PPF Refinancing                204M.0         0.0        0.0       0.0  204000.0          750.0       0.0        0.0       0.0      760.0
Total INVESNT COSTS              1649398.9 1277684.8  108879.7  169827.1 4096770.6        6964.0    4697.3    3709.1       687.6   15058.0
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Vehicle 0 A M Costs             26392.2    763e.6    7799.1    8071.0   49798.8           97.0       27.7       28.7      29.7      183.1
S. Equipment 0 & U Costs           76146.6  118318.6  111816.7   74389.5  380470.2          280.0      435.0     410.4      273.5    1398.8
C. Rent                            2707.8    2800.2        0.0        0.0    5607.9          10.0       10.3       0.0        0.0       20.2   4-
_____ - - __ -------   _ __________ _   _     _     _    _     _    __----_-_-_-_---_-_
Total RECURRENT COSTS             1065246.5  128865.1  119414.8   824690.   435776.9        386.9      473.0     439.0      303.2    1602.1
Total PROJECT COSTS              1764646.4 1406819.9 1128294.5  242287.6 4531647.4         6460.9    6170.3    4148.1       890.8   16660.1
Values Scaled by 100.0 5/6/1992 17:53
g 
to"



-44 -                             ANNEX C
Page' 1 of 2
BURKINA FASO
PUBLIC INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
US$
Consultants by Subeomponent
Number of
Total Cost           months
CREDIT MANAGEMENT
Audit of IDA credit
INFORMATION MANAGEMENT
Information management                                               24
TREASURY
Consultant studios                                                    8
Technical assistance                                                 12
TAX DEPARTMENT
TechnierI se*astance                                                 24
BUDOET PROCEDURES
Global audit, M4nistry of Finance                                     6
Payroll software design                                              t0
Control                                                               6
CSR - CENSUS
Accountant
External control                                                    }
* Training
Computer engineer                                                   }
CSR - qcc
* Training for QCC                                                      1
* TraIning for Consumer Associatlon                                   1.5
Resident expert                                                      12
STATISTICS/INSD
Local consultants                                                     1
Survey personnel                                                      1
Analysis/studios                                                      I
OSensibillationg                                                     1
Financial Audit INSD                                                  1
MINISTRY OF CIVIL SERVICE
Technical assistance                                                  6
CiVIL SERVICE STUDIES
Reorganization/improvemsnt mgt OEP/DAAF                              12
Upgrade of computerized payroll oystem                               12
CIVIL SERVICE SCHOOLS
 Audit of schools (customs,ENAM,ENAREM)                                2
a Profescors for ENAM,ENAREF (ADETEF)                                   9
 Training consultant ENAREF                                           12
PROCUREMENT REFORM
External expert to reviow regulations                               1.3
Local expert to reviow regulations                                  0.6
LEGAL REFORMS
Arbitrage                                                           06
Formulation of legisl.'tivw texts                                    24
a Legal training
* Journal offitlel                                                    e.5
Mining code                                                           4
Mining publicatlon                                                    S
4776400
a Consultente for training
5/______________  _________i __________



-45                               ANNEX C
Pag  2 of 2
SURKINA FASO
PUBLIC INSTMlUTIONAL DEVELWPMENT PROJECT
US$
TRAINING
Consultants for Local Training
Number of
Tots I Cost          months
-  -- ---m   ---  -    -----
CSR - CENSUS
Tralning                                                         016
CSR - QCC
Tralnlng for 4CC                                                    1
Training for Consumer Association                                 1.5
CIVIL SERVICE SCHOOLS
Audit of schools (cu%toms,ENAM,ENAREM)                              2
Professor* for ENAM,E.NAREF (ADETEP)                               46
Training Consultont (SNAREF)                                       12
LEGAL REFORMS
Legal Training
Journal offIc l.
2156506
Training Abroad
Number of
Total Cost           months
CSR - QCC
Short-term study                                                  6.5
Medlum-term study                                                   6
STATISTICS/INSO
Foreign training
TRAININd OF JOURNALISTS
Economic training (tickets,perdlem)                              0.76
a.....
Equipment for Trolalng
Total Cost
CSR - QCC
Materials A Equlpment
CIVIL SERVICE TRAINING
Materials A Equipment (ENAREF)
472000
TOTAL FOR TRAINING     2994600
9s8e1,__



- 46 -
ANNEX D2
Page 1 of 1
BURKINA FASO
PUBLIC INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ million)
IDA Fiscal Year                    Quarterly               Cumulative             Cumulative
and Quarter                        Disbursement            Disbursement 
FY92   June 1992                      0.75                     0.75                    5
FY93    September 1992                 1.28                    2.03                   14
December 1992                 1.28                     3.31                  22
M&rch 1993                    1.28                     4.59                  31
June 1993                     1.28                     5.87                  39
FY94   September 1993                  1.17                    7.04                   47
December 1983                 1.17                     8.21                  55
March 1994                    1.17                     938                   63
June 1994                     1.17                    10.55                  70
FY95    September 1994                0.91                     11.46                  76
December 1994                 0.91                    12.37                  82
March 1995                    0.91                    13.28                  89
June 1995                     0.91                    14.19                  95
FY96   September 1995                 0.20                     14.39                  96
December 1995                 0.20                    14.59                  97
March 1996                    0.20                    14.79                  99
June 1996                     0.20                    15.00                  100



- 47 -
ANNEX E
Page 1 of 2
RURKINA FASO
PUBLIC INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT SUPERVISION SCHEDULE
1.    Bank Supervision Input:  The staff input indicated below in para. 4 includes the
supervision of the public finance specialist in the Resident Mission, and is in addition to the
supervision time being provided to the Burkina SAL (by Washington staff and by the Resident
Mission), which is closely linked to the budgetary, civil service and legal reform components in
particular. These project inputs are also in addition to: (i) the review in Washington of quarterly
progress reports from the borrower, of procurement actions, and progress related correspondence
(estimated at 2 sws/yr); (ii) supervision by other financiers; and (iii) to meetings of the
Coordinating Commission for the Government's overall program of TA/ID.
2.    Ouarterly Progress Reports should be submitted as follows:
(i)     they should cover all aspects of project execution;
(ii)     they should be submitted prior to November 30, February 28,
May 31 and August 31 of each calendar year the project is under
execution;
(iii)    they  should  be submitted  by the Director General of
Administrative Reforms in the MCSAR on the basis of inputs
provided by the project liaison staff in each executing ministry
involved in the project, and in accordance with para. 103 of the
SAR.
3.    Annual Progress Review: Not later than October 31, 1992 and thereafter, not later than
October 31 of each subsequent year, the Borrower and the Bank should undertake a joint review
of the Project or as the case may be not later than October 31, 1994, a mid-term review, during
which they shall exchange views generally on all matters relating to the project and the
performance by the Borrower, and in particular review (i) progress achieved during the current
fiscal year; and (ii) the proposed budget and work program for the coming fiscal year including,
(i) a statement of monitorable objectives and a program of activities to be undertaken to achieve
those objectives, and (ii) detailed budgets and financing plans, including a schedule of proposed
procurement contracts to be financed by the credit, and staffing and training plans. The
Quarterly Progress Report due no later than August 31 of the year in question shall serve as the
basis for the Annual Progress Review.



- 48 -
ANNEX E
Page 2 of 2
4.    Schedule of Supervision Missions
Approximate
Date            Activi4,r               Expected Skills
07/92           Supervision            TM, TD Civil Service/Budget
Mission               Specialist, Lawyer,
Procurement Specialist                   6
12/92           Supervision            TM, TD Civil Service/
Mission               Budget Specialist                        4
04/93           Supervision             TM, TD Civil Service/
Mission               Budget Specialist/Lawyer/
Procurement Specialist/
SDA Specialist                           5
07/93           Supervision            TM, TD Civil Service/
Mission               Budget Specialist/
Training Specialist                      5
10/93           Annual Review          TM, TD Civil Service/
Budget Specialist, Lawyer/
Procurement Specialist/
QCC Specialist/SDA Specialist            6
02/94           Supervision             TM, TD Civil Service/Budget
Mission               Specialist/                              4
07/94           Supervision             TM, TD Civil Service Budget/
Mission               SDA Specialist                           4
10/94           Mid-Term Review        TM, TD Civil Service Specialist/
Lawyer/SDA Specialist/QCC
Specialist/Procurement
Specialist                               8
02/95           Supervision            TM, TD Civil Service
Mission               Specialist                               3
07/95           Supervision             TM, TD Civil Service
Mission               Specialist/SDA/Training
Specialist                               7
10/95           Annual Review          TM, TD Civil Service Specialist/
Lawyer/SDA Specialist/Procurement
Specialist/QCC, Public Affairs
Specialist                               8



IORD 20660
[ LUU !IANIA MALi   /
BURKINA FASO                                                                           U UJALA1A      t A 
a> -.S                       '9, ,-2 7X>- '>- e \ S
-10~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
Y         HAATN                                    TOGO       (
Mi~~~~~~~~~~~i)
1~~~~~                                                                                      -   Unae RocdiS tv)\ )     3 
I,XL.E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Af G  N  OtRA                            1 \ 
( ;ty r                        4bk .                                                                    0 " v   Xd Ad 
p ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Ralrad
aB~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ lj C1 U I T A>, r,                                                                       4 EI
K 0  .K   O  I O  E  <   j   P   OA  N    I                                                     _    P    R40R C
ro~~~ ~ ~                         G                     1   o  t  olt                                   t Aprr
5t ~ ~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I'                                     T I> IIOFtR        iI  Aoiro Cl                     IC
C6TE         D'IVOIRE.......* 
s'                 C eO                                                                           0  '  4                                2'  {fME   9
KENEE)DUO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  i115



