Page  1
Initial Public Information Document 
 
Report No. 50972 
 
Project Name 
Morocco Third Public Administration reform Loan (PARL-III) 
Region 
MENA 
Sector 
Multi-sector (Macroeconomic and Public Sector Management) 
Project ID 
P095759 
Borrower(s) 
Kingdom of Morocco 
Implementing Agency 
Ministère Délégué auprès du Premier Ministre Chargé des 
Affaires économiques et générales et de la mise a niveau de 
l’économie 
Date PID Prepared 
June 5, 2007 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
February 4, 2008 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
May 15, 2008 
Background  
 
The Public Administration reform program (PARP) was launched in early 2002.  Such a 
program was based on previous Economic and Sector Work (ESW), including a 
participatory Public expenditure review in 2001-02, which highlighted major structural 
constraints to efficient public sector management. The design of the program was 
supported by the Bank through a programmatic ESW (P-ESW) operation, a multiyear 
activity through which the Bank is providing the Government with advice, training, and 
technical assistance as required in the areas of budgetary management, civil service 
reform, and wage bill containment.  During the 2003 Spring meetings, the Government 
approached the Bank with a request for quick disbursing policy operation to support 
effective implementation of its program.  A first loan was approved by the Bank Board 
on July 1, 2004 and a second loan was approved by the Bank on March, 23, 2006.   
 
The proposed PARL-III, currently scheduled for presentation to the Board around May 
2008, is consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) adopted in May 2005, 
Outcome 1.2: Increase the efficiency of public administration, and with the CAS Progress 
Report to be submitted to the Board on November 13, 2007.  It complements and 
strengthens the ongoing multiyear Programmatic Economic Sector Work (P-ESW).  
Lessons learned from PARL I and II 
 
The PARL-I Completion report underscores that ownership by multiple stakeholders has 
been and continue to be a key component for the success of the reform program. Reforms 
requiring inter-ministerial coordination move slowly, thus attention needs to be placed on 
how to strengthen coordination.  The Bank P-ESW program has helped played a key role 
Page  2
2
in helping Morocco prepare and internalize the necessary reforms.  It has been 
instrumental in the program design and in the knowledge transfer suitable to the reform 
program, as requested per demands. 
 
Loan Objectives  
 
The medium-term objectives of PARL-III are to: (a) improve government efficiency in 
budget management, (b) improve government efficiency in Human Resources 
Management, (c) consolidate and control public payroll decrease, and (d) improve public 
services and simplify procedures through online e-government.  The last objective is 
added to the present operation per the Authorities’ request. 
 
The continuity to a third stage is well justified by steady progress achieved in the 
implementation of triggers and expected further actions to be agreed with the Bank in the 
comprehensive matrix of policy reforms of the Public Administration Reform Program 
(PARP). The proposed loan would be the third in a series of annual programmatic loans 
supporting implementation of the reform program. 
 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The Bank has valuable experience in supporting Morocco’s public administration reform.  
Political constraints have at times prevented the Moroccan administration from achieving 
a
few milestones on time, but in general, Morocco has been a good performer.  Previous 
solid progress now gives the incoming Authorities a unique opportunity to bring 
continuity under a renewed approach.  Not only is responsible fiscal policy the only 
instrument for preserving macro fundamentals, but public administration reform is the 
only tool for improving the efficiency of public expenditure, while supporting quality 
public services and enhancing budget transparency.  
Building on PARL-I and II, the move toward a third operation is also justified by past 
positive performance and the need to consolidate medium-term reforms under a renewed 
approach suggested by the incoming Authorities.   
Benefits and Risks 
 
The main benefit of the loan is to contribute to the improvement of the effectiveness of 
public resources management in many complementary ways.  
 
There are three risks associated with the program.  Implementation risk
.
As the PARP 
tools are in the process of being mainstreamed government wide, the two central 
ministries (Ministry of Finance and Privatization and Ministry of Public Sector 
Modernization) may well be reaching the limits of their technical supporting capacity to 
the rest of the Government.  This risk will be mitigated through the strengthening of 
human and financial resources devoted to leading the reform, the rapid conclusion of 
critical information tools under development, massive in-service training, and closer and 
more effective mechanisms of inter-ministerial monitoring and dissemination of the 
Public Administration Reform Program (PARP).  Legal risk
.
Passing of critical laws for 
consolidating the PARP, like the new Organic Budget Law, or the reforms allowing 
Page  3
3
redeployment of civil servants, may slow the momentum for reform.  To mitigate this, the 
Government expects that gradual and participatory preparation and validation of the draft 
laws will facilitate the required endorsement from Parliament for passing required 
legislation.  Political risk
.
Change associated with the ongoing transition to a new 
government is also a risk for eventual policy shifts.  At present, the Authorities believe 
the level of consensus and appropriation of perceived benefits makes the reforms 
irreversible, but they still require very close partnership and monitoring to stay on course 
and recover momentum for implementing future actions in sensitive areas.  The risk is 
mitigated by the political coordination put in place by the new Cabinet to implement 
reforms.   
Implementation Arrangements 
 
The Loan’s administration will be the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance and 
Privatization (MFP).  Coordination and monitoring of the implementation of the reform is 
supported by the Interministerial Steering Committee for the administrative reform, 
headed by MFP and the Ministry of Modernization of the Public Sector (MMSP).  This 
Committee was created in early 2003 by a decision of the Prime Minister. 
Upon Loan effectiveness, the proposed loan will follow the Bank’s simplified 
disbursement procedures for development policy operations.   
 
Coordination with Donors 
 
The PARL-I ICR stressed, among lessons for future operations, that donor coordination 
plays a major role in program success, and the Bank should make great efforts to preserve 
this unified dialogue.  The Bank’s lending operation and the European Commission 
Structural Adjustment Grants, and in some respects the AfDB support of the Moroccan 
Government, are based on the same programmatic framework.  This has benefited the 
client by building credibility for the reforms, but also by focusing the attention and 
expertise from multilateral donors on a complex program of reform.  For the Bank and 
donors it has helped to mitigate the reputational risk of this type of reform and has 
reduced the supervisory burden on each donor. 
At the request of the Government, this third operation is again being prepared jointly with 
the European Commission and AfDB.  Thus, PARLs-I, II, and III will be developed 
jointly with the EU.  
IMF staff is satisfied with the macro framework underlying the proposed operation.  An 
Assessment Letter will be provided to that effect.   
 
Environment category 
 
The PARL has no direct impact on the environment.  For the purpose of the Operational 
Directive 4.01, this project has been placed in the environmental category U, which does 
not require an environmental assessment. 
 
Page  4
4
Contact Points: public Information Center 
 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington D.C. 20433 
Telephone No. 202-473-2287 
Fax No
—202-477-0432 
 
Task Team Leader 
José R. Lopez-Calix 
Banque Mondiale 
7
Rue Ben Arbi Abdellah 
Souissi-Rabat, Maroc 
Telephone No.212-37-636050 
Fax No.212-37-636051
 
