Page  1
Initial Public Information Document 
 
Report No. AB5077 
 
Project Name 
Morocco Third Public Administration reform Loan (PARL-III) 
Region 
MENA 
Sector 
Multi-sector (Macroeconomic and Public Sector Management) 
Project ID 
P095759 
Borrower(s) 
Kingdom of Morocco 
Implementing Agency 
Ministère Délégué auprès du Premier Ministre Chargé des 
Affaires économiques et générales et de la mise a niveau de 
l’économie 
Date PID Prepared 
January 3, 2008 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
February 4, 2008 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
May 15, 2008 
Background  
 
The Public Administration reform program (PARP) was launched in early 2002.  Such a 
program was based on previous Economic and Sector Work (ESW), including a 
participatory Public expenditure review in 2001-02, which highlighted major structural 
constraints to efficient public sector management. The design of the program was 
supported by the Bank through a programmatic ESW (P-ESW) operation, a multiyear 
activity through which the Bank is providing the Government with advice, training, and 
technical assistance as required in the areas of budgetary management, civil service 
reform, and wage bill containment.  During the 2003 Spring meetings, the Government 
approached the Bank with a request for quick disbursing policy operation to support 
effective implementation of its program.  A first loan was approved by the Bank Board 
on July 1, 2004 and a second loan was approved by the Bank on March, 23, 2006.  The 
proposed loan is the third phase of the Bank’s response and its request has been ratified 
by the new Government that took office last October 2007.  
 
The proposed PARL-III, currently scheduled for presentation to the Board in May 2008, 
is consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) adopted in May 2005, Outcome 
1.2: Increase the efficiency of public administration, and with the CAS Progress Report 
submitted to the Board on November 13, 2007.  It complements and strengthens the 
ongoing multiyear Programmatic Economic Sector Work (P-ESW).  A related 
Memorandum of Understanding on Programmatic Economic and Sector Work is updated 
and agreed on an annual basis.  The proposed loan also complements other Bank 
operations benefiting from PARL-supported sectoral Medium Term Expenditure 
Framework (MTEF) work, like those ongoing in education and water, or completed 
analytical studies in areas like health. 
Page  2
2
Lessons learned from PARL I and II 
 
The PARL-I Completion report underscores that ownership by multiple stakeholders has 
been and continue to be a key component for the success of the reform program. Reforms 
requiring inter-ministerial coordination move slowly, thus attention needs to be placed on 
how to strengthen coordination.  The Bank P-ESW program has helped played a key role 
in helping Morocco prepare and internalize the necessary reforms.  It has been 
instrumental in the program design and in the knowledge transfer suitable to the reform 
program, as requested per demands. 
 
The 2007 Quality at Entry (QAE) assessment for PARL-II emphasizes the need for 
including a more explicit link between the technical actions supported by the program 
and how these would actually impact and improve outcomes.  In response, PARL-III 
includes more explicit outcomes, while better summarizing what has been achieved so 
far, and clarifying what remains to be done.  The QAE assessment also points out the 
absence of a social and poverty impact assessment.  This has been taken into 
consideration and a Project Social Impact Asessment (PSIA) is included and evaluates 
the distributional impacts of the program. The QAE indicates that PARL I-II did not 
identify clearly enough the key issue justifying the reduction of the civil service wage 
bill.  The QAE finds two explanations referring to (a) a too-high civil service wage level, 
and (b) an inappropriately high number of civil servants.  To follow up on this, PARL-III 
clearly specifies the former as the major weaknesses of the current system, and the main 
reasons explaining it, while setting a clear target outcome expected from the PARP. 
Finally, the QAE says that PARL I-II did not adequately emphasize the need for greater 
transparency and government accountability.  PARL-III rectifies this by including 
explicit measures that should achieve desired outcomes and by adding a new component 
on e-government. 
 
Loan Objectives  
 
The medium-term objectives of PARL-III are to: (a) improve government efficiency in 
budget management, (b) improve government efficiency in Human Resources 
Management, (c) consolidate and control public payroll decrease, and (d) improve public 
services and simplify procedures through online e-government.  The last objective is 
added to the present operation per the Authorities’ request. 
 
The continuity to a third stage is well justified by steady progress achieved in the 
implementation of triggers and expected further actions to be agreed with the Bank in the 
comprehensive matrix of policy reforms of the Public Administration Reform Program 
(PARP). The proposed loan would be the third in a series of annual programmatic loans 
supporting implementation of the reform program. 
 
PARL-III also explains the need for a fourth operation.  Two main reasons would justify 
it.  On one hand, an end at the PARL-III stage would prevent the Bank from 
accompanying the generalization and conclusion of all of the reforms that were 
envisioned; and on the other hand, a PARL-IV operation would permit a smooth 
accommodation of new and important complementary elements of reform that will 
Page  3
3
contribute to its consolidation, like the introduction of a new Organic Budget law, 
strengthened norms for the auditing function and broad e-government.  
 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The Bank has valuable experience in supporting Morocco’s public administration reform.  
Political constraints have at times prevented the Moroccan administration from achieving 
a
few milestones on time, but in general, Morocco has been a good performer.  Previous 
solid progress now gives the incoming Authorities a unique opportunity to bring 
continuity under a renewed approach.  Not only is responsible fiscal policy the only 
instrument for preserving macro fundamentals, but public administration reform is the 
only tool for improving the efficiency of public expenditure, while supporting quality 
public services and enhancing budget transparency.  
Building on PARL-I and II, the move toward a third operation is also justified by past 
positive performance and the need to consolidate medium-term reforms under a renewed 
approach suggested by the incoming Authorities.  As seen above, progress in 
implementing the reform program has been broadly on track, but in the absence of a 
modern budgetary legal framework, it remains fragile.  Some actions or components of 
the reform have experienced some delays, but all major elements of the program are 
under way, and most of the detailed original actions agreed with the Government are still 
valid, as documented by supervision missions by the Bank and the European Union, by 
the PARL-I ICR, and by the ongoing P-ESW.   
Benefits and Risks 
 
The main benefit of the loan is to contribute to the improvement of the effectiveness of 
public resources management in many complementary ways.  First
,
the loan would fill 
fiscal needs of an increased 2008 budget financing gap.  Second
,
it would preserve macro 
stability and free fiscal space.  Third
,
through its broad agenda of measures anchored to 
improve public sector contribution to growth and simplify procedures, the loan should 
contribute to raising productivity and improving the outlook for economic growth, private 
sector development, and better living standards of the population.  Fourth
,
the loan would 
indirectly contribute to improve governance through its work upgrading audit procedures 
and deepening online government, two major measures required for an effective 
anticorruption agenda. 
 
There are five risks associated with the program.  Fiscal risk
.
The temporary increase in 
the fiscal deficit in 2008 may become longer than actually projected, should the 
Authorities realize lower revenues than projected, engage in an expansionary expenditure 
stance, or face adverse external shocks with higher-than-projected fiscal costs, such as oil 
price or interest rate increases.  To mitigate this risk, Morocco plans to refrain from 
engaging in actions that might affect its hard-earned creditworthiness. Implementation 
risk
.
As the PARP tools are in the process of being mainstreamed government wide, the 
two central ministries (Ministry of Finance and Privatization and Ministry of Public 
Sector Modernization) may well be reaching the limits of their technical supporting 
capacity to the rest of the Government.  This risk will be mitigated through the 
Page  4
4
strengthening of human and financial resources devoted to leading the reform, the rapid 
conclusion of critical information tools under development, massive in-service training, 
and closer and more effective mechanisms of inter-ministerial monitoring and 
dissemination of the Public Administration Reform Program (PARP).  Legal risk
.
Passing of critical laws for consolidating the PARP, like the new Organic Budget Law, or 
the reforms allowing redeployment of civil servants, may slow the momentum for reform.  
To mitigate this, the Government expects that gradual and participatory preparation and 
validation of the draft laws will facilitate the required endorsement from Parliament for 
passing required legislation.  Political risk
.
Change associated with the ongoing 
transition to a new government is also a risk for eventual policy shifts.  At present, the 
Authorities believe the level of consensus and appropriation of perceived benefits makes 
the reforms irreversible, but they still require very close partnership and monitoring to 
stay on course and recover momentum for implementing future actions in sensitive areas.  
The risk is mitigated by the political coordination put in place by the new Cabinet to 
implement reforms.  Finally, Social risk
.
The Government could still be subject to 
pressures to further increase salaries for some categories of civil servants, and to 
accelerate promotions and continue with sizable unplanned hiring.  This would 
undermine its efforts to curb the payroll ratio.  However, this risk is mitigated by the new 
promotion system that is now in place that stabilizes the number of promotions allowed, 
the authorities’ decision to keep tight control of declining payroll trends, and measures to 
improve wage bill control introduced under PARL-III. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
The Loan’s administration will be the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance and 
Privatization (MFP).  Coordination and monitoring of the implementation of the reform is 
supported by the Interministerial Steering Committee for the administrative reform, 
headed by MFP and the Ministry of Modernization of the Public Sector (MMSP).  This 
Committee was created in early 2003 by a decision of the Prime Minister. 
Upon Loan effectiveness, the proposed loan will follow the Bank’s simplified 
disbursement procedures for development policy operations.  The approved loan will be 
disbursed against satisfactory implementation of the development policy program and 
will not be linked to any specific purchases, and no procurement requirements will be 
needed.  As stated, Morocco has not been under an IMF program for several years, and 
no safeguard assessment of the Central Bank has been undertaken by the IMF.  The 
World Bank knowledge of the Central Bank fiduciary capacity was compiled during the 
Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) discussions with the Treasury of 
the Kingdom on the treasury single-account management and the debt accounting and 
reporting systems by the Central Bank.  Treasury appeared satisfied with the Central 
Bank performance and did not raise any serious concerns to call for a specific 
assessment.  Against this background, once the loan is approved by the Board and 
becomes effective, the proceeds of the loan will be deposited by IBRD in an account 
designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the World Bank at the Central Bank of 
Morocco at the request of the Borrower.   
 
Page  5
5
Coordination with Donors 
 
The PARL-I ICR stressed, among lessons for future operations, that donor coordination 
plays a major role in program success, and the Bank should make great efforts to preserve 
this unified dialogue.  The Bank’s lending operation and the European Commission 
Structural Adjustment Grants, and in some respects the AfDB support of the Moroccan 
Government, are based on the same programmatic framework.  This has benefited the 
client by building credibility for the reforms, but also by focusing the attention and 
expertise from multilateral donors on a complex program of reform.  For the Bank and 
donors it has helped to mitigate the reputational risk of this type of reform and has 
reduced the supervisory burden on each donor. 
At the request of the Government, this third operation is again being prepared jointly with 
the European Commission and AfDB.  Thus, PARLs-I, II, and III have been developed 
jointly with the EU, which provided a structural adjustment grant of 
 79
million to be 
disbursed in four tranches over the program period.  Based on the same program matrix, 
the AfDB board also approved structural adjustment loans of, respectively, SDR100 in 
2004 and SDR85 million in 2006.  Both donors continue to support the reform program 
in cooperation with the Bank, with the intention of expanding their support until at least 
2009.  The PARL-III matrix serves both the Bank and the European Union as a guide for 
supervision of the program, technical assistance, and policy dialogue.  AfDB’s policy 
matrix is also very similar. 
IMF staff is satisfied with the macro framework underlying the proposed operation.  An 
Assessment Letter will be provided to that effect.   
 
Environment category 
 
The PARL has no direct impact on the environment.  For the purpose of the Operational 
Directive 4.01, this project has been placed in the environmental category U, which does 
not require an environmental assessment. 
 
Contact Points: public Information Center 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington D.C. 20433 
Telephone No. 202-473-2287 
Fax No—202-477-0432 
 
Task Team Leader 
José R. Lopez-Calix 
Banque Mondiale 
7
Rue Ben Arbi Abdellah 
Souissi-Rabat, Maroc 
Telephone No.212-37-636050 
Fax No.212-37-636051
 
