Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7835
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ETHIOPIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL MINIMUM PACKAGE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1088-ET)
JUNE 21, 1989
Eastern Africa Region
Country Department II
Agriculture Operations
lhs document has a restricted distibution and may be used by redpients only in the performanwc of
their offidal duties. Its contents may not otherwise be didosed without World Bank authoriation.



EXCHANGE RATES
Appraisal Year:         US$ 1.0 - Birr 2.07
Implementation Period:  USS 1.0 - Birr 2.07
Completion Year:        US$ 1.0 = Birr 2.07
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
July 8 - July 7
ABBREVTATIONS
ADD    -   Agricultural Development Department
ADS    -   Agricultural Development Service
AEZ    -   Agro-ecological Zone
AIDB   -  Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank
AISCO  -  Agricultural Inputs Supply Corporation
AMC    -   Agricultural Marketing Corporation
DAP    -   Diammonium Phosphate
DCA    -   Development Credit Agreement
EBCA   -   Ethiopian Building Construction Authority
EEC    -   European Economic Commission
EPID   -   Extension and Project Implementation Department
ESC    -   Ethiopian Seed Corporation
ETCA   -   Ethiopian Transport and Construction Authority
FAO    -   Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations
GOSE   -   Government of Socialist Ethiopia
IAR    -   Institute of Agricultural Research
IDA    -   International Development Association
IFAD   -   International Fund for Agricultural Development
MOA    -  Ministry of Agriculture
MPP I  -   First Minimum Package Project
MPP II -   Second Minimum Package Project
PADEP  -   Peasant Agricultural Development Program/Project
PCR    -   Project Completion Report
RMEA   -   Resident Mission in Eastern Africa
SAR    -   Staff Appraisal Report
SDR    -   Special Drawing Rights
SIDA   -   Swedish International Development Associati.,n
SWC    -   Soil and Water Conservation
TA     -   Technical Assistance
T&V    -   Training and Visit Extension
TSU    -   Technical Support Unit
USAID  -   United States Agency for International Development
WFP    -  World Food Program



THE WORLD SANK
Washngton. O.C. 20433
U.S.A.
oike o4 Oiwaarc-Gu
op.#athu. Ivahtiun
June 21, 1989
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PPESIDENT
SUBJECTs   Project Completion Report on Ethiopia Second
Agricultural Minimum Package Proiect (Credit 1088-ET)
Attached, for information, is  a copy of a report entitled
'Project Completion Report on Ethiopia Second Agricultural Minimum
Package Project (Credit 1088-ET)" prepared by the Africa Regional
Office. No audit of this project has been made by the Operations
Evaluation Department at this time.
Yves Rovani
by Ram K. Chopra
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the peorfance
of their ofAcial duties. Its contents may not otherwis be discosed without World Bank authorition.



FOR OMFIC4L USE ONLY
ETHIOPIA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SECOND AGRICULTURAL MINIMUM PACKAGE PROJECT (CREDIT 1088-ET)
Table of Contents
Pane
PREFA%;E...........................                                 i
BASIC DATA SHEET....  ii - iv
EVALUATION SUMMARY........   v - ix
I.  BACKGROUND AND INTRODUCTION                ..
II.   PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREFARATION AND APPRAISAL ........      .    2
A. Project Origin    .                ...... .    2
B.  Preparation and Appraisal                  .       . .    3
C. Targets and Goals                      . . .   5
D. Project Description                      . . .    5
III.  IMPLEMENTATION START-UP ...................................    6
A.   Revisions ........................................... .         6
B.   Implementation of Key Components              .    .    .  f
C. Reporting                   . . . ............ 11
D. Procurement                 ... .13
E. Project Costs                  ....13
F. Disbursements                   ....15
G.  Financial Sources                . . . .......... 17
H.   Performance of Consultant Contractors and Suppliers..   17
IV. OPERATING PERFORMANCE    .... 18
A. Overview .....                                                   18
B. Uptake of Extension/Inputs .....18
V.    INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT ....                  .   19
VI. ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION ....                                           20
VII.  BANK'S PERFORMAICE..............                       .........   22
VIII. CONCLUSIONS .23
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the pertormance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disCkosed without World Bank authodzation.



TABLES
Table  i  s Details of Self-Help Roads Constructed under MPP II
Table  2  s Regional and Awraja Office Construction
Table  3  t Summary of Long Term Technical Assistance Provided under MPP II
Table  4  s Schedule of Technical Assistance Provided Under MPP II
Table  5  : List of MPP II Fellow and Their Status on Return
Table  6  s Estimated MOA Administration Costs
Table  7  s Estimated Project Costs Summary
Table  8  s Impact of InflationlPrice Contingencies
Table  9  s Details of MOA and ZSC Disbursement Requests
Table 10  s Planned and Actually Requested Disbursements
Table 11  t Utilization of IDA Credit and IFAD Loan by MOA
Table 12  : Summary of ESC Clean Seed Output & Distribution
Table 13  : Summary of Fertilizer Use by Peasant Farmers
Table 14  s Regional Increase in Fertilizer Use 1977/78 to 1985/86
Table 15  : Estimates of Returns to Fertilizer Use
Table 16  t Economic Evaluation (MPP II Alone)
Table 17  s Economic Evaluation ((MPP I and MPP II Combined)



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ETHIOPIA
Second Agricultural Minimum Package ProAect (Cr. 1088-ET)
PREFACE
This Project Completion Report reviews the Second Agricultural Minimum
Package Project for which an IDA Credit of US$40.0 million was approved Ja DecerNer
1980. The original Closing Date of June 30, 1983 was extended to June 30, 1985 due
to Government delays in starting construction and employing consultants. The final
disbursement under Credit 1088-ET was made on July 2, 1986.
This report was prepared by a Bank mission that visited Ethiopia in
February 1987. It is based on field visits to project areas and discussions with
Government and other appropriate staff in Ethiopia. Additional information was
obtained from the Staff Appraisal Report, November 1980 (Report no. 1774B-ET), the
Implementation Volume of the SAR, ID.A and IFAD legal agreements da_ed February and
January 1981 reopectively, the mid-term review report of April 1982, supervision
reports, project files and project completion reports prepared by the Ministry of
Agriculture and the Ethiopian Seed Corporation.
This PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED). The
draft PCR was sent to the Borrower and Cofinanciers on March 15, .989, for comments
by May 3, 1989, but none were received.



- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ETHIOPIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL MINIMUM PACKAGE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1088-ET)
BASIC DATA S3EET
KEY PROJECT DATA
Actual or   Actual as t of
Appraisal     Current      Appraisal
Item                                  Expectation   Estimate    Estimate
Project Cost (US$ million) 1                      77.2         79.2        103
Credit Amount (US$ million)                      40.0          37.9         95
Cofinancing Total (US$ million)                   18.9         11.4         60
IFAD                                           18.0          10.4        58
SIDA                                            0.9           1.0       111
Date Physical Components Completed            - 12/82          6/86
Proportiorn Completed by that date (Z)        100            95          95
Economic Rate of Return                            -            2            _
Financial P.,rformance                                         Fair
Institutional Performance                                      Fair
CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS £
(SDR Million)
FY 81   FY 82   FY 83   FY 84   FY 85   FY 86
Appraisal                10.2    38.8    45.9
Actual                    0.4     7.5    25.6    3,.6    41.0    45.0
Actual as
I of Appraisal (Z)         4       19      56       73      89      98
PROJECT DATES
Original              Actual or
Item                            Plan     Revised    Estimated
First Mention in Files or
Timetable                      -         --
Government Application           -         -           12175
Negotiations                     -         -            4/80
Board Approval                   6/80      -           12/80
Credit Agreement Date            7/80      -            2/81
Effectiveness Date               -         -            9181
Closing Date                     6/83      6/84         6/85
1 Equivalent to SDR 32.0 million.
2   SDR 0.9 million cancelled.  Includes disbursements from the
IFAD loan of SDR 13.9 million as joint financing.



- iii -
STAFF INPUTS
(staff -,.ee hs'
Eta m an EU F   a  EXZI=   I en  E= FY  En fm          Em Es 2r n1
Preppra;ial  .1   _  .2    .9  17.1  21.4   _ - _ .8      -          - _    4.8
ApvraI.  -   -     -    -    32.6  84.1  24.9  91.5   .3   -  -  -  -  -  143.5
NeacCtioa                   -  -  13.7 33.2 8.3 -  _-    -  -  -        82.2
Sprvilan  -  -   -   -      -   -  -   -    28.1    .   8   2.4  26.6   8.4  10.8   1.8  21.8
th-      -   -   -   -  -    .6    .9    .S    .8   -  .7    .4   -  -  -  -  -  4.0
TMAL    .1   -  .2   .9  17.1  84.7  55.0  89.2  71.0  28.8  ".6  65.6  29.5  e . a   5.4  1.5   1.8  450.5
MISSION DATA
Date     No. of   Specialization  Performance            Types of
(mo. t     Persons  Represented al  Rat-inR  bL Trende/ Problem dl
Preparation       09/15      1              a            -          -          -
Preparation       10/75      2            a-b            -          -          -
Preparation       10176      1              a            -          -          -
Preappraisal      02/77      2            a-c            -          -          -
Appraisal         04/77       5         a-d-i-e          -          -           -
(Plus 5 from
USAID & SIDA)
Review            04/78      4          e-a-d-c          -          -          -
Apr. Update       10/79      3          a(2)-c           -          -          _
Apr. Update       11/79      3          a-d-e            -          -          -
Apr. Update       12/79      2          a-d              -          -          -
Apr. 'Jpdate      01/80       1         a                           -           -
Supervision       01/81      2         a-c               -          -          -
Supervision       02/81      1         a                 -          -          -
Supervision       02/81      1         e                            -          -
Supervision       03/81      1         e                            -          -
Supervision       03/81      2         d-a               -          -          -
Supervision       05/68.     2         a-d               -          -          -
Super,rision      07/81      1         f                            -          -
Supervision       08/81      3         a-f-e             -          -          _
Superiision       09/81      1         d                            -          -
Supervision       10/81      3         a-e-d             -          -          _
Supervision       01/82      2         a-g               -          -          -
Supervision       03/82      1         f                            -          -
Supervision       05182      1         e                            -          -
Supervision       06/82      1         a                            -          -
Supervision       09/82      1         e                 --                    -
Supervision       10/82      2         a                 --                    -
Supervision       11182      2         d-g               2          1       M, T, 0
Supervision       02/83      2         a-e               2          1       M, T, 0
Mid-Term Review   04/83      2      e(2) + Others
from SIDA,IFAD,GOE
Supervision       09/83      1         d
Supervision       12/83      1          e
Supervision       03/84      3          e(2)-d           2          2       M, 0
Supervision       07/84      3          e(2)-d           2          1       M, T, 0
Supervision       10/84      3          d-e-g            2          2       M. T, O
Supervision       03/85      2          d-h              2          3       M, T, 0



- iv -
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Borrower                       Government of Ethiopia
Executing Agencies:            Ministry of Agriculture
Ethiopian Seed Corporation
Fiscal Years                   July 8 - July 7
Name of Currencys              Ethiopian Birr
Exchange Rate at Appraisal:    1 US$ - Birr 2.07
at Completion:    1 US$ - Birr 2.07
al a = Agricultural Economist; b - Engineer; c - Economist; d - Financial
Analyst; e - Agriculturalist; f - Livestock Specialist; g - Architect;
h - Extensicn Specialist; i - Rural Development Specialist.
hI 1 - Minor problems; 2 = Moderate problems; 3 = Major problems.
cI  1 - Improving; 2   Stationary; 3 - Deteriorating.
Al M - Managerial; T   Technical; 0 = Other.



EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
The Second Minimum Package Project (MPP II) was approved as an
interim two year project, to support the minimum package program until a full
length production project could be designed and started. Delays in the
initiation of MPP II meant that the Minimum Package Program had changed
substantially since tne conclusion of HPP I.  The first and major change was
the dismantling and absorption into the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) of the
Extension and Project Implementation Department (EPID). This semi-autonomous
entity within MOA, had been responsible for the successful implementation of
MPP I, and had prepared and was expected to implement MPP II. Secondly, MOA
decided to substantially broaden the scope of Minimum Package activities and
to include virtually all agriculturally productive weredas (districts)
throughout the country.
Obiectives
The Second Minimum Package Project (MPP II) was designed to bring
basic agricultural inputs and services to large numbers of small farmers. It
was an extension and consolid-tion of the MPP I Project (Credit 416-ET) which
closed on March 31, 1978.  W.-t as MPP I had concentrated on the high
potential portions of 280 werecas, MPP II was to concentrate on 440 weredas.
It would thereby have more than three times the geographic coverage of its
predecessor.   Thirdly, the original MPP II project, designed as a four year
program, was redesigned for implementation in two years.
Implementation Experience
MOA was the lead agency for MPP II and was responsible for
implementation of most components. The Ethiopian Seed Corporation (ESC) under
the Ministry of State Farm Development, implemented the remaining activities.
Other institutions which played important roles in the implementation of MPP
II were the Institute of Agricultural Research (11R); the Ethiopian Roads
Authority which was, through the Ethiopian Transport and Construction
Autlority (ETCA), responsible for construction of some 200km of rural roads,
and the Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank (AIDB) which was
responsible for providing credit to farmers for the purchase of inputs. The
Agricultural Marketing Corporation (AMC) was originally intended to provide
inputs. However, during implementation, AMC's input supply role was shifted
to the newly established Agricultural Inputs Supply Corporation (AISCO), a
semi-autonomous institution within MOA.
The MPP II project was to have been implemented over the two fiscal
years 1980/81 and 1981/81. However, the project took longer to complete than
expected. The original estimates were too optimistic given the experience
under MPP I. Cautionary advice given during the review within the Bank should
have been heeded. The SAR implementation schedule provided for the completion
of physical works over 19 months. In practice, physical works within MOA took



-vi -
over five and a half years to complete. The main cause for slow
implementation of physical facilities was the slow start to construction.
Once construction had started it proceeded with reasonable speed. Also, it
took a long time for TA posts to be filled. Government seemed reluctant to
contract with a consulting firm to staff these posts. They relied instead on
SIDA and on the Agricultural Development Service, through which the World Bank
filled 6 posts. It was only towards the end of the project (November 1984)
that GOSE entered into a contract with a consultinp firm to fill three
critical posts in MOA.
In spite of taking twice as long to implement as estimated at
appraisal, project costs remained about the same. On the basis of the period
to mid-1986, project costs were about Birr 164 million (USS 79 million)
compared with an SAR estimate of Birr 160 millioz. (USS 77 million).   Because
of the longer project period, incremental MOA expenditure in administration
and related overhead costs was 34Z above appraisal estimates. Soil and water
conservation costs were about 132 lower. Expenditures on rural roads were 57Z
above appraisal estimates, and would have been higher still had purchase of
machinery for the construction of self-help roads been included in this
category and not in the MOA incremental ccet category,   The unit costs of
both roads and buildings were several times higher than estimated in the SAR,
due p7obably to underestimation at appraisal. Machinery costs on the other
hand were close to SAR estimates. Farm input costs were substantially lower
than expected, being only 39Z of the appraisal figure. This was partly due to
lower quantities being procured, and partly to lower international fertilizer
prices. The cost of the ESC component was very close to the appraisal figure
being just 42 higher than estimated.
The incremental MOA operating costs of Birr 17 million annually were
only about half of the amounts expected at appraisal. This was one of the
reasons for the shortage of operating funds available to MOA staff,
particularly in the first half of each fiscal year. This problem was reported
a number of times during supervision and according to the financial staff of
MOA has now largely been rectified.
Project Impact
The project has succeeded in establishing the basic infrastructure
necessar- to deliver productivity improving packages to farmers. An extension
service based at service cooperatives has been established. The foundation
for setting up an effective agricultural input supply corporation has been
laid and a system of cleaning and distributing improved seeds has been
developed. Most importantly, an effective pilot T&V extension project was
implemented which has brought about significant improvements in "institutional
understanding" of the role and value of extension. This increased acceptance
has prepared the way for the establishment of a professional extension service
in Ethiopia. The MOA capacity to identify, prepare and appraise development
projects was improved through support to the MOA Project Preparation
Department.



- vii -
It is not possible to know directly how much of the MPP II extension
advice was adopted by MPP farmers. However, an estimate can he made based on
the incremental use of inputs within MPP areas during the project period. On
the assumption that individual farmers use 0.8 - 1.0 quintals of fertilizer
per ha holding (probably too high an estimate), the incremental fertilizer
usage for 1985186 of 22.2 thousand tons over the 1977/78 figure indicates that
approximately a quarter of a million incremental farmers are now adopting the
fertilizer package, less than half of SAR estimates.
In the early project years, the low uptake of improved inputs was
perceived to have been caused by several factors, including: (i) the lack of
storage/marketing facilities close to farmers; (ii) the late delivery of
inputs (fertilizer, improved seeds) to the agricultural areas; and (iii) an
unsatisfactory system of inp6ts supply credit to PAs, whereby the whole PA
could be deprived of inputs if any one member was in default. After the Mid
Term Review in early 1983 and Bank sector work on production incentives in
Eth'opia, it was determined that the most critical factors which affected
peasant uptake of new technology were exogenous to the project. Production
incentives deteriorated in the early 1980's. The price of fertilizer rose
rapidly. This paralleled the imposition of the compulsory g-ain quota
put-hase system at low prices and its progressively rigid enforcement
(official grain prices remained largely unchanged since 1979). Simultanehusly,
the disttibution of consumer goods to the rural sector declined while prices
rose. The expanding population resulted in new age groups entitled to land,
which combined with uncertainties about future collectivization, caused land
tenure insecurity to emerge again as a disincentive to agricultural
investment. Thus, the deteriorating policy environment worked against major
production increases arising from project activtties. Only recently have
supply constraints for fertilizer been eased, and production incentives
improved. Fertilizer use in 1986187 has risen to recerd levels.
The Economic Rate of Return (ERR) calculated for MPP II as a separate
project, with its own costs and associated benefits, is estimated at 2
percent. The cost and benefit streams described in para 6.03 are used.
Project costs are incurred starting from 1981182. As can be seen in Table 17,
production benefits from this project do not materialize until 1987/88 when
fertilizer adoption picks up dramatically. This poor performance is due
mainly to the lack of agricultural production incentives, as noted in para 8
above. Two years of severe drought (1983/84 and 1984/85) also affected
production returns. If the project is considered as part of continuous Bank
support to the Minimum Package Program, and a necessary followup to MPP 1,
then its costs and benefits can be considered as part of the MPP 1 cost and
benefit streams.  When this is done, the ERR for MPP 1 and MPP 2 combined is
estimated at 8 percent (Table 18). This implies a substantial reduction in
the ERR of 15 percent estimated for MPP 1 in the completion report of May
1979. Alternatively, the project can be seen as a necessary precursor to the
Peasant Agriculture Development Program (PADEP), and the relatively high
benefits from this new project can be seen as a result, in part, of sunk costs
incurred in MPP II.



- viii -
Sustainabilitj
Peasant agriculture is the main source of agricultural output in
Ethiopia. Any project which is to bhve a major impact on agricultural
production needs to go through the current centrally planned system and be
directed towards individual farmers. In this respect, the design of the
project was appropriate. It was, however, too ambitious and inadequately
defined. Revisions tended to exacerbate this problem. It proved
impossible to provide effective support to production in over 440 weredas. To
have achieved production objectives, the project should have been smaller and
tighter, and geared to specific regions with a known response to fertilizer
and reasonable accessibility. More effort should have been put into
developing and promoting regionally specific development packages rather than
blanket recommendations. The three and a half year delay in obtaining
technical assistance for ADD was particularly harmful in this respect. These
lessons were identified during supervision, and are being applied in PADEP,
replicated in all the productive regions in the country.
Findings and Lessons
The project, although designed as a self-standing operation in 1975,
had evolved by 1980 into an interim operation, designed to strengthen
agricultural infrastructure and lay the foundations for a countrywide
agricultural production project. Preparation of the follow-on project was an
integral part of MPP II objectivee. Due to this metamorphosis, project
construction and development activities were collapsed into two years. Program
type aspects, such as financing of a time-slice of MOA operating costs and
salaries were included. Because it had originally been designed as a full-
fledged production project, it also included detailed provision for an
extension service and credit system, roads, soil and water conservation and
livestock support activities -- which remained in the final design. Tho
resultiag project fell halfway between program and project lending, with the
disadvantages of both, and none of the benefits. Had a program approach been
followed, conditions on production incentives and efficiency of MOA operations
could have been included and funds would have been disbursed in two years
against broadly defined categories, without the detailed planning and review
work necessitated under the existing design. The focus would have been on the
fulfillment of the policy objectives, which would have strengthened the
dialogue under the Grain Storage and Marketing Project (Cr. 789-ET). Had a
pure project approach been followed, the project period would have been
extended to 5 years at least, and the extension service, seeds production and
fertilizer distribution components would have been better appraised and
implemented.
Th's project cannot be considered successful if evaluated as an
isolated effort to improve agricultural production and country economic
performance. However, it can be said to have achieved a fair degree of
success if viewed as part of the continuous process of Bank involvement in the



- ix -
agricultural sector in Ethiopia. In this context, it is Justified as an
interim effort to develop institutions that play a key role in agricultural
development and as a precursor to PADEP, a full fledged production project.
Two broad priority lessons emerge from the experience of MPP IIs (i) a project
cannot succeed in achieving primary production objectives unless the incentive
and policy framework are conducive to promoting the adoption of improved
technology and practices which would sustain increased output; and (ii)
agricultural projects which are too large and complex are difficult to
implement, expensive to supervise, and much less likely to achieve all their
objectives.



ETHIOPIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL MINIMUM PACKAGE PROJECT (CR. 1088-ET)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I.   BACKGROUND AND INTRODUCTION
1.01    Agriculture dominates the economy of Ethiopia provi4ing 8 out of every
10 Ethiopians with a means of livelihood. The Agricultural Sector Review 3
provides extensive information about the sector. Cereals account for about
80? of a total cropped area of 6.7 million ha, and grain production, which is
largely rainfed, varies widely from year to year. The country is a net
importer of grain. The Ethiopian population in 1984 was about 42 million and
is growing at 2.9Z per year.
1.02    Most crop production in Ethiopia takes place in the highlands. The
lower pastoral regions are used predominantly for livestock rearing. There are
great variations in rainfall, altitude, tamperature, soils and topography
which make Ethiopia an ecologically and agriculturally complex country. In
the crop growing areas, rainfall varies from about 600mm in the Rift Valley to
2000mm in the southwest highlands.
1.03    Great social and political changes have occurred in Ethiopia over the
past ten to fifteen years. The country has moved from a semi-feudal system
dominated by large land holdings with associated landlord tenant
relationships, to an egalitarian society run along centrally planned socialist
lines in which reforms providing equal access to services and land have been
put in place.
1.04    Ethiopia over the years has been subject to periodic droughts. The
most recent one in 1984/85 has been one of the country's most severe and
publicized. The occurrence of drought during this period and the associated
demands which it made on government staff in coping both with the drought
affected population and the enormous external assistance which was generated,
has had a substantial impact on the implementation of the Second Minimum
Package Project (MPP II, Cr. 1088-ET).
1.05    The Second Minimum Package Project was designed to bring basic
agricultural inputs and services to large numbers of small farmers. It was
intended to be an extension and consolidation of the MPP I Project (Credit
416-ET) which was closed on March 31, 1978. By the time the IFAD Loan and the
IDA Credit for MPP II were signed (January and February 1981 respectively),
the continuing MPP program had changed. The major change since the end of MPP
I was the absorption into the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) of the Extension
and Project Implementation Department (EPID). This had been a semi-autonomous
entity within MOA, and had been responsible for implementing MPP I. Plans
were to make EPID lead implementing agency for MPP II. Furthermore, during
the gap between the end of the MPP I and the beginning of MPP II, MOA decided
to substantially broadeii the scope of Minimum Package activities and to
include virtually all agriculturally productive weredas (districts) throughout
the country. Whereas MPP I had concentrated on the high potential portions of
280 weredas, MPP II was to concentrate on 440 weredas. It would thereby have
more than three times the geographic coverage of its predecessor. The
project was no longer focused only on the areas within select high potential
3 #Agriculture - A Strategy for Growth" Report No. 6512-ET
(Green Cover). March 25, 1987.



weredas in which production was likely to respond best to increased inputs of
fertilizer.
1.06    MPP II was implemented by MOA which was responsible for most of the
components. The Ethiopian Seed Corporation (ESC) under the Ministry of State
Farm Development, implemented the remaining activities. Other institutions
which played important roles in the implementation of MPP II were the
Institute of Agricultural Research (IAR) responsible for research in support
of the project; the Ethiopian Roads Authority which was, through the Ethiopian
Transport and Construction Authority (ETCA), responsible for construction of
some 200km of rural roads, and the Agricultural and Industrial Development
Bank (AIDB) which was responsible for providing credit to farmers for the
purchase of inputs. The Agricultural Marketing Corporation (AMC) was to have
provided inputs during the project. However, during implementation, AMC's
input supply role was shifted to the newly established Agricultural Inputs
Supply Corporation (AISCO), a semi-autonomous institution within MOA.
1.07    The MPP II project was supported by an SDR 32 million IDA Credit
(1088-ET, signed on February 2, 1981) and an SDR 13.9 million IFAD loan (40-
ET) signed on January 7, 1981). These funds, together with an estimated SDR
0.9 million from SIDA, were to provide financing for two years cf MPP
activities. It was the thirteenth IDA credit made for agricultural
development in Ethiopia. The creditlloan was eventually closed on June 30,
1985 after having disbursed 98Z (2X was cancelled due to misprocurement). MPP
1I is being followed by a series of peasant agriculture development projects
(PADEPs) which are regionally based. One of these, in Gamo Goffa and Sidamo,
is being supported by the African Development Bank. Other donors including
SIDA, IFAD, EEC and IDA intend to support PADEPs in other areas. PADEP
projects covering the regions of Gonder, Gojam, Welega, Ilubabor and Kefa are
presently being processed for IDA funding.
II. PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
A. Proiect Origin
2.01    MPP II was intended as a follow on to MPP I.  It had its origin in the
countrywide Food and Agricultural Organization (FAO) fertilizer trial programs
of the late 19609. MPP I succeeded in supplying fertilizers and basic
extension messages to farmers close to the road in some 280 weredas. It was
based on the Minimum Package area concept, which involved units with one
extension worker to 2,000 farmers, situated within Skm of a road and along
15km of its length. Five such units (10,000 farmers covering 75km of road)
made up an MPP area. This system operated in portions of 280 weredas. The
aim of the MPP II project was to expand and consolidate MPP I. It recognized
the need to increase production from the peasant sector in Ethiopia through
widespread introduction of appropriate simple packages.



- 3 -
B. Preparation and ADDraisal
2.02    The early preparation of MPP II was undertaken by EPID with support
from SIDA technical assistance staff based within the agency. The initial
proposal was formulated towards the end of 1975 and is understood to have been
based on the MPP I concept of service centers developed along all weather
roads. Assistance was also provided by RNEA in finalizing this first MPP II
preparation document.
2.03    A review of the MPP 1I proposals within GOSE led to the proposed
project being expanded to cover a wider geographical area. This was of
particular importance to GOSE because of the recent land reform which had
taken place in Ethiopia (1975) and the need to provide support in terms of
inputs and extension to the newly established Peasant Associations (PAs).
During the last quarter of 1976, a revised MPP II proposal was put together
with continued technical assistance both from SIDA and RMEA. This revised MPP
II project proposal was sent to the Bank in December 1976. At that time, tne
intention was that MPP II would be financed in parallel by USATD, SIDA and
IDA. Accordingly, a joint USAID/SIDA/IDA mission appraised the project in
Ethiopia in April 1977. Although the project had initially been prepared as a
four year operation, the appraisal mission proposed to reduce it to three
years.
2.04    Due to country problems including, inter alia, the conflict with
Somalia, project processing was delayed until a review mission was sent to
Ethiopia in April 1978 to update the draft appraisal documents. The first
negotiations between the Bank and GOSE took place in November 1978. However,
due to the existence of standard USAID/IDA cross effectiveness clauses and the
unlikelihood of USAID declaring a new Project effective at that time, the
project was not presented to the Bank's Board. SIDA, however, went ahead and
provided interim financial and technical support for the project. In April
1979, IFAD indicated that if the project was likely to become operational, it
would be interested in cofinancing.  Otherwise it would consider developing a
separate lending operation in Ethiopia.
2.05    The project was reactivated in November 1979 following discussions
between the Bank and Ethiopia at the Bank/Fund annual meetings. The appraisal
documents were then rapidly updated following a series of short, mainly
nontechnical missions. In January 1980, IFAD formally agreed to cofinance the
project and strongly proposed reinclusion of the seeds component which had
originally been part of USAID's proposed parallel financing. The amended
project had by now been reduced from a three year time slice to a two year
time slice of MOA's MPP activities. During the review stage, concern had been
expressed by the Bank's central projects department that the implementation
schedule was too ambitious and that the estimates of yield improvements which
were to result from MPP II activities were too high. Nevertheless, processing
proceeded through the loan committee without comment on project substance.
2.06    Negotiations took place in April/May 1980.  At negotiations, the
Ethiopian delegation attempted to introduce certain changes into the project,



- 4 -
including the construction of an MOA headquarters building. Secondly, the
delegation requested that the salaries and wages of production cadres should
be financed under the project. Thirdly, they wished to raise the estimates of
quantities and costs of fertilizer to be used. The Bank was not prepared to
include either the construction of the MOA headquarters or the financing of
production cadres' wages. However, it did agree to increase the amount of the
credit by US$ 2 million from USS 38 million to VS$ 40 million as a result of
the more recent estimates of fertilizer prices which had been presented by the
delegation. At the request of the GOSE delegation, the technical assistance
compon.nt of the project was rt ! ed by 8 stast -.ears.
2.07    Other pol.tosals made by the Ethiopian delegation on the project design
are described below. Firstly, the Ethiopians resisted the Bank's position
that the Project Coordinator be placed in the MzOA Permanent Secretary's
office. Instead the delegation wanted him placed in the Planning and
Programming Department. The final outcome, which was incorporated in the
Development Credit Agreement (DCA), was that a Minimum Package Program
Technical Support Unit   (TSU) would be established in the Ministry of
Agriculture, reporting directly to the Permanent Secretary. The TSU would be
headed by a technical support officer whose functions would be the same as
those originally intended for the project coordinator. Secondly, the
Ethiopian delegation stressed the difficulties the Government would have in
submitting approved annual workplans by May 1st each year. This condition was
amended allowing Government to submit its proposed annual work to IDA for
review by May 1st. Thirdly, the Ethiopian delegation also objected to the
requirement that GOSE had to review its Minimum Package Program in order to
improve cost effectiveness, reduce subsidies, and establish appropriate levels
and methods of cost recovery. This requirement was amended to have Government
submit to IDA and IFAD preliminary findings of such a study so that they could
be reviewed and acted on prior to the intended project completion date (June
1982).
2.08    The project was approved by the IFAD board immediately following
negotiations, on May 7, 1980. It was originally intended to go to the
IDA Board on June 24, 1980. However, this was allowed to slip until
December 23, 1980. By then Ethiopia was perceived to have become more
amenable to making some type of arrangement for compensating owners for
foreign owned businesses expropriated after the 1974 Revolution. The IFAD
Loan Agreement was subsequently signed on January 7, 1981 and the IDA credit
agreement on February 2nd, 1981.
2.09    Due to issues largely unrelated to the project itself, project
processing, from the time of the first draft preparation report to the date
of loan effectiveness, had taken 5 and three quarter years. During this
period, great changes had taken place in Ethiopia, and within the proposed
project implementing agencies.   For this reason, it is significant to note
that project formulation/design had essentially been out of the GOSE's direct
control since the review and revisions of mid-1976.



C. Targets and Goals
2.10    The project was the second IDA assisted Minimum Package Project in
Ethiopia and was designed to: i) increase the productivity and incomes of
small farmers by introducing them to fertilizer, improved seeds and other
agricultural inputs; ii) strengthen the institutional and technical framework
to progressively expand and improve the Minimum Package Program; and iii)
help to ensure long term productivity of the land by expanding the
Government's Soil and Water Conservation efforts.
D. Proiect Description
2.11    The project description as set out in the Staff Appraisal Report
(SAR) stated that "... the project is in the nature of an interim
assistance to Ethiopia following the gap in IDA's participation in the MPP,
and is therefore restricted to a major strengthening of the program over a
two year period pending preparation of a possible third MPP project." (SAR
para 3.02).
2.12    The MPP II project was to have been implemented over the two
fiscal years 1980/81 and 1981/82, and to have assisted the Government to
complete the expansion of staff and services to 440 weredas. The primary
objective was "... to increase small holder production through provision of
farm inputs on credit and extension and support services' (SAR para 3.01).
Since small holders produced 95X of total crop output, MPP was also seen as
the primary means of increasing overall national production. The project was
to have laid the in&situtional and technical foundation for continuing
successful operation of this core program in the Government's rural
development strategy. Specifically, it was intended to provide:
i)    staff and staff training, vehicles, buildings and equipment for
the MOA headquarters and field offices;
ii)   farm inputs (on credit) including fertilizers, improved seeds,
pesticides and tools and animal husbandry inputs in selected
areas;
iii) buildings, equipment and technical assistance: (a) to assist the
Ethiopian Seed Corporation to produce basic seed; and (b) to
expand seed multiplication and cleaning at the PA level;
iv)   low cost rural roads;
v)    applied research, training of IAR staff and field   demonstrations
to assist with $.he development of improved seed and technical
packages for MPP farmers; and
vi)   field staff, vehicles and equipment for an expanded soil  and
water conservation program in the worst affected areas.



6 -
III. IMPLEMENTATION AND START-UP
3.01 Ethiopia was slow in meeting IDA conditions of effectiveness both with
respect to supplementary loan agreements and appointing technical assistance
(TA) staff to key positions. This delay caused disbursements against salaries
and operating costs which had been presented to IDA, to be held up for several
months. Furthermore, as there had been some uncertainty in the minds of MOA
staff about whether IDAIIFAD funding would indeed be forthcoming, in view of
having IDA's Board Presentation delayed by 6 months, little preparatory
project work on design/procurement took place prior to effectiveness. This
meant a slow start for construction and for procurement of vehicles and
equipment.
A. Revisions
3.02 Following start-up, project coverage was extended further and more
weredas, in addition to those mentiored in para. 1.05, were included for MOA
support. This ultimately proved undesirable. The ESC component was altered
with both processing and storage arrangements being changed, partly because
the ESC component had never been fully prepared or appraised by the Bank. In
the haste to rapidly process the project once lending to Ethiopia had been
resumed, it had been decided to update the old USAID proposals which focussed
on seed cleaning and storage rather than seed production aspects (para 3.23).
Funding for livestock components were also substantially increased but the
proposed State operated heifer breeding farms were dropped. Other changes in
the project included the introduction in 1983 of a pilot T&V extension
component, the shifting of the responsibility for input supply away from AMC
(a unilateral Government decision), the construction of self-help stores
rather than MOA stores and funding of 14 overseas fellowships.
3.03   No revisions of the loan/credit agreements were needed to incorporate
these changes. However, delays in project implementation meant that the
credit closing date hae to be extended twice, first to June, 1984 and then to
June, 1985.
B. Implementation of Key ComDonents
3.04    Overview:  The project was implemented slowly.  The original estimates
were too optimistic given the experience under MPP I, and cautionary advice
given during the review within the Bank should have been heeded. The SAR
implementation schedule provided for the completion of physical works over 19
months. In practice, physical works within MOA were over five and a half
years.
3.05   The main cause for slow implementation of physical facilities was the
slow start to construction. Once construction had started it generally
proceeded with reasonable speed. The reasons for delays in start-up weret i)
there was no PPF funding for preparatory work; ii) technical assistance



- 7 -
support was not in place for some time; iii) commvanications with the Bank
(RM A) were slow; iv) necessary plant and equipment was slow to arrive; v)
there were long delays in receiving vehiclas due largely to the Government's
desire to coordinate vehicle procurement with other Ministry purchases; and
vi) a number of differences of opinion on implementation emerged between
government agencies and Bank supervision missions.
3.06   It took a long time for TA posts to be f 'led.  Government seemed
reluctant to contract with a consulting firm t  .,aff these posts.  They
relied instead on SIDA (which was relatively unsuecessful in terms of the
number of posts filled by SIDA staff), and on the Agricultural Development
Service, through which the World Bank filled 6 posts. It was only towards the
end of the project (November 1984) that GOSE entered into a contract with a
consulting firm to fill three critical posts in HOA.
3.07   The input supply component was implemented at a much lower level than
planned; total fertilizer purchases over four years were 21,000 tons of DAP in
one contract, compared with an SAR estimate of 26,000 tons over two years.
This was due largely to reduction in MOA sales and increases in stocks.  This
occurred because of sharp increases in the fertilizer price to farmers coupled
with stagnant official producer prices for the main grains and the
simultaneous increase (and enforcement) of compulsory quota sales by producers
to AMC at these comparatively low prices.
3.08   Construction - MOA:  It was planned that MOA would assist in the
construction of 300 km of self-help rural roads. Under the project, 10 rural
roads were constructed or partly constructed totalling 215 km (Table 1).
Construction costs, ranging between Birr 31,4001km and Birr 19,400/km, were
substantially higher than the appraisal estimate of Birr 3,000/km. Total
expenditure on the self-help roads over the six years 1980181 to 1985/86, was
an estimated Birr 4.7 million with most of the money being spent in the latter
three years. Disbursements against the rural road category amounted to Birr
1.1 million. The IDA/IFAD contribution was less than the 90Z of total costs
which had been intended at appraisal. This was probably due to the funding
allocation being fully utilized, and also to the substantial monetary
contributions by the communities involved.
3.09   In addition to self-hnlp rural roads, about 210 km of other higher
standard rural roads were constructed by ETCA under the project. This
compares favorably with the 200km of roads which had been planned under the
SAR. The cost of these roads (excluding the purchase of equipment) was
estimated at Birr 7.3 million (Birr 36,500lkm). The project actually provided
road building equipment for ETCA and MOA costing about Birr 10 million).
3.10   All MOA fertilizer stores were supposed to be handed over to AMC. In
order to keep the 60 fertilizer stores which were to have been built under the
project under MOA's control, the target was changed in June 1981 to the
construction of 300 self-help 200 ton capacity stores to be owned by service
cooperatives. There were considerable delays in trying to construct the self-
help stores and the target numbers dropped from 300 to 125 to 70, and finally



- 8 -
to 48. One reason for the delays was the protracted dealings with the Bank on
design. To resolve design questions, 12 pilot stores of three different
materials, stone, brick, and concrete blocks were built. After reviewing
these, detailed design changes were finally agreed upon. The remaining 36
stores were finalized in 1984/85.
3.11   Concurrently, a large number of self-help stores were also constructed,
without project funding. This raises the question of whether the designs
proposed by the Bank were too sophisticated given the intended purpose of
grain and fertilizer storage.
3.12   Difficulty was experienced in raising the peasants' contrib'ution
towards construction of the project supported stores. These 200 ton
structures cost some Birr 45,000 each with ,he project providing Birr 23,000
towards materials and supervision, and the peasants a similar sum or
equivalent in local materials, labor, etc. No construction isorks were to
start until the peasants had provided 852 of their contribution. Conversely,
the locally constructed stores which were made of wood and mud (chika), cost
on average about Birr 12,000 -rith Government providing technical assistance
only. For these, the peasants needed only to raise Birr 4,000 before
construction was autlhorized.
3.13   The project target of constructing 13 regional offices and 30 awraja
offices for MOA was fulfilled. Total construction costs amounted to about
Birr 12 million compared with an estimated Birr 2.3 million at appraisal.
Although it had been intended that disbursements against civil works (Category
I), would be 802 of cost, procurement problems which resulted in a total of
0.9 million SDR (split between the credit and loan) being cancelled, meant
that disbursements were only made against 3 regional offices and 9 awraja
offices, and amounted to Birr 3.8 million, out of a total cost of Birr 4.6
million (Table 2).
3.14   The offices constructed are generally adequate.  Lack of detail in the
SAR makes it impossible to determine whether the substantial cost overrun was
a result of underestimation of unit costs, or of areas per office. Other
construction under the project included 30 houses for the T&V staff costing a
total of at Birr 0.15 million, which had not been included at appraisal.
3.15      Soil and Water Conservation (SWC):  The SWC component was
outstandingly successful, although the program actually implemented proved
markedly different to that originally planned. At appraisal, it was assumed
that SWC would be on a wereda basis with one conservation agent being
appointed per wereda, with his work being funded by the credit/loan. Between
the time of negotiations and project start-up, the SWC department's
operational system shifted to a catchment area based program. This change was
logical from a physical planning standpoint as wereda boundaries are not
related to topography. Project funds were used for the purchase of handtools
and for budgetary support. Because of the change of structure, there were
problems in identifying precisely the staff salaries against which
disbursements could be made. The problem was resolved by disbursing against



transport of food included under the WFP food-for-work program. These costs
were clearly defined expenditures for the support of the component.
3.16   The TA provided under the project for SWC (52 man-months) was timely
and was perceived by the GOSE as being extremely useful. Furthermore, the
support of SWC under MPP II has been catalytic in expanding the widespread and
successful soil and water conservation efforts being made by other donor
agencies (WFP, EEC, PAO, etc).
3.17    Agricultural Development Department  WDD):  An important TA activity
was to develop a national trials program for applied agricultural research.
Following changes in the organizational structure of MOA (para 1.05), the
three TA positions (farming systems specialist, agronomist and soil fertility
specialist), required to assist MOA in formulating the revised program, were
located in ADD. Substantial delays in recruitment occurred, due to a lack of
enthusiasm at a high level in MOA for this type of TA, and the posts were
eventually filled only towards the end of 1984.
3.18   In the limited time available between then and the end of the project,
the unit, which was centrally based despite the zonal reorganization in MOA,
became engaged in a number of major tasks. First, it set out to redefine the
country in terms of agro-ecological zones (AEZs) according to agronomic
potential, using altitude/thermal characteristics, rainfall and soils to give
25 different AEZs. In parallel, the unit initiated 18 adaptive research
trials in 5 zones based on the newly defined AR,Zs for the 1986 season. These
trials are being continued using the same team but under different funding
(Drought Recovery Program, Cr. 1576-ET and subsequently, Fourth Livestock
Development Project, Cr. 1782-ET). A further 22 sites in 8 more zones were
being established in 1987. The quality and potential value of the work by the
ADD team is widely acknowledged. However, as a result of the lack of
appointment of full time Ethiopian counterpart staff, the trials system, which
is vital for the development of future 'extension messages", is in da"ger of
becoming less effective once the technical assistance contracts are completed
in 1988.
3.19   The substantial (three and a half years) delay in initiating this
component has meant that applied research is lagging badly. MPP TT has made
no proven breakthroughs in "extension messages.' It will be another two years
before it will be possible to fully evaluate the likely technical and economic
impact of this component, but current prospe,ts are promising. Moreover, the
fundamental design, analytical and survey work conducted by the ADD team has
made an important contribution towards establishing a sound framework for
conducting effective adaptive research for the peasant sector.
3.20    Technical Support to MOA's Financial Department:  Both training and TA
were applied to the MOA Finance Department. The training was effective. The
head of the Department received a fellowship and obtained further relevant
qualifications. The TA was also effective, although its training impact was
limited. Firstly, the systems analyst and the programmers provided under SIDA
funding did not remain for long enough to finalize their tasks, and it was not



- 10 -
possible to obtain extensions to the contracts. Secondly, although the
expatriate chief accountant position was vital to the improvement of Ministry
records, national staff have not been sufficiently trained to take over this
role as was originally intended. The situation is similar in the case of the
Technical Support Officer who handled procurement and disbursements for MOA.
A major reason for this problem, ts that financial specialists in Ethiopia can
command much higher salaries in thc private sector than within ministry
departments and are hence difficult to recruit. TA could also have been used
for effectively for training (para 3.25).
3.21   In addition, a fixed assets study, aimed at eliminating the auditors
regular qualification of MOA accounts concerning verification of assets, has
been initiated and an inception report with preliminary findings and
recommnndations prepared. However, due to difficulties with the conbultants,
MOA had not proceeded with the second part of the study in early 1987.
3.22   The Ethiopian Seed Corworation (ESC):  The ESC component was fully
implemented but with some modifications. The main difference was that the TA
changed markedly. Rather than the technically based positions envisaged at
appraisal, the project funded two more generalist positions: a planning and
evaluation economist, and an agronomist. A total of 98 staff-months was used,
compared with the 48 planned at appraisal. In addition, about 21 months of TA
was provided at the beginning of the project by FAO (seeds specialists) and
later, additional assistance on seed cleaning was provided by the supplier of
seed cleaning equipment. Although not provided for directly within the
appraisal documentation, the project also funded staff training. Five staff
members undertook postgraduate university training in seeds technology and
five others underwent short courses in process ensineering. From ESC's
standpoint, the postgraduate overseas training has been only partially
successful. Three of the trainees have returned and are filling important
posts, but two others failed to return to the country.
3.23   Although ESC has successfully built up its seed cleaning, storage and
handling capacity, little development has occurred in production of basic
seed. This appears to have been a major omission in project design. Given
that increasing supplies of improved seeds were important to MPP II
effectiveness, investment and institutional development should have included
the seed industry as a whole, from production onwards. Because virtually
nothing was done in this regard, ESC has simply acted as a cleaner and dresser
of field approved seeds and, to a small extent, as an importer. A small
multiplication program was initiated by ESC with equipment financed under the
project, but has lost momentum due to the lack of access to a high quality
farm. Basic seeds of new varieties have not been multiplied to any great
extent nor has a program of seed certification which was envisaged at
appraisal, yet been developed. Indeed, it was not until 1984185 that ESC
received from IAR the first breeder seed for multiplication.
3.24   An important constraint to ESU's future effectiveness is that it has
not been allowed to become financially strong. Firstly, prices for both the
purchase of raw material seed for cleaning and dressing, and the final product



- 11 -
have been set at levels which give ESC 1-nadequate margins. Secondly, the very
slack financial arrangements which exitt. bJetween ESC, State Farms, AISCO and
MOA mean that although ESC has been oper; ing as an independent agency,
payments for seeds supplied have been very tardy, with delays of two years or
more occurring frequently. In consequence, ESC is also slow in paying it's
suppliers and therefore carries a high creditors figure in its balance sheets.
ESC is financially weak despite having had more than US$8 million worth of
foreign aid applied to it over the last five years. Future funding of ESC
should be contingent on significant improvement in these areas. Indeed, as it
has been agreed that this agency should be an ai%onomous business, it is
important that its ability to finance future development should be
strengthened, to reduce the continuous need for outside support.
3.25    Technical Assistance and Fellowships:  Heavy TA was provided under MPP
II. Details of its importance to the different project components has already
been discussed. Overall however, it amounted to some 617 staff-months spread
over five years, compared with an estimated 654 staff-months over two years in
the SAR. In effect, the actual intensity of TA was lower than proposed at
appraisal. Tables 3 and 4 show the phasing of TA and also compare the amount
and type of TA actually used compared to specified in the SAR. The main
difference is due to the 192 months of accounting trainer's time proposed at
appraisal, which was never provided due to tardiness and difficulty in the
recruitment efforts. Otherwise tiere were generally fewer individual
positions than anticipated but each one lasted longer. The other major
difference was that a far greater proportion of total TA came under IDA/IFAD
funding rather than in the form of grants from FAO, SIDA, etc. While most of
the TA staff performed satisfactorily, MOA did not (and continues not to) make
the most effective use of these personnel. The failure to appoint (and
maintain) qualified counterpart staff, little attention being giveu to
preparing specific training programs for these staff, no effective monitoring
and evaluation of TA staff work, and continued use of TA staff to complete ad
hoc tasks, resulted in contracts being continually extended. In too many
cases, the gap in expertise which was to be temporarily filled by TA, still
exists. Although not included in the project description. a series of
fellowships for MOA and ESC personnel were funded under the project (see Table
5).  These fellowships proved valuable in providing-MOA and ESC with well
qualified graduates, capable of managing project activities under their own
initiative - of the 13 fellows listed, only three failed to return to
Ethiopia. The value of this training is re 'ected in the contributions these
staff are now making to the institutions concerned.
C. Reporting
3.26    Required Reporting:  Project reporting was to have involved a number
of elements. First, quarterly reports on project activities were to be
submitted to IDA. Secondly, audit reports of MOA and ESC were to be submitted
annually. Third, an annual work plan for IDA's approval was to be submitted
prior to May 1st each year. Information to be provided in this report is
specified in the SAR. It covered, inter alia, quantified targets by region
of project activities, including; (i) input supply; (ii) the status of



- 12 -
veterinary services; (iii) fertilizer availability; (iv) MOA staffing; and (o)
staff training. Ir. addition, the work plan was to provide a schedule of loans
by region as well as reports on the building program and capital budgets in
sufficient detail to allow incremental replacement expenditures to be
identified. Proposals ror funding the work plan and the details of the
monitoring and evaluation program associated with it were also required.
Also, prior to the anticipated project completion date, the Government was to
submit its preliminary findinas on a financial review of the MPP programs
including proposals for future cost recovery, etc. Finally, project
completion reports were to be prepared by 1OA and ESC.
3.27   Performance on project reporting was generally poor.  While audited
reports were submitted and adequate PCRs were prepared, other elements of
reporting showed considerable shortcomings. Annual workplans were submitted
later than planned. and did not contain much of the required information.
Quarterly reports were not submitted to IDA although it is understood that
towards the end of the period, quarterly reports have been prepared in
.Amharic. These, however, are geared to submission to the National Committee
for Central Planning and, if translated, would not have been adequate for
fulfilling the Bank's requirements. Finally, the proposed MPP II financial
review was not prepared. However, following the mid-term review, it had been
recommended by a Bank supervision mission that this should not be pressed for.
The generally poor performance on reporting requirements calls into question
the desirability of the Bank's routine insistence on (and the Borrower's
routine acceptance of) frequent reporting in which reports, in too many cases,
are given inadequate attention by both the Bank and the Borrower. Reporting
should be more selective, the specific items to be covered carefully defined,
and both parties should then allocate appropriate priority to preparation and
review.
3.28      Mid-Term Review:  Although not envisaged at appraisal, a joint GOSE,
SIDA, IDA, IFAD mid-term review report was prepared in April 1983. This
evaluated the performance of the project to date and set out proposals for its
continued operation. The mid-term review was perceived by GOSE and the Bank
as a useful means of refocusing and redirecting the project. The mid-term
review appears to have given substantial impetus to a series of initiatives
including: i) the development of the pilot T&V program which started in 1983;
ii) the conducting of a Vehicle Repair and Maintenance Study; iii) the
relocation of Development Agents (DA's) out of wereda offices into service
cooperatives, a first step in improving extension service effectiveness; iv)
the payment of adequate perdiems, and the transfer of adequate operating cost
funding to the regions and awrajas; and v) the creation of AISCO, and the
focus on ways to overcome input supply bottlenecks.
D. Procurement
3.29   MOA procurement was undertaken by the TSU often in collaboration with
other agencies. Vehicles and road construction equipment were, for example,
procured by TSU and ETCA. Fertilizer was procured by AMC. To assist in



- 13 -
procurement, the services if specialized consultants were also used. The
results of this TA were mixed. For goods which were to be procured using
local competitive bidding (3 bids), an initial aggregate project ceiling of
US$1 million was introduced in the DCA. This ceiling appears to have been too
low, and was raised twice, first to US$2 million and then to US$2.5 million.
3.30   Most of the civil works were to be procured through local competitive
bidding. This system was not fully understood by the Ethiopian authorities,
particularly as the roads element of the project was being implemented
directly by ETCA. The recent establishment of the Ethiopian Building
Construction Authority (EBCA), which perceived itself as fulfilling the same
role as ETCA and undertaking all construction on Government approved projects,
resulted in the local bidding procedures agreed at negotiations not being
properly observed. EBCA started construction on a number of regional offices
without following the proper tendering process. Accordingly, after
negotiations, IDA and IFAD cancelled SDR 0.9 million of the loan/credit, with
the buildings concerned being considered as misprocured.
3.31   This cancellation of part of the credit/loan was unfortunate and
probably resulted from insufficient detailed communication between Bank
project staff and Ethiopian staff responsible for procurement of construction.
The Ethiopian staff concerned with construction in MOA were relatively
inexperienced and not familiar with Bank procedures. By the time matters came
to a head the Bank had no alternative but to declare misprocurement and cancel
part of the loan. However, closer liaison between Bank and Government could
have avoided the cancellation.
3.32   For a number of items procurement was slow due to poor specifications
and therefore iengthy evaluation, with Bank staff becoming involved in a great
deal of detail. Veterinary and chemical inputs supply gave particular
problems.
3.33     For technical and consultant services, prudent shopping was generally
used except in the case of the AISCO study, when several international firms
were invited to bid and a formal selection process was followed. Generally,
there were no problems with procurement once procedures got under way.
Difficulties were associated with obtaining approval to initiate recruitment
procedures. Government preferred to rely on the services of SIDA or ADS
rather than hiring individuals or consulting firms directly.
E. Proiect Costs
3.34   Project costs as defined in the SAR were for expenditurest i) for well
defined project activities, and ii) for the incremental costs of a two year
time slice of Government costs for the MPP program. While project documents
enable a review to be made of the specific costs, e.g. roads, technical
assistance, vehicles for rLad construction, veterinary supplies, etc., the
accounting and budgeting system of GOSE does not allow a precise and confident
estimate to be made of incremental operating costs. Incremental operating
costs were considered as those for the period January 1981 to June 1986, the



- 14 -
date when project finance finished for most of the consultants working on NPP
II activities. The nominal closing date was actually June 1985.
3.35   On the basis of the period to mid-1986, project costs were about Birr
164 million (US$ 79 million) compared with an SAR estimate of Birr 160 million
(US$ 77 million). Project costs are summarized below, from the details in
Tables 6,7, and 8.
Actual vs. AppraL!al Fstimates of Proiect Costs
(Birr '000)
MPP Administration
SAR                Est. Actual      Percent SAR
- Gross:                       130,715                  266,637          204X
- Less Base Costs:              63,475                  170,203          143X
Net MOA Admin Costs:            67.240                   96.434
Seed Multiplication
in PAsS                        4,311
Applied Research:                  621
Subtotal                        72.172                   96.434           134X
Soil & Water Cons.:             10,437                    9,104            87?
Rural roads:                    13,924                   21,900           1572
Farm Inputs:                    44,738                   17,400             9X
ESC:                            18,512                   19,215           1041
Total Costs:                   159,784                  164,053           103%
3.36 During implementation it was not possible to identify expenditures on
applied research, or seed multiplication for PAs. Both are small and are
considered part of MOA's incremental administration cost, as too is
expenditure on livestock development. Because of the longer project period,
incremental MOA expenditure in administration and related overhead costs was
34Z higher than estimated at appraisal. Soil and water conservation costs
were about 13S lower. Expenditures on rural roads were 57% above appraisal
estimates, and would have been higher still had purchase of machinery for the
constriction of self-help roads been included in this category and not in the
MOA incremental cost category.   The unit costs of both roads and buildings
were several times higher than estimated in the SAR, due probably to
underestimation at appraisal. Machinery costs on the <*her hand were close to
SAR estimates. Farm input costs were substantially lower than expected, being
only 39Z of the appraisal figure (despite the fact that the Ethiopian



- 15 -
delegation had persuaded IDA to increase the loan by US$2 million based on
expectations of high input usage). This was partly due to lower quantities
being procured, and partly to lower international fertilizer prices. The cost
of the ESC component was very close to the appraisal figure being just 42
higher than estimated.
3.37    The incremental MOA operating costs of Birr 17 million annually were
only about half of the amounts expected at appraisal. This was one of the
reasons for the shortage of operating funds available to MOA staff,
particularly in the first half of each fiscal year. This problem was reported
a number of times during supervision and according to the financial staff of
MOA has now largely been rectified.
3.38    Even though the project was implemented over a longer period than
initially envisioned, the effect of inflation has been considerably less than
estimated for foreign expenditures, and about the same for local costs (see
below and Table 8).
Annual Price Changes over Proiect Period
1980181   1981182   1982/83  1983184  1984185  1985186
......     2 change over previous period .........
Actual
Local            5.7        4.3       2.5       4.0     14.0      3.4
Foreign          2.6       -0.5      -2.0      -2.2     -0.5      6.9
Appraisal
Local           15         13.5       --         --       --       --
Foreign          9.8        8.5       --         --       --       --
F. Disbursements
3.39    In line with implementation and procurement, disbursement was slow.
By the original proposed closing date, June 30, 1983, only 562 of the
loan/credit had been disbursed.  This is detailed in Tables 9 and 10.  Total
disbursements under the project were about SDR 45.0 million rather than SDR
45.9 million envisaged at appraisal. The main difference was due to
cancellation of SDR 0.9 million of the loan/credit (SDR 0.621 million from
IDA, 0.279 million from IPAD).



- 16 -
Appraisal vs Actual Disbursenents 4
(SDR million)
FY 81   FY 82   FY 83   FY 84   FY 85   FY 86
Appraisal                10.2   38.8   45.9
Actual                    0.4    7.5   25.6   33.6   41.0   45.0
Actual as
2 of Appraisal (X)        4     19     56     73      89     98
3.40    Several problems occurred with disbursements.  Firstly, an audit of
statements of expenditures showed that there had been problems with the
accuracy of the Ministry payroll against which early disbursements were to
have been made. This meant that a special ad hoc exercise had to be undertaken
to identify individuals salaries against which project funds could
legitimately be disbursed. In retrospect, it was probably unwise to have used
staff salaries as a disbursement category, given the difficulty in isolating
MPP II staff from other staff at the regional,.awraja and wereda levels.
Similar problems arose with respect to proposed disbursements against the soil
and water conservation component. In this case, however, they were overcome
by allowing disbursements to be made against transport costs associated with
the WFP Food-for-Work programs associated with soil and water conservation.
An element of double counting of Government's commitment to various projects
may have existed here.
3.41    A further unusual element of disbursement was that in one identified
case, disbursement procedure 3, which is normally used for payment in full to
offshore contractors was used for an 80? payment by MOA to ESC for the
purchase of seeds. According to ESC accounts the matching, 202 of local funds
which was also due, has not yet been paid. This is an isolated case, but it
gives further indication of the financial slackness which exists between the
Government and parastatal agencies.
'.42      Last, a sum of about SDR 1 million was disbursed towards the end of
thz project period to cover signed contracts for TA consultancies, etc., which
ran well beyond the project completion date. All of these commitments did in
fact run their full course. 5 While extended funding, particularly for TA
when subsequent projects are in the pipeline, is justified from an operational
standpoint, there is a danger that funds disbursed may not be used for the
4 SDR 0.9 million cancelled.
5 This was done on an exceptional basis to bridge the gap between the end
of MPP II and the start up of the proposed follow-on project (PADEP)
which was, at that time, expected to start during late 1985 or early
1986. The TA posts were to be included in PADEP, and to preserve
staff continuity, these procedures were adopted.



- 17 -
purpose for which they were intended. All disbursements were against signed
contracts, which minimizes this risk however.
G. Financial Sources
3.43    As planned, the project was funded by IFAD, IDA and GOSE.  In
addition, there was a TA contribution from SIDA which was probably close to
the planned level of SDR 0.9 million, and a small parallel contribution from
FAO and Australian Aid, amounting to a total of about SDR 0.4 million. In
terms of Ethiopian Birr, the contribution from IFAD/IDA was lower than
projected. First, SDR 0.9 million were cancelled, and secondly, the loan size
and implicit Birr amounts at appraisal were calculated on the basis of the
then current SDR/Birr exchange rates which averaged SDR 1 = Birr 2.62.
However, the actual exchange rate over the project period was different,
averaging SDR 1 = Birr 2.21. The net effect of these two factors was that
external finance for the project was about Birr 100 million compared with an
estimated Birr 120 million at appraisal. IDA/IFAD financing of project
activities in MOA totalled some Birr 83.7 million (see Table 11) with ESC
receiving an additional Birr 16.3 million.
Overall, project funding compared with appraisal was as follows:
Appraisal vs Actual Funding by Source
Appraisal
Estimate           Actual
.......... .million Birr.
IDA/IFAD                      120               100
SIDA                            2                  2
GOSE                           38                 62
TOTAL                         160                164
3.44     Government funding (including taxes) increased by 63Z.  However,
because the project costs occurred over five and a half years instead of two,
Government's average annual funding for the project fell from an appraisal
estimate of Birr 19 million to Birr 11 million.
H. Performance of Consultant Contractors and SupRliers
3.45    The main consultancies funded by the project included specialist
inputs in mass media communication, T&V systems (2 persons), a vehicle repair
and maintenance study, procurement TA, preparation of a development plan for
AISCO, a specialist in extension communication, a technical consultancy in
grain storage pests, a farm implements study, a fixed assets study for MOA,
and the TA team for ADD (paras 3.17-3.18). In addition, some of the TA posts
were procured on a consultancy basis rather than direct employment.



- 18 -
3.46    The performance of consultants carrying out short and medium term
studies was generally satisfactory. The exceptions to this included: firstly
the procurement TA -- this was only moderately effective and delays in
producing adequate bid evaluation occurred. Secondly, the consultants
recruited to carry out the fixed assets study of the MOA who, after preparing
an adequate inception report, failed to follow through with the implementation
activities. Thirdly, there was also some dissatisfaction with a short term
consultancy on training, in that the consultant was perceived as not having
taken full account of government's comments when finalizing his report.
3.47    Performance of contractors and suppliers under the project was
generally satisfactory.
IV. OPERATING PERFORMANCE
A. Overview
4.01    The project has succeeded in establishing the basic infrastructure
necessary to deliver appropriate productivity improving packages to farmers.
An extension service based at service cooperatives has been established over
most of the country. The foundation for setting up an effective agricultural
input supply corporation has been laid and a system for cleaning and
distributing improved seeds has also been developed. Most importantly, an
effective pilot T&V extension project was implemented which, together with
significant improvement in "institutional understanding" of the role of
extension, has prepared the way for introducing a professional extension
service throughout Ethiopia. The MOA institutional capacity to identify,
prepare and appraise development projects was substantially improved through
support, including overseas staff training and TA, given to the MOA Project
Preparation Department.
B. Uptake of Extension/InRuts
4.02    It is not possible to know directly how much of the MPP II extension
advice was adopted by MPP farmers. However, an estimate can he made based on
the incremental use of inputs within MPP areas during the project period.
Data for seeds and fertilizers are given in Tables 12, 13 and 14 and are
summarized belows
Input Use By MPP II Farmers
('000 MT)
77/78  80181  81182  82/83  83184  84I85  85186  86/87
Improved seed     1.3    3.5    0.7    2.5    1.7   16.5   17.0   30.5
Fertilizers      27.0   23.4   25.0   36.4   38.0   38.2   49.2       -



- 19 -
4.03    On the assumption that individual farmers use 0.8 - 1.0 quintals of
fertilizer per ha holding (probably too high an estimate), the incremental
fertilizer usage for 1985186 or 22.2 thousand tons over and above the 1977178
figure indicates that approximately a quarter of a million incremental farmers
are now adopting the fertilizer package (Tables 13 and 14). In addition, a
number of other farmers are also taking up extension advice and project
support but not using fertilizer. On the basis of SAR estimates these would
amount to about 402 of the number adopting fertilizer packages, i.e., about
100,000. The incremental number of participants (about 350,000) is well below
that predicted for 1985186 in the SAR, which was 900,000. However, it is over
double the SAR figures for the year after the end of the project which was
143,000. Given the policy constraints which emerged during the project
implementation period, these data greatly understate the potential achievement
of MPP II in promoting the adoption of improved technology among the target
group. Provided input supply channels are effective, prices are attractive
and the extension service can develop further significant "messages,  the long
run level of farmers taking up MPP II and successor project packages could
still reach SAR estimates of about 2 million (of which 1.7 million are
incremental over the 1977/78 level).
V.  INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
5.01    The Minimum Package concept was perceived initially by the World Bank
as a means of providing improved agricultural inputs and technology to farmers
in areas where the farms were accessible and where there were good prospects
for yield and production increases para 2.01).
5.02    The widening of scope and coverage under MPP II meant that the project
became a broadly based source of finance for MOA, and its production
objectives were diluted. There are some bright spots, however. Firstly, the
effective operation of a T&V pilot project has been closely monitored by the
Ministry and is providing the basis for an effective future extension project.
Secondly, a considerable amount of staff training and relocation has taken
place so that the decentralized Ministry is now better equipped to implement
peasant development programs through its regional and district offices than it
was in 1980/81. Thirdly, the consulting help provided to AISCO has formed a
sound basis for its development, although further capital investment in AISCO
together with the appropriate TA will be required if it is to adequately
fulfill its role. Fourthly, the support to the Ethiopian Seed Corporation has
allowed it to build up its capacity; in 1986/87, for example, MOA has ordered
eight times more seeds for distribution to the individual sector than in
1980/81 at the start of the project. And finally, a well designed and
systematic National Field Trials Program has been started, bringing together
MOA, IAR, and other research organizations, which should provide some answers
on reliable ways to increase yields in peasant agriculture and lay the
technical basis for future agricultural extension activities.



- 20 -
5.03    In the early project years, the low uptake of improved inputs was
perceived to have been caused by several factors, including: i) the lack of
storage/marketing institutions closer to the farmers; ii) the late delivery
of inputs (fertilizer, improved seeds) into the agricultural areas; and ii) an
unsatisfactory system of inputs supply credit to PAs, whereby the whole PA
could be deprived of inputs if any one member was in default. After the Mid
Term Review in early 1983 and Bank sector work on production incentives in
Ethiopia, it was determined that the most critical factors which affected
peasant uptake of new technology were exogenous to the project. Production
incentives deteriorated in the early 1980's. The price of fertilizer rose
rapidly. This paralleled the imposition of the compulsory grain quota
purchase system at low prices and its progressively rigid enforcement
(official grain prices remained largely unchanged since 1979). Simultaneously,
the distribution of consumer goods to the rural sector declined while prices
rose. The expanding population resulted in new age groups entitled to land,
which combined with uncertainties about future collectivization, caused land
tenure insecurity to emerge again as a disincentive to agricultural
investment. Thus, the deteriorating policy environment worked against major
production increases arising from project activities. Only recently have
supply constraints for fertilizer been eased, and production incentives
improved. Fertilizer use in 1986187 has risen to record levels.
5.04    In the past two years, several constraints have been alleviated. AISCO
and ESC have been strengthened, with project support, and are now able to
deliver the necessary inputs. Storage facilities have been improved. Prices
of fertilizers have been reduced from their 198112 peaks and, perhaps most
important, the inputs supply system is moving towards giving strong incentives
for cash purchases rather than credit. The rules on provision of inputs to
PAs which were previously in default on input credit are also being eased, and
cash sales are now permitted. Furthermore, the Commercial Bank of Ethiopl',
which has far greater national coverage than AIDB, is to participate in the
input supply chain by making input loans to service cooperatives rather than
to PAs. While it was widely reported that there were shortages of fertilizer
in the rural areas for the 1984185 season, the supply position was
considerably better in 1985186 and in 1986/87.
VI.   ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION
6.01    The low uptake of fertilizer, at least until 1984/85, and the lack of
any obvious increase in agricultural production from the private sector means
that no verifiable economic benefits from MPP IfII have yet been shown.
However, because: (i) the infrastructure is now set up for delivering minimum
packages; and (ii) there is ongoing research work taking place, economic
benefits which would not have been achieved had the project not occurred can
be expected to take place in the future. An important provision however, is
that Government needs to follow an agricultural input/output pricing policy
which makes the increased use of inputs financially attractive to farmers.



- 21 -
Negotiations on the nature of the incentive framework to be put in place are
underway in the context of the PADEP project.
6.02    Costs and benefits were developed to consider alternate perceptions of
the effect (or non effect) of this project on Ethiopian agriculture.
Production costs and benefits are derived from those calculated for MPP I in
the Project Completion Report of May 1979. Labor is valued at the market wage.
All prices are translated into 1978 constant values. Actual costs and
production prices were used up to 1987. The initial benefit stream from
1971/72 up to 1980181 is practically the same as that for MPP I. From 1980/81
through 1986/87, production levels follow the trend of overall grain
production in the country, as shown in the Agricultural Sector Review of March
1987 (Report No. 6512-ET). Although production benefits were supposedly tied
to adoption of fertilizer, this was not used as an indicator of incremental
benefits until 1987/88. From 1980/81 to 1982/83 fertilizer consumption in the
country fell dramatically, and only returned to 1979180 levels in 1985/86.
Production on the other hand reached the highest recorded level in history in
1982/83, and then suffered sharp declines with the droughts of 1983184 and
1984185. Minimum package program farmers are assumed to have shared in these
events. From 1986/87 on a sharp increase in input use is already evident.
MPP farmers are assumed to benefit from a 6 percent per annum growth in input
use (with a concomitant 18 percent a year growth in grain output in that area
fertilized) until 1989/90, when the growth due to the influence of MPP 2
stops, and production levels off.
6.03    The SAR does not provide an economic rate of return for this project:
I ... Because the project is a time-slice of an ongoing nationwide program to
assist peasant smallholders, it is difficult to quantify precisely the
benefits related specifically to the project...A precise rate of return would
thus not be very meaningful. However an indirect analysis was carried out to
determine by how much production would have to increase to give a clearly
acceptable rate of return, and to assess the likelihood of that increase."
(SAR para 6.05). The SAR affirms that a rate of return of 20 percent 'is
expected to be exceeded if the project as designed is implemented as
projected." (SAR para 6.06).
6.04    The SAR gives an economic analysis showing the production increase
needed to generate a 25Z economic rate of return (ERR). The completion
mission took a different approach and calculated the ERR based on the costs
and associated benefits of MPP II, which is estimated at 2 percent. The cost
and benefit streams described in para 6.02 are used.   Project costs are
incurred starting from 1981/82. As can be seen in Table 17, production
benefits from this project do not materialize until 1987/88 when fertilizer
adoption picks up dramatically. This poor performance is due main'y to the
lack of agricultural production incentives, as noted in para 5.03 above. Two
years of severe drought (1983184 and 1984/85) also affected production
returns. If the project is considered as part of continuous Bank support to
the Minimum Package Program, and a necessary followup to MPP 1, then its costs
and benefits can be considered as part of the MPP 1 cost and benefit streams.
When this is done, the ERR for MPP 1 and MPP 2 combined is estimated at 8



- 22 -
percent (Table 18).  Th8s implies a substantial reduction in the ERR of 15
percent estimated for MPP 1 in the completion report of May
1979. Alternatively, the project can be seen as a necessary precursor to the
Peasant Agriculture Development Program (PADEP), and the relatively high
benefits from this new project can be seen as a result, in part, of sunk costs
incurred in MPP II.
VII. BANK'S PERFORM&NCE
7.01       Project Processina:  This project was difficult to process  in the
Bank because timing and approval were heavily influenced by nonproject issues.
This resulted in a long processing period. Furthermore, it meant that the
understanding between Bank projects staff and the relevant Ethiopian staff on
the nature and content of the project may have been unclear. In retrospect,
project re-preparation with significant Ethiopian involvement should have
taken place.
7.02       Project Supervision:  Because of the hurried final processing of
the project, considerable supervision including what was essentially
reformulation of certain components (e.g., seeds and livestock), took place in
the first two years. Indeed during 1981 and 1982, 17 Bank supervision
missions visited Ethiopia with 184 man-days spent in the field. It was
only after this large input had been completed that the first supervision
report (Form 590) was prepared. Between February 1983 and February 1985, the
project was supervised a further seven times and normal sup-rvision reporting
procedures were followed. During this period the supervision missions
generally comprised at least two staff, an agricultural economist or finricial
analyst plus a technical specialist. Continuity of Bank supervision staff was
good with three senior staff (who all overlapped) being the task managers over
five years. Overall, the project placed a heavy demand on Bank supervision
staff. A total of 429 man-days were spent in the field during January 1981 to
March 1985. Furthermore, the substantial quantity of file material
accumulated, confirms that the project was demanding of Bank office time.
Substantial time was spent in dealing with procurement, disbursement and
technical assistance recruitment problems. Despite this heavy staff input,
some key staff involved felt that relative to requirements, inadequate
resources were made available for supervision.
7.03    This project has suffered from being neither a classical well defined
project, which could have been tightly supervised, nor a sub-sector loan,
where the emphasis would have been on sectoral development policies. Had it
been the latter, supervision would not have concentrated so heavily on details
of procurement and institutional development, but rather would have insured
that important pricing or other potential conditionalities had been fulfilled.



- 23 -
VIII. CONCLUSIONS
8.01    Peasant agriculture is the main source of agricultural output in
Ethiopia. Any project which is to have a major impact on agricultural
production needs to go through the current centrally planned system and be
directpd towards individual farmers. In this respect, the design of the
project was appropriate. It was, however, too ambitious and inadequately
defined. Revisions tended to exacerbate this problem. It proveu
impossible to provide effective support to production in over 440 weredas. To
have achieved production objectives, the project should have been smaller and
tighter, and geared to specific regions with a known response to fertilizer
and reasonable accessibility. More effort should have been put into
developing and promoting regionally specific development packages rather than
blanket recommendatiorLs. The three and a half year delay in obtaining
technical assistance for ADD was particularly harmful in this respect. These
lessons were identified during s1tpervision, and are being applied in the
preparation of a PADEP project, replicated in all the productive regions in
the country.
8.02    More effort should have been made by the Bank at appraisal and
negotiations to ensure that the proposed technology packages would remain
sufficiently attractive to farmers in financial terms. Fertilizer prices in
Ethiopia, particularly early in the project period, were extremely high (US$
550/ton at farmgate). In this context, improved linkage with the Grain
Storage and Marketing Project (Cr. 789-ET), initiated in 1978 and charged with
providing adequate production incentives to peasant farmers, would have
increased the pressure on Government to take action on these issues.
8.03    The project, although designed as a self-standing operation in 1975,
had evolved by 1980 into an interim operation, designed to strengthen
agricultural infrastructure and lay the foundations for a countrywide
agricultural production project. Preparation of the follow-on project was an
integral part of MPP II objectives. Due to this metamorphosis, project
construction and development activities were collapsed into two years. Program
type aspects, such as financing of a time-slice of MOA operating costs and
salaries were included. Because it had originally been designed as a full-
fledged production project, it also included detailed provision for an
extension service and credit system, roads, soil and water conservation and
livestock support activities -- which remained in the final design. The
resulting project fell halfway between program and project lending, with the
disadvantages of both, and none of the benefits. Had a program approach been
followed, conditions on production incentives and efficiency of MOA operations
could have been included and funds would have been disbursed in two years
against broadly defined categories, without the detailed planning and review
work necessitated under the existing design. The focus would have been on the
fulfillment of the policy objectives, which would have strengthened the
dialogue under the Grain Storage and Marketing Project (Cr. 789-ET). Had a



- 24 -
pure project approach been followed, the project periol would have been
extended to 5 years at least, and the extension service, seeds production and
fertilizer distribution components would have been better appraised and
implemented.
8.04    Project content was too broad and its scheduling too ambitious. The
time period proposed in the SAR for the project was unrealistic given that, as
far as procurement and construction was concerned, it was a "new start"
situation. Warnings to this effect from reviewers within the Bank went
unheeded. One effect of trying to implement the project within a short
period, was that all activities were to be implemented more or less
simultaneously. Rational sequencing of project activities was not attempted
and would not have been possible. In retrospect, the initial four year
project proposed by EPID in 1975 would have been more appropriate.
8.05    With respect to project contents, the inclusion in MPP II of the rural
roads component constructed by ETCA appears inappropriate. It had no bearing
on the mainstream activities of MPP II and simply complicated the project. It
could have been executed under the Bank's Second Road Sector Credit (1404-ET).
Funds could have been better used for more self-help roads implemented by MOA.
8.06    Although T&V extension systems are frequently supported by the Bank,
this concept wa. not introduced into the project until 1983. It became one of
the successful aspects of the project, and would have had a greater impact had
it come right at the beginning, and received broader dissemination.
8.07    The ESC component should have concentrated more on seed production.
In the end, it only really undertook cleaning and packing of field seed. It
may have been useful to have included more funding ior the improving input
distribution under the project, particularly fertilizer. This could have
included investments in the AISCO storage and distribution network in addition
to the AISCO study.
8.08    The financial structure of ESC does not permit it to fund its future
development. Government levies a 5Z capital charge annually on all
investments which it has made in ESC and, furthermore, ESC profits are taxed
at 90Z. Unfortunately these issues were not clear at the time of negotiations
and therefore not tackled. If future projects are to support parastatals,
these problems should be faced during preparation. Careful analysis of
parastatal financial structures and tax obligations should be made, and the
final project negotiated so as to ensure that these do not inhibit the
enterprise's autonomous objectives.
8.09    Despite the substantial technical assistance provided in this area,
the Ministry of Agriculture's budgeting and accounting procedures did not
allow the MPP II project costs to be clearly identified. This was proiably
because too little input was put into designing the project to fit within the
government budgetary system at the time of appraisal. Future projects along
MPP/PADEP lines should be designed so that the financial accounting of the
project corresponds with specific financial budgetary headings used by



- 25 -
government. This would ensure that project budgeting and accounting can be
integrated into the Government budget without the need for special ad hoc
exercises as was the case in MPP II.
8.10    This project cannot be considered successful if evaluated as an
isolated effort to improve agricultural production and country economic
performance. However, it can be said to have achieved a fair degree of
success if viewed as part of the continuous process of Bank involvement in the
a,ricultural sector in Ethiopia. In this context, it is justified as an
interim effort to develop institutions that play a key role in agricultural
development and as a precursor to PADEP, a full fledged production project.
Among the various accomplishments it can be noted that; (i) a separate
fertilizer and inputs supply agency was established and began operations;
(ii) MOA offices and other physical infrastructure were expanded and improved;
(iii) a study was undertaken on vehicle maintenance and administration which,
if implemented in future projects would greatly assist implementation; (iv) a
soundly based, well designed National Field Trials program was initiated; (v)
an improved agricultural extension methodology was successfully tested (T&V
Pilot Project); (vi) MOA was reorganized and decentralized; (vii) an
organization capable of cleaning and distributing the country's improved seed
requirements was established (admittedly lacking seed production facilities);
(viii) a national Peasant Agriculture Development Program was prepared (still
under negotiation); and (ix) large numbers of staff were trained at home and
abroad. All of these achievements, although disjointed, can be put to good
use in a subsequent agricultural development effort, where the productive
focus is sharpened, and emphasis is placed on field performance, and on farm
results.
8.11    Two broad priority lessons emerge from the experience of MPP II: (i) a
project cannot succeed in achieving primary production objectives unless the
incentive and policy framework are conducive to promoting the adoption of
improved technology and practices which would sustain increased output; and
(ii) agricultural projects which are too large and complex are difficult to
implement, expensive to supervise, and much less likely to achieve all their
objectives.



- 26 -
Table 1
woJW cA*I83 OUPW
Nagd                 Ppwo,q Leagth 19068/   W181/2  1862/6  1066/0  1816/U  IoU/U    ToaW  low SIp.r           $110%0
-         .           ..... .... t Cost"  00 bier.
Welles-Letm                      a1                     18.8   140.0   M66.     60   4611.9    011.4       Nwely f"lalbeds To be 6.,ft..d
boled-  vs-lb.       See         1                              14.0   188.i    8.8    M.?   i .1          Plah"
I*-44i                soe       2a                              £8.8    33.4            S1.8       1.8 t/b,tgb  * I#
bI4r4lk So    t                   4                    121.0     0.0     1.6t           1.4       7.4  iNet Gest oely: sI ft.blw
bes.51.ds-Yesofed      aiZ9Je    83                     1.      2-.1 0".0    MO   7U.6            *4.4     886 PlauIJ:W
I sl.0..Sla         jjo.      17                             21.0-  1"44.    8U.9   M1.7       1.7    lhte,ly Pilahitd  Tro be feifaged
giae-7eiedua         CJia-       U                               1.6     t.7   1A5.0    21.8       4.4     PlaIte
*40_tYsiqw           O$          1?       8      8.7   144.    1O.6   84.4    U.5   88.8           .4      Pl_ab"
ftis-10J.. 0.443     Goa.        10                     17.3    2t.4                    100.6     1.1      PaIted:t Oly Iam of Iwo retd
S..ep.-bt.           Goad..      21    83.6  #10.6   216.6              114.0         321101-.8   46t.2    PaIted
Totl Dilp" Ceslt vs                     11.6   USA    8456.4  411.2  iM.*   #4.I  St4.0         SO.1
0Vf4155isM t15    11.6                              14 1 118.8  JA8.0  8100.4   10.6   745.8    4.4
lm&le s oh1a    70.6   857.6  7"O.8  800.2  16t.4  ?M.   4ens.6                                   u.s
yetge.r.rsseby Soetsepo
PIetedlt i i                       t    1.1  815.8   4616.4   854.0  7Mt.    M.$  IR16.           81.4
11il Plaited ns" o               77                     81.0    1.    740.1   41.6  1480.4        21.8
ote  1.                          4                     12.0    17.?   87.0              186.7     I.



- 27 -
Table 2
ETHIOPIA
SECOND AGRICULTU!AL MSNIMUM PACKAGi PROJECT
Regional and Awraja Office Construction
--------------_------------_---------
(iirr)
Cost to
SITE                        Budget    Date       Status
Adigrat                         99897     95589    Fiaished
Alem Ketama                    151649    122668    FinJshed
Dilla                          136127    139544    Finished
Gimbi                          178952     41373 Not Completed
Shambu                         174848     94075 Not Completed
Nafas Mewicha                  165234    156404 Not Completed
Gore                           173343    208776   Not Known
Sawla                          161139    107351   Not Known
M±zanl Tefferi                 199206    316757   Not Known
Subtotal               1440395   1282537
Asmara                         977475   1473505    Finished
Nekempt                        777158    843646    Finished
Mettu                          805779    981384    Finished
Subtotal               2560412   3298535
Totals IDA/IFAD Funded        4000807   45b1072



- 28 -
Table 3
ElHICPIA-
SEMIS AIICIWAL MINIM  PA(UAE PROJECT
REC  ILETION RWRT
9AWy of LUr TOM TlofIaaI AslIStU    Provided lr  IF PII
...... Total NM s   .....       ...... .  IWlfAD jid
POSITION                Adin Iuit        Acul       SiR  Varulm         Acul    Sm   VarUIs
Tdiloal Saort Off lowr    7                47       24        23          47       24       23
Evalumtlog Em9mst           FPO             51       24        27          49                49
Dgrlsltwal Planr            PFD             59       24        35          59                59
Il&ESystuhs                 FF0              0        12      -12                             0
SW Total PlainlngdProjects                110       60        so         108        0      108
Chlef ACUtatat              FIN             f5       24        41          85       24       41
SYatm MaIyst                FIN             28       24         4                   24      -24
S  tmPlavli                FIN              0        6        -8                    6       -6
Prorr                       FIN             42        0        42                             0
AccAtIng Tralners           FIN              0      192      -192                             0
h TotAl FIuw-n                            135      248      -111          65       54       11
CooperatIve abowmtnt        CCO             34       24        10                             0
Ibitiig & Credit Abmtrt   CCO                0       24       -24                             0
9b Total CoweatIvas & Marketing            34       48       -14           0        0        0
Agroist                     AM0             20       24        -4          20       24       -4
Sol IFrtiI ty SInallst    AM                20       24        -4          20       24       -4
Farm Systems               a1               20        0        20          20                20
rain Storarp                ADD              0       24       -24                             0
Seed ilt &Prelnng           AM               0       24       -24                   24      -24
Farm lopl  I& Tools        AMD               0       24       -24                             0
9a  Total Ariultwr                         60      120       40           so       72      -12
SolI & kterw  wlvat-n       Sic              0       24       -24                             0
Sll ScaIerriptIan           Sl:             52        0        52          52                52
9. Total SC                                52       24        28          52        0       52
Llwstodk Prods krkstirg      LO              0       24       -24                             0
Llvestock Prod SPclalIsts    LD             60        0        60                             0
b TotalLlvctock                            30       24        38           0        0        0
Caurs Plair                  TO              0       24       -24                             0
Training Systm                D              0       12       -12                             0
S  Total Training                           0       36       -8            0        0        a
Sees  SacaI lst             ESC             18       24        -6                             a
Seeds Proming Engineer    E$                 0       24       -24                   24      -24
Seedi ProdtIon              ESC              3       24       -21                             a
Agrunist                    ES              40        0        40          40                40
Plaming & Ev. Ecomlst       ESC             58        0        58          58                58
SW Tota IESC                              119       72        47          98       24       74
TOTAL TECtNICAL ASSISTANCE                 617      654       -37         430      174      256



- - - - - - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
-- W- ---    ---      -- - |-|- t- -- T                 - ------|- ' 
I------ I--- I   1- l--I                - r  --E I ---|---            t 
I  II~~~~~~~ 
----  --  -1   ----               -----  III ---------
---  ----    ---    -  ----       - ---  -------IIIT|  
1       s  "     I '9X^ D             I    f 888^ 
_  _ 
-      - -     -    - - - - --                  - - - - - - - - - -
------~ ~~     - --- - -- - - -- - -- - -   --  -   -



- 30 -
Table 5
AGUCUUALMInfU=  PACKAG  PUJICT
PROaCT CQNHPLUOU EXPRT
LIST Or )WPZI ulWI S In t  ATUS On UZIUR
Uni.
Atten-
sae                Agency  ded    Degree                  Year      Job on Return
Waged, Volde       ESC     dmn. tlSc. Seed Technology   83164   Production Manager ZSC
Mariam.
Zewde 3ishaw       SSC     Edin. M.Sc. Seed Technology   83184  Quality & Processing Manager
gliraliga Zewdie   rsc    VYe   M.Sc. Agronomy            82/83   Agronomist - Productio Dept.
Mu-legeta Goro    tSC     3dml. K.Sc. Seed Techbology   85186   Did Not Return
Meagnsie Legesse  USC      Zdm. M.Sc. Seed Technology   85/86.  Did Not Return
Tesfay. leguesie  ADD      Vye   M.Sc. Plant Science      82183   ADD Senlor Agronomist
Aklu Salhu         ADD     Wye   M.Sc. Plant Science      82/83   Did not return
Tesfayc Morses.    lT      Vyc   K.Sc. Ag. Econ.          82/83   Senior Egtensioan Officer
Dagnew Esbete      ADD     Wye   K.Sc. Ag. Icon.          82/83.  Senior Economist ADD
Hailemari s Ntile kOA      Wye   K.Sc. Plant Science      82/83   Read NV legion Office
leskel
Kabede Tefesse     MOA     Vye   N.Sc. Ag. Icon.          82/83   Economist PAD!P Secretariat
Zaleke Teufayc     KOA     Wye   M.Sc. Plant Science      82/83  Read Crop & Ag Dev South Zone
Deres Abdulkadir  MUA    Vyc   M.Sc. Plant Science        82/83   Read Ag. Dept Harar Regional
Office



- 31 -
Table 6
ITOPIA
SECOND AGUCULTURAL MINIMU  PACEAGE PROJECT
POJECT COMPLETION RPORT
ESTIMATED MOA ADMINISTRATION COSTS (ncl. IAR. PA seeds & Livestock)
1980181  1981/82  1982/83  1983/84  1984/85  1985/86   TOTAL
(1/2 Yr)
Allocation to IPPII             20.0     49.5     46.5     54.7     58.5      68.0    297.2
less specific items                                                                     0.0
Inputs                        0.0       0.0      1.9      4.0      1.8       0.7      8.4
Rural Roads                   2.9       0.7      3.7      1.1      0.0                8.4
Self Help Roads               0.1       0.4      0.7      1.0      1.8       0.8      4.7
Svc                           0.0       0.6      6.0      2.2      0.3       0.0      9.1
Total Specific Allocation       2.9       1.7     12.3      8.2      4.0       1.4     30.6
MPPII Admin etc.                17.1     47.8     34.2     46.5     54.5      66.6    266.6
less Inflated Base Cost       13.5     28.2      28.9     30.0     34.2      35.4    170.2
MPP Incremental Admin Cost      3.6      19.7      5.3     16.4     20.3      31.2     96.4
MPPI1 uninflated base cost      12.8     25.5     25.5     25.5     25.5      25.5    140.5
Inflation factor              1.057    1.103    1.130    1.176    1.340    1.385    1.211



- 32 -
Table 7
ETHIOPIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL MINIMUM PACKAGE PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Estimated Project Costs Summary
lEt. SAR          Estimated
With Conts         Actual    Percent
SAR   Added Back           Costs     of SAR
..  '000 Birr.....
MPP Admin - Gross            105,216  130,715             266,637    204%
-less base costs             51.093   63.476            170,204    143%
Net Admin Costs               54,123   67,240              96,434    143.4S
Seed Multiplication PAs        3,470    4,311
Applied Research                  500      621
MOA Sub Total                58,093   72,172              96,434    133.6Z
Soil & Water Cons              8,401   10,437               9,104     87.2Z
Rural Roads                   11,208   13,924              21.900    157.3S
Farm Inputs                   36,011   44,738              17.400     38.9S
ESC                           14,901   18,512              19,215    103.8Z
Total Base Costs             128,614  159,784             164,053    102.72
Contingencies - Phys           6,431
- Price        24,739
TOTAL PROJECT COST           159,784



- 33-                                                  Table 8
ETHIOPIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL MINIMUM PACKAGE PROJECT
Impact of inflation/Price Contingencles
A) LOCAL INiLATION                                                     Addis Ababa Genral CPI 2/
Local Price Index   Local Inf aUlon                              Convrt
SAR   Actual      Incr from prev Yr           year     Index to mar 1980
Est.              SAR    Actual                                Basis
Est.                       1979    338.4    96.8
Bas March 1980           100.0      100.0                             Mar 80    349.7   100.0
1980/81  I/             115.0      105.7    13.5X    5.7X               1980    353.5   101.1
1981/82                 130.5      110.3    15.0X    4.31               1981     375.2   107.3
1982/83                            113.0    n.a.       2.5X             1982    398.1   113.3
1983/B4                            117.6    n.a.       4.0X             1983    394.5   112.8
1984/85                            134.0    n.a.    14.01               1984    427.8   122.3
1985/88                            138.5    n.a.       3.41             1985    509.4   145.7
1988    459.4   131.4
B) FREIGN INFLATION
World Bank MaY Index 3/
For elo  Price Index For top  InflatIon                          Convert
SAR   AstuaI    lncr from prev Yr             year    Index to Mar 1980
Est.              SAR    Actual                                Basis
Est.
1979     95.5    93.3
Base March 1980          100.0      100.('                            Mar 80     102.4   100.0
1980f81  1/             109.8      102.6      9.81     2.61             1980     104.7   102.2
1981/82                 119.1      102.1      8.51   -0.51              1981     105.2   102.7
198213                             100.0    n.a.    -2.01               1982    103.8   101.4
1983/84                             97.8    n.a.    -2.2X               1983     101.0    98.6
1984/85                             97.3    n.a.    -0.5X               1984      99.3    97.0
1985/88                            104.0    n.a.       6.90             1985     100.0    97.7
1988    113.0   110.4
1/ Part year only. Project only covered second half.
V Source: Central Statistics OffIce, Ethiopia
3/ Source: World Bank Comodities Division



- 34 -
Table 9
EWPIA
SEC(M) AGI0LDMAL MIKIIUri PACKAGE PRJECt
PROC CLETlON REPORT
Detai Is of IOA and ESC OIlsemmt PAmsts
., .    ............. m  .......  ............. E9C .......
Fiscal at           Icwl Rus            Acts l  etu i    Actual Rsqasts  AtI Rust  TOTAL   cum       ESC
(Ed Date)          In    Cui-   In   Ioml-   In    ODI-   In    Cul-    Lid   Peets Rborded
Period  .tlve   Period  ative   Period  ativ    Period  ative   REOSTS  S  A   Olsb.
(set 1/)
...'O  Blrr ..           ....     ....  irr...  ..    '000 SOF.
MW 31, 1981
Jos30. 191           424      424     173     173     510     510     209      209     382     3.7S    572
So 30, 1981         3,593   4.017   1,531   1,704             510              209   1.913     7.81
Do 31. 1981         2,582   8,599   1,074   4*778     538   1,048     224      432   3,211    10.71    804
Mar 31, 1982        1,833   8,432     779   3,558   2,473   3,521   1,051   1,484   5,041    14.3X  2m775
AN 30. 1982         5,538  13,970   2,395   5,952     251   3,M       109   1.592   7,544    19.4Y    282
Sw3D, 1982            133  14,103      59   8,01i    535   4,307      238   1,830   7,841    18.51    800
m 31 1982          23,590  37,893  10,577  18.589     379   4,688      170   2.000  18,588    41.5S    425
mar 3, 1983         1,978  39u,6      874  17,483   1,514   8,200     870   2,870  20,133    43.91  1,899
Mi 30. 1983        11,570  51,239   5,185  22,848     730   8,930     327   2.997  25.845    55.93    819
Sep 3D, 1983        2,345  53.584   1.074  23,723     442   7,371     202   3,199  28,922    58.71    498
Om 31, 1983         4,933  58,517   2,285  25,987      84   7,455      38   3.238  29.225    83.71      94
IMr 31, 1984        2,488  81,003   1,145  27,133   2,259   9,714   1,040   4,278  31,411    88.41  2,535
Jm 30, 1984         4,692  85,695   2,167  29,300      34   9,747       18   4,234  33,593    73.2Z     38
Sep 30, 1984        3,125  88,820   1,492  30,791   2,284  12,011   1,081   5,374  38,188    78.81  2,540
Oec 31, 1984        2,244  71,0C4   1,090  31,882     936  12,947     455   5,829  37,711    82.2S  1,050
Mar 31, 1985        2,248  73,310   1,122  33,004      93  13.040      47   5,815  38,879    84.71    105
Jun 30, 1985        1,341  74,851     653  33,857   2,988  18,008   1,444   7,319  40,978    89.31  3,328
Sep 3D, 1985        2,414  77,085   1,135  34,792       4  16,010       2   7,321  42,113    91.71       5
Ow 31, 1985         6,524  83,589   2,923  37,715     918  18,928     411   7,732  45,447    99.03  1,030
Note: 1/ EMC f lzres estImateI   m a pro rata basis from exueniltures.



- 35 -
Table 10
ETHIOPIA
SECW  AGRICOLTIMI. MINIM PPAGE PROEC
PRWECT COWLETNIO Raw
PIatm  ard AcIal ly ReOund Dhis Suit
Esthatsm     In SIR  SA Est SM Edt    ctal Rumts SIrr:SM   Acml RPest  tm               RhQst
Flnoal 0arter    Within Period    OA. In Ms In Sms         In     mil- EDchp       In    P.ul-  Rests   I SR
(Ehd Date)     IDA     IFAD   Totl   CUR       CIA    PFrlod  ative   Rat    Period  atiw   ISAR    Total
..... (US$ .000) ...... 1000    OR s    ...8000 Birr ...       .... 000 SO R....  S        1
Mar 31, 1981    4,200   2,350   8,550   5,175    11.31      0        0  2.5724       0       0     O.0S    0.0O
Ji 30, 1981     4,700   1,700  12,950  10,247    22.3S    934      934  2.4458     382     382     3.71    0.81
Sep 30, 1981    12,500   5,600  31,050  24,572    53.58  3,593   4,527  2.3469   1,531   1,913     7.81    4.28
Dee 31. 1981    4,800   2,200  38,050  30,111    85.68  3,120   7,647  2.4038   1,298   3,211    10.71    7.01
Mar 31. 1982    4,4C0   2.000  44,450  35,175    78.68  4,308  11,953  2.3525   1,830   5,041    14.38   11.0G
Jn 30. 1982     3,200   1,400  49,050  38,816    84.6S  5,789  17,742  2.3128   2,503   7,544    19.43   16.41
Sep 30, 1982    3,200   1,400  53,650  42,457    92.51    688  18,410  2.2479      297   7,841    18.5S   17.11
Dec 31, 1982    2.007     900  50,550  44,752    97.51 23,969  42.379  2.2303  10,747  18,588    41.5S   40.51
Mar 31, 1983    1,000     450  58,000  45,900    00.0%  3,490  45,8Q9  2.2801   1,544  20,133    43.9S   43.9S
Jmu 30, 1983                   58,000  45,900   100.0S 12,300  58,169  2.2312   5,513  25,845    55.91   55.9S
Sep 30, 1983                    58,000  45,900   100.0%  2,787  60,955  2.1829   1,277  26,922    58.71   58.71
Doe 31, 1983                   58,000  45,900   100.01  5,017  65,972  2.1781   2,303  29,225    63.71   63.7%
Mar 31, 1984                   58,000  45,900   100.01  4,745  70,717  2.1710   2,186  31,411    88.41   68.4S
kAi 30, 1984                   58,000  45,900   100.01  4.728  75,442  2.1650   2.183  33,593    73.2S   73.2S
Sep 30, 1984                   58,000  45,900   100.01  5,389  80,831  2.0951   2,572  38,168    78.8%   78.81
oec 31, 1984                   58,000  45,900   100.01  3,180  84,011  2.0G81   1,545  37,711    82.2X   82.28
Mar 31. 1985                   58,000  45,00   100.0S  2,339  88.350  2.008   1t,189  38,879    84.71   84.71
Jui 30, 1985                   58,000  45,900   100.01  4,307  90,657  2.0541   2,097  40,976    89.38   89.38
Sep 30, 1985                   58,000  45,900   100.01  2,418  93,075  2.1283   1,137  42,113    91.71   91.71
DOe 31, 1985                   58,000  45,900   100.01  7,442 100,517  2.2320   3,334  45,447    99.01   99.01
USS:0R Ecug Rates: SAR Assud                        1.284
ACtLal Rate                   1.088
BIrr:USS Exchanp Rates: SMR Assued                  2.070
ACtaI Rate                   2.070



- 36 -
Table l1
ETHIOPIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL MINIMUM PACRAGE PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Utilization of IDA Credit and IFAD Loan by MOA
Year                         1981182  1982183  1983184  1984/85  1985186    TOTAL
Offices                          287      S74    1,733      741       444    3,779
Self Help Stores                                            203       467      669
T & V Houses                                         7      109         7      122
Total Buildings                  287      574    1,740    1,053       918    4,570
Rural Roads                    2,254      581    2,882      825              6,543
Self Help Roads                  100                        952              1,052
Total Roads                    2,354      S81    2,882    1,777         0    7,594
CIVIL WORKS                    2,641    1;155    4,622    2,829       918   12,165
Vehicles                               12,544                 41      139   12,724
Equipment                        881    6,912    3,077    1,637    2,467   14,973
Spareparts                                         127      381    2,399    2,907
T & V Equipment                            10                                   10
S & W Tools                               646                                  646
Polyethane Tube                  552               379      348              1,278
VEHICLES & EQUIP.              1,433   20,111    3,583    2,407    5,005   32,538
Fertilizer                              9,042                                9.042
Veterinary Drugs                        1,733    1,778      602              4,114
Pesticides                                 77    2,153      778       524    3,532
Chemicals                          3                          8       111      122
Seed                                       30        3      383        32      448
FARM INPUTS                        3   10,882    3,934    1,770       666   17,256
Salaries - Local              8,654                           4              8,658
S & W Op. Cost                          4,815    1,647                       6,462
T & V Op. Costs                            47      102      279       154      581
OPERATING COSTS                8,654    4,862    1,749      283       154   15,701
Expat. Salaries                1,213      121      663      734       110    2,842
Consultants                       18       22      136      825    1,888    2,888
T & V Consultants                          22       19                          41
TOTAL TECH ASSIST              1,231      165      818    1,559    1,998    5,771
TRAINING                                  224        6         2       42      274
G---ND-TOTAL-13,962--37,400-14,712-8,849 --8,781 -83,704
GRAND TOTAL                   13,962   37,400   14,712    8,849    8,781   83,704
- - - - - - - - - - -  - - - -



- 37 -
Table 12
EN4OPIA
o   AZOL1WAA. NPwU  PAOM PR4=
MJv CaWLr     er
$S~    of.w9 CleJn Seed  itput a DiletrIhtian
-54*.~i.PerIod-    -..--WP           po    rIad-
tam,           1975/79 1979/60 19il0/8  1961/2  1mi   10/8  1964/815 lWi/8ti 1986/8
...    ...............................   -s i   a ................................^_re
Cra
e19.07   1S."4   10.44  1I.57    2.8    2.7m    24.,8    6,26
Serley                     286     744      267     86s   1.62   1.71t   2.107   2.600
Nt3*                     1,1e2   2.,8   1.419   2.495   1.324  13,4"    9.914  11,280
= rgha 2m 1                                270     221    0SO      774   1,094   1.10
Tot                        194     117    1i9   S 1         267      87      GM    1.840
stricZ                     S8       14    2go        2       04     286    324       430
other                      176      97      28       26      34       p0     72      910
ToTL                    20.,92   26.384  15.81   210.284  16.84  36.262  89,047  U4,216
Coaoributeen by Soct~r
Sltate Fern y   e
- C;:trt ClieanIn                                        8.0S2    9,397   9.674   2.818
- Sol"                 19.00t  16.79   16S.,  18.27    4.52   S.380   4.764  14.100
Sub-Te"l State Scr   19.05   30.79S  10.0l 2  18,278  12.,W   14.77?  14.416  1,6.18
- INA/h O  I/           1.27?   3.456      684   2.4n    1.743  18.486  17.000  3.8O40
-                         64u   1.8       e 1    1,376     7       an89   1.000   1.000
- OHte. V                         25   1.88        14      78    6,171   6.09   6,060
Sub-TOtl Pseeant Secter  18922   8.86    2.760   3.981   8.2a   28.485  24.6W9  S7,600
ToTAL                   20.92B  22,364  18.812  20,284  LS.884  38.282  I9,047  S4.218
FeetnVtee:    1/ Inelvi. AISo prndeceseor.
2/ No* aN direat saeei  to D_aCt former..
Saurn:  SC Preduaitian Dertne



- 38 -
Table 13
.
10    LUIUL N243M PAO(M   TJ0
. FR0W Tauf    ITm
siny of P..t) I is.' U.. by fPinaa Pi eel
Pvojs.t          I~Pw     -      shterls Ped-    -IP 7                   N.'Itod -
Yea            1977/70 191370 1979f0 195/6  19/92  195   193/4 196/6  196/6
...................................... tric t..
WPt Areas
°OP             25.363  40.,5  33.S41  21,91.   23.5916  35.421  35.60S  31.665  41.26
Urm.             1.,47   5.010   2,5      1.444   1,419   3.00    4.464   1.27   I."6
Total SeP1      17.060  43.905  5,616  916.40?  25.012  36.429  87.116  36.112        66 AS
GAP              6.116   7,.S=    7.401   7,705   6,62   6.62    6.61   &.VI  18.2S4
Unea                70                                               us               62
Totl  iU         6.04   7.2   7.401   7.705   5.662  . SA62W    8.e1   8.371  1.1921
'hoI. Cowtcv
Dv              32.217  418.27   40.742  20.666  30.255  42.047  42.147  43.96   W.50
UP"              .7      6010   2.S4   t.44    1.419   6.006   4.77   2.67   0.01
c*m       Total  5.904  51.207  43.927  81.112  51.474  4S.0,6  46.5,4  46.363  "4.5
DNCRWAL USE SP                                                                           ' 
GW                      18.572 1   7.95   (3.410) (1.790)  85.06   80,112  10.132  15.61
U...                     1.3,5     0       (0      (225)  1.361   21.7       9iO   6.10
Total Iewrompntal       16.Ul,   86,056  (3.62   (2.01)  9.39   10.919  11162  22.206
far. a.4. Fort; li.sar Price. (Sirr/ot)
AP                JS0      50      650      ao   1,16s     ago      614     814      614
UP"                SW      550     6o        0      a         7     SU       6       an
Sour".: AZSCD& Anlyalo I solo



- 39 -
Table 14
PmiOpIA
=0 AMICULT11AM. I4ND4I PA0(JI M0Ml26
QMUNL 1NEd  VI PUSGLW    WS 7/7 to 166/16
Pewil luau U. 16JE17/0  Set I hto  Us. 16/u6   over. 19767/7
CAP    U'..   Toutl      0      uJes   ?r40       CA     U...  Toutl
E;r                861      26      617     on        19   *2 t           7      )     as
Tig..              206       1       06     Su               a0      206       (1)    297
Vol le               2                2   1.212            1.22   1.210        0   1.210
Gander             178      3         1   1.12       277   1.402     947  514   1.171
0.3..            2,?13      2M0   2.631  10,42?   1,2617   11.4   7.664   1.062   8.716;
10,26414 1.114  11.7    18,60    S.119   6,919   6S.16   4.008  12.,41
:3ol lag.2,241              21   2.A2 2, 2.86       277   2.641      120      266     S7
t lubibe           14?       0      14?     11               Su      16        (0)    14
afIf             2,?f0       1   2.M6   2.071              2.071    (69)       (1)   (600)
:ads we             71       1       74     100              100       7       (1)     2?
Side..           4,661      26   4.1?   31.1           6    .170  (1.397)    (20) (1.417)
Sol.               91               91       6o               so    (e61)       0    (S66)
"burh              667    S200      W17     200   1,02   1.211    (446)    6n         14
PI Are          2S.       1.,U47   V.060  41.210   7,967  49,216  15.16   6.3120  2,.206
Arai             6.114       70   6.06  16.284        62  16.2W    8.400       (6)  6.392
TOTAL PE_ANS   S2.217   1.1   16,64  8,560    0.029   646624.2"6   6.312  30.69I



- 40 -
Table 15
EThIOPIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL MINIMUM PACKAGE PROJECT
PR0JE;.T COMPLETION REPORT
Estimates of Returns to Fertilizer Use
-----------------------------------_-----
Ferts  No Fort        Forts  No Fert
Trad    Package  Package      Package  Package
.... Yields gaiHa .........    ..Percent Tnct....
Teff                      780       1180      920            512      182
SorghumlMillet            930       2070     1350           1232      452
Maize                     970       3920      2630          3042     1711
Barley                    740       1570      900           1122      22S
Wheat                     830       1560       970           S8S      172
Pulses                    730        860      860            18S      182
Oilseeds                  310        370      370            19S      192
3nsete
Coffee                    400        400       400            0S       02



ETHIOPIA
55C00 4538L.IIAL NDLU PCKA08 3905r
390.J57 CSWLVW NOW
5....ri@ 1, 19P1 WAe W?3 C.0d"fo
71  /7     7MM    /74   74/7    78/76  T76OM     77M8   7MI7"   79/60   60/18    61/6        U     MM84    64/6    65/65   86/67 Mf /              Som/    o/wn
Poj.NCt Coee            6.56    O.7    6.O4   18.081  DD., l2     ,8t      14. 76n  14.9M   14.M l.5 , t.317   8.81   47.1n,      54.4t1  67.143   W.,U    89u    58.6      6,9   aSWS
OA F  . Coe
ftrkilixr             Sl.,lZ    4.989   9.5t1  12.709  S6,3t4  3D0Ui  i0.95  36.93t   It.i92t1  1,57   1,.9il   16."*0  I5,06  3,587  2ti.92t  u9, t.1    b.9S  80.95   a,on   aas
lmre.vd sea             239      64      U4      4SI   1.20   1.95       31       M6      o       46       M   llt        58U     463      in      M86  - 5         M5     671      a7s
Fe. I W1~ts                                                                     1,7I0   1.790D 43    1.1         1.0   1,'M    1.412   1190   1."         1.Ui7   3.011   3.12    .11t
P"McIde.                                                                        23.81  23,818  *1.6      1.480   3.86   a,l79   1.4,  23.81    3.0    2.46    *.6    3,*M    '.M1
0  Ite                                                                          2,746   3.744 2  ,174    1.739   3,744   2,i79    .195  23,744   3.744  23.1      8.Mi   8.M    8.20
Fail I or La.,                 l, 1.95   8.87   5,97   19.812q  5.95l  5.653  6i7.86   91.655  8.86   43.440  67,65   68,606  1886   67.865  67,86   11.4i7  15.58   60,365  68.95
5. tem              8.9    6,6e,91   18.103  19,129  66.i766  55,743  ii4,115 101.0t0,75t 81Ot,   66,M04,7t 9t,742  6561 ,0t .163  101.7at 101,niti 0.,i6  1u.m  131.1  631.160
_m                       .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
TOTAL. CaSTS          10.367  16.781  31.516  53.160  77.60F  04.095  68.85   16.550  116.56   96361  16.390  18.M5  143.749  Ia,M  150.646  141.M8  W.1470 1184.156  141.401  161.M1
408     OM    1.5t1   8.099   8.8    6.95    6.427  10.9"   1.616   6.679   5,9l   9.0    6.44   5.295   9."7   *.117  7?.W7   7.1               7."7   7.447
Taft                    906   1,913   8.11   7,?0.    7.406  13.22   14U,411  24,61i9  0.37   0.747  18.U90    .466  GR.AN   17,0   30.90  31.65   17U,86    16.M   17.040   17.,46
ibs*                  X1,415   8,951  8,501  30.430  13.N*  34,66  W7.AN   30.613  a6.136  84.61  84.10  01.25  05.211  88M,70   51,170  "1,3   76.8t   "6.01  90,66  60.6
er-                     MPt7  1,729   8.144   5,917   7,Ui  14.101  15.96  86,790  J4.0t  38.6ff   18.608  40.83t  8.950  36,6ll4  371.01  i0.i4  $$.M    00,35  96.307   WS.F7
TOTAL    m7S             lO 31    7.511  18,476  3.818  60.43   690   84.,05 13.6o 5     .71  111,1   7;t.U8   U8,9i64 15,749  10.G6  111.408 117.65  U16,81  WS.65   310.75 tk10*.
SET (CON) liIT          (6,757) (9,50  (7.6)  (5.661) (47,109  (3,194)  MU7  ) 1.M   19.          14.U9190 (U,471) gl.406t (1700) (84.114) (47.438) (6.)  (7?.6     14.7ff  4.M0  4,.7IS
6c0W.e 36 of..u.6
--------------. .......................................................



r       3        |                         -                  .3 0            :1; |     
U         ~        
1*                 - e                                   L|   e     fg     |
|       8                              8I                                .3
* s ;X                                               fEEt    g 
*     ~8 I.                           R  B                        S;.3}3          
*" 3                     s                     ; | 
*~   3                                                           Is       ||   0 !
* ~     U       U                              .         
I~~              i                    3                                 1     :||X|   e l8
tt~                                                      j   lb
I~~~~~~~_Z 



