Document of
The World Bank                    FLE COpY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 1774b-ET
ETHIOPIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL MINIMUM PACKAGE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
November 18, 1980
Eastern Africa Regional Office
Northern Agriculture Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit           =  Ethiopian Birr
US$0.483                =  Birr 1.00
US$1.00                 =  Birr 2.07
US$483,000              =  Birr 1.0 million
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(Metric System)
1 kilogram (kg)         =  2.205 pounds (lb)
100 kilograms (kg)      =  1 quintal (qt)
1 metric ton (mt)       =  2,205 pounds (lb)
1 hectare (ha)          =  2.4711 acres (ac)
1 kilometer (km)        =  0.62 miles (mi)
ABBREVIATIONS
AED     -  Agricultural Extension Department (of MOA)
AIDB    -  Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank
AIMS*   -  Agricultural Input and Marketing Service
AGMC    -  Agricultural Marketing Corporation
ARDD    -  Animal Resources Development Department (of MOA)
ARDU    -  Arussi Rural Development Unit
ASC     -  Audit Services Corporation
CADU*   -  Chilalo Agricultural Development Unit (now ARDU)
CPSC    -  Central Planning Supreme Council (in brief - Supreme Council)
CY      -  Crop Year
DA      -  Development Agent
DAP     -  Diammonium phosphate
EPID*   -  Extension and Project Implementation Department (of MOA)
ERA     -  Ethiopian Roads Authority
ESC     -  Ethiopian Seeds Corporation
PA      -  Peasant Association
FTC     -  Farmers' Training Center
IAR     -  Institute for Agricultural Research
MOA     -  Ministry of Agriculture
MPP     -  Minimum Package Program (started 1970)
MPP I   -  First Agricultural Minimum Package Project (1973-77)
MPP II  -  Second Agricultural Minimum Package Project
MSFD    -  Ministry of State Farm Development
PACDD   -  Peasant Association and Cooperative Development Department
(of MOA)
PPD     -  Planning and Programming Department (of MOA)
SIDA    -  Swedish International Development Authority
TSU     -  MPP Technical Support Unit (in MOA)
TSO     -  Technical Support Officer (head of the TSU)
USAID   -  United States Agency for International Development
WADU    -  Wolaita Agricultural Development Unit
*       -  Now replaced by other agencies,
GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
FISCAL YEAR
July 8 - July 7



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ETHIOPIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL MINIMUM PACKAGE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.     BACKGROUND  ..............................................                                     1
A.     The Agricultural Sector  ............................                                   1
B.     Land  Reform          ........................................                          2
C.     Agricultural Services  ..............................                                   3
II.     THE MINIMUM  PACKAGE  PROGRAM  .............................                                   5
III.  THE PROJECT .......................    8
A.     General  Description  ................................                                  8
B.     Detailed  Features  ..................................                                11
C.     Project  Costs  ......................................                                20
D.     Financing  ..........................................                                 21
E.     Procurement  ........................................                                 22
F.  Disbursement ....................                                                        22
G.     Accounts  and  Audit  .................................                               24
IV.    ORGANIZATION  AND  MANAGEMENT  .............................                                   27
V.     PRODUCTION AND  BENEFITS  .................................                                   32
A.     Yields  and  Production  ..............................                               32
B.  Adoption Rates ....................                                                      33
C.    Markets  and  Prices  .................................                                33
D.     Farmers'  Benefits  and  Income  Distribution  ....                      ......       34
E.     Government  Budget  ..................................                                34
VI.     BENEFITS  AND  JUSTIFICATION  ..............................                                  36
VII.    AGREEMENTS  REACHED AND  RECOMMENDATION  ...................                                    39
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofTicial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
SCHEDULE - ANNUAL WORK PLAN
TABLES 1: New Wereda Openings and Expansions to Full Coverage Since
Completion of MPP I
2: Incremental and Cumulative Number of Adopting Farms
3: Ministry of Agriculture Manpower Projection for MPP
4: Summary of Project Costs
CHARTS 1: Project Organization Chart (World Bank - 21406)
2:  Ministry of Agriculture Organization Chart (World Bank - 21407)
3: Project Implementation Schedule (World Bank - 21564)
MAPS
Project Area (IBRD 13068R)
Major Food Crop Economies (IBRD 10233R)
MATERIAL AVAILABLE IN IMPLEMENTATION VOLUME



ETHIOPIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL MINIMUM PACKAGE PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. The Agricultural Sector
1.01      Ethiopian agriculture is practised in varied ecological conditions
which permit a large number of crop and livestock activities. Ethiopian
smallholders have a high level of traditional skill, but lack adequate sup-
porting factors which promote optimum production, namely good marketing sys-
tems, access roads, credit, extension and veterinary services and improved
seeds, as well as fertilizer and other farm inputs. Although 80% of Ethiopians
derive the main part of their income from farming, agriculture contributes
only about half of GDP, but over 90% of exports. In 1976/77, agriculture
contributed about US$1.5 billion of GDP. Crops account for about 80% of the
gross value of agricultural production and livestock and livestock products
for 20%. Coffee is the single most important crop contributing over half of
agricultural GDP and up to three quarters of export earnings when prices were
favorable in 1977/78.
1.02      Although cereals account for about 50% of crop production, the
country is a net importer of grain and grain production fluctuates from year
to year. During drought years, production may be insufficient for man and
domestic animals and famines have occurred in the drier parts of the country,
notably in 1973/74. In the worst affected areas (Wello, Tigrai and parts of
Gondar and Shewa provinces), increased farming intensity has resulted in the
progressive shortening of fallow periods, cultivation on slopes, removal of
tree cover, soil degradation and declining yields. In the past, large-scale
mechanized farming was developed in limited areas, while smallholder agricul-
ture remained backward. Smallholder production in the main cropping areas,
which are in the highlands, can be characterized as being based on rainfed
cultivation on small, scattered irregular plots, making extensive use of land
with low cultivation standards and yield levels, using little or no fertilizer
and suffering high field and storage crop losses. There are about 3 million
*        such smallholdings.
1.03      Livestock plays an important role in most Ethiopian farms but lit-
tle research has been done in Ethiopia on improving overall farming systems
to develop animal husbandry as an integral part of the farm. The principal
requirements in the livestock sub-sector are for improvements in animal
management, animal health and animal nutrition.
1.04      Further information on the economy and agricultural sector is
available in the grey cover Economic Memorandum dated April 22, 1980 (Report
No. 2609a-ET).



- 2 -
B. Land Reform
Peasant Associations and Cooperatives
1.05      Under the land reform decree of March 4, 1975, rural land was
nationalized and user rights for a farm family were limited to 10 ha. Most
commercial farms were taken over by Government; some were settled by small-
holders, but many are being cultivated as state farms.  To implement the
reform and promote future development, farmers have been organized into over
25,000 peasant associations (PA) created by law each with about 270 farming
family members.  Private tenancy, which was common in the southern part of
the country, has been abolished.
1.06      Membership in PAs is not compulsory, and since 1976, the year after
the land reform, has been open to any farmer. The functions of the PAs are
to distribute the land and administer public lands within their areas, to
build schools, clinics and similar institutions to cultivate the land them-
selves and to undertake villagization programs. They have the duty to safe-
guard the political, economic and social rights of peasants, to establish
cooperative societies, women's associations and peasant defense squads, and
have the power of issuing and implementing internal regulations to achieve
these aims. The PAs have legal personality and can both sue and be sued.
Each PA is represented by a delegate to a wereda 1/ level PA, and this asso-
ciation is in turn represented by delegates to an awraja 1/ PA. A national
peasant association, the All-Ethiopia Peasants Association, has been formed
with delegates from the awraja associations.
1.07      Peasant associations are empowered and encouraged to set up co-
operatives comprising from one to ten PAs. Two main kinds of cooperatives
are envisaged: service cooperatives which have, inter alia, the functions
of marketing produce, giving credit, providing storage and supplying farm
inputs and consumer goods, and agricultural producers cooperatives or coop-
erative farms, with the means of production controlled if not actually owned
by the cooperative and members paid according to their work. Few producer
cooperatives have been established as yet, but they are expected to become
increasingly important as the cooperative movement develops.
1/   The administrative divisions of Ethiopia are, in descending order of
size, the administrative region (15, including Addis Ababa), awraja
(102), and wereda (586). The local terms "awraja" and "wereda" are
anglicized in this report by the addition of 's' to denote the plural.



C. Agricultural Services
Ministry of Agriculture
1.08      The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) provides extension services to
farmers through its Agriculture Extension Department (AED). In addition to
its responsibility for the extensive Minimum Package Program (MPP), MOA
is responsible for a number of more intensive limited area agricultural
projects such as the Wolaita Agricultural Development Project (WADU-Credit
486-ET), the Arussi Rural Development Unit (ARDU, formerly Chilalo Agricul-
tural Development Unit, CADU) and for various activities under the IDA-assisted
Drought Areas Rehabilitation Project (Credit 485-ET). Services to PAs and
cooperative societies are provided by MOA's Peasant Associations and Coopera-
tives Department (PACD). These two operating departments, together with the
Animal Resources Development Department (ARDD), are the main units dealing
with peasant agriculture and are supported by nine service departments includ-
ing Planning and Programming, Training, Finance, Legal and Engineering. The
Training Department has responsibility for the Farmers Training Centers whereas
responsibility for the agricultural training institutes has been transferred
from MOA to Addis Ababa University. This structure at headquarters in Addis
Ababa, however, is not repeated in the regions where decentralization policy
under the National Revolutionary Development Campaign (or "zemetcha") 1/
introduced in October, 1978 has placed MOA staff under the immediate control
of the administration head at each administrative level, namely the region
(formerly a province), awraja and wereda. At these three levels, the MOA
staff form part of the zemetcha team responsible for implementing the zemetcha
program of which MPP is the core with respect to peasant agriculture. Contact
with MOA HQ is maintained by the field offices reporting on technical and
administrative matters through MOA's region head to the permanent secretary
of MOA.
1.09      The HQ of MOA was reorganized in July 1979, and at the end of 1979
was still in the process of settling down, with some headquarters staff not
allocated to permanent posts and with responsibilities and functions still
operating flexibly. However, the reorganization has the potential to strengthen
services to the peasant sector. Under the former arrangement, the Extension
and Project Implementation Department (EPID) was a semi-autonomous agency of
the Ministry of Agriculture and Settlement with some duplication of functions
with the main Ministry. At the reorganization, about half the headquarters
staff of EPID was allocated to AED and PACDD with the remainder going to MOA
service departments and positions in the field. The new MOA's work load was
reduced at the reorganization firstly by the creation of two new ministries
for the sector, namely State Farm Development and Coffee and Tea Development,
and secondly by transferring responsibility for new settlements to the Relief
and Rehabilitation Commission. The Ministry of State Farm Development is of
importance to the peasant sector since state farms produce seeds for the
Ethiopian Seed Corporation which are distributed by MOA to PAs. The Ministry
of Agriculture is therefore now primarily concerned with the predominant
peasant sector in the country, but also has responsibility for soil and water
conservation and forestry.
1/   Zemetcha is the Amharic word for campaign.



The Institute of Agricultural Research (IAR)
1.10      The IAR's work is divided into the following principal fields:
animal science, pasture and forage, field crops, soils, horticulture, plant
protection, coffee and diversification, socio-economic studies, agricultural
engineering, home science and food technology. It has seven main field sta-
tions which are not well distributed over the country's ecological regions
and some of which are of doubtful usefulness. The linkage between research
and extension is poor, partly because IAR's lines of research are not suffi-
ciently directed towards meeting the immediate needs of small farmers, and
partly because there is no formal mechanism for liaison and exchange of views
at the field level between IAR and MOA. Staffing constraints also limit re-
search effectiveness. IAR has been supported for several years by an FAO
funded research project which is due to end in 1982.
Agricultural Marketing Corporation (AMC)
1.11      The AMC is a state corporation established in 1976 to market cereals,
oilseeds and pulses to stabilize prices and to assure proper food distribution.
AMC receives assistance from the IDA supported Grain Storage and Marketing
Project (Credit 789-ET). AMC also procures and distributes fertilizer,
seed and pesticides to farmers under the MPP, having assumed the functions of
AIMS which was liquidated. Following the split in 1979 of the Ministry of
Commerce and Tourism into two separate ministries for foreign and domestic
trade the Supreme Council reviewed the role and functions of AMC (as well as
those of its sister agency the Ethiopian Grain Agency) and introduced a number
of changes aimed at strengthening the ministry's participation in the national
grain market through decentralized purchasing units. AMC is now under the
Ministry of Domestic Trade which has overall responsibility for the initiation,
planning and follow-up of domestic trade policy and the formulation of the
strategy and priorities in this area. It also has the responsibility for
the management of state trading enterprises, the enforcement of Government
price policy, the licensing of wholesalers and retailers, the study and
analysis of the domestic market and the regulation of domestic trade and
practices. However, AMC's role in the proposed project would continue as
before with respect to the procurement of agricultural inputs and their dis-
tribution to MOA stores around the country.
Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank (AIDB)
1.12      AIDB, established in 1970 as a government owned development bank,
is the main source of credit to farmers. In addition to its agricultural
department, it has departments for industry, finance and banking, legal and
evaluation, and research. As of June 30, 1979, AIDB's medium- and long-term
resources were Birr 766 million (US$370 million), of which about 13% was in
foreign resources of which IDA contributed about 52%. In addition to a US$11
million IDA credit granted in 1974 for industrial and agricultural subproj-
ects, AIDB has administered about US$6.5 million in IDA credits approved for
five agricultural projects, including MPP I, and contractor credit totalling



- 5 -
US$4.0 million under the IDA assisted Fifth and Sixth Highways Projects.
Processing of a proposed fourth IDA credit (US$38 million) for AIDB was held
up on country grounds after appraisal in early 1979. As it has few field
offices of its own and limited capability to evaluate loans to farmers, AIDB
uses MOA to carry out these functions. Since the land reform and
nationalization AIDB has been awaiting reimbursement from Government for the
bad debts which thereafter arose in its agricultural portfolio, but recently
the Government has decided to replenish the Bank's equity portfolio by an
issue of Government Bonds. AIDB is required to play a major role in the
agricultural economy, and its responsibilities have now been defined by
Proclamation No. 158 of March 29, 1979 entitled, "A Proclamation to Provide
for the Re-Establishment of the Agricultural and Industrial Development
Bank."
Ethiopian Seed Corporation
1.13      Government recognizes the critical need for improved seeds and
in 1978 established the National Seed Council for policy formulation and
created the Ethiopian Seed Corporation (ESC) for implementation of the National
Seed Multiplication Program (NSMP). The ESC acts as a semi-autonomous body in
the Ministry of State Farms Development, although the Government is in the
process of establishing it as an autonomous public corporation with separate
legal personality.   The NSMP and ESC are receiving comprehensive technical
assistance, equipment and training under a three year UNDP/ FAO project which
started operations in July, 1979. However, while this project is making a
valuable contribution towards establishing ESC's capability, the funding
provided (US$542,260) is not sufficient to enable ESC to fulfill all its
functions, namely: (i) establishment of a foundation seed program; (ii) seed
cleaning; (iii) seed quality control; (iv) provision of advisory training
services; (v) research and development, and (vi) development and enforcement
of national seed legislation. Further funding and some technical assistance
for ESC is therefore required.
II. THE MINIMUM PACKAGE PROGRAM
2.01      Very little agricultural extension work in Ethiopia was done before
1967 when CADU, the smaller forerunner of ARDU, was started (see map - Project
Area). This was a comprehensive agricultural package program that included
research, extension, marketing, credit and input supplies, implemented origin-
ally with relatively large numbers of expatriate technical staff. Its main
impact was significant increases in cereal yields through the use of fertil-
izer, improved seeds and some extension services.  Other similar projects were
started in the next two years including the Wollamo (now Wolaita) Agricultural
Development Unit (supported by two IDA credits), but it was recognized that it
would not be feasible to implement such limited area-specific projects through-
out the whole country because of the high cost and manpower needs and so the
MPP was initiated in 1970.



- 6 -
First Agricultural Minimum Package Project (MPP I)
2.02      EPID was created in 1971 to improve peasant farmer production, and
to carry out the Minimum Package Program started in 1970. An IDA credit
(MPPI, Credit 416-ET, US$21.0 million) was approved in 1973 to support the
program. The basic unit of development was the Minimum Package Project Area
(MPPA), which typically contained about 10,000 farm families and extended 5 km
on either side of a 75 km stretch of all-weather road. An MPPA was divided
into five extension areas, each with a market center and a 1 ha trial and
demonstration field. The market center provided the base for marketing
assistants and extension agents, and for storage of inputs and grains. Credit
for seasonal inputs was provided to individual farmers by AIDB which collected
at least a 25% downpayment and 1% per month interest. IDA funds for farm
inputs were onlent to AIDB at 7-1/4% interest and AIMS purchased the necessary
inputs. Since AIDB had limited capacity to appraise and supervise loans and
collect repayments, and because AIMS did not have the facilities to handle
farm inputs in the field and distribute them to farmers, these functions were
carried out by EPID acting as agent of AIDB and AIMS. In return EPID received
1-1/2% of the 12% annual interest charged to farmers. AIMS has since been
liquidated and its functions taken over by AMC.
2.03      Given the difficult conditions in the country MPP was quite success-
ful during the period when it was supported by IDA under MPPI (1973-77). As
of December 1977, fertilizer and seed sales were 112% and 170% respectively of
appraisal estimates. Mean yield increases over the period, based on field
surveys, are reported as 31% for teff, 29% for wheat, 21% for barley, 24% for
maize, 35% for millet and 26% for sorghum. Though these increases are below
appraisal estimates for those crops for which estimates were made (teff,
wheat, maize and sorghum), they nevertheless represent a considerable improve-
ment over the "without project" situation.  Moreover, the overestimate of
yields was more than offset by unforeseen price increases, so that except for
barley, for which fertilizer application was uneconomic, farmer benefit/cost
ratios remained in the 2:1 range. As of December 1977, the numbers of MPP
areas and centers opened were 122% and 128% respectively of appraisal estimates.
An encouraging start has also been made with seed multiplication by peasant
associations, and the number of registered service cooperatives established
since the land reform rose to about 250 by January 8, 1978, with about another
250 unregistered societies.
2.04      This is not to say that the Program has been without difficulties.
The security situation in Eritrea and parts of Sidamo, Bale, Hararge and Tigre
resulted in the closure of an estimated 15% of the MPP centers. Transport of
fertilizer and other inputs to other MPP areas was also temporarily delayed by
the cutting of the Addis Ababa - Djibouti railway line and the requisitioning
of trucks for military purposes, but the situation has since improved and
input transport is no longer a problem. Credit repayments were initially
good, but the 1975 land reform led many farmers to believe that there was no
necessity to repay their loans. A strong campaign was mounted by EPID to
correct this and although the situation in the last two seasons is obscured by
lack of complete field records, recent reports indicate that the situation is
improving. Improved seed is still in short supply, and the construction of
roads and stores lagged behind appraisal estimates. Staff shortages and high



- 7 -
turnover at EPID were major problems and these factors contributed to poor
record keeping and accounting. The MPP I Credit was closed fully disbursed on
March 31, 1978. The project completion report is dated May 15, 1979, and a
project performance audit report was circulated to the Executive Directors on
May 30, 1980.
Second Agricultural Minimum Package Project (MPP II)
2.05      After the completion of funding by IDA under MPP I it was intended
that further IDA assistance would be provided under the proposed MPP II.
Government submitted a detailed proposal and the appraisal mission for MPP II
visited Ethiopia in April/May 1977, but country issues delayed final processing
of the project for two and a half years. During this period, however, the
Government and especially EPID was hopeful that further IDA assistance would
eventually be provided to facilitate the extension of the Minimum Package
Program. Consequently the implementation schedule in EPID's project pro-
posal of December, 1976, which was adopted without significant change during
appraisal, was followed as far as EPID's reduced funding would allow through-
out the two years 1978/79 - 1979/80. The need now is not so much for funding
of the original MPP II program but for completing this program on a more
intensive scale, especially with respect to staffing of field offices to a
more adequate level and civil works (buildings and rural roads).
2.06      A major change that has occurred in the interim is the reorganiza-
tion in July, 1979 of the former Ministry of Agriculture and Settlement
(MOAS), by which EPID, which was semi-autonomous within MOAS, has been re-
absorbed into the new Ministry of Agriculture's routine line structure (see
para 1.09). In parallel the introduction in October, 1978 of the new structure
for implementing economic development (under the National Revolutionary
Development Campaign proclamation) has decentralized responsibility for
development so that MOA staff are now primarily responsible to the administra-
tive heads of regional, awraja and wereda offices. Consequently, the Minimum
Package Program is now integrated with the overall development strategy for
rural areas both conceptually and in terms of its staffing and administration.
However, in formulating the present proposal for IDA funding a distinction has
been made between those staff and facilities required for executing MPP and
other staff and facilities required for non-MPP purposes.
2.07      In terms of program expansion, since the last IDA involvement under
MPP I, the major development has been that whereas at the end of MPP I MPP
areas were established in 280 weredas (but under the then concept these areas
covered only a relative small part of each wereda - see Project Area map) the
program has been extended in the interim to cover 440 weredas, although
physical presence, facilities and the scale of operations is not yet very
significant in the 121 new wereda offices opened since 1978. The proposed
project would provide for development of these new wereda offices into fully
staffed and fully functioning MOA extension and input supply services and for
expansion of the older MPP offices.
2.08      Although the minimum package concept worked well in the limited
areas of its operation under MPP I, certain shortcomings became apparent as
the program was extended to more farmers, particularly with the changed con-
ditions following the land reform in 1975. Most seriously little attempt had



- 8 -
been made to adapt the package to the many varying ecological and social
conditions of Ethiopia. The program relied on the impact of fertilizer
alone to convince farmers of the possibility of increasing their output,
since this was considered the one innovation that could have a noticeably
large impact on yields. More recently, however, MPP staff have appreciated
that other less obvious innovations (such as timely planting, correct plant
population, weeding and pest control) could have comparable production impact.
Such awareness has resulted both from observing demonstration plot results
and from evidence from other countries. Also many farmers live in areas
where the use of fertilizer is not recommended because soil and climatic
conditions are such that crops would not respond adequately to fertilizer
use. Therefore, while continuing to recommend the use of fertilizer in
appropriate areas, MPP would in future put more emphasis on other innova-
tions that could be used either with or without fertilizer. Thus, two basic
packages would be extended: (a) a package involving fertilizer and other
innovations (fertilizer package), and (b) a package involving other innova-
tions only (non-fertilizer package). The other innovations would include
use of improved seed, pesticides and implements, better soil preparation
timely planting, planting in rows, use of mulch and manure, better crop
protection and storage, and soil and water conservation. The greater staffing
strength of the program, to be completed under MPP II, would permit such
a broader approach.
2.09      MPP I had used the better farmer, selected by EPID, as the point
of contact between EPID and the farmers. Now, with the peasant associations
and cooperatives emerging as forces for development in the rural areas, MOA
uses them as the main contact point. The PAs and cooperatives in turn elect
farmers to receive special training (for soil conservation, for example) and
to hold demonstrations on their fields.
2.10      Government, which has expressed its strong commitment to rural
development, now wishes to complete expansion of the program to a much larger
proportion of the farm population, increasing the range of innovation offered,
while the peasant associations are given an important role to play. IDA
assistance is sought to meet these objectives. This proposed second phase of
IDA involvement in the program would support the current trend of Ethiopia-s
development, and would assist this major vehicle of the government's agricul-
tural development policy.
III. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
Description
3.01      Over the two fiscal years 1980/81 and 1981/82, the proposed project
would assist the Government to complete the expansion of staff and services in
the 440 weredas in which the on-going Minimum Package Program (MPP) currently
operates. The primary objective of MPP is to increase smallholder production



through provision of farm inputs on credit and extension and support services.
Since smallholders produce over 95% of total crop output, MPP is also the
primary means of increasing overall national production. The project would
lay the institutional and technical foundation for continuing successful
operation of this core program in the Government's rural development strategy. 1/
Specifically, the project would provide:
(a) staff and staff training, vehicles, buildings and equipment
for the Ministry of Agriculture's headquarters and field
offices;
(b) farm inputs on credit, including fertilizers, improved
seeds, pesticides and tools, and animal husbandry inputs
in selected areas;
(c) buildings, equipment and technical assistance, (i) to
assist the Ethiopian Seed Corporation to produce basic
seed, and (ii) to expand seed multiplication and
cleaning at the peasant association level;
(d) low cost rural roads;
(e) applied research, training of IAR staff and field demon-
strations to assist with the development of improved
seeds and technical packages for MPP farmers, and
(f) field staff, vehicles and equipment for an expanded soil
and water conservation program in the worst affected areas.
3.02      The project is in the nature of an interim assistance to Ethiopia,
following the gap in IDA-s participation in MPP, and is therefore restricted
to a major strengthening of the program over a two-year period pending pre-
paration of a possible third MPP project. Input and extension services would
be provided in 440 out of Ethiopia's 586 weredas. The remaining 146 weredas
are outside the scope of the program and the project because they have little
settled agriculture, or because they lie in regions with security problems, or
because they are in areas covered by ongoing intensive agricultural develop-
ment schemes. By early in the project's second year the Ministry of Agricul-
ture would have staffed the Minimum Package Program up to full planned strength
1/   The proposed project was prepared in 1976/77 by the Extension and Project
Implementation Department (EPID) of the then Ministry of Agriculture and
Settlement with assistance from the IBRD Resident Mission in Eastern
Africa (RMEA). It was appraised in April/May 1977 by a joint IDA/USAID/
SIDA mission whose report was updated and reviewed in April/May 1978
by a follow-up appraisal mission composed of Messrs. Martin, Lister,
Liebenthal and Ahmad (IDA) and Mr. Hirabayashi (USAID), assisted in the
field by Messrs. Sherper (USAID) and Ehrenstrahle (SIDA). Further delays
in project processing caused by country issues made additional updating
missions necessary by RMEA staff during November, 1979 to January, 1980.



- 10 -
and by the end of the project would have provided much of the physical infra-
structure (except some buildings) to enable the program to operate at a satis-
factory level in the 440 weredas. The project would finance MP], activities in
all 440 weredas with incrementality being determined on the base year 1977/78,
the last year of MPPI. For operating costs the incremental costs of both
years of the project were based on the 1977/78 cost level.  For fertilizer, the
main farm input, incremental costs were computed from fertilizer use estimates
for year 1 (1980/81) over the base year and for year 2 on expected use in the
previous year, with appropriate allowances for stocks and contracted supplies.
3.03      The project would be executed by MOA with the exception of:  part of
the rural roads component which would be carried out by the Ethiopian Roads
Authority (ERA); the Ethiopian Seeds Corporation (ESC) component, which would
be carried out by ESC under the Ministry of State Farm Development; and part
of the research component to be executed by IAR. The Permanent Secretary of
MOA would be the project manager and project implementation would be facili-
tated by creation of a MPP Technical Support Unit (TSU) reporting directly
to the Permanent Secretary. This unit would be headed by an internationally
recruited Technical Support Officer satisfactory to IDA whose appointment
would be a condition of credit effectiveness. Assurances were obtained on
this point during negotiations. The proposed candidate for the position has
several years experience in senior technical assistance positions in the
Program under the SIDA aid program and would be acceptable to the Association.
As under MPP I AIDB would be responsible for agricultural credit and AMC
would be responsible for procuring farm inputs for distribution by MOA.
However, whereas under MPPI MOA (as agent of AMC and AIDB) dealt with indi-
vidual farmers with respect to input supply and credit, the revised arrange-
ment of supplying inputs and credits only to PAs and cooperatives would
continue under the project. Ultimate responsibility for project implementa-
tion, and especially responsibility for inter-agency coordination, would lie
with the Central Planning Supreme Council (para. 4.01).
Annual Work Plans
3.04      The exact content of the program would be determined each year in
an annual work plan (AWP) prepared by MOA, which would be agreed with the
Association in advance of the year concerned. The AWP for 1980/81 was pre-
sented and discussed at negotiations and provides a satisfactory basis for
1980/81 operations. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that the AWP
for FY1981/82 would be submitted to IDA for approval by May 1, 1981. AWPs
comprise MOA's fiscal year work program and cost estimates and are accompanied
by the supporting information listed in the attached schedule. Approval by
IDA of Annual Work Plans, or parts thereof, would be on the basis of mutually
agreed criteria including availability of qualified staff, farm inputs, veteri-
nary services, transport and storage, and would be a condition of disburse-
ment of IDA funds for items covered by the AWP during the period to which the
work plan relates. The Association may also suspend disbursements for any
wereda which is not accessible to its representatives. An assurance to this
effect was attained at negotiations.



- 11 -
B. Detailed Features
MOA Headquarters and Field Offices
3.05      The project would provide for the further staffing and equipping of
MOA's 13 regional offices, 80 awraja offices and 440 wereda offices, many of
which are now rented and few of which have stores. Many of the wereda office
buildings were established as EPID Centers under MPP I and for MPP II only 30
awraja and 13 regional office buildings would be constructed, plus 60 stores
attached to MOA offices. 1/ The staffing of the old EPID Centers has already
been expanded but would be increased further to provide full coverage for the
whole wereda.
Manpower and Training
3.06      Since MPP I ended in 1978 the Government has supported the program
sufficiently to permit staff training and recruitment to continue to expand
MPP coverage. Over the past three years the supply of qualified staff avail-
able to the program has improved, but further recruitment would be a major
feature of the project until full staffing is achieved early in Year 2.
Projected staffing is summarized below and detailed in Table 3 attached.
Staffing as Percent of
In-Post      Projected Staffing               Program Requirement
1981/82        1982/83                 1981/82    1982/83
season         season     Present      season      season
Degree Level         335          453            453          74         100          100
Diploma Level      1,064        1,400          1,400          76         100          100
FTC Level          1,038        1,430          2,486          42          58          100
Bookkeepers 2/         -          150            440           -          34          100
Total         2,437       3,433           4,779          51          72         100
Following closure during the mid-1970s of the major educational institutions,
enrollment and graduation numbers have now returned to normal and adequate
graduates at the degree and diploma level would be available to MOA to more
than satisfy the recruitment demands of MOA at these two levels. The output
capacity of the training institutes which supply middle level diploma staff
has been expanded over the last two years to meet requirements (Table 3).
Recruitment by August, 1981 (early in Year 2 of the project) at these two
levels would total 164 graduates and 476 diplomates and would fully staff the
program. These requirements take into account expected staff turnover.
1/   Wereda offices are either adequate for present purposes or additional
space will be rented.
2/   See paras. 3.07 and 3.35.



- 12 -
3.07      At lower levels of pre-service training, where requirements over the
project period total 1,697, the MOA operates twelve Farmers Training Centers
and allocates them for up to half of each year for pre-service training
purposes. MOA would annually recruit the staff required to fully occupy the
FTCs for the 6-month pre-service training period, namely 790 recruits. Book-
keepers are trained at the commercial school of Addis Ababa and under the
project they would be recruited from these special government courses to be
posted to each wereda office. During the project period about 529 bookkeepers
would be recruited, which allows for expected staff turnover.  Under MPPI
marketing agents were given bookkeeping training and performed this function,
but now many of these staff are being promoted. MOA would appoint one spe-
cialist bookkeeper to each wereda to release other staff to carry out their
technical functions and to improve bookkeeping standards. By the end of the
project period the estimated staffing requirements of the MPP at all levels
would have been met and there would be adequate surplus availability of
qualified staff from the various training establishments to ensure that any
unforeseen requirements can also be filled.
3.08      The Training Department of MOA would coordinate and monitor the
project's training requirements to ensure that adequate staff are available to
the project. In addition to the pre-service training detailed above the
Training Department's responsibility includes in-service refresher courses for
key personnel at Farmers Training Centers. At MOA headquarters all technical
assistance personnel would be responsible for training counterpart staff and
eight volunteer accountants would be used in four mobile teams to train and
upgrade field staff especially the new bookkeepers. The Training Department
would be strengthened by the addition of two internationally recruited
specialists (a course planner and and teaching materials specialist and a
consultant for about 12 months on training systems). Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that these appointments would be made in consultation with
IDA, and that the head of the Training Department would be satisfactory to the
Association.
Technical Assistance
3.09      The project would provide 37-1/2 man years (20 posts costing US$1.83
million) of internationally recruited staff of which 15 man years (8 posts -
US$1.4 million) would be financed by IDA/IFAD (average cost including contin-
gencies US$96,000/man year). The remaining 22 man years would be financed
by the SIDA grant and would include 16 man years of accountant trainers (at
$19,300 per man year) recruited through volunteer agencies. These accountants
would work mainly around the field offices to train new staff, particularly in
wereda offices. Of the 20 project positions, 3 staff are already in post and
12 are under recruitment by SIDA. This level of internationally recruited
staff will strengthen MOA in key areas and is needed to consolidate the MOA
reorganization and further provide for the training and supervision of
the large numbers of new staff to be recruited by MOA. With this complement
of internationally recruited staff MOA would be able to implement the project
efficiently. Of the eight posts which would be financed by IDA/IFAD, four
appointments would be subject to the prior approval of IDA. These would be
the Technical Support Officer, Evaluation Economist, Chief Accountant and



- 13 -
Status of
Appointment
Posts                   Under
Man     Financed by:        In-   Recruit-  New
Years  IDA/IFAD  Other 1/  Post    ment    Post
I. Ministry of Ariculture
MPP Technical Support Unit
Technical Support Officer                    2       x                   x 2/
Planning and Programming Dept.
Evaluation Economist                         2                  x               x 3/
Agricultural Planner                         2                  x               x
M&E Systems Development and Training         1                  x                         x
Finance Dept.
Chief Accountant                             2       x                   x
Systems Analyst                              2       x                   x
Systems Planning                            1/2      x                                    x
Accounting Trainers                         16                  x (8)           x (8)
Cooperative and Peasant Association Dept.
Cooperative Accountant                       2                  x        x
Marketing and Credit Accountant              2                  x               x
Agricultural Extension Dept.
Agronomist                                   2       x                          x
Soil Fertility                               2       x                          x
Grain Storage                                2                  x               x
Seed Multiplication and Processing          2        x                          x
Farm Implements and Tools                    2                  x               x
Soil and Water Conservation                  2                  x *)    x
Animal Husbandry Dept.
Livestock Products Marketing                 2                  x               x
Training Dept.
Course Planner and Teaching Materials        2                  x                         x
Training Systems                             1                  x                         x
II. Ethiopian Seed Corporation
Seeds Specialist                             2                  x *)    x
Seeds Processing Engineer                    2       x                                    x
Seeds Production                            2                   x *)    x
54 1/2   8         21        7     17         5
1/   SIDA except those asterisked where staff already in post are financed by FAO.
2/   Although at present located in Finance Department.
3/   Identified but not yet in-post.



- 14 -
Agronomist. Appointments to the first three of these four posts would be
conditions of effectiveness. Appointments to the remaining four posts
financed by IDA/IFAD would be made in consultation with IDA. The minimum
package program as a whole requires 54-1/2 man years of expert assistance (29
posts) over the project period indicating that 18 man years and 9 posts are
required by the baseline program when the project's requirements are deducted.
Farm Inputs
3.10      The project would provide incremental farm inputs (base cost US$17.2
million) to be offered on credit. The main input would be incremental fertil-
izer (25.9 thousand tons with a base cost of US$13.9 million distributed), 71%
of which would be procured in year 1 for CY 1981 crops. Other farm inputs
include agricultural chemicals, veterinary supplies, tools and equipment. The
incremental use of DAP and urea in 1981 over that used in 1977/78 is estimated
to be 45.5 thousand tons. However, 1980/81 carryover stocks are expected to
be some 27.1 thousand tons in excess of normal requirement (taken as 22
thousand tons), for which reason it is proposed that the Association would
finance 18.4 thousand tons in the first year. In 1981/82 it is anticipated
that the incremental use over 1980/81 will be 7.5 thousand tons, which amount
would be considered as eligible for IDA financing. 1/ These estimates are
summarized as follows:
Thousand mt
1.   Estimated Fertilizer use by MPP farmers CY1981               66.1
Less MPP use in 1977/78                               -20.6
Incremental use CY1981 (crop year)                                 45.5
2.   Estimated opening stocks 1980/81                             49.1
Less carryover stocks                                 -22.0
Excess stock                                                       27.1
3.   Net additional requirement for incremental use                     18.4
4.   Estimated fertilizer use by MPP farmers CY1982              73.6
Less CY1981 use                                      -66.1
Increment                                                           7.5
5.   Total incremental requirement 1980/81 and 1981/82                  25.9
These estimates would be updated by the Government, using actual. 1980 fertil-
izer use data, and receipt by IDA of satisfactory new estimates would be a
condition of disbursement for fertilizer.
1/   Assuming a mean fertilizer use per adopting farmer of 1.9 qt DAP, plus
0.2 qt urea on maize only. Fertilizer costed at the 1979/80 tender price
for AMC supplies of US$320/ton c and f, plus $202/ton for inland costs -
i.e. US$522/ton distributed to MOA, PA or cooperative stores.



- 15 -
MPP fertilizer flows, actual and projected, are shown below:
Thousand mt
1977/78  1978/79  1979/80  1980/81  1981/82
I.   Diammonium Phosphate (DAP)                                       .... .Projected...
Opening Stock (with MOA)                8.5     14.5      59.8      45.8     20.0
Procured by AMC for MOA               25.5      75.3      40.5     33.3      65.8
Sub-Total (available DAP)        34.0      89.8    100.3      79.1      85.8
MPP use                                19.5     30.0      54.5      59.1     65.8
Closing Balance                     14.5      59.8      45.8     20.0      20.0
II.  Urea
Opening Stock (with MOA)              NA        NA         4.5       3.3      2.0
Procured by AMC for MOA                 1.4      4.4       5.2       5.7      7.8
Sub-Total (available Urea)       NA       NA         9.7       9.0       9.8
MPP use                                 1.1     NA         6.4       7.0      7.8
Closing Balance                     NA        NA         3.3      2.0       2.0
The estimates allow for carryover stocks to be reduced to a more reasonable
level of 22 thousand tons (of which 2 thousand tons is urea).
3.11      Fertilizer would be provided in areas where the road network
would permit its transport and where ecological conditions are such that the
farmer would benefit from its application. (Adoption rates are discussed in
para. 5.03.) Pesticides would also be supplied to supplement MOA's existing
crop protection program (mainly for control of insect attacks and disease
outbreaks in those areas where MOA can ensure proper application). The
project would also supply on credit (in kind) improved seeds and tools, such
as ploughs and seed cleaners. Since crop losses from poor storage are very
high (often as much as 50%), the project would supply on credit the materials
to improve on-farm storage, such as chemicals to control pests and simple
rat-proofing.
Animal Husbandry
3.12      Since livestock is an integral part of the farming system in the
project area, MOA would continue to implement a modest MPP livestock devel-
opment program designed to relieve the major constraints to increased small-
holder livestock production. Its exact scope would be determined by the rate
at which trained staff would become available, but it is estimated that opera-
tions would start in about 80 new weredas over the project period. Project
activities would include farmer training at FTCs in animal husbandry, con-
trolled breeding with improved bulls, treatment of animals against major
diseases and improved animal nutrition. Selected farmers would establish
demonstration production units and undergo training in animal use, care,
disease control, feeding and housing. The genetic quality of local livestock
would be improved through upgrading with superior stock or through artificial
insemination. Improved breeding stock, including crossbred in-calf dairy



- 16 -
heifers and high grade or purebred bulls, rams, bucks and poultry would be
sold to farmers on credit initially at subsidized prices to encourage adoption.
3.13      To increase the supply of crossbred dairy heifers and improved bulls
the project would provide for the equipping and stocking of an additional
heifer breeding ranch with a capacity to produce 350 heifers a year. It was
agreed at negotiations that disbursement against this item would be subject to
prior IDA approval of detailed plans, including analysis of the technical and
financial viability of the proposal.
3.14      Artificial insemination centers would be established at 14 locations
with mobile teams to cover high density livestock areas. The semi-autonomous
Artificial Insemination Service in MOA's Animal Resources Development Depart-
ment (ARDD) would be responsible for this component. The expansion of the
breed improvement program would be restricted, through the mechanism of the
annual work plan to be approved by IDA (Schedule), to areas with satisfactory
veterinary services and suitable ecological conditions. Regarding animal
health, the Animal Health Services team in ARDD would organize the supply of
medicines for general health care sufficient for a maximum of 10% of the
cattle and sheep population in each wereda. Surveys of internal parasites and
ticks would be carried out in each wereda and farmers would be instructed in
parasite control. To support animal health care the project would fund
incremental imported veterinary supplies, mainly veterinary medicines which
unlike vaccines are not manufactured in Ethiopia and the scarcity of which has
in the past restricted the effectiveness of animal health services. Fodder
crop trials would be carried out on demonstration plots to improve animal
nutrition. Livestock market centers would be established in about five
weredas each year and an internationally recruited livestock products market-
ing specialist would assist ARDD in this work.
Soil and Water Conservation
3.15      Ethiopia loses an estimated one billion tons of soil (equivalent to
60,000 ha one meter deep) every year from soil erosion, and in some parts of
the country large areas have been abandoned as being unfit for cultivation.
Since the magnitude of the stabilization and reclamation task far exceeds the
likely supply of trained manpower and other resources, the project would start
intensive conservation programs in 120 weredas where the needs are greatest.
Each selected wereda would be staffed with one full time Conservation Agent
(CA) who would be a specially trained development agent. To keep the work-
load manageable the CA would concentrate on about 10 PAs in each year. In
the remaining 320 weredas selected for less intensive programs, Development
Agents (DA) would implement the program as part of their regular duties, and
would receive specialized in-service training, to enable them to do this, in
addition to the regular 6-month FTC course. The project would also provide
training for two agents of each peasant association. These peasant associa-
tion agents (PAAs) would play a key role in extending conservation measures
to be carried out by farmers. The principal soil conservation measures would
be grass strips and reforestation; the main water conservation practices would



- 17 -
be pond construction and spring development. The Relief, Rehabilitation and
Settlement Commission (RRSC) also has soil and water conservation responsi-
bilities, but in specific catchments to avoid overlap with MOA's operations.
Improved Seed Production
3.16      The project would provide for two levels of improved seed produc-
tion:
(a)  Ethiopian Seed Corporation (ESC) - capital equipment,
staff and incremental operating costs to develop ESC
to its full immediate capability. This component was
originally prepared and appraised by USAID as a separate
project in 1979 with the assistance of the seeds expert
and team leader of the FAO/UNDP assisted seeds project.
The USAID appraisal document was then reviewed and updated
by IDA and ESC staff, mainly to reduce costs and to
eliminate some longer term activities which can be taken
up later; and
(b) Peasant Associations seed multiplication and cleaning -
seed multiplication by the PAs, started by EPID in
1976/77, would continue to be supported under the
project through the provision on a grant basis of
limited amounts of equipment and materials such as
knapsack sprayers, fertilizer, bags, twine and
biocides. In addition, also on a grant basis, PAs
would be supplied with the necessary equipment and
materials to clean and treat their seed, namely hand
operated winnowers, simple seed dressing equipment,
and the necessary chemicals. Project staff would
inspect standing seed crops during the growing sea-
son, although initially this would be the responsi-
bility of PAs, until inspectors are trained.
3.17      During the project period ESC would not have produced any certified
seed for farmers, since two years is required to multiply breeder seeds up to
sufficient quantities for release, but would continue its ongoing practice of
contracting with state farms for the production of seed of superior quality
(clean, with reduced disease and weed seeds, and from selected high yielding
strains) as an interim service to smallholders (about 8,000 tons of such seed
was harvested in 1979/80). ESC would also import breeder seed. Present pro-
duction plans indicate that adequate teff, maize and wheat seeds of superior
quality to that now used by smallholders would be available to participating
project farmers during the project period. In addition, steps are being
taken to secure adequate supplies of superior quality sorghum, millet and
barley seeds for the near term. Imports of these three seeds in potential
short supply will help alleviate the short-term problem. The issue of balance
between the different seeds produced by ESC would be reviewed during early
supervision of the project. Shortly after the end of the project the ESC
would have been established with the trained staff and facilities to produce



- 18 -
and supply substantial quantities of certified seed. Since ESC contracts with
state farms for seed production assurances were obtained during negotiations
that the requirements of MPP farmers would be given priority if allocation of
improved seeds is necessary. Although ESC already operates successfully in a
semi-autonomous manner, assurances were obtained during negotiations that the
Government would, within three months of Credit effectiveness, complete the
establishment of ESC as a public corporation with full legal personality and
accounting and administrative autonomy. At the PA level seed multiplication
and cleaning/treating facilities would have been established to enable a
large number of PAs to provide for their own seed requirements by the annual
multiplication and distribution of clean material derived from certified seed
originally supplied by ESC.
Applied Research and Demonstration Plot Program
3.18      Under MPP I the main research activity envisaged was a joint IAR
and EPID research program to be carried out in seven locations in different
ecological zones. Only three stations have so far produced useful results
(prior to 1974/75) but even those have now effectively ceased to operate
because of insurmountable shortfalls in staffing and equipment, inadequate
administrative support and lack of research direction. The demonstration
plot program started by EPID in 1971 has been more successful. The results
obtained so far have been incorporated in an extension Agents Handbook for
Agronomy Crops and have been used in the preparation of MPP II.
3.19      Recognizing the importance of sound agricultural research for the
future, the project would include:
(a)  the training of IAR technicians necessary for the
eventual reopening of suitably located existing
stations and new stations to be sited in problem
areas identified during the execution of the project;
(b)  an enlarged and strengthened demonstration program by
AED concentrating on:
(i) field testing of improved varieties;
(ii) refinement of the fertilizer and husbandry
advice;
(iii) more intensive farmers' field demonstra-
tions of the effects on yield of good crop
husbandry; and
(iv) more emphasis on efficient crop and stored
produce protection methods.
It was agreed at negotiations that disbursements for the training program
would be subject to the prior approval by IDA of a training plan, drawn up by
IAR in consultation with MOA's Training Department, for the specific purpose
of reviving the cooperative research program.



- 19 -
Rural Roads
3.20      About 200 km of five rural roads would be constructed during the
project period by the Rural Roads Organization (RRO) of the Ethiopian Roads
Authority (ERA) according to MOA's plan as already agreed with ERA and
endorsed by the Supreme Council. They would mostly be dry weather roads with
gravel surfacing where necessary of 4.0 to 6.0 m width according to Rural
Roads design standard RR 30, but lower standard RR 10 roads may be constructed
in some areas where RR 30 roads are not justified. The current MPP roads
program agreed by MOA and RRO provides for the construction over four years of
six high priority roads (total length 413 km), identified by MOA with the help
of data from MOA's wereda socio-economic surveys, but MPP II would assist only
5 of these roads started in the two project years. The roads would be con-
structed by force account with existing equipment and with additional equipment
to be procured by ERA under the Credit and under the Sixth Highway Project
(Credit 552-ET).  The cost per kilometer would be agreed by Government and IDA
as a condition of disbursement for the rural roads component. Procurement
under Highways VI as additions to current ICB tenders would facilitate the
rapid re-equipping of the two rural road construction units remaining from MPP
I. The MPP II credit would finance equipment to establish two more construc-
tion units and a rural road maintenance unit. RRO would use for construction
and maintenance the existing ERA equipment maintenance facilities set up with
USAID assistance and would apply for both construction and maintenance an
optimum mix of labor and equipment-intensive methods. Total construction cost
of the six roads (413 km) is estimated at Birr 17.19 million including con-
tingencies of Birr 4.80 million or Birr 41,620 per km. MPP II would finance
Birr 9.2 million base cost in the first two years. Since all MPP II roads
equipment would belong to ERA, not MOA as under MPP I, it is expected that
coordination problems which delayed road construction under MPP I would be
eliminated. RRO would carry out MOA's rural road program under the overall
supervision of the Supreme Council. In addition to the roads built by RRO,
300 km of roads would be constructed by the peasant associations in self-help
schemes along present lines, for which MOA would continue to provide materials,
tools, grants-in-aid and technical assistance where necessary. The peasant
associations would provide the labor for construction and would thereafter be
responsible for maintenance of these self-help roads. Self-help roads are
estimated at Birr 0.9 million and maintenance costs at Birr 0.1 million, which
together with a physical contingency allowance at 10% or Birr 1.0 million on
the ERA roads, would give a total expenditure of Birr 11.2 million for rural
roads for the two years of the project.
Evaluation and Monitoring, Progress and Completion Reports
3.21      Evaluation and monitoring of the project would be the responsibility
of the Planning and Programming Department (PPD) of MOA which would be
strengthened by the addition of an internationally recruited evaluation
economist and an agricultural planner; the appointment of the evaluation eco-
nomist would be a condition of effectiveness. The first task of the evaluation
economist would be to assist PPD to draft a work program for evaluation and
monitoring for review by IDA and he would be assisted in this work by a short
term consultant on evaluation and monitoring systems. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that Government would submit, not later than four months from
the date of Credit signing, to the Association for review and comment:



- 20 -
(i) a monitoring and evaluation work plan and schedule for
the project; and
(ii)  proposals and a schedule for strengthening MOA's Planning
and Programming Department to carry out the work plan.
3.22      Government would promptly after completion of the project, but no
later than six months after the close of the second project year, prepare a
completion report on the execution of the project, its costs and benefits and
its major accomplishments, following guidelines to be agreed with IDA. During
project implementation GOE would submit quarterly progress reports on the
project within three months of the close of each quarter. At negotiations
assurances were obtained on these points concerning reporting requirements.
C. Project Costs
3.23      Project costs, including physical and price contingencies, are
estimated to amount to Birr 160 million (US$77 million), of which the foreign
exchange component would be 39%. Costs are summarized as follows:
Local   Foreign   Total       Local   Foreign  Total
---thousands of Birr---       ---thousands of US$---
MPP Administrative Costs
Capital                         8,329    5,627   13,956       4,024   2,718    6,742
Operating                      75,551   15,709   91,260    36,497   7,589   44,086
83,880   21,336  105,216    40,521  10,307   50,828
Less MPP I Base-line costs       45,702    5,391   51,093    22,078   2,604   24,682
MPP II Project
Administrative Costs           38,178   15,945    54,123   18,443   7,703   26,146
Soil and Water Conservation   5,603    2,798        8,401    2,707   1,352    4,059
Rural Roads                     3,311    7,897    11,208    1,600   3,815    5,415
Farm Inputs                    16,987   19,024    36,011    8,206   9,190   17,396
Seed Multiplication-PA          2,873       597      3,470    1,388      288    1,676
Ethiopian Seed Corporation    9,237    5,664    14,901    4,462   2,736    7,198
Applied Research                  350       150        500       169      72       241
Base Costs                     76,539   52,075   128,614   36,975  25,156   62,131
Contingencies:
Physical                      3,827    2,604      6,431    1,849   1,258    3,107
Price                        17,555    7,184    24,739    8,481   3,471   11,952
Total Project Costs            97,921   61,863   159,784   47,305  29,885   77,190



- 21 -
Costs were estimated at March 1980 price levels and cover incremental capital
and operating costs of the Agricultural Minimum Package Program for 1980/81
and 1981/82. The operating costs for MPP I have been taken as EPID's operating
costs for FY 1977/78, the first year when MPP I was fully operational, and
escalated, as appropriate, to 1980 prices. A physical contingency of 5% of
base costs has been included. Price contingencies for local currency expendi-
tures are 15% for FY1980/81 and 13.5% for FY1981/82; and for foreign currency,
9.75% for FY1980/81 and 8.5% for FY 1981/82. Taxes, which would not be
financed by the Association, have been included in the project costs and are
estimated to amount to Birr 12.6 million (US$6.1 million).
3.24      The MPP administrative costs of US$26.1 million include US$6.7 mil-
lion capital costs. The balance of US$19.4 million represents incremental
salaries, travel and per diem, office costs, transportation, training, trial
and demonstration costs, field supplies, animal husbandry costs, technical
assistance and miscellaneous expenses. Of the gross operating expenditure,
77% is for MOA's field offices (namely 41% for weredas, 23% for awrajas and
13% for administrative region offices), with 12% for MOA headquarters' costs
and 7% for technical assistance.
D. Financing
3.25      The project cost would be financed by the Association, IFAD, SIDA,
and the Government in the following amounts and proportions:
US$ million                  % Project Cost
Local  Foreign  Total       With Taxes   Net of Taxes
IDA                    20.0    20.0       40.0          52           56.3
IFAD                    9.0      9.0      18.0          23           25.3
SIDA                     -       0.9       0.9           1            1.3
Government             12.2       -       12.2          16           17.1
Sub-total          41.2    29.9      71.1          92          100
Taxes                   6.1       -        6.1           8
TOTAL PROJECT COST    47.3    29.9        77.2         100
The proposed IDA credit of SDR 32.0 million (US$40 million equivalent)
would be on standard terms, and would finance 68% of the foreign exchange
costs of the project and 49% of the local costs, net of taxes. GOE requested
IFAD to assist in financing the project to the extent of US$18 million equiva-
lent and IFAD's Board approved this assistance on May 7, 1980. IFAD's loan
would be on terms similar to IDA. US$12.1 million of the external funds
(US$8.3 million IDA and US$3.8 million IFAD) would be onlent by the Government
to AIDB. Signing of subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to IDA between
Government and AIDB would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed



- 22 -
credit. Conditions of effectiveness of the IFAD loan would also be conditions
of effectiveness of the proposed IDA credit and vice versa. SIDA, which has
been supporting the MPP activities since 1971, would continue to do so by
grants of about US$5 million per annum, part of which would be used towards
financing technical assistance for the project, and part towards the baseline
operating costs of the program, to which Government would also contribute.
Over the two year project period, SIDA and Government financing of base costs
including taxes would amount to an additional US$23.9 million, bringing total
program costs to US$101.1 million over the period.
E. Procurement
3.26      Contracts for civil works (US$5.6 million) would be awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with current
Government procedures, which are acceptable to the Association, or, when this
is not possible, by force account. Civil works are too small and at too many
scattered sites to be attractive to international contractors. Procurement
of vehicles, equipment, fertilizer and other farm inputs and veterinary
supplies (US$29.2 million), in orders exceeding US$100,000, would be by
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines;
orders would be grouped by compatible items wherever possible. Orders for
these items of less than US$100,000 would be filled locally or overseas in
accordance with current Government procedures which are acceptable to the
Association. Agricultural seed (US$1.2 million) would be procured in several
small lots without competitive bidding by prudent shopping locally and over-
seas. Consultant services financed by the Credit would be engaged in accord-
ance with Bank Group procedures.
F. Disbursement
3.27      It is proposed that components of the project be jointly financed
by IDA and IFAD and that disbursements be apportioned between them in the
ratio of approximately 69:31 and be made on the following basis:



- 23-
US $-Million
IDA              IFAD           Total
1.   80% of expenditures on
civil works;                            3.1               1.4             4.5
2.   100% of foreign expendi-
tures and 80% of local
expenditure on vehicles
and equipment;                          8.6               3.9            12.5
3.   (a) 100% of foreign expendi-
tures and 75% of local expendi-
tures for fertilizer;                   7.0               3.1            10.1
(b) 100% of foreign expendi-
tures and 80% of local expendi-
tures for other farm inputs
including improved seed, pesti-
cides, farm implements and
animal husbandry inputs;                2.9               1.3             4.2
4.   25% of salaries and wages
of MOA for the Minimum Package
Program, with the exception of
the salaries and wages of
Production Cadres.                     3.1                1.4             4.5
5.   90% of the operating costs
of Seeds, Applied Research,
Rural Roads and Soil and Water
Conservation components;                4.3               1.9             6.2
6.   100% of total expenditures
for internationally recruited
specialists, other than those
financed by SIDA or other
agencies                                0.9               0.4             1.3
7.   Unallocated                            10.1               4.6            14.7
40.0              18.0            58.0
Disbursements, with the exception of those for civil works carried out by
force account, for transportation and other local distribution costs under
Category 3 and for Categories 4 and 5, would be fully documented. Dis-
bursements for civil works carried out by force account, with the exception
of rural roads constructed by RRO, and for Categories 4 and 5 would be against
statements of expenditure certified by designated officials of the MOA,
Ethiopian Seed Corporation, Ethiopian Roads Authority or other appropriate
authority. Disbursements for the operating costs of road construction would



- 24 -
be made at rates per kilometer to be agreed with the Government for each
category of road based on experience under the Road Sector Project (Credit
708-ET). Certification of the number of kilometers constructed would be made
by officials of the ERA. All documentation would be retained by the agencies
concerned and audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association, and would be held available for inspection by IDA/IFAD supervi-
sion missions.
3.28      The Association and IFAD would finance part of the incremental
operating costs of MPP II, using the operating costs of EPID for FY 1977/78,
the last year of MPP I, as the base year, after having made an appropriate
adjustment to bring such costs to 1979/80 prices. In order to minimize
disbursement problems, disbursements would be made against 25% of salaries and
wages of the MOA insofar as they relate to the Minimum Package Program, with
the exception of salaries and wages of Production Cadres.
3.29      The following is the estimated schedule of disbursements of IDA and
IFAD funds:
Fiscal Quarter                      Disbursements               Cumulative
IDA            IFAD       IDA           IFAD
(in thousands of US$)
March 31, 1981                  3,200          2,350      6,200         2,800
June 30, 1981                  3,700           1,700      8,900         4,050
September 30, 1981            12,500          5,600      21,400         9,650
December 31, 1981              4,800           2,200     26,200        11,850
March  31, 1982                 4,400          2,000     30,600        13,850
June 30, 1982                   3,200          1,400     33,800        15,250
September 30, 1982             3,200           1,400     37,000        16,650
December 31, 1982              2,000             900     39,000        17,750
March 31, 1983                  1,000            450     40,000        18,000
3.30      No disbursements would be made for expenditures against items in the
AWP in respect of any fiscal year until such time as an Annual Work Plan or
parts thereof for that year had been prepared by the MOA and approved by the
Association (Schedule). The Closing Date would be June 30, 1983.
G. Accounts and Audit
3.31      EPID-s accounts were kept on a double entry system.  The latest
audited accounts available are those for the year ended July 7, 1978. However,
EPID's independent auditor, the GOE Audit Services Corporation, commented,
inter alia, that:



25 -
The system of internal control over cash and proper-
ties of EPID is inadequate.
EPID has not maintained proper books of account
supported by adequate documentation. We were there-
fore unable to ascertain the following to our satis-
faction.
(a)  That EPID has proper title to all the assets
included in its books, and that all these assets
were in its possession at 7 July, 1978;
(b)  That the stocks as reported represent the actual
stock on hand at the financial year end;
(c)  That the debtors and advances stated in the
accounts represent legitimate receivables,
and whether they are fully realizable;
(d)  That the amount shown as advances to the Farm
Services Division is properly accounted for;
(e)  That the contribution less cost and advance making
up the Rehabilitation Programme are correctly
stated;
(f)  That all contributions stated as donated from
the various donors have been fully reflected
in the accounts; and
(g)  That expenditures as shown in the accompanying
notes are correctly stated.
In view of the foregoing, we are unable to form an
opinion as to whether the attached Statement of Con-
dition, together with Notes thereon, present fairly
the financial condition of EPID, Common Services
Division, as at 7 July, 1978, in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles applied
on a basis consistent with those of the preceding
periods."
3.32      The accounts to July 7, 1979, the date when EPID's functions were
incorporated into the reorganized Ministry of Agriculture, should be finalized
shortly, and their audit is expected to be ready by March 31, 1981.



- 26 -
3.33      The reason for poor accounting in the past is said to be due to the
poor quality of the support staff available and to the unwillingness in the
past to adopt improvements suggested by the SIDA consultants. Contributing
factors were that security conditions were poor at times and there were frequent
staff changes.
3.34      As a result of some two years' work by three SIDA consultants, a new
simplified system of accounting was introduced into the Ministry of Agricul-
ture, effective July 8, 1979, and the main accounts in Addis Ababa are kept
on a small NCR computer. While it will not be possible to rectify all the
previous faults, the position for future recording should be satisfactory,
especially in the field of control over fixed assets and cash. In the past,
much of the bookkeeping and loan work was carried out in the field by the
Development Agents. In order to release the DAs for more technical duties,
it is proposed that the Project will include the financing of the salaries
of 440 bookkeepers who would have a rudimentary training in accounting and who
would be responsible for the elementary accounting and loan records in the
wereda offices. The training of these bookkeepers would be assisted by eight
volunteers to be recruited by SIDA who would visit the weredas and give
further assistance in the field.
3.35      In previous years, EPID produced elaborate and detailed budgets
based on the annual work plans, but this has not been done in respect of
the current fiscal year - a very much less detailed budget having been
prepared. Under the project, detailed work plans would be required on an
annual basis, from which detailed budgets will be prepared as was previously
done. With the introduction of the new system of computer accounting, proper
budgetary control should be possible, which in turn will help in the prepara-
tion of future work plans and budgets. Advisers will continue to be employed
under the project in the Accounting Department of MOA and will continue to
improve the system of accounting and monitor its implementation.
3.36      With the new system of accounts now in force, it is expected that
MOA should experience little difficulty in producing accounts on time. The
disbursement of parts of the Credit against statements of expenditure should
not produce great problems. AIDB, AMC and ERA are the beneficiaries of IDA
Credits and no problems are anticipated in the field of accounting. Similarly,
none is expected from ESC. However, as mentioned above there are staff con-
straints in MOA's auditors, the Audit Services Corporation (ASC), and it is
unlikely that ASC will be in a position to carry out full audits in a timely
fashion, although it should be easier to audit statements of expenditure (SOE)
more promptly than complete accounts of MOA and ESC.  Therefore, during
negotiations it was agreed that the Government would cause the Ministry of
Agriculture and other agencies executing project components to:
(i)   maintain separate accounts reflecting all expenditures
on account of which withdrawals are requested from the
Credit on the basis of statements of expenditures; and
(ii)   have such accounts audited by independent auditors acceptable
to IDA and furnish such accounts, duly audited, to the
Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal year.



- 27 -
3.37      With respect to the accounts of the main implementing agencies, it
was agreed that the Government would cause the Ministry of Agriculture and
the Ethiopian Seed Corporation to:
(i) maintain adequate books of account to properly reflect their
operations and financial condition;
(ii) furnish the Association with copies of their draft financial
statements within six months of the end of the financial
year; and
(iii)  have their financial statements audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association and furnish such
audited statements together with the auditors' report, to the
Association within nine months of the end of the financial
year. However, MOA's audited MPP accounts for 1978/79 would
be furnished to the Association no later than March 31,
1981; and those for 1979/80 no later than June 30, 1981.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
MOA Headquarters
4.01      The Minimum Package Program is the core of the zemetcha for the
peasant sector and comprises over half of MOA-s work program. The project
(i.e. that incremental part of the program assisted by IDA, IFAD and SIDA)
would be implemented by the Ministry's normal staff and overall control of
the project would rest with the Permanent Secretary of MOA. The MPP Technical
Support Unit, to be established under the project, would report directly to
the Permanent Secretary and would assist project implementation (para 3.03).
In conformity with the administrative structure, the Supreme Council has
ultimate responsibility for MPP execution, specifically this responsibility
lies with the Deputy Secretary General of the Supreme Council assisted by the
head of its Agriculture Department. The main responsible departments of MOA
implementing the project would be the Agricultural Extension Department, the
Peasant Association and Cooperatives Department, the Animal Resources Develop-
ment Department and the Engineering Department. The first two of these
departments contain about half of the former EPID's staff, the remainder
having been assigned to MOA's service departments. These departments are
supported by the service departments such as for Finance, Training and
Engineering.   The MPP has been assisted in the past by several internationally
recruited staff financed from mainly SIDA funds and this assistance would be
continued and expanded under the project (see para. 3.09).
MOA Field Offices
4.02      The principal link between MOA Headquarters and the field is the
Administrative Region offices of which there are 14 in the country (not
including Addis Ababa). Arussi Region is not included in the project since
it has a separate project assisted by SIDA, namely ARDU, and therefore there



- 28 -
are 13 MPP II Regions. These offices have been strengthened and have an
increasing measure of autonomy to achieve decentralization of MOA management
and admininstration to the regional level in accordance with the strategy of
the economic zemetchas. During the project the regional offices would be
further strengthened and would gradually take over full responsibility from
headquarters for the detailed design of field activities, budget preparation,
administration and accounting, local procurement, and staff recruiting and
in-service training.  The regional office would supervise the next in line
awraja offices (of which there would be 80 in the project) and provide special-
ists for these when needed; the regional offices would in turn be able to call
upon headquarters technical specialists to assist in the design of regional
programs. They would be staffed by the regional head and deputy head, an
administrative officer, 8 junior specialists, 4 accountants, 2 assistant
accountants and an internal auditor.
4.03      The awraja offices would have the function of technical support and
supervision of the 440 wereda level offices. In particular they would assist
in the design of trials and demonstrations, disburse petty cash, assist in
training courses at the Farmers' Training Centers, and assist liaison between
MOA, the awraja administration and other Government representatives. They
would be staffed by the awraja head, an administrative head, a team leader,
8 awraja specialists and appropriate supporting staff.
4.04      The basic organizational unit would be the wereda office, 440 of
which have been opened. During the project period wereda staffing would be
increased to provide each wereda with a wereda head, a cooperative agent, a
Peasant Association Agent, and from one to four DAs (depending on the size of
the wereda), a home economics agent, bookkeeper, guards and gardeners. The
DAs would be responsible mainly for advising farmers through the peasant
associations; they would set up the demonstration plots and demonstrations on
farmers' fields. Details of individual wereda work plans and strategies are
developped from wereda socio-economic surveys of all weredas. To achieve wider
coverage by the wereda office under the new system, motorcycles are being sup-
plied in addition to the horse, mule or bicycle that is the standard form of
transport, though more of these too would be funded under the project. The
demonstration plot program would provide the basic data for gradually refining
technical packages for the guidance of farmers. An internationally recruited
agronomist and a soils expert would be engaged to assist with this work.
Other Implementing Agencies
4.05      The Ethiopian Seed Corporation component would be implemented by ESC
which would be legally established as an autonomous public corporation no later
than three months from the date of effectiveness. An assurance to this effect
was obtained at negotiations. ESC already has two internationally recruited
experts assisting development of the program funded from the UNDP/FAO Seeds
Project, but one additional expert (a Processing Engineer) would be recruited
to assist the implementation of the IDA funded ESC component. Regarding the
components to be carried out by ESC, the Government would pass on the relative
portions of the IDA/IFAD Credits to ESC as a grant, since ESC has only been
recently established and would not be in a position to service a loan. The
rural roads component of the project would be implemented by the Rural Roads



- 29 -
Organization (RRO) within the Ethiopian Roads Authority according to plans
agreed with MOA and endorsed by the Supreme Council. Implementation would be
consistent with procedures adopted for rural roads construction under the IDA
assisted ongoing Road Sector Credit (Credit 708-ET). Responsibility for
overall coordination of project implementation at the ministerial and commis-
sion level, where more than one agency is involved, would rest with the
Supreme Council.
Credit and Marketing
4.06      The system that would be used under the project would differ
from the MPP I system in the following main respects:
(a)  farm inputs would be purchased by AMC (not AIMS which
was liquidated);
(b)  the terms of on-lending from Government to AIDB for
farm inputs would be 8% per annum interest (cf. 7-1/4%)
and two years' grace with repayments by the end of
the fifth year;
(c)  peasant associations and cooperatives would be the
borrowers and not individual farmers; and
(d)  the down payment on seasonal inputs would be at
least 15% (formerly 25%) and on medium-term (2 year)
inputs at least 10%.
However, since AMC is a relatively new agency which does not yet have a
large network of outlets, it will still rely on MOA to distribute farm inputs.
Similarly, AIDB would still rely on MOA for loan appraisal and supervision,
and its responsibilities would be limited to maintaining the loan account
and bearing the risk of defaults. The annual interest rate on seasonal
and medium-term loans would be 12%. This compares with commercial bank
interest rates of 9-10%. It would be the same as the 1% per month charged
under MPP I. Inflation in Ethiopia has been running at about 19 percent per
annum for the last three years and it has been estimated that it will be 15
percent in 1981, 12 percent in 1982 and 11 percent in 1983. It is felt that
it would discourage PAs and farmers from availing themselves of credit, if
rates were to be raised at this juncture, especially when comparing rates
charged by commercial banks, and bearing in mind that, for the latter part of
the project, the interest rate would be marginally positive. For its service,
MOA would continue to receive one eighth of the 12% interest charged to
farmers, leaving 10-1/2% net interest for AIDB. Since AIDB would obtain its
funds from the Ministry of Finance at 8% interest, it margin would be 2-1/2%.
4.07      Credit would not be given by AIDB to any peasant association that
had repaid less than a level acceptable to the Association of the previous
year's loans. At present Government set this level at 95%, but would confirm
the level at Credit signing. At negotiations, assurances were obtained that
this repayment level criterion would not be changed without the prior approval
of IDA. However, if crops fail or some other extraordinary circumstances
occur to the extent that in the opinion of MOA such a repayment level is



- 30 -
unreasonable for certain borrowers, MOA and AIDB would agree on a lower figure
for these borrowers. Since the smooth functioning of the project's input
supply mechanism would depend upon close collaboration between AMC, AIDB and
MOA, the signature of a credit administration agreement, satisfactory to the
Association, between the three parties, spelling out their respective respon-
sibilities, would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed Credit.
4.08      The latest information (October 1978) shows that for the last four
years loan repayments have averaged about 70-75%, with the number of loans
increasing during these four years from 50,000 to 240,000. However, while
fully detailed figures as at October 1979 are not yet available, indications
are that total repayments are now running at more than 80%. As from 1978/79,
loans were made only to PAs and cooperatives, thus reducing the number of
loans to about 62,000, which should help to bring the overall repayment rate
closer to the Government-anticipated 95%. MOA is pursuing an aggressive
campaign at wereda level for the repayment of old loans, concentrating pri-
marily on the follow up of the larger outstandings, but following through
eventually on all loans, tracing, where necessary, movements of borrowers from
one part of the country to another.
4.09      As more cooperatives are formed, increasing use would be made of
them to handle inputs and credit, although it would still be necessary for
MOA to evaluate loan applications. MOA would forward the cooperatives'
applications to AIDB, and if approved, AMC would deliver the inputs to the
cooperative on credit from AIDB. In the course of time, cooperatives would
relieve MOA of its temporary role in the supply of inputs and the collection
of credit repayments, thereby allowing it to concentrate on its primary role
of extension. Cooperatives which fulfill these functions would collect the
1-1/2% margin presently paid to MOA. This will take a long period of time,
however, and the speed and success with which it will be implemented will
very much depend on the MOA's ability to develop sound training and super-
visary services for the cooperatives.
4.10      These arrangements are based on Government's policy of channelling
all agricultural credit through AIDB, of arranging farm inputs and crop
marketing through AMC, and of using the MOA to provide extension services and
to implement and coordinate agricultural development programs. They are also
based on Government's policy of developing peasant associations through
the establishment of service cooperatives. It is recognized that MOA will
have to improve the accounting procedures on wereda, peasant association and
cooperative levels and provision for adequate staff has been included in the
cost estimates. Training of such staff would be undertaken by MOA's Training
Department, Finance Department and PACDD.
Short Term Loans
4.11      The present method for dealing with farm inputs such as fertilizers,
etc., is for MOA to estimate the quantities of inputs required and to inform
AMC, which is responsible for the procurement. AMC then orders them and pays
for them by means of a loan from local banks, and then distributes them to
its marketing outlets. In the meantime, MOA will have appraised the different



- 31 -
loan applications from Peasant Associations and Cooperatives, and will have
reported on them to AIDB. MOA delivers the inputs to the peasant association
or cooperative. At this point MOA receives cash or a downpayment and the AIDB
loan is considered to have been disbursed. There are two main disadvantages
to this system; (i) MOA makes the estimate of the quantities required without
sufficient wereda-level enquiries having been made, and (ii) AMC is left hold-
ing the financial burden of any unsold stocks - both AIDB and MOA disclaiming
any responsibility for carrying these. Both these shortcomings would be
addressed when drawing up the credit administration agreement between AIDB,
AMC and MOA (para. 4.07).
4.12      Loans would be made to peasant associations and cooperatives.  When
the loans become due MOA will collect the principal, together with interest
and any late payment fees etc., deduct its handling fee and deposit the balance
in the local bank to the credit of AIDB. Since AIDB's role would largely be
limited to bearing the risk of default, the 2-1/2% margin between its borrow-
ing rate (8%) and lending rate (12% less 1-1/2%), should be sufficient to make
the operation attractive. Until early 1980 AIDB used to collect a 5% bad debt
charge paid in cash with the down payment, but the Government asked AIDB to
stop this practice since it was thought to unfairly penalise borrowers who
repaid on time. Consequently, at negotiations an assurance was obtained that
AIDB would, from its operating income, make adequate provision for bad debts
on new loans to peasant associations and cooperatives at a level of not less
than five percent of such loans, or some other level acceptable to the Asso-
ciation.
4.13      It is to be hoped that over a period of years the cooperatives will
be able to apply directly to AIDB for credit, receive inputs from AMC and
distribute them to their members, collect downpayments and perform the other
related services presently performed by MOA. It would be necessary for MOA to
attest initially to the cooperatives' creditworthiness and ability to act.
The taking over of such activities from MOA by the cooperatives would relieve
MOA of some of its time consuming administrative work, leaving it free to
concentrate on its extension functions.
Medium Term Loans
4.14      In addition to the short term loans described above, AIDB would
grant 2 year loans to peasant associations and cooperatives to cover the
purchase of such items as improved bulls, dairy cattle, rams, bucks, poultry,
beehives and farm implements. The loans would carry an interest charge of
1% per month and be repayable in two equal annual installments. A minimum
downpayment of 10% plus a 5% bad debt service charge would be required. As
for short term loans, the program would initially be administered by MOA,
which would receive a similar handling fee of one eighth of the interest pay-
able.
Producer Cooperatives
4.15      The development of producer cooperatives is part of Government-s
rural development strategy and 34 such cooperatives have been registered.
These cooperatives are to collectively farm the land under their control and



- 32 -
the cooperatives  income is to be shared between the members.   The means of
production, such as oxen, tools and equipment, are not necessarily pooled but
may be hired out to the cooperative by their owners. This new program is
starting slowly and although MPP serves all cooperatives, the project is not
especially designed to serve producer cooperatives.
V. PRODUCTION AND BENEFITS
A. Yields and Production
5.01      Without project yields have been taken from the Crop Production
Survey 1978/79; I/ while fertilizer package yields (when applied at rate of
1 qt DAP/ha) are the weighted average yields achieved over a five-year period
(71/72 - 75/76) in demonstration fields. 2/ The assumed weighted mean yields
are:
Teff   Sorghum   Barley   Wheat   Maize
---qt/ha-----------------
Without project yields             7.8      9.3       7.4       8.3     9.7
Fertilizer package yields         11.8    20.7       15.7      15.6    39.2
Non-fertilizer package yields    9.2    13.5          9.0       9.7    26.3
The non-fertilizer package yields are the weighted average control yields
in the demonstration fields mentioned above, where good husbandry practices
are assumed to have been applied. The fertilizer package (i.e. fertilizer
and other inputs) would be promoted for crops in accessible areas from which
a reasonable return to the cash outlay can be expected. The non-fertilizer
package would be offered in more remote areas and where conditions (e.g.
semi-aridity) do not favor fertilizer use.
5.02      At the end of the project period (July, 1982) the MPP would serve
over 360,000 farm families as compared with 210,000 in the base year (1977/78).
National smallholder cereal production in 1977/78 amounted to 3.4 million metric
tons 3/ from 3.9 million ha under cereal crops cultivated by over 3 million
farmers. The average cereal yield was 8.6 qt/ha and the national average
cereal acreage per farm is assumed to be 1.23 ha. Smallholder cereal pro-
duction would reach 4,050,000 metric tons in 1981/82 due to increased
acreage (estimated at 1.25 percent per annum) and provided that (i) 387,000
1/   Ministry of Agriculture, Statistics Section, Planning and Programming
Department.
2/   EPID Publications No. 5, 23, 31 and 39.  (Number of demonstrations:
Teff 892, Sorghum 132, Barley 338, Wheat 368 and Maize 306).
3/   Crop Production Survey 1978/79, MOA, June 1979.



- 33 -
"fertilizer-package farmers" apply the recommended amount of fertilizer (i.e.
about twice the present amount) and good husbandry practices on a combined
cereal acreage of 642,000 ha (this would result in a weighted average yield of
20.4 qt/ha), and (ii) that an additional 46,000 farmers apply only good
husbandry practices on a combined acreage of 45,000 ha resulting in a weighted
average yield of 13.7 qt/ha (compared with 8 qt/ha obtained by traditional
farmers). The total number of smallholder farmers in the project area is
estimated to increase to 3,150,000 1/ by 1981/82 and the area devoted to
cereal production to 4.03 million ha.
B. Adoption Rates
5.03      Adoption rate assumptions are based on historical evidence from MPP
over the past nine years. Extrapolation suggests that 50% of the estimated
3.2 million farmers in the project area might have adopted either package over
a period of 13 years starting 1980/81, following a trend line that builds up
slowly, but at an increasing rate, to a peak in Year 6, after which the rate
of increase decelerates. During the brief two year project period marked
increases in adoption rates cannot be expected, but the period afterwards
should experience faster rates of adoption increase, thus building on the
project's expansion and consolidation achievements. It is assumed that 80% of
the adopting farmers in the Central, Western, Sidamo and Bale zones, 50% in
the Hararge and 20% in the Northern zone would adopt the fertilizer package,
and the remainder the non-fertilizer package. In the ongoing weredas adoption
is assumed to occur at the decelerating rates experienced after year 6,
consequently it is estimated that by 1981/82 nearly 14 percent of the farmers
in the enlarged project area would participate, i.e. 327,180 in the old
established weredas and 105,900 in the new ones out of 3,150,000 total farmers.
C. Markets and Prices
5.04      Between about a quarter and three quarters of increased production,
depending on the zone, would be consumed on the farm. The remainder would be
sold in traditional markets or marketed by AMC. AMC would use the marketing
centers that EPID set up under MPP I but during the project period these
marketing centers would be taken over progressively by cooperatives. They
would sell their produce direct to AMC, thus eliminating MOA's marketing
activities entirely as desired. EPID constructed a number of stores to handle
both inputs and production and these will also be taken over by the coopera-
tives when they are capable.
5.05      When revising grain marketing and creating AMC, GOE arranged
for price levels to be reviewed from time to time in the interests of both
farmers and consumers. Since GOE recognizes that it cannot enforce fixed
prices, it allows AMC to fix its own prices within certain predetermined
1/   Of which nearly 14 percent would be participating farmers.



- 34 -
levels and guarantees to reimburse AMC for losses that might be incurred
in maintaining prices within these limits. Because of the varying distances
between production areas and the main markets, prices paid to producers
vary slightly according to region, but the average minimum producer prices
would be Birr 37 per quintal of teff, Birr 27 per quintal of wheat, Birr 22
per quintal of barley; Birr 18 per quintal of maize, and Birr 22 per quintal
of sorghum. Official market prices are currently below international grain
prices, but the Government reviews these prices annually and has raised
them in recent reviews. Free market prices have been well above official
prices in recent years, e.g. teff at Birr 80-110 per quintal. Fertilizer has
been costed at the 1979 price to farmers of B.65/quintal, which compares with
the cost to AMC in that year of B.80/quintal.  Future supplies of fertilizer
are expected to cost over B.100/quintal distributed, and in view of the high
cost of this subsidy to Government, an assurance was obtained at negotia-
tions that fertilizer subsidy levels would be reviewed and that GOE would
submit its proposals to the Association and review them with the Association
not later than the project completion date of June 30, 1982.
D. Farmers' Benefits and Income Distribution
5.06      For the calculation of farmers- benefits and for the economic
analysis (Chapter VI), six farm models were prepared to reflect the different
cropping patterns and average farm sizes in the six main ecological zones
covered by the project. In descending order of farm population, these are:
Central Highlands (Shewa and Gojam Regions), Western Highlands (Wellega,
Illubabor, Kefa and Gemu Gofa Regions), Northern Highlands (Tigre, Wello and
Begemdir Regions), and the three smaller southeastern highland zones of Sidamo,
Hararge and Bale. Each farm model was analyzed in three situations correspond-
ing to the traditional farm, the application of the fertilizer package and of
the non-fertilizer package. Over five years, the average net income of adopt-
ing farmers, including subsistence but excluding income from non-crop farming
activities, would rise from its present level of about US$135 per farm family
to US$265 for farmers adopting the fertilizer package and to US$155 for farmers
adopting the non-fertilizer package, representing increases of about 95% and
15% respectively. The incremental farm family labor required to achieve this
increase would average about 15 mandays. This may be compared with an esti-
mated absolute rural poverty level for Ethiopia of US$65 per capita, or $377
per household (assuming 5.8 members). Even if account is taken of changing
crop price levels since 1977, and if farm income is adjusted upwards to allow
for non-crop incomes, it is clear that the project would result in a sub-
stantial increase in the incomes of some of Ethiopia's poorest farm families
with a relatively small increase in the amount of farm family labor required.
The project would also indirectly benefit urban consumers through increasing
grain production, thereby helping to stabilize prices.
E. Government Budget
5.07      Government's revenue from the rural sector comes mainly from taxes
on farmer's income which is levied at the rate of Birr 10 per farmer earning



- 35 -
from Birr 100 to Birr 600 (the class in which most, if not all, of the project
beneficiaries fall) and an annual rural land use fee generally levied at the
rate of Birr 5 per farmer. In addition, part of the taxes levied on consumer
goods and imports would be attributable to the rural sector, but this is dif-
ficult to quantify. Agricultural income taxes and land-use fees were raised
in October 1978, as a result of which revenue from these two sources more than
doubled in the 1978/79 fiscal year (from Br 37.5 million in 1977/78 to Br 87.0
million). By comparison, the recurrent costs of MPP I are about Br 27 million
and the present subsidy on farm inputs about Br 28 million -- Br 55 million in
all. At present, direct revenue from the rural sector exceeds the costs of
the ongoing MPP by about Br 32 million per year. Naturally, many other
relevant comparisons could be made; for example, other Government programs,
especially infrastructure and social services, could be considered to have a
claim on revenues from the rural sector.
5.08      MPP II would worsen the Government's cash flow by about Br 22 million
p.a. at 1979 prices, by 1982/83, taking account of incremental taxes and duties
on projects costs, outputs, beneficiaries incremental consumption, and net
lending to AIDB. If inflation were also taken into account, the incremental
net deficit would increase, since agricultural income taxes and land-use fees
are fixed in nominal terms. In accordance with its declared policy of self-
sufficiency, Government intends to abolish input subsidies, and if it does so,
the annual net deficit would fall.
5.09      A net transfer of resources to the rural sector is justified since
in the past the rural sector was relatively neglected and it produces the bulk
of the country's output. Since many other services (such as health, educa-
tion, transport, etc.) which are also directed at the same target group, apart
from agricultural extension, have claims on the Government's budget, such a
transfer is probably best effected through subsidization of these services,
rather than of productive services which could generate a surplus available
for cost recovery. This is still under discussion within Government and a
final decision has not been taken. Because of the crucial importance of this
issue for the future of the program, an assurance was obtained from the
Government that before June 30, 1982 it would review the Minimum Package
Program to determine how its recurrent costs can best be met, and what level
of cost recovery from farmers would be appropriate. Without prejudice to this
study and for the purposes of showing the effect of the project on the Govern-
ment cash flow, it has been assumed that from end 1983 an annual levy will be
made on all participating farmers of Birr 12 each, which is considered an
acceptable level, to be collected by the peasant associations to pay for the
extension services. A levy at this rate would raise about Birr 16 million
(constant 1979 prices) by 1990 and reduce the deficit attributable to MPP II
to Birr 1 million (Birr 27 million including MPP I recurrent costs). Although
the Government is naturally reluctant to increase the rural tax burden, the
abolition of rents paid by tenant farmers has resulted in an increase in rural
incomes that could legitimately be tapped for the development of the rural
sector, and such a levy would be consistent with a policy of self-reliance.
Given that the project would reach about 20% of Ethiopia's farmers in 1985,
effective subsidization of this group would not only make them relatively pri-
vileged but, given fiscal constraints, would reduce the ability to replicate
the project in subsequent phases.



- 36 -
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
6.01      The project's main direct benefit would be increased cereal produc-
tion. Based on projected import parity prices (Assab), this production
would result in gross foreign exchange savings in year 10 of about US$500
million per annum. Allowing for the foreign exchange component of operating
costs, net foreign exchange savings would be about US$310 million a year. The
Government attaches great importance to the proposed project as a means of
assisting smallholders who are mostly below the country-s absolute poverty
level and who would be the main direct beneficiaries of the project. Another
major benefit of the project would be the establishment of sound institutional
arrangements in MOA and ESC for future MPP operations.
6.02      The employment impact of the project would amount mainly to in-
creased family labor required on the farm and would total as follows:
Project Year
1        3         5       10
Man days (millions)       0.29      1.59      5.58    20.00
In terms of skilled and semi-skilled employment, the project would provide
in MOA additional jobs as follows:
Degree level -                           118
Diploma level -                          336
Lower levels of trained staff -        1,258
Bookkeepers                              440
Total                              2,152
There would also be considerable unquantified additional off-farm employment
created to handle the farm inputs required by the expanded program and to
handle, transport and process the project's incremental production. Rural
road construction, particularly the self-help roads, would employ several
hundred additional persons temporarily in each area through which a road
passes.
Economic Rate of Return
6.03      In analyzing the economic justification of the project, the costs
and benefits of the animal husbandry and soil and water conservation com-
ponents were excluded, due to the pilot nature of the former and the dif-
ficulty of estimating the benefits of the latter. Forty percent of the
costs of rural roads were excluded to reflect non-agricultural use of these
roads. The analysis is thus based on US$54.8 million of costs representing
89 percent of project base costs plus a 5 percent physical contingency.
The economic life of the project was assumed to be 15 years.
6.04      Fertilizer prices were derived from IBRD projections, as were
import parity prices for grains. The import parity farm gate price for



- 37 -
wheat was used to value all grains since, when domestic supplies are short,
wheat is the predominant food grain imported. The small incremental quantities
of pulses and other minor crops which would be produced by farmers under the
project were not included in the analysis. Farm models representative of the
six main regions were used to estimate the value of base year and incremental
production. Foreign exchange was valued at a shadow exchange rate of US$1 =
Birr 2.90, compared to the prevailing rate of exchange of US$1 = Birr 2.07.
This is equivalent to using to standard conversion factor of 0.72 for all
nontraded inputs and outputs. Incremental farm family labor was valued at
zero on the assumption that the large numbers of people concerned would not
have an alternative productive source of employment during the project's life.
6.05      Because the project is a time-slice of an ongoing nationwide program
to assist peasant smallholders, it is difficult to quantify precisely the
benefits related specifically to the project. Furthermore, ultimate benefits
would depend on the continuation of the Minimum Package Program, for which the
project would lay the institutional and technical foundation. A precise
economic rate of return would thus not be very meaningful. However, an
indirect analysis was carried out to determine by how much production would
have to increase to give a clearly acceptable economic rate of return, and to
assess the likelihood of that increase.
6.06      The analysis shows that to realize a 20% economic rate of return,
the incremental gross value of food grain production due to the project
would have to reach Birr 550 million per year by the tenth year of project
development, assuming a gradual buildup of project benefits from 4 percent
in year two (after completion of MPP II) to 28 percent in year 5 and 100
percent in year ten. The buildup of benefits is proportional to the most
likely rate of adoption by farmers. Base year (1978/79) production on
the 1.4 million farms which are expected to adopt either fertilizer or
non-fertilizer packages by year ten was about 2.4 million tons and, at an
import parity farm gate price of Birr 615 per ton for wheat (in terms of
1979/80 constant prices), is valued at about Birr 1,500 million. Thus the
required increase in the gross value of production by year ten is 36 percent
of the base year's farm gate production of food grain crops. Allowing for
the projected rise in the real farm gate price of wheat from Birr 615 to
Birr 726 per ton by 1990, the increase in production required by year ten
to achieve a rate of return of 20 percent would be 30 percent, or an average
annual growth rate of 2.7 percent. This increase is expected to be exceeded
if the project as designed is implemented as projected.  Projections indicate
that food grain production should increase to about 4.1 million tons by
year ten, which would imply an average annual growth rate of about 5 per-
cent. However, this level of increase assumes continued investment and
development of the program after the project period, at a much higher rate of
expenditure than during the project, and should be treated with caution.
Sensitivity Analysis
6.07      Sensitivity analyses were carried out to determine which variables
would be most crucial to the success of the project. For all variables
tested, it turns out that deviations from expected values would be unlikely



- 38 -
to be so large as to reduce the economic rate of return below the estimated
opportunity cost of capital in Ethiopia of 10 percent. For example, benefits
would have to fall by more than 50 percent before the rate of return falls
below 10 percent. Since benefits are estimated in terms of gross value of
production, this means that either farm gate prices or incremental yields
would have to be less than half their expected values, which is considered
unlikely. Capital and recurrent costs would have to increase by more than
130 percent, which is also unlikely. Farmer adoption rates, based on
historical experience, are assumed to be modest in the first five years
after project startup, and therefore there is room for a delayed or initially
ineffective implementation during the two project years to be made up later
by relatively small increases in the adoption rates achieved thereafter.
Thus, the projected adoption rate at full development, and therefore economic
benefits over the project's assumed life, are relatively insensitive to
implementation problems occurring in the early years. Even if no benefits
are achieved for the first four years, with costs incurred on schedule, the
rate of return would still exceed 10 percent. Finally, the economic rate
of return is insensitive to assumptions about the economic price of labor.
The shadow wage rate would have to be more than ten times the market wage of
Birr 1 to 2 per day before the economic rate of return would fall to 10
percent.
Risks
6.08      In a project of this complexity and scope covering a large part of
the country's rural sector, at a time when major expansion in the Minimum
Package Program is taking place, there are clearly risks that the project
would not be implemented on the schedule expected, nor on the scale proposed.
To reduce the risk of delays in implementation, the project provides for the
timely review of annual work plans in advance of the normal Government budget
cycle (para. 7.01). Delays could also result from a shortage of suitably
experienced staff, since the project provides for the recruitment of large
numbers of new staff who must be rapidly absorbed to become effective. This
risk has been reduced by the provision of 37-1/2 staff-years of internationally
recruited technical assistance (para. 3.09). There are risks that supplies
of farm inputs will be inadequate, and that there may be access problems
in the more recently opened parts of the project area. These risks would be
reduced by giving MPP farmers priority when allocating seed supplies (para.
3.17) and the generally improved logistical and security situation which
prevails today compared to the MPP I period. Finally, there is the pos-
sibility that peasant associations and cooperatives will fail to act as
effective extension  and credit channels.  However, the project provides the
institutional backup to reduce the chance of this type of failure, and again
the present situation represents a marked improvement over the former practice
of having to deal with hundreds of thousands of individual peasant farmers.
On balance, the risks are considered acceptable, given the nature of the
project and its expected impact on Ethiopia's smallholder population.
Environmental Effects
6.09      It is unlikely that any components of the project would have a
significant adverse effect on the environment of the country. Increasing food
grain production requires the use of improved seeds and chemical fertilizers



- 39 -
together with biocides, but the level of application of these chemicals in
the country will be relatively modest. The soil and water conservation
component, although small in comparison with the total soil and water con-
servation requirements, would make a significant contribution to arresting
further deterioration of natural resources.
Role of Women
6.10      The project extension programs would be designed with particular
attention to the training of women. Programs would be initiated to help
women set up their own associations to promote income-generating activities
such as village handicrafts. Emphasis would also be given to the introduction
of labor saving devices in those activities traditionally the province of
women, attention would be specifically given to improved milling facilities,
and more efficient household management. Other areas of interest would
include nutritional standards, preventative health care, sanitation practices,
child care and birth control.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained on the following main
points:
(i) The Annual Work Plan for 1981/82 would be prepared following
guidelines as agreed and would be submitted to the Association
for approval by May 1, 1981 (para. 3.04);
(ii)  the Technical Support Officer, Evaluation Economist, Chief
Accountant, Agronomist and Head of MOA-s Training Department
would have qualifications and experience and be employed on
terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA (paras. 3.08 and
3.09), and appointment of other internationally recruited staff
would be made in consultation with the Association (para 3.09);
(iii) with respect to overdue accounts, in addition to the usual
reporting procedures, the Government would submit MOA's
accounts and credit reports on the Minimum Package Program
for 1978/79 not later than March 31, 1981 and for 1979/80
no later than June 30, 1981 (para. 3.37);
(iv)  the Government would submit to the Association, not later
than four months from the date of Credit signing, (a) a
monitoring and evaluation work plan and schedule, and (b) pro-
posals and a schedule for strengthening MOA's Planning and
Programming Department (para. 3.21);
(v) the Government would review the cost effectiveness of the
program, with particular reference to fertilizer subsidies and
cost recovery, and would submit the findings and discuss the
review with the Association not later than the project
completion date of June 30, 1982 (para. 5.09).
(vi) AIDB would not supply credit for farm inputs to any
Peasant Association or Cooperative that had repaid less



- 40 -
than a level acceptable to the Association of the previous
year's loans unless in the opinion of MOA extraordinary
circumstances make such repayment impossible for certain
borrowers in which case MOA and AIDB would agree on a
lower level for those borrowers (para. 4.07).
(vii) Government would ensure that priority is given to the
requirements of MPP farmers when allocating seed supplies
produced on state farms for the Ethiopian Seed Corporation
(para. 3.17).
(viii)  The Ethiopian Seed Corporation (ESC) would be legally
established as an autonomous public corporation not later
than three months from the date of effectiveness (para. 4.05).
(ix)  The Association may suspend disbursements for any wereda
which is not accessible to its representatives (para. 3.04).
7.02      In addition to normal requirements, conditions of effectiveness
of the proposed credit would be:
(i) conditions of effectiveness of the agreement between
Government and IFAD (para. 3.25);
(ii)  signature of a credit administration agreement between AMC,
AIDB and MOA satisfactory to the Association (para. 4.07);
(iii) signature of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Govern-
ment and AIDB satisfactory to the Association (para. 3.25);
(iv)  appointment of the Technical Support Officer, Evaluation
Economist and Chief Accountant (para. 3.09).
7.03      Conditions of disbursement of the Credit, in addition to standard
conditions, would be:
(i) for items covered by AWPs, approval by IDA of the AWP,
or parts thereof, on the basis of agreed criteria
(para. 3.04);
(ii)  for disbursement for the proposed heifer breeding ranch,
IDA has approved the detailed ranch plans, including
technical and financial analysis (para. 3.13);
(iii) for the IAR research training component, approval by IDA
of a detailed training plan (para. 3.19);
(iv)  for fertilizer, that demand estimates satisfactory to the
Association have been made (para 3.10); and
(v) for rural roads constructed by ERA, that a cost per kilometer
has been agreed by the Government and IDA (para. 3.20).
7.04      The proposed project is suitable for an IDA credit of SDR 32.0
million (US$40.0 million) to the Government of Ethiopia.



- 41 -
SCHEDULE
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL MINIMUM PACKAGE PROJECT
Annual Work Plan
Contents of Work Plan
1.        The MPP fiscal year work program and cost estimates shall constitute
the annual work plan provided it contains substantially the information listed
below.
Supporting Information
2.        The work plan shall either contain or be accompanied by the following
information:
(a)  a description and estimated total and incremental
capital and operating costs of the proposed field
program, including:
(i) the incremental and total number of awraja
and wereda offices (by type) included and
their location;
(ii) the incremental and total number of coop-
eratives, peasant associations and farmers
involved by Administrative Regions;
(iii) quantified targets set by Administrative
Regions for crop development (by crop),
seeds multiplication, demonstration plots
and farmer demonstrations (by type of
wereda and aggregated) soil and water
conservation (by weredas), animal hus-
bandry (by weredas), home economics, and
road development (including maps);
(iv) a table comprising the estimated demand
for farm inputs (by Administrative Regions),
sub-divided between incremental and existing
farmers and identifying incremental fertil-
izer to existing farmers, with their expected
supply, including fertilizer (by type), im-
proved seeds (by crop) and animal husbandry
inputs;



- 42 -
SCHEDULE
Page 2
(v)  a description of the veterinary services
available in weredas proposed for the live-
stock breeding program;
(vi) stocks of fertilizer (by type) for MPP carried
over from the previous year and new orders by
Administrative Regions;
(vii) a description of the proposed arrangements
for timely distribution of farm inputs.
(b)  any proposed variation from agreed procurement
procedures;
(c)  details of staffing arrangements to execute the
program including:
(i)  current staffing status of the Ministry of
Agriculture headquarters in Addis Ababa
(approved posts, staff in-post and vacancies)
by departments and skilled categories and
proposed recruitment during the fiscal
year;
(ii) a table comparing approved MPP posts, staff
in-post and vacancies (including estimated
turnover) for staff at the degree, diplomate
and vocationally trained levels with the esti-
mated supply at each level and specifying
sources of recruitment;
(iii) details of staff training programs by insti-
tutions, including course content and duration
for in-service courses.
(d)  schedule of status of loans, showing overdues (by
Region), by number of accounts, amount and age of
arrears, and summary of forecast movements on loan
accounts for the year;
(e)  details of the building program by type of building
and location;
(f)  capital budget based on agreed requirements for
Headquarters, Regional offices, awrajas and each
type of wereda office, in such detail that replace-
ment and incremental expenditure can be identified;
(g) details of proposed funding of the Annual Work Plan;



- 43 -
SCHEDULE
Page 3
(h) details of the evaluation and monitoring program
and the schedule for completion of major aspects
of the E & M program.
Criteria upon which Annual Work Plans shall be considered
for Finance under the IDA Credit and the IFAD Loan
3.        The work plan shall be feasible in the areas included, given the
availability of farm and animal husbandry inputs, credit, transport and stor-
age, qualified staff, veterinary services, administrative infrastructure
and farmer organizations.



- 44 -TalI
ETHIOPIA
SECOND AGBICULTURAL MINIMUJM PACKrAGE PROJECTI
New Wereda Openings and Expansions to Full Coverage Since Completion of MPP I
1977/78
Weredas
Administrative Partly Served
Region            by MPP? I               76/77                     77/78                  78/79                     79/80                  Total
Wereda Type:               A  B  C  D  Tortal        A  B  C  D  Total.       A  B  C  D  Total.    A  B  C  D  Total            A  B  C  D
1. Eritree
New Wereda             -------5-5                                                                                    14      -      5      53.
Ring arealI/                                                                                       4 - 5-9                   4-5-9
2, Tigrai
NW                                              - 21- 3  7 3 - --3                                 2 4--266    25 6 112 4
NA                      -2 2 --i 4                                        351 - 9 ~   16 4- -o 2 21 1 133~
33
3. Wello
NW                                              2 -1- 38   322 -7 14   - 2 -131   5 43113 3
RA                     -----                    2 -3- 5                   4 11 17                  2-1 471                   8 155193
19
4. Gonder
NW                     -----                    - -13  4                  .1  - 3  4        6                 I       4      -I1792
NA                     -               -        --42  61I --                       1-- 26    13                              -  ~ 1 741
5. Gojam
NW                     3 2--5                   - -11 2  5 -- - 77  14 1- --11   4 21815 3
RA         - - - - -                -- - 33                   - - 1   7                - 12 710                  - 1316 2o
20
6. Wellega
NW                     -----                    - 2-2 4                   34 - 18                  2 3 1-62    591318 49
NA              31     -----                    -6  -3  913               2  2  1 -513             1  7 54172                3 156731
7. Shoe
NW                     - - 123                   -----                    1- 2 47                  4 2 2311                  5 25921
NA                     - -1 12                  3 136 13                  1 46 2031                351102                       0   85
Others 2/                                           -427   0             -  _  _  _  _    8        -                         1  -  42  7
7
8. Keffa
NW                                              2 --1 3 1 4 4 1211                                 4 5  --9                 10 9 1323
RA                     -----                    --44  8 1                 1  -1 -2  13             --         2211                  5623
12
9. Illubabor
NW                                              3 1-- 4                   22 -- 4                  6 1  -71    11 4 ~15
RA                     -----                    3 -126 10    1 43 19 13    2 2   -41    664319  3
1.9
10. Gama Gofa
NW                     -             --          -   112 10   - 121 44                             - 1 1136    - 2439 2
NA                     -----341-8                                                                  - 2   1  -3               3 6 2(G12
11. Sidaso
NW                                               I - I  13                2   3 -5 12                  ---1  6   4 -41 9
NA                     -----                     1 -124  7   1i114 7                               2 - 125                   4 13816 25
16
12. Bale
NW                     -                                      -----  -  4151i4                                               -  -41  514
NA                                                                        -    ---- -6 39                                    -63 9
13. Harrarge
NW                     -----2-  -   -2    6                               -1I--i 1                 2-  -  -220o                        -53
RA               17-----I-   224                                          -3  1  15                3 43 818                  4        112
Total
NW                     3  2  1  2  8           10  5  6  9  30           18 15101 8  62           22 18 13  7  60           53 40 30  36 159
RA                     -  -  I  1  2           16 1322 26    7/          13 20 17 34    4         33 25 2732117             62 5867 93280
GRAND TOTAL    280       3  2  2  3 10           26 182835 10 7-           31 35 27 52145           55 43 4039 177           115 98 97 129435 I/
--440 4/-
I/ This line indicates progressive conversion of MP~P I EPfID Centre partial wereda coverage in 280 weredas to full coverage
by inclusion of "ring areas" around I4PP I core service areas.
2/   Weredas in Yerer end Kereyu awrajas.
Ada wereda which has been fu-lly covered before is not included here as
a new wereda or a rngN area since this waredcL was a comprehensive project area -USAID.
4/ Includes Ada vereda, since comprehensive program was withdrawn.
November, 1979



E T H I O P I A
SECOND AGRICULTURAL MNIMM PACKAGE PROJECT
Incremental and Cumulative Number of Adopting varms bv Year (nOO Holdings)
Project Year                  1        2        3       4       5        6        7       8        9      10       11       12       13
1980/81 1981/82 1982/83 1983/84 1984/85 1985/86 1986/87 1987/88 1988/89 1989/90 1990/91 1991/92 1992/93 TOTAL
I. Newly Opened Weredas
Northern                    7.3      12.2    20.7    38.9    62.1   175.2    64.5    47.5    4o.2    37.7    35.3    34.1    32.9   608.6
Central                     4.7       7.9    13.4    25.2    40.2   113.5    41.8    30.7    26.o    24.2    22.9    22.1    21.3   393.9
Western                    4.9       8.1      13.8    26.0    41.4   117.1    43.1    31.7    26.8    25.2    23.6    22.8    21.9   406.4
Hararge                    0.5       0.9       1.5     2.7      4.4    12.3      4.5     3.3      2.8     2.7      2.5     2.4      2.3    42.8
Bale                       0.3       0.4       0.7     1.4      2.2     6.3      2.3      1.7    1.4      1.4      1.3     1.2      1.2    21.8
Sidamo                     1.6       2.6       4.4.    8.3    13.2    37.2    13.7       10.1    8.5      8.0      7.5      7.2     7.0   129.3
Incremental               19.3       32.1    54.5   102.5   163.5   461.6   169.9    125.0  105.7    99.2    93.1    89.8    86.6  1602.8
Cumulative                19.3      51.4    105.9   208.4   371.9   833.5  1003.4   1128.4 1234.1  1333.3  1426.4  1516.2  1602.8
II. Old Weredas (MPP I)
New Adopters27                                                                                                                       27
(e  of total)            5.3       3.9       3.3     3,1      2.9     2.8      2.7      2.7    2.7      2.7      2.7      2.7     2.7
Incremental               14        12        11      10      -10      10        9         9      9        9      10       10      10      133
Cumulative                14        26        37      47       57      67       76        85     94      103    113      123      133    .133
Total (incl.base)        304       316       327     337      342     357      366      375    384       393     403      413     423      423
Grand Total Adopters    323         366      433      545     714   1,191   1,369    1,503  1,618.1i726   1,829   1,929   2,026   2,026



- 46 -
Table 3
Page  1
ETHIOPIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL MINIMUM PACKAGE PROJECT
Ministry of Agriculture - Manpower Projection for MPP
Project Year:                                0          1          2         Total
Fiscal Year:                              1979/80   1980/81   1981/82   Recruitment
---------------- Graduates --------------
I. Degree Level
Alemaya College of Agriculture Output   200            440         440
Available to MOA @ 50% 1/                 100        220         220
Required:
Dept. Heads & Team Leaders (HQ)            13         13          13
Team Leaders (Reg. Office)                 26         26          26
Experts:  (HQ)                            48         48           48
(Reg. Off.)                    82        198         198
Junior Experts:  (HQ)                      21        23           23
(Reg. Office)           65         65          65
Awraja Heads                               80         80          80
Sub-Total                                335        453         453
Turnover (5%)                              17         23          23
Total Requirement                        352        476          476
In-post                                     335        352         453
To be recruited                              17        124          23        164
Surplus (Shortfall) of
Potential Recruits                         83        (96)        197
II. Diploma Level
Output from Four Agric. Institutes          500        880         880
Available to MOA @ 50% 1/                   250        440         440
Required:
Awraja Team Leaders                        80         80          80
Awraja Junior Specialists                 336        800         800
Wereda Heads                              440        440         440
Animal Health Asst.                        70         80          80
Sub-Total                                926      1,400       1,400
Turnover (5%)                              46         70          70
Total Requirement                         972      1,470       1,470
In-post                                   1,064      1,064       1,400
To be recruited                             Nil        406          70        476
Surplus (Shortfall)
of Potential Recruits 4/                  342         34         370
(Continued)



- 47 -
Table 3
Page 2
Project Year:                               0          1          2        Total
Fiscal Year:                             1979/80   1980/81   1981/82   Recruitment
---------------- Graduates --------------
III. FTC Level
Output all MOA/FTCs (6 months) 21          392 3/    790          790
Available to MOA (100%)                    392        790         790
Required:
Cooperative Agents and PA Organizers  490           715        880
Development Agents                       660        965      1,166
Home Economics Assts.                    150        220        440
Sub-Total                              1,300     1,900       2,486
Turnover (10%)                           130        190        249
Total Requirement                      1,430     2,090       2,735
In-post                                  1,038      1,430      2,090
To be recruited                            392        660         645     1,697
Surplus (Shortfall)                        -         nil         nil
of Potential Recruits
IV. Bookkeepers (Commercial School of Addis Ababa)
Output                                     750        313 +        66 +
Available to MOA 1/                        150        313          66
Required                                   440        440         440
Turnover (15%)                              -          23          66
Total Requirement                          440        463         506
In-post                                     -         150         440
To be recruited                            150        313          66       529
Surplus (Shortfall)                       (290)        -           -
1/   Availability figures for MOA recruitment are Supreme Council allocations.
2/   Assumes about half annual capacity would be used for pre-service training,
with rest for farmer training and staff refresher courses.
3/   For 6 months January - June 1980 assumes only half normal course conducted
in anticipation of IDA-assisted MPP II.
4/   Not applicable since staff would be recruited and trained by MOA as
required.



ETHIOPIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL MINIMUM PACKAGE PROJECT
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
(in thousands of Birr)
YEAR I                    YEAR II                     TOTAL              GRAND       DUTIES AND
Local        Foreign      Local       Foreign       Local        Foreign       TOTAL          TAXES
Ministry of Agriculture - MPP II           19241.2      10087.3      18937.0      5857.4       38178.2    15944.7         54122.9       3897.3
Soil and Water Conservation                 3156.2       1889.1       2447.2       908.9        5603.4       2798.0        8401.4      1212.5
Rural Roads                                  877.6       3688.9       2432.9      4207.9         3310.5      7896.8       11207.3      1269.8
Farm Inputs                               10682.2       12860.5       6305.1      6163.0       16987.3    19023.5         36010.8      1006.2
Seed Multiplication - PA                   1581.9         375.1       1290.8       222.2        2872.7        597.3        3470.0         57.0
Ethiopian Seed Corporation                  7031.9       4222.8       2205.3      1440.9        9237.2       5663.7       14900.9       3119.0
Applied Research                             175.0         75.0        175.0         75.0         350.0       150.0         500.0         50.0          l
BASE COST                               42746.0      33198.7       33793.3    18875.3        76539.3    52074.0        128613.3    10611.8
Physical Contingencies - 5%                 2137.3       1659.9       1689.7       943.8        3827.0       2603.7        6430.7        530.4
SUB-TOTAL                               44883.3      34858.6       35483.0    19819.1        80366.3    54677.7        135044.0    11142.2
Price Contingencies 1/                      6732.5       3398.7      10822.3      3785.4       17554.8       7184.1       24738.9       1454.8
51615.8      38257.3      46305.3    23604.5        97921.1    61861.8   j 159782.9    12597.0
US Dollars @ 2.07                          24935.2      18481.8      22369.7    11403.2        47304.9    29885.0         77189.8       6085.5
1/ Price contingencies - local currency 1980/81 - 15.0%; 1981/82 - 13.5%.
- foreign currency 1980/81 - 9.75%; 1981/82 - 8.5%.



ETHIOPIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL MINIMUM PACKAGE PROJECT
Project Organization Chart
NRDC-                                                                N ATIONAL REVOLUINR
CENTRALPLANNING                                                               DEVELOPMENT CAMPAIGN
SUPREME COUNCIL                                                                   INRDC) "Zemet
National                                                            Mi nstrifsan,ry of                                                                     Ministry Of
Sationk: of.         .               Ministry of                    State Farm                       Coffee & Tea                        Ministry of                        Ministry of                       Transport &                    Ministry of Education
Ethn.p,.                          Finance                        Development                        Development                                                         Domestic Trade                     Communications                           |0
*         .          S cine  &  e                                          .. Iec olog
.............   |       Commission            .....                                                                   rural Roa ds
..r
'              '                            ~~~~~         ~         ~~           ~           ~         ~~~~~~~np,utt s   
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ . . . . . . .s .:                                               ........
Ethiopian Seed                                                         Institute of
0 .14px. W.  ,por.t..n                     Agricultural Research
4                                              l +             '                              ii .                            I                    h         I Universityof l l                            I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Uivrstyo
||. SeesFinnce                                               AGRICULTURAL                                           Training Centers              Allemaye Collaeg            Vocato
Cream                                                                                                       ROGRA    MEP)Seeds  MINIMUM PACKAE
ICredit                     0                                                                                              PROGRAM  IMPP)    j
_...........................................................................; _____--. ' I.'.160.1.
Needs/Data                                                         O        1   InSe         IncraL1ce Traang of          Staff
|  tt_                   ~~~~~~P-eervioe Training IDge   ee)|
Pra-service Training (Diploma Level)
April 1980                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  World Bank - 21406
It
i-,



ETHIOPIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL MINIMUM PACKAGE PROJECT
Ministry of Agriculture Organization Chart
Audit ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~u
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~Srie 33
I                                                               tI  I
gat ServicesPlanningandProgresrarming                                           Land Uset
PeaantAssciaio                   Trcuhtnic        Aima  l Rsorcs                                               ildife anPadin
Deprten  3Supaorsi t                              Deniten  2angeen D4asies2
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sie Lega Sevee. 3r
Public Relations                                                             TraiAing Seprv  ent
Services 40 
AdminiD bration                                                              Fithsemeeabutfol
Anipr  1rd Plan90                                                                                                     W
O       in Set vices                                                             Serving 3
{    ano Coopraives   |   |  AEgrcultjrual  |   [ Animal Resources |                            Vhr   e,ucs | | Yi9dlife Con-       PlLaningUr
|  Depart-et 32    ||              Department                 D   ar rwne ntm257            Deamn 2                         Deart_    _      _8
Regional Offic of Agriculture 
56l
- _     14 (13 in MPP 11)
Awraja Office o1 Agriculture      _ 
~22
|  Wereda Office ot Agriculture    || 
Numbers in bo.es indicat. staff positions. In Decemnber 1979 in HO these -vre about fully
staffed, and in field offices about half filled.
April 1980                                                                                                                                                     World Bank -21407



- .51 -
Chart 3
ETHIOPIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL MINIMUM PACKAGE PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Project Years        1979/80                  1980/81                  1981/82                   1982183
Ethiopian Fiscal Years (starting July 8)
Annual Work Plan
Preparation by GOE                                       *
Submission to IDA/RMEA
Conditions of Effectiveness
Signature of Credit Admin. Agreement
Appointment of Three Consultants
Effectiveness of Agreement with IFAD
Credit Effectiveness
Procu rement
Vehicles
Road Construction Equ ipment
Farm Inputs:
Fertilizer
Ordering
Delivery
Seeds
Biocides
Implements
Animal Husbandry Inputs                                                  _                       -
Project Components
Civil Works:
Docu mentat ion                                                           _         -                        _
Construction                                                              _                      _
Demonstration Plot Program
Soil and Water Conservation
Rural Road Construction                                                    _   -     -                   -
Self-Help Road Construction                                                _  -      -      -               r
Seed Multiplication:
ESC                                                                       _
PA's
Monitoring and Evaluation
Quarterly Reports                                                                                     I F
Completion Report
Reviews
Cost Effectiveness and Fertilizer Subsidy
Audits
MOA
ESC
SOE8
*)Completed                                                                                                                        World Bank-21564
May 8, 1980



-52-
ETHIOPIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL MINIMUM PACKAGE PROGRAM
MATERIAL AVAILABLE IN IMPLEMENTATION VOLUME
ANNEXES
1      Wereda Coverage, Technical Packages,
Yields and Adoption Rates
Table 1 - New Wereda Openings and Expansions to Full Coverage
Since Completion of MPP I
Table 2 - Past MPP Participation
Table 3 - Incremental and Cumulative Numbers of
Adopting Farms by Year
2      Farm Models
Table 1 - Summary Farm Models at Full Project Benefit
Table 2 - Farm Models - Supporting Data
3      Manpower, Training and Staffing Requirements
Table 1 - Ministry of Agriculture - Manpower Projection
for MPP
Table 2 - Farmer Training Center Capacity
Table 3 - Expatriate Staff at MOA Headquarters
Table 4 - Staffing by Class of Wereda
4      Project Costs
Table 1 - Summary of Project Costs
Table 2 - Project Base Costs by Category of Disbursement
5      Government Cash Flow
6      Estimated Schedule of Disbursement of IDA Credit
7      Implementation Schedule
8      Economic Analysis
Table 1 - Summary of Costs for the Economic Analysis
Table 2 - Summary of Economic Analysis
Table 3 - Projected Economic Import Parity Prices for Wheat
9      Extension Methods under MPP II



- 53 -
ANNEXES (Continued)
10      Soil and Water Conservation
Table 1 - Conservation Staffing Requirement
Table 2 - Estimated Quantities of Conservation Works
11      Agricultural Credit
12      Input Supply and Marketing
13      Agricultural Research
14      Improved Seed Production
Table 1 - Estimated Improved Seed Requirements
and Supplies
15      Cooperative Movement
16     Animal Husbandry
17     Detailed Costs
Table 1 - MOA - MPP II Administrative Costs - Summary
Table  2 - MOA - Headquarters Costs for MPP II
Table  3 - MOA - Field Costs - Costs Per Type of Wereda Model
Table  4 - MOA - Field Costs - Wereda Offices
Table  5 - MOA - Field Costs - Awraja Offices
Table  6 - MOA - Field Costs - Regional Offices
Table  7 - MOA - Animal Husbandry - Costs for MPP II
Table  8 - Soils and Water Conservation
Table  9 - Rural Roads Component
Table 10 - Farm Inputs
Table 11 - Seed Multiplication in Peasant Associations
Table 12 - Ethiopian Seed Corporation
18     Rural Roads Components
Table 1 - Rural Roads Components in Major IDA Assisted
Agricultural Projects and the IDA Road Sector
Project
Table 2 - Rural Roads Components and other Major Agricultural
Projects
Table 3 - Annual Rural Road Construction and Maintenance
Program (km)
Table 4 - Road Construction and Maintenance Equipment
Table 5 - Rural Roads Design Standards
Table 6 - MPP Rural Roads
Table 7 - Description of Rural Roads






l   >   0  P 0 :    /       2 g                        E T H I  p  A   ---  L6 Rr.ETHIOPiA
E   j  :A:  \S J5K-s\"     lSECOND  MINIMUM  PACKAGE  PROJECT
99, ~~~-,   ('7) 99911 ~~~II! ',
, STI    I 1,    I                                        3,1  , I , I  1 2 I'
918~~~~~~~~~~~1
L :   :\        L  ,:         ) V\ $        .  'EabQUTI              W 9  9  2  9  2.'
I   ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T         -
E %~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B S UO M A                                                     L QN At(|QS      ;<9r<SS^1lA.CS s
___                                                               __;,  E:  t : .    |   /   a  <  ^   .__  r v r P 
': 0:0   '    X   -,>f 1,,, '                          A L   I
K    EU NN  _4   A~                    41 M,q 9






IBRD 10233R
T-                          .. --                    roU                                                                                                                OCTODBESR 1971
7 z                                                                                          ETHIOPIA
SECOND MINIMUM PACKAGE PROJECT
MAJOR FOOD CROP ECONOMIES
ri                                                                                                                                                                            S '  . '  '  ,A. ;        .   R c  _ - .  ; o r g hourm / .cicy
Tel'f borley
t te /sorghom
Bor Ay   h-vta
E,,et
Trod t  ora  rom-doC loIeslok -ma
500 meter roroqre oloO
R,iocro
f   S  U  D  A  N                                                                                                                                                                    me80   V   --  .   hut onut ru  tert
o     Proirr-a  cop lIds
---- -   Prov rcid bo,,odorios
'-'   '-       "'=. .nternot.orol boin,or ea
'D IBOUTI                                         7` lr
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ i                                                                                ,  5/||0     to          5 0  _     CS   0 
-:/) y . j- y X E   ; 0 . '   Oavao   '  -      A  '   5 Sf                                          ,Olf                          o f       A  d  e r
7/   g/                                                           a                                                                                                               ee\X,t   ;<t* / _ _
jl    /7                                        Del tA                                                                                                                           /    0V   0
0                                                                                                                                                             /~~~~~~~~
) + / \/ S > g > ! \ _ f A i ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/                                                                                                   C
E t L'- Ev  C n   +                              _  X ; 9t                                          ,,                                                                      Ta S C M A L.I A
8c</    /a   Q                                                                                                                                                               A L             r  .1)/Z / 1   S /~C2*U'te\'''  4    -Lm;kWa   
A-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
at                                                                            /                                                                                      /V                      r E oaoaa>  '8   /to:   :A';9<a,      UUar5e ;;................. .. ::A_ 
z R 0 8 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/                                                                                                                        r aae a. o ra e aes   sre|/bXiXiXUA 1nnnsAtaaa E
J~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~O A N D A                                                          \//I   S  y                                                                                               j(   aaaaaeroaaafarlaaadat SW__ZJD L52aAu||wE    _ZA
K..m.                                              T, K>   E  N                     A             /   ?-tipu>
_49 /5 >4; ;Wu ; is9-2 olrZ '.< S O M ~~~A    I As,-JwO
'    tAKE T0EKANA   nA B A   tUP5;  j           /             t                                              f                 swh Ere6lt,zas~~nl~ T~
UGANDA  (           K          E         N          Y.                                                            h 5                                        aRytirREcrUsn/8dZaerwnt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,j 
\@                   h                                                           O/                            



