Document of
The World Bank                   FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Rqept No. P-2396b-ET
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO ETHIOPIA
FOR A
SECOND AGRICULTURAL MINIMUM PACKAGE PROJECT
December 3, 1980
C This document hs a etrictd distribution nd may be used by recipients only la the perfomance of
their ofAcial dutis. Its ontents may not othrwise be dislosed witbout World Bank aUhXorinzaion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS 1/
US$1.00          =      Birr 2.07
Birr 1.00       =       US$0.483
Birr 1 million  =       US$483,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)           =      3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)      =      0.62 miles (mi)
1 hectare (ha)        =      10,000 square meters (sq. m)
1 hectare (ha)        =      2.47 acres (ac)
1 metric ton (mt)    =       2,205 pounds (lbs)
ABBREVIATIONS
AIDB      - Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank
AMC       -  Agricultural Marketing Corporation
EEC       -  European Economic Community
ESC       -  Ethiopian Seed Corporation
FAO       -  United Nations Food and Agricultural Organization
IFAD      -  International Fund for Agricultural Development
MPP       -  Agricultural Minimum Package Program
MPP I     -  First Agricultural Minimum Package Project
MPP II    -  Second Agricultural Minimum Package Project
SIDA      -  Swedish International Development Authority
UNDP      -  United Nations Development Program
USAIIJ    -  United States Agency for International Development
GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
FISCAL YEAR
July 8 - July 7
1/   The currency equivalency between the US dollar and the Ethiopian Birr
has been constant through calendar year 1979 to the date of this report.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ETHIOPIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL MINIMUM PACKAGE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:               Ethiopia
Amount:                 SDR 32.0 million (US$40.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                  Standard
Relending Terms:        About US$8.3 million of the IDA credit will be relent
to the Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank at
8.0 percent interest per annum, with a repayment period
of five years including two years' grace.
Project Description:  The proposed project will expand and consolidate
the Borrower's agricultural minimum package program
over a two-year period. The project has been designed
to: (i) increase the productivity and incomes of small
farmers by introducing them to fertilizer, improved
seeds and other agricultural inputs; (ii) strengthen the
institutional and technical framework to progressively
expand and improve the minimum package program; and
(iii) help to ensure long-term productivity of the
land by expanding the Borrower's soil and water con-
servation efforts. By the end of the project period,
an additional 150,000 farm families are expected to be
served by the minimum package program.   After about
thirteen years, an estimated 2.0 million farm families
will have benefitted from the program and smallholder
foodgrain production is expected to have increased
substantially. The project primarily faces risks of
delays and of possible reductions in scale. However,
in view of the importance and high potential of the
project for the mostly very low-income Ethiopian farmers,
the risks are considered acceptable.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:
US$ Million
Item                                             Local      Foreign      Total
Strengthening of Ministry of
Agriculture 1/                                  18.4        7.7         26.1
Farm Inputs                                        8.2        9.2         17.4
Seed Production                                    4.5        2.7          7.2
Seed Multiplication                                1.4        0.3          1.7
Rural Roads                                         1.6       3.8          5.4
Research                                           0.2        0.1          0.3
Soil and Water Conservation                        2.7        1.3          4.0
Contingencies:
Physical                                        1.8        1.3          3.1
Price                                           8.5        3.5         12.0
Total Project Cost                                47.3       29.9         77.2
Total Project Cost
(net of Taxes and Duties)                         41.2       29.9         71.1
1/   This includes capital costs, incremental salaries, training, office costs,
technical assistance, and other miscellaneous expenditures, most of which
are for the Ministry's field offices.
Financing Plan:                                           US$ Million
Local      Foreign       Total
Ethiopia                                          18.3         -            18.3 1/
IDA                                               20.0       20.0           40.0
International Fund for
Agricultural Development                         9.0        9.0           18.0
Swedish International
Development Authority                             -         0.9            0.9
47.3      29.9            77.2
1/   Including taxes and duties of US$6.1 million.
Estimated Disbursements:
US$ Million
IDA FY                             1981       1982       1983
Annual                              8.9       24.9        6.2
Cumulative                          8.9       33.8       40.0
Rate of Return:                 Over 20 percent (for 89 percent of the
total project cost)
Staff Appraisal Report:         Report No. 1774b-ET, dated November 18, 1980.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO ETHIOPIA
FOR A
SECOND AGRICULTURAL MINIMUM PACKAGE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to Ethiopia for SDR 32.0 million (US$40.0 million equiva-
lent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a second agricultural minimum
package project. About US$8.3 million of the IDA credit will be relent to
the Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank at 8 percent interest per
annum, with a repayment period of five years including two years grace. The
International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) will provide a loan
of US$18.0 million equivalent on terms similar to IDA-s, to jointly finance
project components with the Association. The Swedish International Develop-
ment Authority (SIDA) will provide technical assistance valued at US$900,000
equivalent as a grant.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The most recent Bank economic mission visited Ethiopia in November
1978, and its report (No. 2609a-ET, Economic Memorandum on Ethiopia) was
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 22, 1980. A summary of social
and economic data is included in Annex I.
Government Structure and Objectives
3.        Since the revolution in 1974, Ethiopia has been ruled by a Military
Administrative Council. A Central Planning Supreme Council, chaired by the
Head of State, and on which government ministers, peasant associations, urban
dwellers and trade unions are represented, is responsible for the preparation,
decision and oversight of economic plans and policies. In parallel with this
body, a Council of Ministers is responsible for implementation. The Govern-
ment's general objectives emphasize raising the living standard of all
Ethiopians, especially the poor, through central planning and control of the
major industries, the financial system and foreign trade, and through the
mobilization of the mass of the people to increase production.  Emphasis is
being given to the provision of free and more widespread education, improved
health services and wider employment opportunities.
Economic and Social Reforms
4.        Since 1974, a number of specific reforms have been introduced in
line with the goals set out above. Of most direct importance to the majority
of Ethiopians was the 1975 land reform, under which all rural land was



- 2 -
made the "collective property of the Ethiopian people" and user rights of
up to ten hectares allocated to former tenants and to others personally
willing to cultivate the land. Former commercial farms were either handed
over to peasants for individual or collective cultivation, or retained as
state farms. However, state farms account for less than two percent of
cultivated area. By 1979, about 25,000 peasant associations with seven
million members had been formed throughout the secure rural areas. These
associations decide on limited security and judicial matters and are re-
sponsible for land redistribution and the establishment and management of
marketing and producers cooperatives. Representative associations are also
being established at woreda, awraja and regional levels. 1/ In May 1978, the
All-Ethiopia Peasant Association, composed of representatives from regional
associations, was established. In June 1979, the Government announced a
long-term policy objective to form producers cooperatives; however, few have
been established so far since the Government has been preceeding cautiously
with this policy, and wishes compliance to be voluntary.
5.        In the urban sector all land was nationalized in 1975, and owner-
ship of houses restricted to one per family with extra houses nationalized.
Urban dwellers associations (kebeles) have been established to parallel the
peasant associations and have been delegated similar powers. Most large
enterprises in the modern sector, including some owned by Ethiopians, were
nationalized during 1975, and are now subject to centralized policy guidance
and investment approval. Under legislation introduced in 1979, a large
part of public enterprise profits are also to be reallocated centrally. The
banks and financial institutions now function as subsidiaries of the National
Bank of Ethiopia. The private sector retains a role in the Ethiopian economy,
notably in construction, peasant agriculture, trade and small-scale manufac-
turing, but that role remains uncertain; on the one hand the Government has
stated that it intends to permit private ownership while on the other the
impact of some policies (higher income taxes, government intervention in
trade, foreign exchange and credit allocation) may have been adverse. Co-
operative enterprises are being encouraged in all sectors where private
ownership is now dominant.
Economic Background
6.        The reforms took place against a background of desperate poverty
and backwardness. Ethiopia, with an estimated annual per capita GNP of about
US$120 in 1978, is one of the least developed countries in the world. The
population, estimated at about 31.0 million in 1978, and growing at about
2.5 percent annually, is predominantly rural (about 90 percent). Some ten
percent of the population is literate; there is one physician for every
80,000 people and only 26 percent of the children of primary school age are
actually enrolled. About two percent of the rural population and 30 percent
of the urban population have reasonable access to a safe water supply. In
many parts of the country, soils have become seriously depleted as population
1/   Ethiopia is divided administratively into 15 regions (including Addis
Ababa), 102 awrajas (provinces), and 586 weredas (districts).



- 3 -
pressure has forced people to cultivate ecologically unsuitable land. As a
result, many such areas have faced periodic drought and food shortages, the
severity of which has been increasing over time. The lack of transport is
such that only one quarter of the population is within one day's round trip on
foot from an all-weather road. This low level of development itself causes
low savings, investment and growth.
7.        Ethiopia's natural resources include gold, platinum, copper and
potash; there has been considerable petroleum exploration in the past.
However, none of these minerals has been exploited on a large scale. There
are prospects for the exploitation of geothermal energy. The country's
main potential lies in agriculture, for which the natural conditions in
many areas are favorable. At present, around 50 percent of GDP originates
in agriculture, and most industry is also agriculture-based. Compared with
other countries at similar stages of development, Ethiopia has a relatively
skilled and trained work force, but manpower shortages still remain a con-
straint on development.
Economic Developments up to 1978
8.        From FY1973/74 to 1977/78, GDP grew at less than 0.5 percent per
annum in real terms. This low growth rate reflected security problems, the
uncertainties, dislocations and resistance which accompanied the economic
reforms and the ensuing difficulties in internal marketing and distribution.
The emergency situations in Eritrea and the Ogaden during 1977/78 caused
the destruction of facilities, the dislocation of transport and communica-
tions and the diversion of resources from economic development. Although
agricultural production was maintained, the structure of production shifted
away from export crops towards food grains, and marketed production probably
declined. In the industrial sector, the closure of factories in the Eritrea
region, which formerly accounted for about one-third of industrial produc-
tion, caused a fall in output. Production was also constrained by shortages
of agricultural raw materials, spare parts shortages, machinery breakdowns,
high managerial turnover, labor disputes and negligible new investment.
Construction activity declined. Inflation was rampant, with consumer prices
rising at an average rate of 20 percent per annum through the three years
ending mid-1978.
9.        These difficulties were also reflected in Ethiopia's external
transactions. Export earnings from coffee were maintained, partly because
of the price boom in 1976/77. However, the value of other exports declined,
with the result that coffee now accounts for three-quarters of total export
value. Imports on the other hand grew rapidly, at about 21 percent per annum
in value terms since 1973/74. However, much of this increase was attributable
to drought relief and other unspecified terms, probably including military
imports. The resulting deterioration in the resource balance was financed up
to and including 1976/77 by external assistance, either in the form of trans-
fers or of net inflows of public capital. In 1977/78, the capital inflow was
reduced, and the deficit was financed largely by heavy recourse to foreign
exchange reserves, which were drawn down from the equivalent of one year's
supply of imports to about five months.



- 4 -
10.       The role of the central Government and the public sector increased
significantly. Central Government expenditure, which averaged 11.7 percent
of GDP in the early seventies, reached 18 percent of GDP in 1977/78. At
the same time, the Government was forced to increase its reliance on domestic
borrowing. The growth in current expenditure was largely attributable to
military needs, which reached 66 percent of total recurrent outlays in 1977/78.
Other current spending was kept under strict control. Central Government
capital spending increased steadily (except in 1977/78, the year of the
emergency (para.8)), with road construction and agriculture as the main areas
of emphasis.  In addition, a large part of the increase in bank credit to the
non-central Government sector was accounted for by public enterprises (espe-
cially the state farms).
11.       Modern public sector employment expanded, although comprehensive
information on this is not available. With the shortage of grain in urban
areas and the resulting rise in grain prices, it appears likely that the
rural-urban terms of trade improved and that, as a result, the income of
peasant farmers increased. Correspondingly, urban real wages probably fell.
While the salaries of approximately the top ten percent of public sector
employees have been frozen, the Government has permitted the wages of lower
paid workers to rise.
The Economic Campaigns
12.       Thus, by mid-1978, a number of serious economic problems had emerged
or intensified. It was against this background that, in September 1978, the
Government introduced the first "economic campaign" with the objectives of:
(i) reducing the current food shortages by intensifying efforts in the organ-
izations dealing with the peasant sector, and by doubling state farm area;
(ii) helping drought-affected highland areas by strengthening afforestation,
rehabilitation and resettlement programs; (iii) eliminating current shortages
of consumer items and certain construction materials; (iv) improving the
efficiency of government agencies and businesses; and (v) increasing foreign
exchange availability by promoting exports. Physical production targets
for each of the key sectors were to be achieved partly by the reallocation of
resources, and partly by improved discipline and efficiency in the organiza-
tions concerned. The economic campaign clearly recognized the priority of
the productive sectors, at least in the short run, and the need to improve
discipline in public sector organizations. This first campaign ran for one
year, ending June 1979 (para. 16). A second campaign, covering the fiscal
year 1979/80, followed (para. 17). The Government now intends to introduce
such campaigns or action programs each year, as part of an evolution towards
more comprehensive multi-year planning.
Recent Economic Developments
13.       During the fiscal year 1978/79, a significant revival took place.
GDP is provisionally estimated to have grown by 5.2 percent in real terms,
with most of the growth in manufacturing (27.3 percent), distribution services
(12.9 percent) and agriculture (2.4 percent). The value of merchandise ex-
ports rose more than ten percent. Despite lower coffee prices, coffee exports
recovered significantly, from 57,800 tons in 1977/78 to 86,800 tons in 1978/79.



Hides and skins exports maintained the same volume as the previous year, but
most other exports continued their decline. Imports increased by 8.4 percent
in value terms, with most of the increase in fuel, semi-finished goods and
transport equipment. An improved rate of project implementation was probably
the main factor contributing to a substantial rise in external loan disburse-
ments and in project-related capital transfers. Hence, the fall in foreign
exchange reserves of about US$45 million during the fiscal year was much
less than the previous year (US$126 million). In addition, as of August 1980,
Ethiopia's drawings from the IMF under the Compensatory Financing Facility (CFF)
stood at about US$47 million. Total net reserves, at about US$206 million in
April 1980, were sufficient to finance about four months' imports at the 1979
rate.
14.       The fiscal position in 1978/79 also improved.  New revenue
measures (increased income taxes, agricultural taxes, import duties, capital
charges on public enterprise profits and excise taxes on some mass consumer
goods), were introduced during the year. Coupled with the higher level of
economic activity, these measures generated a 15 percent growth in revenue,
with direct taxes, and taxes on domestic sales and imports,as the main contri-
butors. Central Government revenues now account for about 16 percent of
GDP, compared with 10 to 11 percent in the early 1970s. On the expenditure
side, the Government was able to reduce its recurrent expenditures, keep
its general expenditures (which include defense) to within six percent of the
previous year's level (despite inflation at significantly higher levels),and
permit a resumption of the growth in capital spending which had been curtailed
by the emergency situation in the previous year. With the increase in foreign
loan disbursements (para. 13), the Government was able to restrain recourse to
the domestic banking system to less than 1-1/2 percent of GDP (compared to
about 5 percent the previous year).
15.       Preliminary assessments of the 1979/80 grain harvest indicate
an improvement over previous years, and grain arrivals in Addis Ababa during
the months of November 1979 to January 1980 showed increases over the previous
year of more than 40 percent. Urban grain prices have consequently eased.
However, drought struck once again in Ethiopia this year, affecting both
the northern highlands of Eritrea, Tigrai and Wollo, and also the southern
provinces of Bale, Sidamo and Gamo Gofa.   The Relief and Rehabilitation
Commission estimated that some five million people were affected. A multi-
donor mission in May/June 1980, led by the United Nations Disaster Relief
Organization, estimated drought-related requirements that included over
280,000 tons of food.  In addition, a United Nations interagency mission under
the auspices of the Economic and Social Council visited Ethiopia in July 1980
and estimated substantial additional food and other requirements to meet the
needs of displaced persons.
16.       The economic revival can be attributed to a number of factors.
First, the return of comparative peace and security in late 1978 permitted
the reallocation of resources, particularly transport, to normal economic
activity. Secondly, several industries in Eritrea were reopened and re-
supplied. Thirdly, there have been two good harvest years in the main
grain-producing areas. Finally, the Government's economic campaign had a
discernible effect in at least two directions; in giving clear indications
of priorities and allocating resources accordingly, and in greatly improving



- 6 -
discipline and management in many of the public sector enterprises. Pre-
liminary indications are that, in the publicly-owned industrial sector, pro-
duction grew by 36 percent (45 percent was planned) during the first economic
campaign, while in the agricultural sector, 94 percent (about 145,000 hectares)
of the planned state farm area was ploughed. State farm production, however,
is not yet known.
17.       It will not be easy to sustain the revival evident during 1979.
First, international economic conditions are unfavorable and the prospects are
for a deterioration in the terms of trade, with lower prices for coffee--the
principal export--and higher petroleum prices. Secondly, although the volume
of coffee exports has continued to rise as a result of a marketing drive, and
hides and skins prices have remained favorable, other exports have not yet
shown signs of recovery. Thirdly, external assistance commitments have
probably not risen sufficiently rapidly in recent years to sustain higher
import levels. These factors indicate that foreign exchange will become
increasingly constrained. The revival in domestic production will, further-
more, become increasingly subject to capacity constraints, due to the low
level of investment during the past few years. The rapid production increases
of the past year are principally attributable to the improved utilization of
existing capacity. The Government, however, has planned for even larger
production increases for the fiscal year 1979/80, especially in the construc-
tion sector, under its second economic campaign. The targets which have been
set for the various sectors imply a GDP growth rate of 7.3 percent in real
terms.
Government Programs
19.       Since 1974, the Government has launched a number of programs and
projects, some of which had been under preparation before the revolution and
subsequently reoriented to the needs of the poor, especially in rural areas.
In agriculture, the thrust has been to develop peasant agriculture, rehabili-
tate drought-affected areas, and to develop export and industrial crops. In
the manufacturing sector, increased emphasis has been given to small-scale,
cottage and handicraft industries, and to the production of mass consumer
goods. New projects in these productive sectors have been slow in starting,
however, partly because of uncertainties over government policies and pro-
grams. Road construction has expanded and shifted in emphasis towards
rural roads. A 10-year frame plan for education covering the period 1979
to 1989 seeks to emphasize primary and non-formal education with increased
cultural, economic and political relevance. Enrollments at all levels
have been increasing more rapidly than before, especially in those rural
areas which were relatively under-provided with facilities. Rural health
and water supply programs are being expanded, and the Government has been
preparing programs to improve urban housing and services, especially for
low-income groups. In mid-1979, the Government launched a nationwide literary
campaign. Not least, the Government has improved and expanded its relief
operations.
20.       The formation and mobilization of so many peasant associations
and kebeles over a short period (para. 4) is a less tangible achievement,
but one which may be of great long-run significance. These organizations



- 7 -
provide a basis upon which the Government can build an accelerated develop-
ment effort, with emphasis on the poorest social groups. It is true that
the peasant associations and kebeles will need additional support to enable
them to carry out some of their tasks, such as land redistribution, the
establishment of cooperative farms and trading activity. Nevertheless,
some of their potential is already being realized; they are playing a signi-
ficant role in the construction of primary schools, training centers, clinics,
and rural roads, in reafforestation and conservation activity and in the
organization of literacy campaigns and other self-help projects.
External Assistance
21.       Unlike many other African countries, Ethiopia has no traditional
source of technical and financial assistance. The Bank Group was for some
years the largest source of loans and credits, but in recent years, the
African Development Bank, the Soviet Union, the German Democratic Republic and
Czechoslovakia have expanded their support, and development assistance
is continuing from the Federal Republic of Germany and Italy. U.S. Exim-
bank made a loan in 1979 for aircraft purchases. In addition to the CFF
(para. 13), the IMF has made Trust Fund loans. As of August 1980, Ethiopia's
net borrowings under the Trust Fund had reached about US$34.6 million. Italy,
Finland, Sweden and Japan have concluded debt forgiveness arrangements with
Ethiopia. Sweden and the EEC are providing important assistance on grant
terms. Excluding military debt service, for which no information is available,
the ratio of Ethiopia's debt service to export earnings has remained low (8.1
percent in 1978/79) because of the relatively low level of external loan
commitments in recent years, and the tendency of some donors to shift to
support on grant terms. Total debt outstanding and disbursed was about US$620
million at December 31, 1979.
22.       Local cost financing in Ethiopia should be at a high level.  The
country's poverty and its weak balance of payments position suggest the need
for very substantial resource transfers. The slow-down in project preparation
activity over recent years (para. 19) has meant that resources cannot be
transferred sufficiently rapidly through conventional financing of foreign
exchange costs only. Within the limits imposed by its perceived security
needs over the past few years, the Government has diverted available resources
towards economic and social development (paras 10 and 19); it has restrained
salaries, squeezed the import of non-essentials and increased what was formerly
a low tax burden to contribute to security and developmental needs.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ETHIOPIA
23.       Bank Group lending to Ethiopia since 1950 totals about US$477 mil-
lion (less cancellations), consisting of 24 IDA credits totalling US$353
million, 12 Bank loans totalling US$109 million, and five IFC commitments
totalling US$15.8 million. Nearly half the lending (US$228 million) was
committed between fiscal years 1974 and 1978, when a compensation issue
necessitated a hiatus in further lending (para. 28). Since FY1973, lending
has been only on IDA terms. From 1973 to 1977, IBRD-s and IDA-s combined



- 8 -
share of gross disbursements of public medium- and long-term loans increased
from 24.1 percent to 67.3 percent. However, these data tend to exaggerate
somewhat the dependence on the Bank, since they exclude the growing tendency
of other donors to give capital assistance on grant terms. IBRD's share of
total public debt outstanding and disbursed as of end-1979 has been pro-
visionally estimated at about 10 percent, and IDA's at 36 percent. Their
shares of total debt service in 1979 have been provisionally estimated at
about 35 percent and 7 percent, respectively.
24.       Bank lending focussed on the construction of trunk roads, power and
telecommunications facilities until the late 1960s, when its emphasis shifted
to agriculture and education. In the past six fiscal years, six credits
totaling US$107 million have been made for agricultural development. One
credit of US$23 million, the fourth in a series, was made for education. In
addition, the last three credits for roads have placed emphasis on meeting
agricultural needs. This program reflects the increased opportunity for
agricultural lending brought about by improved sectoral knowledge, and the
heavier emphasis on agriculture and education in the Government's priorities.
25.       Project implementation in Ethiopia, although subject to some diffi-
culties, is generally satisfactory. Security problems affected the Lower
Adiabo Project (Cr. 556), the Rangelands Project (Cr. 603), and the Drought
Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 485). In recent time, the Lower Adiabo Project
has made no progress, and therefore steps are being taken to cancel the undis-
bursed amount of the credit. The latter two, however, have made reasonable
progress. Projects frequently suffer from management problems, sometimes
reflecting current political conditions, but those in the highways and educa-
tion sectors particularly continue to have strong management. Financial
problems have also occurred, but have been remedied in most cases. Disburse-
ments, which increased from US$31 million in FY76 to US$40 million in FY77,
fell in FY78 to US$27 million. This occurred partly because some fast
disbursing projects like the first Minimum Package Project were fully dis-
bursed and also because of transport difficulties caused by war. However,
disbursements of over US$44 million in FY79 and US$33.5 million in FY80
indicate a return to normal.
26.       The changing environment in Ethiopia, especially the land reform,
has required basic conceptual changes in many projects and has been one of
the factors, together with management and staffing constraints, causing
implementation delays and postponement of closing dates. Such changes have
hindered progress on the Second Livestock Project (Cr. 365), and steps are
being taken to cancel the undisbursed credit balance. However, the changes
have sometimes had beneficial impacts on the projects in question; for example,
the scope of the Coffee Processing Project (290-ET) was widened to include
existing coffee washing stations taken over under the land reform. General
problems, such as rising labor costs and occasional shortages of construction
materials, have also detracted from efficient project implementation. However,
our experience has been that the Government and the project managements have
often been successful in efforts to overcome these problems. Ethiopia's
overall record on project implementation is about average for the Eastern
Africa Region and has shown no general deterioration over the last three
years. Annex II contains a summary of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC



- 9 -
investments, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. In addition to
its lending program, the Bank has been supporting the Government's development
efforts by seconding, in cooperation with UNDP, a project identification and
preparation advisor to the Central Planning Supreme Council.
27.       We propose to continue our support for the Government's growth
and equity-oriented objectives. A fifth education project, an urban project,
and a development finance company and small-scale industry project are being
contemplated. The education project will assist the Government to provide
a wider distribution of educational opportunities and to achieve universal
primary education. The urban project will help the Government to establish
policies, programs and institutions capable of delivering affordable shelter
and services to the urban poor. The industrial finance project will complement
the urban project by promoting the growth of employment opportunities in
small-and medium-scale industry. In addition, a second coffee processing
project is being prepared.
Compensation
28.       In early 1975, the Government nationalized enterprises, either
partly or wholly, in which it deemed government ownership or control to be
in the public interest. When doing so, the Government stated that fair
compensation would be paid to former owners. To implement this policy, it
established a Compensation Commission in late 1975/early 1976 to receive
and review claims, and to negotiate and reach agreement with former owners
on the amount of compensation and the manner of payment.  Much time passed,
however, with little evidence of progress. Following the Board's approval
of Credit 789-ET (Grain Storage and Marketing Project) in April 1978, the
Bank informed the Government that, before another lending proposal for
Ethiopia could be presented to the Executive Directors, a process for
resolving the compensation issue would have to be initiated.
29.       A beginning has now been made.  In October  1980, in Addis Ababa, the
Compensation Commission and the Fuji Spinning Company of Japan, IFC's
nationalized partner in the former Cotton Company of Ethiopia, began
negotiating Fuji's claims in respect of two former subsidiaries of the
Cotton Company -- the Syncotex Company and the Garment Company of Ethiopia.
Subsequently, in November 1980, negotiations were held with an American
claimant and, currently, negotiatio--c -Titb an Italian claimant are in
process.  In addition, a German clai,crt has been invited for negotiations.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
30.       Ethiopia is predominantly rural.  Ninety percent of the population
(about 28 million) live in rural areas and about 80 percent of the total
labor force is employed in agriculture.   About half of GDP is contributed
by agriculture, and agricultural products comprise over 90 percent of
Ethiopia's total exports. Crops account for about 80 percent of the gross
value of agricultural production with livestock and livestock products
accounting for the remainder. Coffee is the single most important crop;



- 10 -
it contributed over half of agricultural GDP and about three quarters of
export earnings in 1977/78.
31.       About 5.5 million hectares in Ethiopia are being cultivated for
major food crops. Of this area, about 28 percent is planted with teff,
16 percent with barley, 16 percent with maize, 13 percent with sorghum, and
9 percent with wheat. Secondary crops include sugar, cotton, sesame, sisal
and linseed. Livestock plays an important role in most Ethiopian farms, and
the country has the largest national cattle herd in Africa (about 27 million
head, or one animal per person). Smallholdings, most of which are two hectares
or less in size, contribute almost 98 percent of crop production, state farms
about two percent, and cooperative farms less than one percent. The state
farms, however, contribute about 20 to 25 percent of marketed grain output.
32.       Ethiopia is still relatively well-endowed with unexploited agri-
cultural resources and has a wide range of climate and altitude that permits
many diverse crops to be grown. Of the country-s total area of 120 million
hectares, some 78 million (65 percent) is agricultural, of which 13 million
is cropped from time to time and 65 million is permanent pasture. Although
much of the land is too arid for rainfed cropping, large areas of available
land are known to be suitable for crop development but their utilization is
currently constrained by both lack of infrastructure and health problems
(principally tsetse fly and malaria).
33.       During recent years, total foodgrain production in Ethiopia has
fluctuated from year to year, but has shown no steadily rising trend. Before
the land reform (para 4), Ethiopia in a normal crop year produced some 4.5 to
5.0 million tons of grains, oilseeds and pulses, giving rise to a small cereal
deficit in the order of 25,000 tons and a surplus of over 200,000 tons of
oilseeds and pulses which constituted an important export. Following the
land reform, total foodgrain production has been maintained at about 5.0
million tons annually. Nevertheless, with increasing urbanization and a
population rising by about 2.5 percent annually, Ethiopia moved after 1975/76
from the status of a net exporter of cereals to a net importer. The size of
the grain deficit and its likely trend are difficult to estimate but, in
1978/79, imports (including food aid and drought relief) amounted to about
five percent of the country s 1977/78 total foodgrain production.
34.       During drought years, notably in 1973/74 and again this year
(para. 15), famines have occurred in the drier parts of the country. In the
worst affected areas (the highlands of Wollo, Tigrai and parts of Gondar and
Shewa Provinces) which contain about 1.6 million farm families, population and
livestock increases have led to increased farming intensity and the progres-
sive shortening of fallow periods, slope cultivation, removal of tree cover,
soil degradation and declining yields.  If erosion continues unchecked in
these areas of marginal-to-moderate rainfall, the degradation will become
almost impossible to reverse after one or two decades, leaving these areas
with permanent grain deficits and adding them to large areas of the country
that are already unfit for cultivation. The Association, through the Drought
Areas Rehabilitation Project (Credit 485-ET of 1974), has been providing some
assistance together with other bilateral and international agencies to tackle
this problem, but far more remains to be done. The proposed project includes
a component to help address this problem (para. 68).



- 11 -
35.       The economic campaigns (para 12) stress the importance of agricul-
ture. The Government's strategy is: (i) to increase the productivity of
peasant farms while also expanding the state farms; and (ii) to strengthen the
peasant associations and promote cooperative development. Increased peasant
production is to be achieved by increased application of fertilizers, improved
seeds, pesticides, farm implements and planting practices, exnanded irrigation
through building small dams, and increased grain storage construction. In
addition, the farmers are to be mobilized to implement a re-afforestation and
soil and water conservation program. The Association has been assisting the
Government to implement key elements of this strategy (para 46), particularly
an agricultural minimum package program which is the centerpiece of the
Government's efforts to improve peasant production.
36.       The minimum package program had its origins in a countrywide FAQ
fertilizer trial program and in a series of comprehensive rural development
projects initiated in the late 1960s which showed that significant increases
in cereal yields could be obtained through the use of fertilizer, seed and
extension advice. It was recognized, however, that covering the entire country
with comprehensive projects would not be feasible because of their high cost
and manpower requirements. Hence, the minimum package program was developed
to supply a lower level of inputs and services but to a larger number of
farmers.
37.        The program began in 1970 with assistance from SIDA.  The Association
added its support in 1973 by providing a US$21 million credit (No. 416-ET),
together with SIDA cofinancing, for the first Minimum Package Project (MPP I),
which comprised a three year segment of the program beginning in 1974. MPP I
provided: (i) incremental farm inputs and working capital to finance fertil-
izer; (ii) rural feeder roads; (iii) extension and support services; (iv)
credit facilities; and (v) consultants services to prepare future projects.
The basic unit of MPP I was the MPP area, which typically contained about
10,000 families and extended 5 km on either side of a 75 km stretch of all-
weather road. The area was divided into five sub-areas, each with a market
center and a one hectare trial and demonstration plot. The market center
provided a base for marketing assistants and extension agents, storage for
inputs and grain, and a focal point for farmers. Extension was based on
the model farmer approach, in which the benefits of using fertilizer and other
inputs were demonstrated in prospective MPP areas by first extending them to a
few of the better farmers.
38.       A Project Performance Audit Report (No. 3002) on MPP I was circulated
to the Executive Directors on May 30, 1980. The project was completed largely
on schedule in 1978 and within the original cost estimate, but a number of
modifications were made during implementation after the land reform. About
$2.0 million of the credit was reallocated to an emergency program to provide
seed and plowing that had previously been provided by the farm landlords. Two
seed multiplication farms were not established, which led to an inadequate
seed supply, and a major shortfall was experienced in the road construction
component. In addition, various difficulties were encountered during imple-
mentation. Security problems necessitated the closing of about 15 percent of
the market centers. Transport was hampered from time to time by military
requisitioning of trucks, and by a temporary cut in the Addis Ababa-Djibouti



- 12 -
railway line. The transport system today, however, is functioning well.
Credit repayments were initially good, but confusion surrounding the purposes
of the land reform increased arrears substantially. Between 1975 and 1978,
the average seasonal loan for farm inputs was in arrears by 25 to 30 percent.
Recent reports indicate that this situation is improving and that the arrears
level has fallen below 20 percent. Staff shortages and high turnover in the
implementing agencies during periods of political change also led to poor
project accounting. Nevertheless, the project was a success, particularly
since it was implemented in the midst of profound political change, land
reform, and conflicts in various parts of Ethiopia.  The project met 95
percent of its target for creating MPP areas and 122 percent of its target for
establishing market centers. By the end of the project in 1977/78, the
minimum package program covered 280 weredas.  The program has since been
extended to cover 440 weredas, although operations in most of the weredas
opened after 1977/78 have not yet reached significant levels. As of December
1977, fertilizer and seed sales were 112 percent and 170 percent, respectively,
of appraisal estimates. Mean yield increases over the project period were
estimated at 31 percent for teff, 29 percent for wheat, 21 percent for barley,
24 percent for maize, 35 percent for millet and 26 percent for sorghum. These
estimates were well below estimates made at appraisal, but were still consider-
able production increases. When combined with price increases not foreseen at
appraisal, farmer benefit/cost ratios were at least 2:1 and higher than those
estimated at appraisal. In the project completion report, the economic rate
of return was reestimated at about 13 percent, but the methodology used
differed from that used in the appraisal. The appraisal estimate was about 15
percent.
39.       Experience gained under MPP I indicated that more attention should
be paid to introducing innovations such as improved seeds, implements and
pesticides; better seed supply, soil preparation and planting procedures;
and soil and water conservation. MPP I relied primarily on the impact of
fertilizer to convince farmers of the potential for increasing output,
since this was one innovation that could reliably have a noticeable impact
on yields. In many areas of Ethiopia, however, the application of fertilizer
is not warranted, because of either inaccessibility or inappropriate soil
and climatic conditions. Under the proposed project, greater emphasis will
therefore be placed on applying innovations other than fertilizer (para. 58).
In addition, with the peasant associations emerging as forces for development
in the rural areas, the model farmer extension approach used under MPP I has
been discontinued and the peasant associations are now being used as the main
channel for extension.
40.       In support of its economic campaigns, the Government has been taking
steps to streamline and strengthen the institutions in the agricultural
sector.  In July 1979, the then Ministry of Agriculture and Settlement, which
had been responsible for peasant production, state farms, coffee and tea
development, and settlement, was reorganized. The Ministry had grown large
and cumbersome and was losing its effectiveness. Three new ministries were



- 13 -
created -- the Ministry of Agriculture to be responsible for peasant produc-
tion, soil and water conservation and forestry activities, the Ministry of
State Farms Development, and the Ministry of Coffee and Tea Development.
Responsibility for new settlements was transferred to the Government-s Relief
and Rehabilitation Commission. Each of the ministries was given a mandate to
initiate policies, strategies and projects to develop agriculture in their
respective subsectors. Final decisions on policies and projects, however,
rest with the Central Planning Supreme Council, the Government's central
planning body.
41.       To serve peasant agriculture, the Ministry of Agriculture: (i)
provides farmer extension services through its Agricultural Extension Depart-
ment; (ii) organizes and assists peasant associations and cooperatives through
its Peasant Associations and Cooperatives Department; and (iii) advises and
assists farmers on livestock production and protection through its Animal
Resources Development Department. These three departments are supported by
nine service departments including Planning and Programming, Training, Finance,
Legal Services, and Engineering. Since the reorganization, good progress has
been made in staffing and assigning responsibilities and functions, but the
proposed project will provide needed further strengthening of the Ministry
(para. 55).
42.       The Institute of Agricultural Research provides research support to
the Ministry of Agriculture's peasant production efforts and has been sup-
ported under various IDA-assisted projects. Ethiopia's many varied environ-
mental and climatic conditions dictate the need for a high priority to be
placed on agricultural research. The Institute's work focusses on several
fields including field crops, pasture and forage, soils, horticulture, plant
protection, coffee, animal science, and agricultural engineering. The Govern-
ment has recently reorganized the Institute and placed it under a Science and
Technology Commission in which the various government agricultural bodies are
represented. The Institute is in need of further strengthening, however, and
the proposed project will address this need (para. 66).
43.       The Agricultural Marketing Corporation was established in 1978
in connection with the Grain Storage and Marketing Project (Credit 789-ET), to
help stabilize prices and assure proper food distribution through substantial
market intervention in the country's wholesale trade in cereals, oilseeds and
pulses. It assists the minimum package program by procuring and distributing
fertilizer, seeds and pesticides to peasant associations and cooperatives.
Responsibility for domestic agricultural price regulation, licensing, market
analysis, trade regulation and improving market infrastructure rests with the
Ministry of Domestic Trade. Similar functions relating to foreign markets
are vested in the Ministry of Foreign Trade.
44.       The principal entity for providing medium and long-term financing
for agricultural projects as well as short-term production credit to peasant
associations and cooperatives is the Agricultural and Industrial Development
Bank (AIDB) established in 1970. As of September 30, 1978, AIDB's portfolio



- '4 -
consisted of 1,635 loans amounting to US$ 162 million equivalent. AIDB
received an IDA credit of US$11.0 million in 1972 (Credit 304-ET) and has
administered US$6.5 million of credit funds for five IDA-assisted agricul-
tural projects including the first Minimum Package Project, as well as
US$4.0 million for three IDA-assisted read projects.
45.       From its experience with the minimum package program and other
agricultural schemes, the Government has recognized the critical importance
of improved seeds and in 1978 established the National Seed Council and
created the Ethiopian Seed Corporation. The Council is responsible for
formulating policy and the Corporation for implementing a national seed
multiplication program.  The Corporation is presently a semi-autonomous body
in the Ministry of State Farms Development, but it will be established as a
public corporation with full legal personality and administrative and account-
ing autonomy not later than three months from the date of effectiveness
(Section 4.08, draft Development Credit Agreement). The Corporation has been
receiving assistance under a three-year UNDP/FAO project initiated in July
1979. Substantial additional assistance is required, however, and the pro-
posed project will address this need (para. 63).
46.       The Association has committed over US$150 million during the last
decade to help finance twelve agricultural projects in Ethiopia. Seven are
still being implemented. The projects have focussed on peasant agriculture
(the minimum package program and other more intensive schemes), drought-
affected areas (forestry, soil and water conservation, and settlement),
export or industrial crops (coffee, livestock and irrigated crops), and
grain storage and marketing. Many of these projects attracted other external
donors in view of the importance of agriculture to the economy as a whole.
Project implementation has been generally satisfactory and objectives largely
met (para. 26).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
47.       A report entitled "Ethiopia - Second Agricultural Minimum Package
Project; Staff Appraisal Report", No. 1774b-ET, dated November 18, 1980, is
being distributed separately.
48.       The proposed project was prepared by the Ethiopian Government, with
assistance from IDA staff. Preparatory work started in March 1975 and was
completed in early 1977. The project was first appraised in April/May 1977
by a joint mission of IDA, USAID and SIDA representatives. After appraisal,
a rupture in rail communications between Ethiopia and Djibouti in June 1977
forced delays in project processing. A follow-up appraisal mission of IDA,
USAID and SIDA representatives visited Ethiopia in April/May 1978. Negotia-
tions commenced in Washington in November 1978 but were not formally completed
because of the absence of progress on the compensation issue (para. 28). The
subsequent delay necessitated further updating which was carried out by staff
of the Bank-s Regional Mission in East Africa between November 1979 and



- 15 -
January 1980. Negotiations were reconvened in Washington from April 28
to May 8, 1980. The Ethiopian delegation was led by Woizero Desta Bishaw,
Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Finance, and included Ato Tsegaye Asfaw,
Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture, and Ato Aklilu Afework, Head,
Department of Agricultural Development, Central Planning Supreme Council.
Project Objectives
49.       The proposed project is the second IDA-assisted minimum package
project in Ethiopia and represents the core of the Government's development
program for peasant agriculture. It has been designed to: (i) increase the
productivity and incomes of small farmers by introducing them to fertilizer,
improved seeds and other agricultural inputs; (ii) strengthen the institutional
and technical framework to progressively expand and improve the minimum
package program; and (iii) help to ensure long-term productivity of the land
by expanding the Government's soil and water conservation efforts.
50.       The proposed project will assist a two-year segment, 1980/81 and
1981/82, of the Government's minimum package program and will continue
the efforts initiated under MPP I. It will provide incremental finance
to increase the range of farm inputs offered to farmers and to expand and
consolidate the program's coverage in 440 of the country's 586 weredas,
particularly in the weredas added to the program since the end of MPP I
(para. 37). The remaining weredas have not been included because they
either have little settled agriculture, or have security problems, or have
been covered by other agricultural schemes. In particular, the project will:
(i) strengthen the Ministry of Agriculture and its field extension
support to the minimum package program by providing staff and
staff training, vehicles, buildings and equipment for the
Ministry's headquarters and field offices;
(ii) provide, on credit, crop inputs including fertilizers, improved
seeds, pesticides, and tools, and also animal husbandry inputs
in selected areas. In particular, the project will include only
the annual incremental farm inputs in each of the years 1980/81
and 1981/82, using the level of inputs prevailing in 1977/78,
the last year of MPP I, as a reference base for 1980/81;
(iii) strengthen the Ethiopian Seed Corporation-s capacity to produce
basic seed, and the peasant associations' capacity to multiply
and clean seeds, by providing technical assistance, buildings
and equipment, and funds to help the Corporation meet its annual
incremental operating costs;
(iv) construct low-cost rural roads to support the expansion of
the minimum package program;
(v) strengthen the Institute of Agricultural Research by providing
staff training, and conduct applied research and field demon-
strations to help develop improved technical packages for
farmers; and



- 16 -
(vi) expand soil and water conservation efforts in badly degraded
areas, and strengthen the Government's capacity to implement
further conservation work by providing field staff and equipment.
Project Implementation
51.       The Ministry of Agriculture will:  (i) prepare detailed work plans
and farm input forecasts necessary to manage the minimum package program
efficiently; (ii) provide field extension and support services for crop
farming, animal husbandry, seed multiplication and cleaning, and self-help
construction of rural roads; (iii) distribute farm inputs and credit at the
field level; (iv) conduct crop field research and demonstrations; and (v)
implement the soil and water conservation component. The Ministry's Permanent
Secretary will be the Project Manager. The Ethiopian Road Authority in the
Ministry of Transport and Communications that is currently implementing three
IDA-assisted projects including a sector credit, will execute the rural roads
component according to plans agreed with the Ministry of Agriculture. The
Ethiopian Seed Corporation will implement the seed production component and
the Institute of Agricultural Research will carry out the research training
program. The Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank will extend short-
term credit to peasant associations on the basis of credit appraisals made by
the Ministry of Agriculture's extension staff. The Agricultural Marketing
Corporation will purchase and distribute farm inputs to the Ministry of
Agriculture's field offices on the basis of the Ministry's forecasts. The
Supreme Council will have ultimate responsibility for the overall coordi-
nation of the project.
52.       The Government has already started the low-cost organizational
and administrative aspects of the first year's program, including some local
recruitment. Physical implementation is scheduled to get underway in earnest
in early January 1981. The Government has targeted the project to be largely
completed within two years. This schedule is ambitious, but within the limits
of financial and physical feasibility. Implementation has therefore been
scheduled over a two-year period, but disbursements have been scheduled over
a period nine months longer.
53.       The project will be executed in accordance with annual work plans
to be submitted to the Association not later than May 1 of each year. The
plans will contain the Ministry of Agriculture's fiscal year work program
and budget and be accompanied by supporting information. The work plan, or
parts thereof, must be satisfactory to the Association and meet specific
criteria regarding the availability of qualified staff (para. 56), crop and
animal husbandary inputs, veterinary services and accessibility before funds
will be disbursed for the various parts of the plan (Sections 4.05 and 6.03,
and Schedule 1, draft Development Credit Agreement). The plan for 1980/81
has been reviewed by the Association.



- 17 -
Detailed Features of the Project
(a) Strengthening of the Ministry of Agriculture
54.       The project will strengthen the headquarters, 13 regional offices,
about 81 awraja offices, and about 440 wereda offices of the Ministry.
Office buildings for the 13 regions and for 30 awrajas, and stores for 60
weredas, will be constructed.
55.       Although the minimum package program represents the bulk of the
Ministry's activities, the Ministry will need additional staff and facili-
ties to manage the increased workload generated by the project. In the
Ministry's headquarters, an MPP Technical Support Unit headed by a Technical
Support Officer will be established and will report directly to the Permanent
Secretary (Section 4.02, draft Development Credit Agreement). Including the
Technical Support Officer, the Ministry will employ eighteen internationally-
recruited specialists and consultants (32.5 man-years at US$96,000 per year).
Eleven of them (18.5 man-years) will be provided under the project and the re-
maining seven under the ongoing minimum package program. In addition, the
project will provide eight accountant trainers recruited from volunteer
agencies (16 man-years at US$19,300 per year). The specialists and consultants
will include an Evaluation Economist and an Agricultural Planner for the
Planning and Programming Department; a Chief Accountant, systems specialists
and the accountant trainers for the Finance Department; accounting specialists
for the Cooperative and Peasant Association Department; an Agronomist and soil
fertility and soil and water conservation specialists for the Agricultural
Extension Department; a Livestock Products Marketing specialist for the Animal
Husbandry Department; and training specialists for the Training Department.
The appointments of the Technical Support Officer, Evaluation Economist, Chief
Accountant, Agronomist and the head of the Ministry's Training Department will
be satisfactory to the Association. The others will be employed in consulta-
tion with the Association (Section 4.02, draft Development Credit Agreement).
The initial appointments of the Technical Support Officer, Evaluation Economist
and Chief Accountant will be conditions for effectiveness (Section 7.01(d),
draft Development Credit Agreement).
56.       The Ministry's field offices will also be provided with additional
staff to meet the Government's objective of strengthening regional adminis-
tration. The regional offices will gradually assume responsibility to design
regional activities, prepare budgets and accounts, recruit and train staff,
and procure local materials. Each regional office will include managerial
staff, agricultural specialists, accountants, and an internal auditor. The
regional offices will supervise and provide specialist support to the awraja
offices, which in turn will supervise and support the wereda offices. The
awraja offices will help to design trials and demonstrations, disburse petty
cash, provide training courses at twelve Farmer Training Centers (para. 57),
and assist liaison between the various government agencies involved in the
project. Each awraja office will be manned with appropriate managerial and
technical support staff. Each wereda office will include a cooperative agent,
a peasant association agent, a bookkeeper, and an appropriate number of
development agents to advise farmers and establish crop demonstrations. For a



- 18 -
specific region, awraja and wereda to qualify for inclusion in the project,
key staff must be in place at all three levels and at least seventy percent of
the less important staff must be in place at the regional and awraja levels.
These criteria will be met before funds will be disbursed (para. 53).
(b) Manpower and Training
57.       Over the project period, the Ministry of Agriculture will need to
recruit an estimated 3,000 employees, including 160 university graduates, 480
diploma-level graduates, 530 wereda level bookkeepers and 1,700 wereda level
development agents. More than adequate university and diploma-level graduates
are expected to be available from Ethiopia's major educational institutions to
staff the project by early in the second year of implementation. The avail-
ability of a sufficient number of lower level staff, however, is expected
to be more critical. Six month pre-service training courses will be given
to prospective development agents at the Ministry's Farmer Training Centers
throughout the country, which can train about 800 recruits annually. A
sufficient number of bookkeepers will be trained at the commercial school of
Addis Ababa. The Ministry's Training Department will be strengthened (para.
55) and will coordinate and monitor the project's training needs to ensure
that adequate staff are available. The Training Department will also provide
in-service refresher training for key personnel at the Farmer Training Centers.
In addition, all technical assistance personnel in the Ministry will be
required to train counterpart staff, and the volunteer accountants will
periodically be used in mobile teams to train and upgrade the accountants
and bookkeepers in the field offices.
(c) Crop Inputs
58.       The project will provide incremental crop inputs to peasant asso-
ciations and cooperatives on credit (in kind). Two basic crop packages will
be available to suit differing ecological and transport conditions: (i) a
package including both fertilizer and other innovations such as improved
seeds, pesticides, implements, soil preparation, planting techniques, crop
protection and storage; and soil and water conservation; and (ii) a package
including only the innovations other than fertilizer. Estimated farmer adop-
tion rates of these inputs have been made on the basis of experience gained
from MPP I and afterwards. Fertilizer, however, is expected to be the primary
input in most areas, and an estimated 140,000 tons will be used during the
project period. Of this, the project will finance about 26,000 tons (costing
about US$13.9 million), representing the annual incremental usage under the
minimum package program between the end of MPP I and the end of the proposed
project, less the estimated excess fertilizer stock Ethiopia presently has on
hand. The Government currently subsidizes fertilizer (at the rate of about
20 percent of cost in 1978/79) as well as other farm inputs, but will review
whether the subsidies should be reduced or eliminated in connection with an
overall study on cost recovery to be carried out during the execution of the
project (para 76).



- 19 -
(d) Animal Husbandry Inputs
59.      Since livestock is an integral part of many Ethiopian farms, the
project will include a modest livestock development program to help relieve
constraints to increased smallholder production. The program will provide
animal husbandry training for farmers and improved bulls for controlled
breeding, and establish livestock marketing centers in about five weredas
annually. It will also improve animal nutrition through fodder crop trials
and disease prevention through improved veterinary supplies. The exact scope
of the program will depend on the rate trained staff become available, but
operations in about 80 weredas should begin during the project period.
Improved breeding stock will be sold on credit initially at subsidized prices
to encourage adoption. To help increase the improved stock supply, a heifer
breeding ranch with a production capacity of about 350 heifers annually will
be established. No disbursements for this ranch will be made until detailed
plans are prepared for it that are satisfactory to the Association (Schedule
1, draft Development Credit Agreement). Expansion of the breed improvement
program will be limited to areas with satisfactory veterinary services and
suitable ecological conditions. The Association will review and approve
expansion proposals as part of the annual work plan mechanism (para. 53).
(e) Credit and Marketing
60.      The following credit system will be used:  (i) the Agricultural
Marketing Corporation (AMC) will purchase farm inputs on the basis of Ministry
of Agriculture forecasts and distribute them to the Ministry's field offices;
(ii) the field offices will make credit arrangements with, and distribute the
inputs to, the peasant associations and cooperatives (who will be the borrowers
rather than individual farmers); and (iii) the Agricultural and Industrial
Development Bank (AIDB) will reimburse AMC for the inputs once the credit
arrangements have been concluded. The Borrower will relend about US$12.1
million of the proceeds from the IDA credit (US$8.3 million) and IFAD loan
(US$3.8 million) to AIDB at 8 percent interest per annum, with a repayment
period of five years including two years grace, under a subsidiary loan
agreement satisfactory to the Association. Its signing will be a condition
for effectiveness (Sections 4.03 and 7.01(c), and Schedule 5, draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement). The peasant associations and cooperatives will be
required to make a down payment of at least 15 percent on seasonal inputs and
10 percent on medium-term (two-year) inputs. An annual interest rate of 12
percent will be charged for both seasonal and medium-term credit, the same
rate as that charged under MPP I. This compares with an average interest rate
of 9.5 percent charged in commercial lending. In addition to the income it
receives from the interest charged, AIDB will, from its operating income, make
adequate provision for bad debts on new loans to peasant associations and
cooperatives at a level of not less than five percent of such loans, or some
other level acceptable to the Association. Inflation rates in Ethiopia
averaged about 19 percent annually between 1975 and 1979, and are expected to
average about 15 percent between 1980 and 1981, dropping to 12 percent in 1982
and 11 percent in 1983. By the end of the project period, therefore, the 12



- 20 -
percent rate is expected to be marginally positive. The Ministry's field
offices will appraise and supervise credit operations on behalf of AIDB, for
which it will receive 1.5 percentage points of the 12 percent annual interest
paid by the borrowers, leaving 10.5 percent for AIDB or a spread of 2.5 percent
over the cost of its borrowed funds. In accordance with existing practices,
AIDB will not extend any new loans to any peasant association or cooperative
that was in arrears by more than five percent on its prior year loans unless
extraordinary circumstances arise which prevent such normal repayment (Section
4.03 and Schedule 5, draft Development Credit Agreement, and Supplemental
Letter).  As more marketing cooperatives are formed, increasing use will be
made of them to handle the Ministry's role in managing farm inputs and credit,
although the Ministry will still evaluate each loan application. The signing
of a credit administration agreement among the Borrower, AIDB and AMC, setting
out these credit arrangements, will be a condition for effectiveness (Sections
4.03 and 7.01(c), draft Development Credit Agreement).
61.       Between 25 and 75 percent of increased production, depending on
the area concerned, will be consumed on the farms. Farmers will sell the
remainder either in traditional markets or to AMC, which offers agricultural
support prices and which is being assisted by the Association under the
Grain Storage and Marketing Project (Credit 789-ET). AMC will use the
Ministry's marketing centers established under MPP I, although these centers
will be progressively taken over along with the Ministry's field storage
facilities by marketing cooperatives. The cooperatives will then sell produce
directly to AMC.
62.      The Government permits AMC to set its own prices within limits pre-
determined by the Ministry of Domestic Trade, and reimburses AMC for any
losses it incurs by maintaining its prices within these limits. The price
limits are reviewed annually with the objective of maintaining producer
incentives while protecting consumer interests.
(f) Improved Seed Production and Multiplication
63.      To strengthen the Ethiopian Seed Corporation (ESC) and increase
its production capacity, the project will provide ESC with additional staff
and equipment and finance its incremental operating costs over the project
period. Three seed production experts will be employed (six man-years at
US$96,000 per year) in consultation with the Association (Section 4.02, draft
Development Credit Agreement). One of the experts, a Seeds Processing
Engineer, will be provided under the project. ESC will initiate the production
of certified seed, a process requiring about two years, but will continue to
contract with the Ministry of State Farms to produce superior quality seed as
an interim measure. The Government will give priority to the minimum package
program when state farm seed production is allocated (Section 5.04, draft
Development Credit Agreement). The domestic production of superior teff,
maize and wheat seeds is expected to be adequate for the project, but the
production of sorghum/ millet and barley seeds could be critical. If neces-
sary, additional quantitites of these two seeds will be imported. Shortly
after the end of the project period, ESC is expected to be capable of producing
substantial quantities of certified seed.



- 21 -
64.      The project will also support the peasant associations' efforts to
multiply and clean seeds by providing them with limited quantities of simple
equipment and materials on grant terms, and by training seed crop inspectors
for the Ministry of Agriculture. Many peasant associations are expected to be
self-sufficient in seed production soon after the end of the project period.
(g) Rural Roads
65.      Rural feeder roads are vital to agricultural development, particu-
larly in areas where fertilizer should be used. To support the minimum
package program, the Ethiopian Road Authority's Rural Roads Organization
will construct about 200 km of low standard feeder roads over the project
period by force account in accordance with plans and specifications already
agreed with the Ministry of Agriculture and endorsed by the Central Planning
Supreme Council. To carry out this work, the project will provide equipment
for the Rural Roads Organization to establish two additional construction
units and one additional maintenance unit. In addition, the peasant associa-
tions will construct and maintain a further 300 km of rural roads through
self-help labour. The Ministry of Agriculture will provide the necessary
technical assistance, materials and tools to the peasant associations.
(h) Improved Research
66.       To help improve Ethiopia's research program, the project will
strengthen the Institute of Agricultural Research by financing a program to
train a sufficient number of the Institute's technicians to rehabilitate
suitably located existing stations established under MPP I as well as estab-
lish new stations in problem areas identified during project implementation.
No disbursements will be made for research training until a program, satis-
factory to the Association, has been prepared (Schedule 1, draft Development
Credit Agreement).
67.      The Ministry of Agriculture's applied research and demonstration
plot program initiated in 1971 will also be strengthened and expanded. The
Ministry-s Agricultural Extension Department will implement a program to:
(i) field test improved varieties; (ii) refine fertilizer and husbandry
advice; (iii) conduct more intensive farmers' field demonstrations on the
impact of good crop husbandry; and (iv) conduct demonstrations to emphasize
the importance of efficient crop and stored produce protection methods.
(i) Soil and Water Conservation
68.       To help arrest land degradation, the project will initiate intensive
conservation programs in 120 weredas where the needs are greatest. Grass
strips will be laid and areas reforested to help arrest soil erosion, and
ponds will be constructed and springs developed to help arrest water erosion.
For the intensive programs, each wereda will be staffed with one full time
Conservation Agent and two members of each peasant association will be trained
in conservation measures.   In the remaining 320 weredas selected for less
intensive programs, Development Agents will be given specialized in-service
training to enable them to implement conservation programs as part of their
regular duties.



- 22 -
(j) Monitoring and Evaluation
69.      The Planning and Programming Department in the Ministry of Agri-
culture will monitor and evaluate the project. To strengthen the Department,
an Evaluation Economist and two other experts will be internationally-recruited
(para. 55). The Ministry will prepare, in consultation with the Association,
a monitoring and evaluation work plan, and also proposals to further strengthen
the Department sufficiently to implement the plan, not later than four months
from the date of credit signing (Section 4.04, draft Development Credit
Agreement). The Ministry will submit quarterly progress reports to the
Association not later than three months after the end of each quarter (Section
4.07(b), draft Development Credit Agreement). In addition, the project
implementing agencies will each prepare project completion reports to review
and evaluate the components for which they are responsible, and submit them to
the Association not later than six months after the end of the second year of
the project (Section 4.07(c), draft Development Credit Agreement).
Cost Estimates and Financing
70.      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$77.2 million
equivalent, including taxes and duties amounting to US$6.1 million. The
foreign exchange component is estimated at US$29.9 million, or 42 percent
of the total project cost, net of taxes and duties, of US$71.1 million.
A detailed breakdown of costs is given in the Credit and Project Summary.
71.      The total project cost of US$77.2 million represents 76 percent of
the total cost of the minimum package program, estimated at US$101.1 million
equivalent including taxes, over the two-year project period. The cost
of the program is higher than that of the project since the project will only
finance the program's annual incremental costs which have been determined by
using the recurrent cost level experienced in 1977/78 as a base (para. 50).
72.      Costs have been estimated at March 1980 prices and have been derived
from recent records and contracts in Ethiopia. No expenditures for land will
be made since all building sites are owned by the Government. Physical con-
tingencies of five percent have been applied to all project components.
Price contingencies total 18 percent of the base cost plus physical contin-
gencies and, for local costs, have been estimated at 15, 12, and 11 percent,
respectively, for 1980-81, 1982 and 1983. For foreign costs, they have been
estimated at 10.5, 9.0, 8.0 and 7.0 percent, respectively, for 1980 through
1983.
73.      The Association, IFAD and SIDA together will finance US$58.9 million
equivalent, or 83 percent, of the total project cost, net of taxes and duties.
This sum will cover all of the foreign exchange requirements of the project as
well as US$29.0 million, or 70 percent, of the local cost. The financing of a
high level of local costs is justified in view of both the country-s general
economic needs (para. 22), and the substantial recurrent costs which the
Borrower will have to meet (para. 75).



- 23 -
74.      The proposed IDA credit of SDR 32.0 million (US$40.0 million equiva-
lent) will finance 56 percent of the total project cost including 66 percent
of the foreign cost and 49 percent of the local cost. IFAD has agreed to
provide a loan of US$18.0 million equivalent on terms similar to IDA's to
jointly finance the project with the Association. The IFAD loan will finance
25 percent of the total project cost including 30 percent of the foreign cost
and 22 percent of the local cost. The IDA credit will not be declared effec-
tive until conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the IFAD loan have
been satisfied and IFAD has appointed the Association to administer its loan
(Sections 7.01(a) and (b), draft Development Credit Agreement). SIDA has
agreed to provide about US$900,000 equivalent as a grant to finance four of
the internationally-recruited experts (6.0 man-years) and the eight volunteer
accountants (para. 50).
75.      The Borrower will provide funds to meet the remaining local costs
of the project, estimated at US$12.2 million equivalent, plus the taxes and
duties of US$6.1 million. In addition, the Borrower will provide about
US$13.9 million equivalent to help meet the recurrent costs of the minimum
package program during the project period that are not covered under the
project. These costs are estimated to total about US$23.9 million equivalent,
net of taxes and duties, of which SIDA has agreed to finance about US$10.0
million on grant terms.
Impact on the Government-s Budget
76.       The recurrent costs of the minimum package program are currently
about US$13 million equivalent and the annual subsidy on farm inputs is about
US$13.5 million -- a total of US$26.5 million. By comparison, rural revenue
from agricultural income taxes and land use fees alone totalled about US$42
million in 1978/79, following an increase in the tax and fee rates during the
previous year. The project, however, is expected to worsen the Government's
cash flow by about US$10.6 million in constant prices annually by 1982/83.
Since taxes and fees are fixed in nominal terms, an incremental net deficit
could arise and increase over the years. A net transfer of resources to the
rural sector could well be justified since the rural populace is the Govern-
ment's chief target for development and has been relatively neglected in the
past. Nevertheless, since many other governmental services, such as health,
education, and transport are directed at the same target group, such a
transfer might be best effected by subsidizing those services rather than
inputs for productive services which reduce the Government's ability to
replicate them. In order to improve the program's cost effectiveness,
reduce subsidies, and establish an appropriate level of cost recovery from
farmers, the Government will review the minimum package program and consult
with the Association on its preliminary findings before June 30, 1982
(Section 5.03, draft Development Credit Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
77.      Contracts for vehicles, equipment, farm inputs, and veterinary
supplies totalling US$29.2 million will be awarded on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines.



- 24 -
However, small amounts of these items costing less than US$100,000, but
aggregating not more than US$1.0 million, will be procured in accordance
with local procedures satisfactory to the Association. Civil works in several
widely scattered locations, estimated at US$5.6 million, will be carried out
wherever possible under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally and in accordance with local procedures satisfactory to the
Association. Alternatively, force account will be used. Agricultural seed
estimated at US$1.2 million will be procured in relatively small lots without
competitive bidding but by prudent shopping.
78.      The Association and IFAD will disburse funds jointly in the ratio of
69:31 against: (i) 80 percent of total expenditures on civil works; (ii) 100
percent of foreign expenditures and 80 percent of local expenditures on vehi-
cles and equipment; (iii) 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 75 percent
of local expenditures on fertilizer; (iv) 100 percent of foreign expenditures
and 80 percent of local expenditures on farm inputs other than fertilizer;
(v) 100 percent of total expenditures on technical assistance apart from that
being financed by SIDA or other agencies; (vi) 25 percent of the salaries and
wages paid by the Ministry of Agriculture for the minimum package program
(except those for production cadres), estimated to total US$4.5 million
equivalent; and (vii) 90 percent of the operating costs of the seed production,
research, rural roads, and soil and water conservation components. Disburse-
ments for civil works carried out by force account, and for salaries and wages
under item vi and operating costs under item vii will be made against state-
ments of expenditure with documentation retained by the agencies concerned and
audited annually by auditors acceptable to the Association. Disbursements
for the operating costs of road construction will be made on the basis of
rates per kilometer approved by the Association for each category of road,
and for fertilizer on the basis of estimates of requirements acceptable to
the Association (Schedule 1, draft Development Credit Agreement).
Accounts and Audits
79.      The former Ministry of Agriculture and Settlement's performance in
preparing accounts for the minimum package program during the past few years
was not satisfactory. Contributing factors to this poor performance were
staff constraints and the profound social change throughout the country.
Technical assistance will be provided under the project to help strengthen
the new Ministry of Agriculture and also its efforts to introduce a new
simplified system of accounting (para. 55). The Ministry, the Ethiopian
Road Authority, the Agricultural Marketing Corporation, and the Ethiopian
Seed Corporation will maintain separate project accounts, have them audited
by independent auditors acceptable to the Association, and submit the audited
accounts to the Association not later than six months after the end of each
fiscal year (Section 5.01(d), draft Development Credit Agreement). In
addition, the Ministry and the Ethiopian Seed Corporation will maintain
accounts to reflect their operations and financial condition, and submit
their audited accounts to the Association not later than nine months after
the end of each fiscal year. The Ministry, however, will submit its audited
accounts for the minimum package program for 1978/79 and 1979/80 to the
Association not later than March 31, 1981 and June 30, 1981, respectively
(Section 5.01(e), draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 25 -
Justification, Risks and Poverty Impact
80.      The project will strongly support the Government's efforts to raise
the productivity and incomes of small farmers through the minimum package
program. Almost 100 percent of the total project costs will be directed at
farmers having incomes well below the Bank-s estimated absolute rural poverty
level for Ethiopia of about US$375 equivalent per farm family (assuming 5.8
members) in 1977. Over five years, the average net crop income (excluding
livestock and non-farm income) of farm families adopting the inputs provided
under the project is expected to rise in real terms from a present level of
about US$135 to about US$265 for farmers adopting the fertilizer package and
to US$155 for farmers adopting the non-fertilizer package, representing
increases of about 95 percent and 15 percent, respectively. Moreover, by the
end of the project period, an additional 150,000 farm families, or about
900,000 people, are expected to be served by the minimum package program--over
200 percent more than in 1977/78, the base year. At full development in
1992/93, an estimated 1.6 million farm families will have benefitted from the
project. Employment creation will also be considerable. An estimated 2,200
additional people will be employed by the Ministry of Agriculture alone to
support the project. Particular attention will be given to the training of
women in the design of the extension programs, and women will be assisted to
establish income-generating activities such as village handicrafts.
81.      Production benefits will be substantial.  Based on projected import
parity prices, increases in smallholder cereal grain production will generate
gross foreign exchange savings estimated at about US$500 million annually
after ten years. After deducting the foreign exchange component of the
project's operating costs, net foreign exchange savings should reach about
US$310 million per year. In addition, institutions will be strengthened to
carry out further development of peasant agriculture.
82.      The overall rate of return for project components for which benefits
have been quantified (89 percent of total project costs) is over 20 percent.
The animal husbandry component was excluded from the calculation because of
its pilot nature, and 40 percent of the cost of the rural roads was excluded
to reflect non-agricultural use of the roads. The rate of return is higher
than the 13 percent return estimated for MPP I in the project completion
report (para. 38), but this is to be expected since the project will benefit
from the sunk costs of investments already made under the minimum package
program.
83.       The project primarily faces risks of delays and of possible reduc-
tions in scale. Implementation problems could be caused by inexperienced
staff, unexpected shortages of farm inputs, difficulties of access to remote
areas of the project, or failure of the peasant associations and cooperatives
to act as effective extension and credit channels. To help to minimize these
risks and recognize potential problems early, the project includes substantial
technical assistance, and also a monitoring and evaluation program and an
annual work plan mechanism that will enable the project's progress to be
followed closely. Nevertheless, economic benefits are relatively insensitive
to implementation problems, since farmer adoption rates are expected to be
modest in the first five years after project start-up, and increase slowly



- 26 -
thereafter. Sensitivity analyses indicate that benefits would have to fall
by more than 50 percent before the rate of return would fall below 10 percent.
In view of this and the importance and high potential of the project for
mostly very low-income Ethiopian farmers, the risks are considered acceptable.
84.       The project is not expected to have any significant adverse effects
on the environment. The level of application of chemicals is expected to
be modest. The soil and water conservation component, although small in
comparison with the country's requirements, is expected to make a significant
contribution to arresting land degradation.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
85.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between Ethiopia and the
Association, and the recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article
V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association, are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
86.       Special features of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III of this report.
87.       Disbursement for parts of the project included in the annual work
plans will be conditional upon the Association's approval of the plans and
upon specific field staffing requirements being met (Sections 4.05 and
Schedule 1, draft Development Credit Agreement).
88.       Disbursement for the heifer breeding ranch will be conditional upon
detailed plans, satisfactory to the Association, being prepared to establish
it (Schedule 1, draft Development Credit Agreement).
89.       Disbursement for research training will be conditional upon the
preparation of a training program satisfactory to the Association (Schedule
1, draft Development Credit Agreement).
90.       Disbursement for road construction will be on the basis of unit
costs approved by the Association, and for fertilizer on the basis of
estimates of requirements acceptable to the Association (Schedule 1, draft
Development Credit Agreement).
91.       Additional conditions for effectiveness of the proposed credit will
be:
(i)  the fulfillment of all conditions precedent to the effectiveness
of the agreement between the Borrower and IFAD, and the
appointment of the Association by IFAD to administer its loan
(Sections 7.01(a) and (b), draft Development Credit Agreement);



- 27 -
(ii)  the signing of a subsidiary loan agreement, satisfactory to
the Association, between the Borrower and the Agricultural
and Industrial Development Bank (AIDB) (Sections 4.03 and
7.01(c), draft Development Credit Agreement);
(iii)  the signing of a credit administration agreement, satisfactory
to the Association, among the Borrower, the Agricultural
Marketing Corporation, and AIDB (Section 4.03 and 7.01(c),
draft Development Credit Agreement); and
(iv)  the appointment of a Technical Support Officer, Evaluation
Economist and Chief Accountant satisfactory to the Association
(Section 7.01(d), draft Development Credit Agreement).
92.       An additional condition of suspension will apply with respect to
expenditures in any wereda which shall not be accessible to the Association-s
representatives as required for the efficient execution of the project (Section
6.03, draft Development Credit Agreement).
93.        I am satisfied that the proposed credit will comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Association.
PART IV - RECOMMENDATION
94.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
December 3, 1980



- 28 -                                         ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                           Page  1
ETHIOPIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ETHIOPIA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE8AGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                      - MDST RECENT EST IMATE)
TOTAL           1221.9
AGRICULTURAL     783.3                                MOST RECENT           LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960 Lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  40.0        70.0     120.0                 228.9                  726.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       8.0        33.0      20.0                 80.0                  699.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)     20.1        25.5      31.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 6.4          9.3      13.4                 17.3                    28.9
POFULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      52.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       139.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2175
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       16.0        21.0      25.0                 27.4                   61.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     25.0        32.0      39.0                 82.6                  126.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         43.9        44.8      45.0                 44.9                   45.5
15-64 YRS.                         53.5        52.6      52.3                 52.2                   51.6
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   2.6         2.6       2.5                  2.8                    2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.1         2.1       2.5                  2.7                    2.7
URBAN                              4.9         6.1       7.3                  6.8                    4.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     51.0        50.0      49.0                 47.4                   46.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     28.0        26.0      25.0                 19.6                    16.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               ..         2.9       3.3                  3.2                    3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..           ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         103.0       101.0      82.O0c               91.8                   94.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   83.0        83.0      75.0                 90.2                   92.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          65.0        65.0      58.5                 53.0                   53.0
OF OHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       25.0        26.0      22.0                 18.4                   15.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     43.0        39.0      37.0                 27.7                   21.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    36.0        38.0      39.0                 45.3                   50.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          126.O0d     119.0
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         6.0       6.0                 23.2                   31.0
URBAN                               ..          ..      32.0                 58.0                   66.8
RURAL                               ..          ..       2.0                 16.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        14.0      14.0                 28.9
URBAN                               ..        67.0      56.0                 6/.0
RURAL                               ..         8.0       8.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         89357.0     75744.0   76318.0              30910.4                14508.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         ..    24424.0   20310.0                5793.2                 3279.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           3000.0      3023.0        ..               1198.9                 1141.5
URBAN                               ..       350.0
RURAL                               ..    15370.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..        10.6
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..         4.5
URBAN                              3.5         4.2
RURAL                               ..         4.5
AVERAGE NUMBER OP PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                              2.7          ..
RIRAL                               ..          ..
ACCESS IT ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF SWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                             58.2e         ..        .
RURAL                               ..          ..



-  29   -                       ~~~ANNEX  I
Page 2
TABLE 3A
ETHIOPIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ETHIOPIA                     REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AEGES
- HOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
HOST RECENT           LOW INCOME            tIIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb  AFRICA SOUTH OF SARARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TCD7'L                7.0        17.0      26.0                 57.7                    61.7
MALE                 11.0        24.0        ..                  74.2                   69.2
FEMALE                3.0        11.0        ..                 54.1                    51.4
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  0.4         4.0       8.0                  10.0                   20.6
MALE                  1.0         6.0        ..                  13.7                   29.2
FEMALE                0.1         2.0        ..                  7.1                    14.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (i OF SECONDARY) 20.0          4.5       3.0                   6.8                    7.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           38.0        48.0      50.0                 45.0                    36.6
SECONDARY                         13.0        28.0      38.0                 25.2                    24.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         ..         6.Ojf    10.0                  25.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         1.0         2.0       1.8                  3.6                    38.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         4.0         6.0       7.0                 31.5                    83.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         5.0         0.3       0.7                   1.8
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  2.0         1.0       2.5                  4.6                    24.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..          ..        ..                    ..                    0.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    8974.8      10955.0   13041.2
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  35.4        34.9      34.0                 33.5                    38.1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             88.1        84.1      81.0                 80.7                    54.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 4.5         5.8       7.0                  8.1                    17.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               44.7        43.5      42.4                  42.2                   38.8
MALE                                58.7        57.6      56.3                  55.1                   48.4
FEMALE                              31.2        30.0      28.9                  29.5                   29.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.0         1.0       1.1                   1.2                    1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..     115.0                138.2
RIURAL                              ..          ..      65.0                 86.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..      77.0                 107.0
RURAL                               ..          ..      37.0                 65.0
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..      60.0
RURAL                               ..          .,      65.0                 66.9
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970 between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c  FAO data differ somewhat from Ministry of Agriculture data, and may exaggerate the apparent decline;
/d 1962; /e Addis ababa only; /f 1965.
April, 1980



- 30-AMNEX I
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATOR S                                           Page    3
Not..;  Although the dots aCe draw  fto. souce dgesel  Judged the mat-                thrttt sd  rlihe,i  should also ha noted that they toyno  hait
thIe.  afui to desrie   rde  o  mgntds.,idct   ro                       and  h.rcateotth   ma Jor diffa.. tenoes          l
Tb. vefrecagrops.       r Ill the  sa .s cutry group ofthe subje.ct  oo             n  II'   I.a.outr  grou.1p ultO  eotenb   hill.,ravag  inoCue than tha  -.unrosno
ofCha  ubjec.    ounylop  for  lapits1 Surplu Ill En1Zportere' go-u  eher  "'ffiddls moose North Africa and Hiddle Eaan' Ia chosen ba-ce  of toronger
coco-ultra  efinnlal. T  the refareoc  grop data the  veags  t  ppueeo  aeightad ariebhtit ..an. for  -ah indicator end  ho.t  ccly  h,sta  an
esa  half of thecountris in aE geop has data fotht icdt.t...  linta the  oaaeo.onre -a.ng.theIindictor  deed   nthe                                         taIIICy of
uf one indicator at s thaw-ta-oeg  th cbon   ndrfrnt   ru.
LAND AREA Inhuoseod aq.k.oo.tivoc)ho                                                                                     ot-PputOouo-t   c  ote-i rotco   Pvy
Total - To te1 surface ares toaptisitc.Lstd oe   n   nedsacr,eiidoqa'fo    o                                                  la  acocol at oIceat   ee
for orope, P.sauas   kobe  cod kitchsn gordace or n  Iia  fallow  1977 dano.               eaa  ndfeml   rdaente,paiiolnnt, d ass IsCtan    ue
PonlAtinq ear fa'ital  ted   ntt  utban.             ua     ?ylic   (octal,
GNP? Pta CAPITA (UDN) - GNiP pet copineecsnatorro                   kiyie. -cai"   -            ubn   e  rcl  dicided bY thaisraspa.ctt   oubr of bhetn  bode
cutatd by sas-     osrinath.d a. Woold tank Atls 197~6-t bais  "1960,                          viol   cpbi   n   rvt   eerlsdaeilodbeia   o   e
1910  and 197N data.                                                                          hobilinanionc-tere.   Hospitals Ste aetahliebhots persanatly staffed
h    tto aan  nepbyeii.ote.  Esnohiahaot  providio  princpall  cunodill
ENtRGY CONSUtiPTIONI PER CAPITA -A ..ua  cempitof coasrc                ... etary fod r-ae  o  inclded.  _uIs hop'i'tels, howver  include baslbed.aia
e-dlgit,enoum   ohi                 a   n   ydro-,  -1oe-  and geotherma  slat-                etrntpamnnietfdbyahY sIcit(hut by a msdioe    sitat
trcinylI ic kIorams of coal aqulo-l-t per co.pica: i96I, 1971, and 19 78                      nretedt-      r  ati.l which  ff.r ic-patisot --cdatiin  cod poonide
nCl   _Itude  OO  printyalI gsn-Io aropcld                hoapial. and r- ra
POPULATtION AlNt VITAL. STATISTICS                                                               oyiaa.co         Ir us  howypitals and madi1al ed eotentcne.
TosiPoseto.  idYar(aloal-A. of July 1; 1960, 1910, and 1978                            uiecsprhsia   e      uo   ubrc   diecat  tIehre
data.                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fron hoapinaleI divIded by tho nebrr of hrda.
prhao P-olati2oo  neroet nf toinl     ai  nfuba   o  oa  yplatn
diffstent dfinioof urbawstt  e                    I fet, ocoysthility ofdata           HOUSING
a_moog coutries; i960, i970, and 1978 dets.                                               Allaa  te  cf.ushod                ..rec    .. h'uscd  -  oal   rao   edrtl-
FPOPultion fni.....i.n..I d houeho    ooeit  of a group of indiciual                                                                                  _y .   bher   itng qudtter
log lIfe Napecta...y at bIrth ttc-eaing nubh c...tty'. pet aptaiccio                     bar of parsca..   par ro h,   allorac  .ai  -ue    rytdcooctta
le-el  aod famala ilfe eopsost-Cy stabilieing at 77.1 Yr.  T7he pat-                      dwellings, ra-yatioely.  Dweltlctgs  -oo,odeonrroocncctte
_wotsC l fo Eanlty1  Itan  alo  or  three l-aeLe -ouIog daClin  in                         coourd P"rt'
fartil ity acc.t ding ic inCoar leoi  o  cs  red    ioit afdans.                       lca  no....  Eilectricity  orctof dn-l1ina...    tta -l. u -a . ad -rrl-
EaCh country ia then aaaigad one of theae citetmbnnln   f mortaity                        Conv'otChal dnsling  oith eleTriiyI  Iioing  Ioorcere as
ac:d fertility cr..nds for pojettitn  PCtO5                                                 f otonal, urban, anio d dnllttogaraipaorCoaily.
itetion..ry P..0 o ulin- Ic.stt iony  popuition ther  hs no growh einc
the bitth  ras  is aqual to the deah ra         -Ie , ,end also'l chsserctrr-        ElIcAIDn
eaccecoatat..   This' is hti:vad ocly after ferl icy tstse Os.c.ln  iO                  Adtoeied Eno.lmotht cuice
tharelacwet  eoe  c  uit nat rePe.tunicn rat, oh. en C eac  g.n..a coti            Pci-  aibool - total. wale  o  fa.l- itoe   tota,  ole ond truals
eeis   nthe basia ofCths projectedh bectari't'toso   b  pouato                       pi yTahool-ego popolationa  cormly includescidvn  gd6.
in the Yat  2000, acd the rot  of decline of fertil icy rate cc re plac-yer  ho   dutdfrdfeet nTh  of PriarIeuction.                                               c
Year etatic..rY pcpu1acioc is teat.bsd - The yea  uh-nsalct  oc eto                           sinc  etee. puo    rebeo   oraoeteofice7                  colae
eiee ha. bean rea..bed.                                                                  letodarn school -Ctna.  male and f_als-_Cnepundoao bce;seccn.da,Y
Pcculsticn Denity                                                                               eoIt cnrqie   nlscfu   et   fayoa   rar    ttucion
re a-   Am   Mid-pas  .polation per equa-  kilomete -(100 h-tnoreof cfIpordas generl'. ootca ,  r  echr  ripieIatcton   o   o
Pet so  A.ciculcocl leod - Computed Ia  b.os for agricultural land                            woclodad.       t    7                      ..d.          C-              .1
forulacioc Ace St-rCtut  losrosno) -.Chcl~dr-n  (0-.141  ..r)..    crcg-t  (15-                  ccld    iehi-,Iderit,o   ta   r grams   ...c Ipevce t-i s
61 yeats), and retred  161 vora and eetl as pvoennagosofl'id-yar  tOPtP  dntly orhe departrnts of seondary  itilt'hIot
lscc;16,  9           Y:od178dn. I  ICol-teachca  to  .rer.edectay-Ttlaoet   ccldI
64olcinIrt oth O. tis  eacntddiPi .ona  gcth ose  of  total ai.n..yadsecdryln d..olded hy numIbtitiot oohr   o  i
yearC. p1p960ce  for0 1906,  9170dn 197078                                                    crtdpodnglevel.                            dl     T.1Idht.,..di
Porla lo  Ionh cnafoeet) -       1 ba- Anno  grooth vote  of urban poyc-            odllieayrtlerec -,y.d-h.y.vI  diUdec   nd -i  (     toreed. and crhne
lacoefo  iS-H.19160-0,ar 191170,-d78          -7                                          eperetg    ftnlac    ocano    gd1   er   n   0v
Crude e1cc, aels  thosod.            unAcal Ive births  . yth n.....d of  id-ye..
opclstcco.; 1960, 1970, and i978 data.CONtSUMPTION
Inod  leath hots (rt  houad          Annua  dith  per it .u..od  f rid-yer,..,nCas(e   hcac   ococt  -rsegccrscura    oo
poueto;  90,170 i  1978 doscateaic-  lees thaeihprsn                                                                                                  -Pcue    ehlcr.hece   n
ptilny   ace;  imal   ieperaeae9nd60c16,190   c   97                                       bodcsec  g           hceal pcbc  por  cooed c  pocIucn   ut .uden  I.d-
of, brhoctl 0P ct5 d- rueice  o  natioraI...    i..iy .p.ocin  pronrI .                     ao R in affect   dteho  rece...     eor  naylCi1   no  bel coepatet   fiut   cc  t
Fail  Patit-ler Ilerce-Ct oth eatrced noad     Peeco60     a  of mora                  onre   bolbd1iesis
lonn.  f  hid-eoft  ogil-Opae   h                     us Ibvt-cotn   -doio to             T   eaoea(e   haet7cuaicl-l   ec eafrbra  ott
all maried soen cc sme ageartup .nanere  pulc..n.. sdppcstc  ecrtepbclceea ..... r .clcer
POOl 1710 9'.CTcI7IIo                                         in occttrles 000 In yesre oboc raNietrat~~~'  .. o .... ete t5
Fcacsly   o  ooI..  i hlp  are edibled atorid cooaictete(c   co...od                         t  he  dolly' iftInppesr  mct tfo                saeA
'Jnlo.a trera..e producer.pIce  Iepghc;19PI-65til.. and197t dana
PerD AND   aorloo   aoie  crecc NUTRItTION                          orutd  on                 and  ..Crio Ionlos       .C   h.  .i  _ti..
oontic cr osdi food -rcooeiog sc.d lcoe-i Idetiucn lit.rd-oclry  -dl&E- j
hItdat. Iy    1    p.,   CI tf                 .I-k
Icoeod ln     ARE-iS  190td.-.1977             =--    i  d.to.dfinkttcaeperd                           ncd cecftt al y  atot f-oror; d 900  ogl  odti  197Jno
qolrenogy fc l hcncct ettab) ,pinhe --lby 1i0c pr..d Oty PolccosO FRC
yolo potOn.ofohlh  0 gso  ttcl  to00cc1prtro.    tono                 T.. nno- PvLonn-o  cEce loercen.t_) - tc-s,-eat,1  -td i-e-rrooIolOo
h....are)      i.r t-ksnthc   t -pplrnslihoo -l yroolnod))gv`     n               ac  .ct   an                 .r....tdocos)  na.  o.d ro..       aooco
Ice  crowh.d  a...l  and y961 ne5   In70   oos  pot7 dar   h1A    91od  97dt.          Eool  lcnoooOto-cal   fyylto    ndr1   n   hudoe
orOce Ocic dercoed Orno lIfe tablet; 15-00, 1970 sod. 19)7 dana.60tC1970 ..d01978 d1t6
uts&lh                                                                               ProcenNose of PrcnsdoIIiner (both In oath and AlodI - teceloed hy-rpch-n
sIl0 irrD; lOA-,d900 end 1978 dnta
c-trecply-lrud,   crete   ntfhcroacer   or-vrr- d boo otonnah Thtind                       afyordoh7o.. I111:                                                        f-
corrd such uS-ro   onpocoa   orblo    prnu n 1961aryo65n   an19t7enedOdla9e7c7odv (com T                                        ene  (11.' pecaplita      r  c  o   oa
prrocrcenof  her  euor lv  ppuatiro.    coorhcooap        -dl             nov0  cltlneCpovertyhncw  leveCis  te-dhI- d of averag  pe  cap-ita
Ocrac   rtadonlotdvtmreta  20nteernaca   mye                          ooa1iroro   heoorr                   ravcelurtrdroh-oO
rurul- tooher of people  tooP........Ir.a., athd royal) moored                                                                   N'byd ooortoo
yfo "Ill;e  cod0  19n Old 1978o datIco.



- 31 -                            ANNEX I
Page 4
Economic Indicators
1/                  Annual Rate of Growth (CO, constant prices,
Gross National Product in FY1978 -                                      fi9cal ye4rs)
UTS$Mln.   %                1967-72        1972-77        1978
GNP at Market Prices             3489.9   100.0                4.1            1.4          -0.8
Gross Domestic Investment         263.4      7.5               1.7           -5.0         -15.7
Gross Domestic Savings             63.8      1.8               2.2           -3.0            -
Resource Balance                 -199.6    -5.7                 -              -             _
Export of Goods and NFS           419.6    12.0                0.9           -7.5           2.8
Import of Goods and NFS           619.2    17.7                0.6            5.0          16.9
Output in FY1978                    Government Finance               Central Government
Value Added                                      (Br.Mln.)      % of GDP
US$Mln.   %                                       FY1978    FY1978   FY1972
Agriculture    1674.8    53.4       Current Receipts              1168.7      16.2     10.4
Industry         431.9    13.8      Current Expenditures          1320.0     18.3       9.2
Services        1028.2    32.8      Current Surplus               -151.3     -2.1       1.3
3134.9   100.0      Capital Expenditures           267.1      3.7       2.7
Money. Credit and Prices
(Calendar Years)                             1977        1978         1979
(Million Br. outstanding end of period)
Money supply                                1458.2       1693.9      1863.2
Bank Credit to Central Government            605.7       809.5        995.5
Bank Credit to Private Sector and             739.2     1017.7       1345.5
Financial Institutions               (Percentages of Index Numbers)
'oney as % of GDP                              21.4        23.4
CGEneral Price Index (1963 = 100)             255.1       291.6        340.3
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                            16.6        14.3         16.7
Bank Credit to Public Sector                   36.1        33.6         23.0
Bank Credit to Private Sector                  22.8        37.7         32.2
Note: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate
prevailing during the period covered.
1/ Fiscal Year: July 8 to July 7.



- 32-                             ANNEX I
Page 5
Balance of Payments                                              Merchandise Exports (1975-78)
(Fiscal years)                1975   1976   1977   1978              (Fiscal year average)
oMillions US$)                                 US$M1n.    %
Exports of Goods, NFS        330.0  367.2  403.9  419.6          Coffee              161.7    57.9
Imports of Goods, NFS        433.0  395.2  510.2  619.2          Pulses               24.8      8.9
Resource Gap (deficit = -) -103.0  -28.0 -106.3 -199.6           Oilseeds             19.7      7.1
Hides & Skins       23.0      8.2
Investment Income (net)      -17.0   -1.3   -1.8   -4.4          Oilseed cake          3.8      1.4
Net Transfers                 44.7   50.6   59.1   68.0          Other                46.0    16.5
Balance on Current Account  -75.3   21.3  -49.0 -135.7                     Total    279.0   100.0
Direct Private Foreign                                           External Debt, December 31.1979
Investment                  19.5   11.7    7.0    4.1                                    US$MIn.
Net MLT Borrowing              49.1   48.2   43.7   32.7         Public Debt, incl.
Disbursements               (66.5) (69.1) (62.1) *(49.6)         guaranteed               620.0
Amortization                (17.4) (20.9) (18.4) (16.9)
Short-term private capital    8.8  -25.5    3.5  -13.5           Debt Service Ratio for FY1979
Change in reserves (- =                                                                         %
increase)                   -6.7  -38.8  -23.7  125.8          Public Debt, incl.
Errors & Omissions             4.6  -16.9   18.5   13.4            guaranteed                  8.1
Gross Reserves (end year)
Petroleum Imports           78.2   51.5   66.3   76.3          IBRD/IDA Lending (October 31, 1980)
Petroleum Exports             3.6    6.1   10.6    1.8                 US$ Mln.
IBRD     IDA
Outstanding &
Rate of Exchange                                                   Disbursed         56.4     242.8
Undisbursed          -       108.3
Since 1974                                              Outstanding incl.
US$1.00 = Br. 2.07                                                 Undisbursed      56.4      351.1
Br.1.00 = US$ 0.48
=  not available
=  not applicable
November 19, 1980



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ETHIOPIA
STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of October 31, 1980)
Amount
Loan or                                                      (US$ million)
Credit                                                   (less cancellations)  Undis-
Number      Year   Borrower    Purpose                      Bank      IDA        bursed
Twelve loans fully disbursed
Nine credits fully disbursed                                108.6    82.3
Cr. 269-ET  1971   Ethiopia    Dairy                                   4.4         1.1
Cr. 290-ET  1972   Ethiopia    Coffee Processing                       6.3         0.2
Cr. 332-ET  1972   Ethiopia    Highways V                             17.0         3.3
Cr. 365-ET  1972   Ethiopia    Livestock II                            5.0         2.6 'L/
Cr. 417-ET  1973   Ethiopia    Education III                          10.0         2.6
Cr. 453-Et  1974   Ethiopia    Telecommunications V                   17.4         0.1
Cr. 485-ET  1974   Ethiopia    Drought Areas
Rehabilitation                    10.0         2.9
Cr. 486-ET  1974   Ethiopia    Wolaita Agriculture II                 12.0         4.0
Cr. 516-ET  1974   Ethiopia    Lower Adiabo                            9.5         8.5 2/
Cr. 552-ET  1975   Ethiopia    Highways VI                            32.0         2.0
Cr. 553-ET  1975   Ethiopia    Education IV                           23.0         4.5
Cr. 554-ET  1975   Ethiopia    Telecommunications V
(2nd Tranche)                     16.0         7.0
Cr. 603-ET  1976   Ethiopia    Rangelands Development                 27.0        20.4
Cr. 708-ET  1977   Ethiopia    Road Sector Project                    32.0        21.2
Cr. 707-ET  1977   Ethiopia 1/ Revised Amibara Project                25.0        13.4
Cr. 789-ET  1978   Ethiopia    Grain Storage and
Marketing                         24.0        14.5
Total                                            108.6   352.9        108.3
of which has been repaid                        52.2      1.8
Total now outstanding                             56.4   351.1
Amount Sold                           6.0
of which has been repaid            6.0           -        -
Total now held by Bank & IDA
(prior to exchange adjustments)                 56.4   351.1
of which is undisbursed
-    108.3       108.3
1/   US$1.7 million disbursed under former Cr. 418-ET, Amibara Irrigation, has
been repaid out of the proceeds of the new Credit.
2/   Steps are being taken to cancel the undisbursed balances.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of October 31, 1980)
US$ Million
Fiscal                                          Type of               Amount
Year       Obligor                              Business    Loan    Equity    Total
1965      Textile Mills of Dire Dawa I          Textiles      1.5       1.0       2.5
1966       Ethiopia Pulp and Paper Co.          Paper          -        1.9       1.9
1968       HVA Metahara, S.C.                   Sugar         5.5       3.5       9.0
1970       Textile Mills of Dire Dawa II        Textiles      0.5       0.2       1.7
Total Gross Commitments                            9.0       6.8      15.8
Less cancellations,
terminations,
repayments and Sales                    8.7       4.2      12.9
Total Commitments now held by IFC                  0.3       2.6       2.9
Total Undisbursed



ANNEX II
Page 3
- 35 -
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION - ETHIOPIA 1/
Cr. No. 269:      Addis Ababa Dairy Development Project:  US$4.4 million Credit of
August 30, 1971; Date of Effectiveness: May 1, 1972; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981.
The major emphasis of the project has changed from dairy farm
development to milk processing. The dairy farm investments
have been completed but many farms have experienced reductions
in farm and herd sizes, partly due to disruptive effects of
the land reform. The Government is reviewing ways to counter
this problem. Following a slow start-up, the expansion and
renovation of the Shola dairy plant has been proceeding
satisfactorily and is scheduled to be completed in early 1981.
The development of milk production centers has also progressed
satisfactorily. A study of state dairy farms is being under-
taken to identify priority investments to rehabilitate them.
Cr. No. 290:      Coffee Processing Project:  US$6.3 million Credit of March 20,
1972; Date of Effectiveness: December 15, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Due to slower initial procurement than expected, changes in
washing station design and non-availability of contractors,
project implementation fell about three years behind appraisal
estimates. This, together with cost increases and a changing
political scene, prompted changes in the project in 1976. The
major adjustment included a reduction in the number of washing
stations from 100 to 58, and an increase in technical assistance
to existing stations. More recently, implementation of the
project proceeded satisfactorily and the number of washing
stations was increased to 70. Operating results of coffee
cooperatives in the project area are good, but product quality
needs to be improved. The Project Implementation Unit has
made good progress in preparing a second phase project and the
Institute of Agricultural Research is currently analyzing data
collected from coffee research over the past four years. Final
disbursements are being made.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understand-
ing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 36 -                      iANNEX II
-36--                    Page 4
Cr. No. 332.:    Fifth Highway Project:  US$17.0 million Credit of September 29,
1972; Date of Effectiveness: Jul-y 24, 1.973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The four feeder roads included in the project have been completed,
one by a domestic contractor assisted under the project. After
some delay, the implementation of two other important components also
progressed satisfactorily -- the training of local contractors and
Ethiopian Road Authority (ERA) force account construction managers,
and the provision of technical assistance to ERA for computer
programming and system analysis. Disbursements are nearing completion.
Cr. iO  '        Third Education Project:  US$10.0 million Credit of Tul  . r , 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: August 30, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1980.
The project is almost completed and disbursements are nearing
completion also. A shortage of materials and transport initially
slowed progress on the civil works for the University Science
'ernter and the 180 Community Skill Training Centers (CSTCs)
_-ded to the project in September 1977, but the Science Center
,,as now been completed and implementation of the CSTCs has
improved recently. Progress towards educational targets has
been satisfactory. Both the Science Curriculum Development
Center and the Education Materials Production and Distribution
Agency have moved into their new facilities.
Cr. No. 453:          Fifth Telecommunications Project (First Tranche):  US$21.4 mil-
lion Credit of January 17, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
August 23, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Cr. No. 554:          Fifth Telecommunications Project (Second Tranche): US$16.0
million Credit of June 4, 1975; Date of Effectiveness:
August 26, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Apart from the contract award for an earth satellite station,
over which there was disagreement between the Association
and the Government, procurement has progressed satisfactorily.
However, a lack of construction materials has delayed the com-
pletion of most of the civil works, thus delaying the entire
program.  Nevertheless, the situation is improving since the
Ministry of Urban Development and Housing has agreed to
assist this work. In addition, the high turnover of management,
the diversion of staff to other work and the unwillingness of
foreign experts to work in certain parts of Ethiopia has
contributed to delays in the installation of equipment. Although
the program has slipped by more than a year, implementation is
now proceeding satisfactorily and efforts are being made to
speed progress.



ANNEX II
-37                         Page 5
Cr. No. 485:          Drought Areas Rehabilitation Project:  US$10 million Credit of
June 26, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: November 7, 1974; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982.
In spite of the shortage of transport and construction materials
and vacancies in top management positions in some of the imple-
menting agencies, most components have been making reasonable
progress. In particular, the long delayed Sirinka Pilot
Settlement component has progressed rapidly during recent months.
The Relief and Rehabilitation Commission (RRC), however, still
suffers from weak financial control and a shortage of
experienced staff.
Cr. No. 486:          Second Wolaita Agricultural Development Project:  US$12.0
million Credit of June 26, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
June 4, 1975; Closing Date:  December 31, 1981.
Project implementation is about eighteen months behind schedule,
partly because of serious staffing problems encountered in the
early stages. The buildings and road construction components
are making good progress. The extension program has been
improved, and the rural handicrafts program has recently
been showing marked improvement. However, progress on the
livestock breeding, poultry production and conservation
research components continues to be slow.
Cr. No. 552:          Sixth Highway Project:  US$32.0 million Credit of June 4, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness:  August 15, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Progress is satisfactory. All feeder road contracts are pro-
gressing well and are nearing completion. All contracts for
highway maintenance equipment have been awarded and much of the
equipment has been delivered. The weighbridges are now being
installed. A study of the technical assistance needs of the
National Transportation Corporation is being implemented.
Cr. No. 553:          Fourth Education Project:  US$23.0 million Credit of June 4,
1975; Date of Effectiveness:  August 6, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Physical implementation is proceeding satisfactorily.  The
project is about 60 percent complete, approximately in line
with the appraisal estimates. The Association approved government
requests to utilize expected savings to meet operational costs,
training and evaluation related to the Alternative Technology
Center, and to construct additional primary and secondary
schools. The educational objectives of the programs under the
Ministry of Education are being met.



- 38 -                      ANNEX II
Page 7
Cr. No. 603:      Rangelands Development Project:  US$27.0 million Credit of
January 16, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: May 18, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
In the past few months the security situation in the southern
and north-eastern project area has improved, and the area de-
velopment activities and operations are being extended. However,
the improvement in the Ogaden has been insignificant, with
project activity being restricted to the rorthern end of the
project area only. Inadequate Government funding in 1978/79
further restricted the already curtailed program, but this
restraint has since been removed.
Cr. No. 707:      Revised Amibara Irrigation Project:  US$25.0 million Credit
of November 7, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: April 7, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1985.
Project implementation is almost on schedule. The civil works
for construction of headworks and irrigation systems are pro-
ceeding well, but on-farm works need to be improved. The supply
of cement and fuel for the project has presented difficulties
but the Government has been taking steps to resolve them.
Recruitment of project staff has been completed, and technical
assistance to the contractors has been agreed by the Government.
A consulting firm has been selected by the project's technical
coordinating committee to provide agricultural technical
assistance to the Awash Valley Development Authority (AVDA).
Settlement plans for the Afar people have still to be finalized.
Cr. No. 708:      Highway Sector Project (Seventh Highway): US$32.0 million Credit
of July 5, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: October 7, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Initial progress in implementing the Five-Year Road Program
has been slower than expected at appraisal, but generally
satisfactory. Good progress has been made on primary and
secondary road construction. Satisfactory progress has also been
made in establishing the new Rural Roads Organization but
the feeder roads component of the Program is behind schedule.
Arrangements have been concluded for technical assistance and
training. A US$10.5 million EEC Special Action Credit
(No. 34-ET) signed on November 30, 1979 to construct a
100 km Mota-Bahar Dar feeder road subproject is progressing
well.



- 39 -                      ANNEX II
Page 8
Cr. No. 789:      Grain Storage and Marketing Project:  US$24.0 million Credit of
June 9, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: September 7, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981.
Start-up activities of the Agricultural Marketing Corporation
(AMC) proceeded fairly smoothly and the bulk of vehicles and
equipment purchased by AMC have begun to arrive in Ethiopia.
Early in 1979, an accelerated construction program for storage
facilities was agreed with the Government but so far this
program has not achieved the results intended since the con-
tracting Rural Projects Agency has had to divert some of its
manpower resources to other tasks. The quality of construction
has not been satisfactory. Steps are therefore being taken to
improve the quality, and to strengthen AMC's storage and
technical management. AMC's transport problems have been
easing and its overall penetration of the cereals trade is
rising faster than estimated at appraisal. The Government has
recently disbanded the Ethiopian Grain Agency, transferring
its pricing and marketing functions to the Ministries of
Domestic Trade and Foreign Trade.



- 40 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL MINIMUM PACKAGE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I. Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:  About two years
(b)  Preparation by:                   Ministry of Agriculture with assis-
tance of IDA staff
(c)  Initial discussion with IDA:    Continuous sector dialogue since 1971
(d)  First IDA mission:                March 1975
(e)  Appraisal mission departure:    April 1977
(f)  First post-appraisal mission:   April 1978
(g)  Negotiations:                      Commenced November 1978 but not
completed
(h)  Second post-appraisal:             November 1979 to January 1980
(i)  Negotiations:                     Reconvened April 28 to May 8, 1980
(j)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:  February 15, 1980
II. Special IDA Implementation Actions
None
III. Special Conditions
(a) The Ethiopian Seed Corporation will be legally established as a
public corporation not later than three months from the date of
effectiveness (para 45);
(b) The Ministry of Agriculture will submit an annual work plan to
the Association not later than May 1 of each year (para. 53);
(c) Disbursement for specific project components covered by the annual
work plans will be conditional upon the Association's approval of
the plans and upon specific field staffing requirements being met
(para. 53);



- 41-
ANNEX III
Page 2
(d) The appointments of five key staff, including a Technical
Support Officer, will be satisfactory to the Association; others
will be appointed in consultation with the Association (paras.
55 and 63);
(e) The initial appointments of the Technical Support Officer,
Evaluation Economist, and Chief Accountant will be conditions
for effectiveness (para. 55);
(f) The Government will review cost recovery aspects of the minimum
package program with the Association before June 30, 1982
(paras. 76);
(g) No funds will be disbursed for the heifer breeding ranch until
detailed plans for it have been approved by the Association
(para. 59);
(h) The signing of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Borrower
and the Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank (AIDB)
will be a condition for effectiveness (para 60);
(i) AIDB will not extend new loans to any peasant association or
cooperative that is in arrears by more than five percent (para 60);
(j) The signing of a credit administration agreement among the imple-
menting agencies will be a condition for effectiveness (para. 60);
(k) The minimum package program will be given priority when state farm
seed production is allocated (para. 63);
(1) No funds will be disbursed for research training until a program
for it has been approved by the Association (para. 66);
(m) The Ministry of Agriculture's Planning and Programming Department
will prepare a monitoring and evaluation work plan as well as
proposals to strengthen the Department sufficiently to implement
the plan within four months of credit signing (para. 69);
(n) The IDA credit will not be declared effective until conditions
precedent to the effectiveness of the IFAD loan have been satisfied
and IFAD has appointed the Association to administer its loan
(para 74);
(o) No funds will be disbursed for road construction until unit costs
have been agreed, or for fertilizer until satisfactory estimates
of requirements have been prepared (para 78);



- 42 -
ANNEX III
Page 3
(p) The 1978/79 and 1979/80 audited accounts for the minimum package
program will be submitted not later than March 31, 1981 and
June 30, 1981, respectively (para. 79);and
(q) A condition of suspension will apply with respect to expendi-
tures in any wereda included in the project which shall not be
accessible to the Association-s representatives (para 92).



ETHIOPIA
SECOND MINIMUM PACKAGE PROJECT
R VI  QA IA   A
Y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
'~~>'~~ ~  -    ~ ~ ~ DP2OUTI-   9    'T-A-4  - 0  0  03
V~~~~~~~:DJOW' ~ ~ ~     ~       ~       ~       *Guf (1    ce
4~~~~~~~~~/
4b4 E~h,1 -
'4 ~ ~ ~     ~       ~      ~      ~ ~ ~  
F   /  
- -     N-'    f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~v A A A o;( A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  $   ~ ~ ~ lh~



