orIciAL          CREDIT NUMBER 1088 ET
DOCUMTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Agricultural Minimum Package Project)
between
ETHIOPIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                               , 1981


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1088 ET
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                                    ,1981,
between ETHIOPIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower has applied to the International Fund for
Agricultural Development (hereinafter called the Fund) for a
loan (hereinafter called the Fund Loan) in an amount equivalent
to thirteen million and nine hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 13,900,000) to assist in financing the Project on the
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter
called the Fund Loan Agreement) between the Borrower and the
Fund;
(C) the Fund is expected to appoint the Association as
Cooperating Institution to administer the Fund Loan in accordance
with the provisions of this Agreement, and the Association is
expected to accept such appointment;
(D) the Borrower has requested from the Kingdom of Sweden,
acting through the Swedish International Development Authority
(SIDA), a grant (hereinafter called the SIDA Grant) to support
its development program, of which the Borrower shall apply not
less than $10,000,000 equivalent during the two year Project
period to assist in financing technical assistance services and
local expenditures for the Borrower's ongoing agricultural minimum
package program; and
(E) pursuant to a development credit agreement dated
July 5, 1973 (No. 416 ET), the Association has made available
to the Borrower a development credit for the purpose of assisting
the Borrower in carrying out a prior agricultural minimum package
project;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Fund Loan Account" means the loan account established
under the Fund Loan Agreement;
(b) "MOA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture
or any successor thereto;
(c) "AMC" means the Borrower's Agricultural Marketing
Corporation established by Proclamation No. 105 of November 20,
1976, or any successor thereto;
(d) "AIDB" means the Borrower's Agricultural and Industrial
Development Bank, reestablished by Proclamation No. 158 of
March 29, 1979, or any successor thereto;
(e) "RRO" means the Borrower's Rural Roads Organization, a
separate administrative unit within the Ethiopian Road Authority
established pursuant to Proclamation No. 133 of January 6, 1978,
or any successor thereto;
(f) "IAR" means the Borrower's Institute for Agricultural
Research, or any successor thereto;
(g) "Peasant Association" means a peasant association
established and operating pursuant to the Public Ownership of
Rural Lands Proclamation No. 31/1975 of April 29, 1975, and the
Peasant Associations Organization and Consolidation Proclamation
No. 71/1975 of December 14, 1975, as such Proclamations may be
amended from time to time;


﻿-3-
(h) "Cooperative" means an agricultural cooperative esta-
blished and operating pursuant to the Peasant Associations
Organization and Consolidation Proclamation No. 71/1975 of Decem-
ber 14, 1975, and the Cooperative Societies Proclamation No.
138/1978 of March 3, 1978, as such Proclamations may be amended
from time to time;
(i) "ESC" means the Ethiopian Seed Corporation, a department
established within the Borrower's Ministry of State Farms Devel-
opment, or any successor thereto;
(j) "Supreme Council" means the National Revolutionary
Development Campaign and the Central Planning Supreme Council of
the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
(k) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and AIDB pursuant to Section
4.03 (a) (i) of this Agreement as such agreement may be amended
from time to time;
(1) "Credit Administration Agreement" means the agreement
to be entered into between AIDB, AMC and MOA pursuant to Section
4.03 (a) (ii) of this Agreement, as such agreement may be amended
from time to time;
(m) "Annual Work Plan" means the Borrower's fiscal year work
program and budget for the ongoing agricultural minimum package
program;
(n) "Birr" means the currency of the Borrower;
(o) "Administrative Region" means an administrative
division of the Borrower;
(p) "Awraja" means an administrative sub-division of an
Administrative Region as so defined;
(q) "Wereda" means an administrative sub-division of an
Awraja as so defined; and
(r) "Minimum Package Program Technical Support Unit" means
the Unit to be established pursuant to Section 4.02 (a) of this
Agreement.


﻿ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equi-
valent to thirty-two million Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 32,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the CTedit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article III of this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1983
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Feb-
ruary 1 and August 1 commencing February 1, 1991, and ending
August 1, 2030, each installment to and including the install-
ment payable on August 1, 2000, to be one-half of one per cent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment there-
after to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.07. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Allocation and Withdrawal of Proceeds
of Credit and Fund Loan
Section 3.01. Subject to the rights of suspension and
cancellation set forth in the Development Credit Agreement and


﻿-5-
the Fund Loan Agreement, the amount of the Credit and the amount
of the Fund Loan may be withdrawn from the Credit Account and the
Fund Loan Account, respectively, in accordance with the provisions
of this Agreement and with the allocation of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Fund Loan set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agree-
ment, as such allocation may be modified from time to time pur-
suant to the provisions of such Schedule or by further agreement
between the Borrower, the Association and the Fund.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall be entitled to make with-
drawals from the Credit Account and from the Fund Loan Account
for expenditures made (or, if the Association and the Fund shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and the Fund Loan.
Section 3.03. (a) When the Borrower shall desire to withdraw
any amount of the Credit or the Fund Loan, the Borrower shall
deliver to the Association a written application in such form
and containing such statements and agreements as the Association
or the Fund shall reasonably request. Applications for withdrawal,
with the necessary documentation as hereinafter provided shall,
except as the Borrower, the Association and the Fund shall
otherwise agree, be made promptly in relation to expenditures for
the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association such
documents and other evidence in support of the application as
the Association or the Fund shall reasonably request, whether
before or after the Association shall have approved any with-
drawal requested in the application.
(c) Each application and the accompanying documents and
other evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to
satisfy the Association or the Fund that the Borrower is entitled
to withdraw from the Credit Account or the Fund Loan Account
the amount applied for and that such amount is to be used only
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. Each such application by the Borrower for
withdrawal shall be deemed to be a request to withdraw funds
from the Credit Account and from the Fund Loan Account and the
funds to be withdrawn pursuant to such application shall be
apportioned by the Association, as nearly as practicable in the
circumstances, between the Credit and the Fund Loan in the ratio


﻿-6-
of 69:31, or such other ratio as shall be agreed between the
Association and the Fund.
Section 3.05. When the Association shall have approved
an application by the Borrower for withdrawal, the Association
shall:
(i) pay the amount, if any, which the Borrower is
entitled to withdraw from the Credit Account to
or on the order of the Borrower in accordonce
with the provisions of the Development Credit
Agreement; and/or
(ii) promptly notify the Fund that it has received
an application for withdrawal from the Fund
Loan Account in the aggregate amount specified in
such notice, that it has approved payment of the
portion, if any, to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in the amount set forth in such notice,
and that the portion to be withdrawn from the Fund
Loan Account in the amount set forth in such
notice is eligible for payment by the Fund.
Section 3.06. If at any time the amount of the Credit or
the Fund Loan shall have been fully withdrawn or cancelled,
applications by the Borrower for further withdrawals shall be
deemed to be requested for withdrawal of the full amount applied
for from the Credit Account or the Fund Loan Account only, and
the provisions of this Article III except for Section 3.04 hereof
shall continue to apply mutatis mutandis until the full amount
credited or to be credited to such Account shall have been
withdrawn or cancelled.
Section 3.07. Upon the Borrower's request and upon such
terms as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association,
the Association may, on behalf and for the account of the Fund,
enter into special commitments to pay amounts, out of the proceeds
of the Fund Loan, to the Borrower or others in respect of the
cost of goods required by the Project, subject to the provisions
of this Agreement concerning the allocation and apportionment of
the proceeds of the Fund Loan. The Fund has advised the Asso-
ciation that any such special commitment shall, once it has been
notified to the Fund, constitute an obligation on the part of the
Fund to pay, notwithstanding any subsequent suspension or cancel-
lation of the Fund Loan, the amount to be disbursed out of the


﻿-7-
proceeds of the Fund Loan in fulfillment of such special commit-
ment.
Section 3.08. Except as the Association and the Fund shall
otherwise agree, procurement of the goods and civil works
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit or the Fund Loan shall be governed by the provi-
sions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Execution of the Project
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
in accordance with the arrangements set forth in this Agreement,
all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, agricultural, economic, engineering,
financial, research and training practices, and the Borrower
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, ser-
vices and other resources required for the purpose. The Supreme
Council shall be responsible, at the ministerial and commission
level, for the overall coordination of the Project.
Section 4.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out the ProjecL, the Borrower shall (a) establish within MOA a
unit to be headed by a Technical Support Officer; such unit shall
report directly to MOA's Permanent Secretary; and (b) employ,
after consulting the Association, qualified and competent spe-
cialists and consultants as referred to in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement which may be amended from time to time by agreement
between the Borrower and the Association. In addition, the Tech-
nical Support Officer, Evaluation Economist, Chief Accountant and
Agronomist referred to in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and the
Head of MOA's Training Department, shall have qualifications and
experience and be employed on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Borrower and the Association.
Section 4.03. (a) In order to carry out Part D of the
Project: (i) the Borrower and AIDB shall enter into a Subsidiary
Loan Agreement on terms and conditions acceptable to the Asso-
ciation and the Fund for the purpose of relending such amount of
the Credit and the Fund Loan as may be allocated to Parts D (i)
and  D (iii) of the Project; and (ii) the Borrower shall cause a
Credit Administration Agreement to be entered between AIDB, AMC
and MOA, upon terms and conditions acceptable to the Association


﻿-8-
and the Fund. Such agreements shall be consistent with the relend-
ing and credit terms, conditions and procedures set forth in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower, the Association
and the Fund.
(b) (i) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to
protect the interests of the Borrower, the Asso-
ciation and the Fund, and to accomplish the pur-
poses of the Credit, and except as the Association
and the Fund shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(ii) The Borrower shall cause the parties thereto
to exercise their rights under the Credit Adminis-
tration Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower, the Association and the
Fund and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit
and the Fund Loan, and except as the Association
and the Fund shall otherwise agree, shall cause the
parties thereto not to assign, amend, abrogate or
waive, and shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive, the Credit Administration Agreement or any
provision thereof.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall, not later than four (4)
months from the date of this Agreement, furnish or cause to be
furnished to the Association and the Fund for review and comment:
(a) a monitoring and evaluation work plan and schedule for
the Project; and
(b) proposals and a schedule for strengthening MOA's
Planning and Programming Department so as to enable MOA to carry
out the work plan referred to above.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall:
(a) not later than May 1 of each year and until the com-
pletion of the Project:
(i) furnish to the Association and the Fund a pro-
posed Annual Work Plan to be carried out during


﻿the next Fiscal Year; such Annual Work Plans
shall contain such items and information, and be
evaluatcd in accordance with criteria saCisfactory
to the Association; and
(ii) afford the Association and the Fund a reasonable
opportunity to comment on such proposed Annual
Work Plan;
(b) approve each Annual Work Plan taking into account the
Association's and the Fund's comments and recommendations pursuant
to (a) (ii) above, including that for Fiscal Year 1980/81, suffi-
ciently in advance as to enable such Annual Work Plan to be car-
ried out during the Fiscal Year in question;
(c) furnish to the Association and the Fund a copy of such
Annual Work Plan promptly after its approval; and
(d) not amend or modify the approved Annual Work Plans with-
out the prior agreement of the Association and the Fund.
Section 4.06. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Fund
Loan against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association and the Fund shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Fund Loan to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 4.07. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be
furnished to the Association, promptly upon their preparation, the
plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and construc-
tion and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of


﻿- 10 -
the Credit and the Fund Loan, and to disclose their use in the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's and the Fund's
accredited representatives to visit the facilities and construc-
tion sites included in the Project and to examine the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Fund Loan and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to
the Association and the Fund at regular intervals all such
information as the Association or the Fund shall reasonably
request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appropriate,
the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and the Fund Loan and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds, including, without limitation to
the foregoing, quarterly Project progress reports to be furnished
not later than three months after the end of each fiscal quarter.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the end of the second year
of the execution of the Project or such later date as may be
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association,
the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association and the
Fund a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
and the Fund shall reasonably request, on the execution and
subsequent operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits
derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the Bor-
rower, the Association and the Fund of their respective obliga-
tions under the Development Credit Agreement and the Fund Loan
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit
and Fund Loan.
Section 4.08.  The Borrower shall, not later than three (3)
months from the date of effectiveness of this Agreement, estab-
lish ESC as public corporation with full legal personality and
accounting and administrative autonomy.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. (a) (i) The Borrower shall maintain or cause
to be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower respon-
sible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof; and (ii)
such records shall include separate accounts of expenditures on


﻿- 11 -
account of which withdrawals are made from the Credit Account and
the Fund Loan Account as defined in the Fund Loan Agreement on
the basis of certificates of expenditures.
(b) The Borrower shall, in addition, cause MOA and ESC to
maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices, their opera-
tions and financial condition.
(c) The Borrower shall cause MOA and the agencies executing
the Project to retain until one year after the Closing Date, as
part of the records referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section,
all documentation (orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account and the Fund
Loan Account as defined in the Fund Loan Agreement on the basis of
certificates of expenditures, and shall enable the Association's
and the Fund's accredited representatives to examine such records.
(d) The Borrower shall cause MOA and the agencies executing
the Project to: (i) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a)
(i) and (ii) of this Section for each fiscal year, until and
including the fiscal year of the Closing Date, audited separately,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by the Borrower's Auditor General or other independent
auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than
six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited, and (B)
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested
including an opinion as to whether the amounts of the Credit and
of the Fund Loan withdrawn pursuant to certificates of expenditure
were used for the purposes for which they were withdrawn; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning
such accounts and financial statements and the audits thereof as
the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
(e) The Borrower shall cause MOA and ESC: (i) to furnish
to the Association, not later than six months after the end of
each fiscal year the accounts and financial statements referred
to in paragraph (b) of this Section; (ii) to have such accounts
by the Borrower's Auditor General or other independent auditors
acceptable to the Association; (iii) to furnish to the Association
as soon as available, but in any case not later than nine months


﻿- 12 -
after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its
financial statements for such year as so audited, and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iv) to furnish to the Association such other information con-
cerning such accounts and financial statements and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request, except that in the case of the accounts and financial
statements of MOA, with respect to the Borrower's ongoing agri-
cultural minimum package program for the Borrower's fiscal year
1978/79, the above-mentioned copies, reports and information shall
be furnished to the Association prior to March 31, 1981, and
for the Borrower's fiscal year 1979/80, no later than June 30,
1981.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall cause the buildings, roads,
equipment and other facilities included in the Project to be
adequately maintained, shall cause all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof to be made, and shall provide or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for this purpose.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall, with the objectives of:
(i) improving the cost effectiveness of the Borrower's agricul-
tural minimum package program to the extent possible; (ii) re-
ducing or eliminating direct subsidies, specifically those apply-
ing to fertilizer; and (iii) establishing an appropriate level and
method of cost recovery, (a) review the financial implications
of such program during the execution of the Project; and (b)
furnish to the Association and the Fund the preliminary findings
of such review in time to afford the Association and the Fund a
reasonable opportunity to comment on, and review together with the
Borrower, such findings prior to the date the Project is expected
to be completed pursuant to Schedule 2 of this Agreement.
Section 5.04. The Borrower shall give priority to farmers
covered by the Borrower's ongoing agricultural minimum package
program when allocating good quality seed supplies produced on
state farms for ESC.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof.


﻿- 13 -
(a) The Borrower, AIDB, MOA or AMC, as the case may be,
shall have failed to perform any of their respective obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or the Credit Administration
Agreement.
(b) The Subsidiary Loan Agreement or the Credit Adminis-
tration Agreement, or any provision thereof, shall have been
suspended or terminated, in whole or in part, or waived or
amended so as to affect materially and adversely the carrying
out of the Project.
(c) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any grant or loan made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project,
including the Fund Loan and the SIDA Grant,
shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
the terms of the agreement providing therefor;
or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof;
(ii) subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if:
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of
the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
under such agreement; and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obliga-
tions of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof, namely that the event speci-
fied in paragraph (c) (i) (B) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement
shall occur.
Section 6.03. The Association may by notice to the Borrower
suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make


﻿- 14 -
withdrawals from the Credit Account in respect of expenditures
connected with any wereda, included in the Project which shall not
be accessible to representatives of the Association as required
for the efficient execution of the Project.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Association shall have been notified by the Fund
that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Fund
Loan pursuant to the Fund Loan Agreement (other than the effec-
tiveness of this Agreement) have been duly fulfilled;
(b) the Fund shall have appointed the Association as Cooper-
ating Institution to administer the Fund Loan on terms and condi-
tions acceptable to the Association;
(c) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the Credit Adminis-
tration Agreement shall have been signed by all parties thereto;
and
(d) the appointment of the Technical Support Officer,
Evaluation Economist and Chief Accountant of MOA, referred to in
Schedule 6 to this Agreement shall have been made.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association: (i) that the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement and the Credit Administration Agreement have been duly
executed and delivered and are valid and binding on the respective
parties thereto; and (ii) that the Fund Loan Agreement has been
duly authorized by the Borrower and the Fund and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and the Fund in accordance with its
terms.
Section 7.03. The date                 0/         is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.


﻿- 15 -
Section 7.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Article
V of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
Section 7.05. If: (i) the Fund Loan Agreement shall have
come into force and effect and the Development Credit Agreement
shall have failed to come into force and effect by the date
specified in Section 7.03 of this Agreement or a later date
established by the Association for the purposes of Section 12.04
of the General Conditions; or (ii) the entire principal amount of
the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account and all charges
which shall have accrued on the Credit shall have been paid
before the Fund Loan Agreement shall have terminated, then,
notwithstanding the provisions of Sections 12.04 and 12.05
of the General Conditions, the Development Credit Agreement shall
be deemed to be, or to remain, in force and effect but only to
the extent required for the purpose of implementing the Fund Loan
Agreement and of orderly settlement of matters of mutual interest
to the parties thereunder, subject to such modifications of the
Development Credit Agreement as shall be agreed between the
Borrower, the Association and the Fund for such purposes.
Section 7.06. If: (i) the Fund Loan Agreement shall terminate
in accordance with its terms before the Development Credit Agree-
ment shall have terminated; or (ii) the Association shall notify
the Borrower that its appointment as Cooperating Institution under
the Fund Loan Agreement has terminated, the provisions of this
Agreement shall, to the extent that they relate to the Fund Loan,
forthwith terminate; provided, however, that in respect of para-
graph (ii) above, such termination shall apply only to the respon-
sibilities of the Association as the Cooperating Institution.
ARTICLE VIII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿- 16 -
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P. 0. Box 1905
Addis Ababa
Ethiopia
Cable address:                      Telex:
MINFIN                             21147
Addis Ababa                        MINFINANCE
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
ETHIOPIA
By /                                        tV064L
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Credit and the Fund Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Fund Loan, the
allocation of the amounts of the Credit and the Fund Loan to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
Amount of
the Credit    Amount of
Allocated     the Fund
(Expressed   Loan Allocated       % of
in SDR     (Expressed in     Expenditures
Category       Equivalent) SDR Equivalent)    to be financed
(1) Civil           2,480,000       1,100,000      80%
works
(2) Equipment       6,880,000       3,000,000      100% of for-
and                                           eign expendi-
vehicles                                      tures and
80% of local
expenditures
(3) Farm inputs:
(a) fer-       5,600,000       2,400,000      100% of foreign
til-                                     expenditures
izer                                     and 75% of
local expend-
itures
(b) other      2,320,000       1,000,000      100% of for-
inputs,                                  eign expendi-
includ-                                  tures and
ing im-                                  80% of local
proved                                   expenditures
seeds,
pesti-
cides,
farm
imple-
ments
and
animal
husbandry


﻿- 18 -
Amount of
the Credit    Amount of
Allocated     the Fuvd
(Expressed   Loan Allocated      % of
in SDR     (Expressed in    Expenditures
Category       Equivalent) SDR Equivalent)   to be financed
(4) Salaries and    2,480,000      1,100,000      25%
wages of MOA
for the Bor-
rower's on-
going agricul-
tural minimum
package program
(5) Operating       3,440,000      1,500,000      90%
costs for
Parts B, C,
E and F of
the Project
(6) Technical         720,000        300,000      100%
assistance
(7) Unallocated     8,080,000      3,500,000
TOTAL  32,000,000     13,900,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services sup-
plied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policies of the Association and the Fund that no
proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan shall be disbursed on


﻿- 19 -
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation, manufac-
ture, procurement or supply thereof; to that end, if the amount
of any such taxes levied on or in respect of any item to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policies of the Association and the Fund.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for:
(a) expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement or the
date of the Fund Loan Agreement, whichever shall be the latter;
(b) expenditures under Part D (ii) of the Project, until
the Association shall have approved a detailed plan for the
establishment of the heifer breeding ranch;
(c) expenditures with respect to parts of the Project to
be included in the Annual Work Plan, until such Plan or parts
thereof, is satisfactory to the Association and the Fund;
(d) expenditures under Part F (ii) of the Project, until
the Association shall have approved a detailed training plan
for such Part of the Project;
(e) with respect to disbursement for fertilizer, suffi-
cient quantities to meet the needs of farmers shall have been
estimated by the Borrower and such estimates shall be accep-
table to the Association;
(f) with respect to any disbursement requested for expendi-
tures in any Administrative Regional office, the positions of
Regional Representative of MOA and department heads for: Peasant
Associatons and Cooperatives, agriculture extension, animal and
fisheries resources, audit, legal services, administration and
finance, shall have been filled for the period concerned by
suitable qualified staff. Not less than seventy per cent (70%) of
other approved staff posts at the degree and diplomate level
shall have been filled for the period concerned with suitable
qualified personnel;


﻿- 20 -
(g) with respect to any disbursement requested for expendi-
tures in any Awraja, the positions of Awraja head, agronomy
specialist, animal husbandry specialist, and cooperative
promotion/marketing and credit specialist shall have been filled
for the period concerned by suitable qualified personnel; pro-
vided, however, that with respect to the animal husbandry
specialist, the above disbursement requirement shall only be
applicable in the case of Awrajas where animal husbandry is
included as part of the Borrower's on-going agricultural minimum
package program. Not less than seventy percent (70%) of approved
posts of other staff at the degree and diplomate level shall have
been filled for the period concerned with suitable qualified
personnel;
(h) with respect to any Wereda for which disbursement is
requested, the positions of Wereda head, two to four development
agents (depending on the category of Wereda) and bookkeeper shall
have been filled for the period concerned with suitable qualified
personnel;
(i) with respect to any Wereda for which a livestock breed
improvement program is included, satisfactory veterinary services
shall be available;
(j) expenditures with respect to salaries and wages of Pro-
duction Cadres which will be directly covered by the Borrower; and
(k) expenditures regarding operating costs with respect
to Part C(i) of the Project, until the Association has approved
unit costs per kilometer for each category of road.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the Fund Loan or the disbursement percentages set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 above, and without limitation upon the
provisions of Section 3.04 of this Agreement, if the Association
has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit or the
Fund Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expen-
ditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then


﻿- 21 -
applicable to such expenditures in order that further with-
drawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures
thereunder shall have been made.
6.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement,
no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Fund Loan and the Association may,
without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power
or remedy of the Association under the Development Credit Agree-
ment or of the Fund under the Fund Loan Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit and/or the Fund
Loan as, in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit and/or
the Fund Loan.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to extend the geographical coverage
of the Borrower's ongoing agricultural minimum package program
aimed at increasing production of smallholder farms in about 440
Weredas in Ethiopia through provision, on credit, of agricultural
inputs and related extension services to farmers, and consists of
the following Parts:
Part A:   Strengthening of MOA Field Offices,
and Staff Training
(i) Construction or expansion, equipping and furnishing
of offices and stores in 13 MOA administrative
regions, in about 81 Awrajas and about 440 Weredas.
(ii) Staffing of MOA offices at Administrative Region,
Awraja and Wereda level, to provide extension
services to farmers in crop and animal husbandry,
home economics, cooperative development and soil
and water conservation.
(iii) Expansion of MOA's training and information
services, in-service training courses and seminars
and short-term advanced training in Ethiopia and
abroad for MOA staff, preparation and dissemina-
tion of information and instruction materials to
support extension work, and support of farmer
training centers.
Part B:   Soil and Water Conservation
An expanded soil and water conservation program, through the
provision of field staff and equipment, covering about 120
Weredas in most urgent need of such conservation efforts to
be carried out through specially trained conservation agents
stationed in such Weredas.
Part C:   Rural Roads
(i) Procurement of road construction equipment to
be used for the construction of about 200 kilo-
meters and maintenance of about 200 kilometers of


﻿- 23 -
rural roads during the execution of the Project.
Such roads shall be constructed and maintained to
RR10 or RR30 specifications of the Borrower accord-
ing to routes and schedules agreed between MOA and
RRO.
(ii) Construction and maintenance of about 300 kilo-
meters of additional self-help rural roads by
Peasant Associations with equipment, materials and
technical assistance from MOA.
Part D:   Agricultural and Animal Husbandry Inputs
(i) Provision to Peasant Associations and Cooperatives
of incremental agricultural inputs, including
improved seeds, fertilizer, pesticides, tools
and other agricultural inputs to be made available
to their members by such Peasant Associations and
Cooperatives.
(ii) A program to introduce improved animal breeding,
feeding, housing and management techniques to about
80 Weredas, mainly to improve dairy cattle produc-
tion. Such program shall include the establishment
of a heifer breeding ranch.
(iii) Procurement of livestock and supporting inputs.
Part E:   Seed Multiplication
Construction of buildings and furnishing of equipment,
vehicles and technical assistance: (i) to assist ESC in the
production of basic seed; and (ii) to expand the ongoing seed
multiplication cleaning program carried out by selected
Peasant Associations and Cooperatives.
Part F:   Applied Research
(i) Operation and expansion of MOA's Wereda demon-
stration plot program.
(ii) Intermediate level training of research technicians
for IAR.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1982.


﻿- 24 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank T A-Li. and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March
1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.    For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Association shall
reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods
in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information
to update such notice annually so long as any goods remain to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   To the extent feasible, contracts for the purchase of goods
shall be grouped in lots estimated to cost not less than $100,000
equivalent so as to permit bulk procurement.
4.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c. and f. (port of entry) price for imported
goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported
goods, and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods,
shall be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods
to the place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿- 25 -
B.       Other Procurement Procedures and Procurement without
Contracting
1.   Contracts for goods estimated to cost less than the equiva-
lent of $100,000 each and estimated in the aggregate to cost not
more than the equivalent of $1,000,000 may be procured on the
basis of the Borrower's applicable procedures.
2.   Civil works except construction of rural roads shall be
carried out under contracts procured on the basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally and in accordance with applicable local
procedures, or, whenever the above is not possible, by force
account of the Borrower.
3.    Construction of rural roads shall be carried out by force
account of the Borrower.
4.   Agricultural seed may be procured without competitive bidding
or quotations, and by prudent shopping.
C.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Ethiopia may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Ethiopia if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation that the manufacturing cost of such
goods includes a value added in Ethiopia equal to
at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such
goods.


﻿- 26 -
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery., pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c. and f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest,
it shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works, equipment,
vehicles and farm inputs estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall


﻿- 27 -
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Association of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on
the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such
other information as the Association shall reasonably request.
The Association shall, if it determines that the intended award
would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
3.    Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 25% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it


﻿- 28 -
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 29 -
SCHEDULE 4
Technical Assistance
The following specialists and consultants shall be employed
by the Borrower in order to assist the Borrower to carry out the
Project:
Man-
Years
I.   MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
Minimum Package Program
Technical Support Unit
Technical Support Officer                            2
Planning and Programming Department
Evaluation Economist                                 2
Agricultural Planner                                 2
M&E Systems Development and
Training                                            1
Finance Department
Chief Accountant                                     2
Systems Analyst                                      2
Systems Planning                                     1/2
Accountants Trainers                                16
Cooperative and Peasant Association
Department
Cooperative Accountant                               2
Marketing and Credit Accountant                      2
Agricultural Extension Department
Agronomist                                           2
Soil Fertility                                       2
Grain Storage                                        2


﻿- 30 -
Man
Years
Agricultural Extension Department
Seed Multiplication and Processing                 2
Farm Implements and Tools                          2
Soil and Water Conservation                        2
Animal Husbandry Department
Livestock Products Marketing                       2
Training Department
Course Planner and Teaching Materials              2
Training Systems                                   1
II. ETHIOPIAN SEEDS CORPORATION
Seeds Specialist                                   2
Seeds Processing Engineer                          2
Seeds Production                                   2
TOTAL        54-1/2


﻿- 31 -
SCHEDULE 5
Re-lending and Credit Terms,
Conditions and Procedures
1.   The incremental agricultural inputs required for the Project
will be purchased by AMC, using funds borrowed from the commercial
banks. Expenditures for these purchases would be eligible for
reimbursement from the Credit. These inputs would be sold to
Peasant Associations and Cooperatives on credit provided by AIDB.
The Borrower shall furnish AIDB with the necessary funds to pro-
vide such credit. M0A shall act as field agent of AMC in supplying
the inputs to Peasant Associations and Cooperatives and of AIDB in
appraising and supervising the loans to Peasant Associations and
to Cooperatives and in collecting repayments.
2.   Pursuant to paragraph 1 above, the following provisions shall
be included in the respective agreements:
(a) A loan for farm inputs shall be considered disbursed
when the inputs have been delivered either to a
Peasant Association or Cooperative.
(b) The downpayment on seasonal loans shall be at least
15%, and on medium-term (2-year) loans, at least 10%.
(c) Both seasonal and medium-term loans shall bear interest
at the rate of not less than 1% simple interest per
month, (i.e. equivalent to 12% per annum).
(d) In addition to the income resulting from the interest
charged pursuant to sub-paragraph (c) above, AIDB
shall, from its operating income, make adequate pro-
vision for bad debts on new loans to Peasant Associa-
tions and Cooperatives at a level of not less than
five per cent of such loans, or some other level pro-
posed by the Borrower and acceptable to the Association.
(e) When loans for farm inputs become due, MOA shall col-
lect the repayment and deduct 1-1/2% points of the
interest paid by Peasant Associations and Cooperatives
as its fee for acting as agent of AMC and AIDB, and pay
the net amount of the repayment to AIDB.


﻿- 32 -
(f) A Peasant Association or Cooperative which does not
repay the original credit amount it received to an
appropriate level established by the Borrower and
acceptable to the Association, shall not be eligible
to receive credit the following season; provided,
however, that such level so established shall not be
applicable if extraordinary circumstances, beyond
the control of the Borrower, the Peasant Association
or the Cooperative, shall arise which prevent such
normal repayment.
(g) When the members of Peasant Associations shall have
formed a Cooperative, the Cooperative shall apply to
AIDB for a credit (for which it shall pay AIDB 10-1/2%
annual interest and charge its members an additional
1-1/2% handling fee), and shall receive inputs from AMC
or MOA, distribute them to its members, and collect the
down-payments, other applicable charges and the repay-
ments, and pay them directly into AIDB's account. MOA's
certification. of the Cooperative's creditworthiness and
administrative competency shall be required.
(h) Funds shall be relent by the Borrower to AIDB at
8% per annum interest and shall be repaid in five years
including a grace period of two years, during which
period, interest shall be paid semiannually on the
principal amount outstanding. Amortization of principal
shall commence at the end of the second year and be made
in six equal semiannual installments, together with
interest accrued on the outstanding balance.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198   .
FOR SECRETARY


