                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 28382

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                                (TF-28483)

                                                  ON A

                                                 GRANT

                                IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 5 MILLION

                                         TO THE REPUBLIC OF

                                             MOZAMBIQUE

                                                 FOR A

                         TRANSFRONTIER CONSERVATION AREAS PILOT
                         AND INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING PROJECT




                                             March 31, 2004




Environmental, Rural and Social Development Unit - Southern Africa (AFTS1)
Africa Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective on March 30th, 2004)

                                 Currency Unit = Meticais
                                       1 MZM = US$ 0.000043
                                         US$ 1 = 23,250 MZM

                                      FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1 to    December 31

                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAMPFIRE  Communal Areas Management Programme for Indigenous Resources
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CBNRM     Community-Based Natural Resource Management
COUTADA   Hunting Concession
DINAGECA  National Directorate for Geography and Cadastre (MADER)
DNAC      National Directorate of Conservation Areas (MITUR)
DNFFB     National Directorate for Forestry and Wildlife (MADER)
EIA       Environmental Impact Assessment
FAO       Food and Agriculture Organization
GEF       Global Environment Facility
GIS/EIS   Geographical/Environmental Information System
GLNP      Great Limpopo National Park
GOM       Government of Mozambique
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
ICR       Implementation Completion Report
IFC       International Finance Corporation
IUCN      International Union for Conservation of Nature
JMC       Joint Management Committee
KfW       German Development Bank
KNP       Kruger National Park
LNP       Limpopo National Park
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
MADER     Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
MER       Maputo Elephant Reserve
MICOA     Ministry for Coordination of Environmental Affairs
MITUR     Ministry of Tourism
NCB       National Competitive Bidding
NEPAD     New Partnership for Africa's Development
NGO       Non-Governmental Organization
NRM       Natural Resource Management
PA        Protected Area
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PIP       Project Implementation Plan
PPF       Project Preparation Facility
PSR       Project Supervision Report
QAG       Quality Assurance Group

SADC     Southern Africa Development Committee
SDC      Swiss Development Corporation
SDR      Special Drawing Rights
SPFFB    Provincial Forestry and Wildlife Services (MADER)
SC       Steering Committee
TC       Technical Committee
TFCA     Transfrontier Conservation Areas
TFCATDP  Transfrontier Conservation Areas and Tourism Development Project
TTL      Task Team Leader
UEM      University of Edward Mondlane
USAID    United States Agency for International Development
WWF      Worldwide Fund for Nature

                              Vice President:     Callisto E. Madavo
                           Country Director:      Darius Mans
                             Sector Manager:      Richard G. Scobey
                          Task Team Leader:       Agnes I. Kiss

                                       MOZAMBIQUE
      Transfrontier Conservation Areas Pilot and Institutional Strengthening Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                                Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                      1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                     1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry           2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                              5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                               10
6. Sustainability                                                                   12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                    13
8. Lessons Learned                                                                  15
9. Partner Comments                                                                 17
10. Additional Information                                                          17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                25
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                27
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                28
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                30
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                   31
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                               32
Annex 8. Borrower's Project Completion Report                                       33
Annex 9. GEF additional requirements                                                45

Project ID: P001759                                                  Project Name: Transfrontier Conservation Areas Pilot
                                                                     and Institutional Strengthening Project
Team Leader: Michael John Webster                                    TL Unit: YPP
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: March 31, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Transfrontier Conservation Areas Pilot and               L/C/TF Number: TF-28483
                            Institutional Strengthening Project
   Country/Department: MOZAMBIQUE                                                          Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Other social services (48%); Central government administration
                            (21%); Sub-national government administration (19%); Forestry
                            (12%)
                  Theme: Biodiversity (P); Other environment and natural resources
                            management (P); Participation and civic engagement (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 05/21/1996                                     Effective: 05/21/1997                05/21/1997
     Appraisal: 06/28/1996                                         MTR: 10/01/1999                  12/28/2000
      Approval: 12/12/1996                                      Closing: 06/30/2002                 09/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT/GOM
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Callisto E. Madavo                             Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:               Darius Mans                                    Phyllis Pomerantz
Sector Manager:                 Richard G. Scobey                              Cynthia C. Cook
Team Leader at ICR:             Agnes I. Kiss                                  Robert A. Clement-Jones
ICR Primary Author:             Michael John Webster


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time:

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The objective of the project was twofold: "(i) to create an enabling policy and institutional environment for
the rehabilitation and conservation of the recipient's natural and biodiversity endowments; and (ii) to assist
the recipient in the implementation of community-based natural resource management programs". The
project coined the term "transfrontier conservation area" (TFCA) as the central concept around which the
project was designed. The "transfrontier" aspect (crossing an international boundary) was important
because of the following: (i) many major ecosystems, and wildlife migratory patterns, straddle international
boundaries, (ii) collaboration between Mozambique and some of its stronger neighbors enables an element
of regional capacity building, and (iii) tourism crosses international boundaries. In particular,
Mozambique can benefit from the more developed South African tourism industry, and South Africa can
benefit from Mozambique's eco-tourism potential. The term "conservation areas" was important because
it denoted multiple use areas covering a range of activities including traditional national parks,
community-based management areas, private reserves for tourism and hunting concessions. TFCAs are
now widely accepted as important mechanisms for biodiversity conservation and regional integration and
have potential economic benefits through eco-tourism and community development. The project was the
first phase, a pilot, for a program envisioned over 10-15 years.

The project objective was clear and important for both the Bank and the Government of Mozambique
(GOM). The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) assessed that conservation of the environment
and natural resource base was critical to economic growth and long-term sustainable development, and as
such, this project was part of a core objective of the Bank's assistance. The project was important for
GOM, as articulated in the National Environment Action Plan; however, while the project objective was
reflected in the national strategy document, the importance of the project was not fully appreciated by many
officials within GOM. The reason for this lack of buy-in is assumed to be because the link to poverty
reduction and economic growth was not obvious to many officials and these objectives were most pressing
for a country regarded as the poorest in the world, and emerging from 16 years of civil war.

The project was complex and "high risk / high reward". The risks were well identified in the project
document and worth taking in order to exploit the window of opportunity in the countries history for
protecting areas of global biodiversity significance. If the project had not been as ambitious as it was (in
both scope, i.e., the number of activities; and physical area, i.e., over 22,000km2 of conservation areas), it
is likely that these areas would be lost to conservation and the opportunity to protect them may not re-occur
(as much of the land with high tourist potential is now privately owned). The project was complex, as
determined by the broad range of reforms and activities planned at the national, provincial, local and
community level; the number of institutions required to implement, and liaise with, the project; and the very
limited capacity of government, and NGOs, that existed in the country at the time.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The objective was not revised.

3.3 Original Components:

The project consisted of four components:

Component 1. Institutional and policy development ($3.4 million, 49% of project costs):



                                                      - 2 -

l Capacity building of national, provincial and local government. Build the capacity (through training of
    staff, provision of technical advisory services and logistical support, including vehicles, equipment,
    office supplies and refurbishing and study tours and twinning arrangements) of national government
    (within the Ministry of Agriculture and later in the newly created Ministry of Tourism) to fulfill its
    mandate of policy formulation, planning and technical guidance, and provide support to provincial and
    local government (through training, technical assistance and logistical support) in the three TFCAs;
l GIS/EIS system. Support for the establishment and maintenance of a GIS/EIS system for resource
    inventory and forestry and wildlife management at national and provincial level;
l Development and field-testing natural resource policies. Develop a national policy framework defining
    the roles of the public and private sectors, NGOs and communities in sustainable development,
    including policy formulation, legislative review and national policy workshops;
l Action plan to enhance private sector role in sustainable NRM. Support the implementation of the
    national government's action plan through: policy and legislative reform, tendering and project
    approval mechanisms, review of tax regime, fees, licenses and revenue retention, regulation monitoring,
    law enforcement and facilitation of community relations; and
l International Collaboration. Strengthen the capacity of the Government to enhance international
    collaboration through provision of logistical support, workshops, training and staff and community
    exchange programs.

Component 2. Habitat and wildlife management ($1.7 million, 24%):

l Identification, zoning and demarcation of existing or proposed protected areas, including the areas of
    Chimanimani, Banhine, Zinave, Maputo Game Reserve, Futi Corridor and Coutada 16;
l Development of long-term management plans for proposed and existing protected areas, including
    surveys, ecological and social studies, monitoring and appraisals; and
l Rehabilitation of roads and tracks and water supply points, fencing in existing and proposed protected
    areas, including provision of camp facilities or staff housing facilities.

Component 3. Community mobilization and pilot programs ($1.6 million, 23%):

l Carrying out of a program of community involvement, mobilization and participation in natural
    resources management including promotion, identification, appraisal, designing and supervision of
    small-scale pilot activities and provision of sub-grants for the financing thereof.

Component 4. Monitoring and evaluation ($0.3 million, 4%):

l Designing and thereafter carrying out of a monitoring and evaluation programto assess the impact of
    the Project. The M&E system should monitor: institutional strengthening/policy changes; biological
    status; socioeconomic and community behavior; and project implementation.

Assessment of components

Overall, the design of the components was closely related to achieving the project objective; however, it did
not adequately take into account the capacity of the implementing agency, particularly as this was a
complex and ambitious project. Relevant lessons from other projects were incorporated into the design.

l Component 1 was well designed and was entirely necessary to achieve the objective of an enabling
    policy and institutional environment for conservation. The sub-component on private sector


                                                     - 3 -

    involvement over-estimated the potential for investment at this time; however, the approach of first
    focusing on establishing the enabling environment for private investment was the correct approach;
l Component 2 was well designed and will be strengthened in the follow-on project. Many of the
    physical works needed to implement this component e.g. the rehabilitation of a large number of roads
    and infrastructure in vast areas, require far greater resources and capacity than could be handled under
    this project;
l Component 3 had weaknesses in the design. It did not adequately take account of the existing situation
    in the three TFCAs, for example, the very poor infrastructure which makes marketing of any goods
    very difficult and the lack of experience of GOM and local NGOs in implementing community-based
    natural resource management programs; and
l Component 4 was adequately designed. However, as discussed in 4.2, this component was not seen as
    a priority and was poorly implemented.

Lessons from other countries, particularly in CBNRM, were taken into account, for example, many lessons
from the CAMPFIRE project in Zimbabwe influenced the design of component 3. However, the challenge
of post-conflict reconstruction in Mozambique (which was under-estimated in the design) created quite
different challenges for CBNRM which meant that other countries experiences were less relevant.

3.4 Revised Components:

The project components were not formally revised; however, the budget allocations for the four components
changed shortly after the grant became effective as the SDC co-financing (grant of $2.6 million) never
materialized. In response, component 1 was revised (much of the work planned in the Lubombo TFCA
was dropped) and component 3 was revised to reflect the new budget. The budget revision did not require
Executive Director approval and was approved at the Director level. Component 3 was substantially
changed after the mid-term review (although no formal revision was done) to focus on activities relating to
land demarcation of communities. This is discussed in detail in 4.2.

The project closing date was extended twice. The original closing date (June 30, 2002) was extended for a
year to June 30, 2003, and later to September 30, 2003 as progress had been slower than expected.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

Unsatisfactory. While the project concept articulates a bold and innovative vision for sustainable
conservation, tourism and community development and was a priority for the Bank and GOM; the design
contained some significant weaknesses. In particular, the project lacked sufficient ownership from GOM at
entry, some components were unrealistic, and the potential problem of communities living within the
protected areas was not adequately anticipated.

The project developed and refined the concept of transfrontier conservation i.e. multiple land-use zones
which cross international boundaries in promoting sustainable conservation and development. This
concept, through the implementation of the project, has provided a platform for numerous follow-on
activities by GOM and donors in the area of conservation and tourism. Shortly after the concept was
developed, it was enthusiastically adopted by many other donors after a conference in Cape Town in 1996,
and is now recognized by NEPAD and SADC as an important mechanism for development. The project
also exploited a unique window of opportunity for securing vast areas of significant biodiversity for
conservation.

The objective was consistent with the CAS and with the stated policy of GOM; however, there was little



                                                      - 4 -

ownership of the project by GOM during project preparation. This may have been because the full
potential benefits of the project ­ in particular, for regional integration and development of the nascent
tourism industry ­ may not have been fully appreciated by the GOM at the time.

The project design benefited from a committed and tenacious team attempting a complex task; however,
while the resulting design had an impressive level of detail and conceptual clarity, it also had significant
weaknesses. It took a long time to prepare (5 years) ­ partly due to the fact that the country was emerging
from civil war and had very low capacity to absorb the preparation activities, and partly due to the initial
low interest from GOM. While the ambitious scope of the project may be justified conceptually (the
securing of vast areas for conservation); some aspects of project design were not realistic given the confines
of the size of the project and the capacity within GOM to implement it. As assessed in 3.3, component 3
did not adequately take the existing environment into consideration and lead to an unrealistic design.

The design did not sufficiently anticipate all the potential problems of communities living in protected
areas. The project did not plan to resettle communities, as part of the project concept was for communities
to participate in all conservation and tourism activities as appropriate; however, this view of the options for
communities living in protected areas was not shared by all stakeholders. During implementation, the
Limpopo National Park was gazetted as a National Park before adequate resolution of the fate of the
communities living in the area; and while the project is not directly responsible for this action, policy
guidance on the resettlement options could have been explored more thoroughly in the design. Involuntary
resettlement was not recognized as a significant issue by the Bank at the time (the Involuntary Resettlement
safeguard has corrected this weakness) and hence this issue is more of an institutional issue than specific to
this project.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

Satisfactory. The outcome of the project is deemed to be satisfactory, as the project achieved most of its
objective, and this objective is relevant to GOM's current development priorities. Since a logical
framework was not developed (this was not a requirement for GEF or other Bank projects at the time), the
ICR has developed key performance indicators of outcome and outputs based on the grant agreement, the
project document (particularly annex 1 and 8) and the mid-term review (annex 1). The outcome is assessed
based on the following three indicators: (i) improved enabling environment for rehabilitation and
conservation of biodiversity and NRM; (ii) improved habitat and wildlife management within the three
TFCAs; and (iii) involvement of local communities within the TFCAs in CBNRM and small-scale revenue
generating activities.

The overall rating is satisfactory as indicator (i) has been achieved beyond expectation, and indicator (ii)
has been largely achieved; however, indicator (iii) is rated unsatisfactory. The project was the first to
establish and developed the concept of transfrontier conservation which has subsequently been adopted by
other donors, SADC and NEPAD. The leverage that this relatively small project has been able to
accomplish in attracting subsequent donor interest, and establishing a platform for future conservation and
tourism programs is beyond what was anticipated during the design phase. The project has added to a
growing national, regional and global interest in the concept of transfrontier conservation as a way of
combining joint objectives of conservation, community development, tourism and regional cooperation. In
addition, the significant policy and institutional development and the creation of large new conservation
areas, substantially outweigh the weaknesses in CBNRM.




                                                        - 5 -

Assessment of each of outcome indicator:

(i) Improved institutional and policy environment. Satisfactory. The project made significant progress in
the development of policies and institutional capacity for biodiversity conservation. The capacity of
national government to formulate policy, plan and given technical guidance to the TFCAs and the
conservation sector has been greatly enhanced (see component 1.4 in annex 1 for details). A small, flexible
unit that is able to coordinate within MITUR and with other Ministries, in particular, MADER and
MICOA, now exists, and this gives an institutional basis for future environmental policy development.
However, while all the capacity building activities at provincial and local level designed in the project were
performed, the resultant capacity at the sub-national level remains weak. Some progress has been made in
creating an enabling environment for private sector investment in conservation and tourism; however, no
investments were actually realized. The extent and profile of the international collaboration has probably
been the most successful outcome of the project. One international treaty and two international agreements
have been signed between GOM and neighboring countries. The project has succeeded in formulating and
developing the concept of transfrontier conservation, a concept held up by SADC as a significant
achievement in regional integration. As a measure of the success of the pilot, other donors (KfW, USAID
and Ford Foundation) have invested in the concept, and a platform for further Bank projects in tourism
development and conservation has been created. The project has received extensive media coverage, for
example, from environmental journals such as National Geographic on the concept of transfrontier
conservation.

(ii) Improved habitat and wildlife management in 3 TFCAs. Satisfactory. The protected areas have been
classified and demarcated but further efforts (infrastructure and equipment for the parks) are to be done to
improve the conditions for a better management of these PAs. The establishment of one of the world's
largest conservation areas (GLTFP) is perhaps the highest profile achievement of the project. The
establishment of the Elephant Coast Development Authority (semi-autonomous development agency for
Matutuine District) and the protocol for the Lubombo TFCA are also significant achievements. Poaching
in all TFCAs has been reduced and anecdotal evidence is that the level of wildlife has increased in all PA's.


(iii) Communities involved in CBNRM. Unsatisfactory. Due to the lack of emphasis and resources for
tangible outputs at the community level, negligible benefit has been felt by communities. This was a
serious concern for a number of stakeholders that were interviewed. This concern needs to be balanced by
the stated project strategy to first concentrate on the policy and institutional environment, before developing
infrastructure and income-generating activities which may be the focus of a follow-on project. The physical
activities implemented by the project include some CBNRM activities in Chimanimani, Banhine, Zinhave
and Limpopo, and land demarcation activities in each TFCA. In addition, some of the physical activities
planned under the project are currently being implemented by other donors: CBNRM in Chimanimani by
Ford Foundation, development of LNP by KfW and the management plans and other activities in GLTFCA
by USAID. No data exists on the impact of CBNRM, for example, on increased incomes or improved
livelihood.

4.2 Outputs by components:

Annex 1 gives a detailed breakdown of the achievements of outputs by components. Table 1 rates each
component and sub-component as listed in the grant agreement.




                                                       - 6 -

Table 1.           Rating of components and sub-components

                                               Component/Output
1. Institutional and policy development                                                                     S
    Strengthening the institutional capacities of DNFFB and SPFFB through training of their staff,          S
    provision of technical advisory services and logistical support, including vehicles, equipment, office
    supplies, office refurbishing, and organization of study tours and twinning arrangements.
    Provision of support for the establishment and maintenance of a GIS/EIS system.                         U
    Carrying out of a program for development and field testing of natural resource policies.               S
    Private Sector: Preparation and thereafter implementation of an action plan to enhance private sector   S
    role and an action plan to enhance community-based natural resource management.
    International Collaboration. Strengthening of the capacity of the Recipient to enhance international   HS
    collaboration between the Recipient and the neighboring countries, through the provision of logistical
    support and organization of workshops, training, and staff and community exchange programs
    including travel related thereto.
2. Habitat and wildlife management                                                                          S
    Identification, zoning and demarcation of existing or proposed protected areas, including the areas     S
    of Chimanimani, Banhine, Zinave, Maputo Game Reserve, Futi Corridor and Coutada 16.
    Development of long-term management plans for proposed and existing protected areas, including          S
    surveys, ecological and social studies, monitoring and appraisals.
    Rehabilitation of roads and tracks and water supply points, fencing in existing and proposed protected  S
    areas, including provision of camp facilities or staff housing facilities.
3.Community mobilization and pilot programs                                                                U
      Carrying out of a program of community involvement, mobilization and participation in natural        U
      resources management including promotion, identification, appraisal, designing and supervision of
      small-scale pilot activities and provision of sub-grants for the financing thereof.
4. Monitoring and evaluation                                                                               HU
    Designing and thereafter carrying out of a monitoring and evaluation program to assess the impact      HU
    of the Project.


When viewing table 1 it is important to appreciate the relative importance of the different components and
sub-components. Weighting of components is reflected in the relative proportion of the total budget (see
3.3), and the importance of the component and sub-component to achieving the project objective.

Component 1. Institutional and policy development. Satisfactory

l National level. All institutional development activities were carried out as planned, originally by
    MADER, and later by MITUR. Capacity at the national level to formulate policy, plan and give
    technical guidance to TFCAs has been built in the form of a small TFCA unit. The unit reports
    directly the Minister of Tourism and has the ability to coordinate between directorates within MITUR
    and with other Ministries, in particular, MADER and MICOA. The effectiveness and efficiency of
    project implementation has increased markedly since the project moved into its current institutional
    arrangement in MITUR;
l Provincial and local level. Capacity building, training, technical assistance and logistical support
    activities were mostly completed as planned. However, while some capacity has been built during
    project implementation at the national level, very little capacity has been built at the provincial, district
    and community level for biodiversity conservation. Sub-national capacity building will be a focus of
    the follow-on project;
l A GIS unit was created within DNFFB and training was provided; however full staffing of the unit was



                                                         - 7 -

    not carried out as originally planned. In addition, when the project was transferred from MADER to
    MITUR, the GIS capacity remained with MADER, although it is available for use by the TFCA unit.
    The mid-term review assessed that development of a GIS unit with the capacity as originally designed
    would be inadvisable, as the GIS needs of the project did not justify such expenditure;
l Significant policy development was achieved in a variety of sector, including: wildlife, forestry, land
    and NRM laws were revised, hunting fees in hunting concessions were revised, tendering processes and
    project approval mechanisms were reviewed. However the project was unable to provide sufficient
    clarity on policy relating the community resettlement issues;
l Private sector involvement. A number of surveys, tender guidelines, guidelines for private sector
    engagement and action plans were developed through the project to improve the investment climate.
    While no private investment was forthcoming, substantial investment is anticipated in the follow-on
    project;
l International collaboration. The extent and profile of the international collaboration has probably been
    the most successful outcome of the project. One International Treaty and two Agreements were signed
    by the Heads of State of Mozambique, South Africa, Swaziland and Zimbabwe as a result of the
    project, committing each country to the TFCA concept. These treaties and agreements were regarded
    by SADC as a significant achievement in regional integration;
l Donor investment: As a direct result of the project, other donors invested in the TFCAs, in particular,
    KfW, USAID and Ford Foundation. Other donor interest has been raised as a result of the project; and
l A platform for further Bank projects in tourism development and conservation has been created, with
    the following projects already under preparation: TFCATDP (TFCA and Tourism Development
    Project) follow-on project including the government program, PROTUSC (Program for Sustainable
    Tourism and Conservation) and SEATIP (South East African Tourism Investment Program) (IFC).

Component 2. Habitat and wildlife management. Satisfactory

Annex 1 provides detail on all the specific conservation activities completed by the project, and annex 8
(the borrower's report) gives a more detailed account of the achievements and constraints experienced in
each TFCA. The main acheivements in this component include the development of resource management
plans, improvement of law enforcement in the TFCAs, wildlife surveys and the rehabilitation and
establishment of the new TFCAs, including some supporting infrastructure.

Identification, zoning and demarcation of land for Protected Areas:
    Chimanimani TFCA
        l Demarcation of core protected area;
    Great Limpopo TFCA
        l Formal gazetting of LNP (2001) and creation of GLTFP;
        l Boundary demarcation of Banhine and Zinave NP;
    Lubombo TFCA
        l Maputo Elephant Reserve demarcated;
        l Creation of Elephant Coast Development Authority;
        l Demarcation of Futi Corridor; and
        l Proposal for extension of Maputo Elephant Reserve into Futi corridor completed.


Management plans and ecological and social studies:
    Chimanimani TFCA
        l Development of a Resource Management Plan and Integrated Action Plan;
    Great Limpopo TFCA
        l Management plans for core protected areas ­ these have been funded by other donors: USAID



                                                    - 8 -

             is developing detailed management plans for Banhine and Zinave NP, and KfW is financing
             management plan for LNP;
         l Development of land-use plan for communal area between PA's ("interstitial area");
    Lubombo TFCA
         l Development and adoption of Maputo Special Reserve Management Plan; and
         l Development of proposal for eco-tourism concessions.


Rehabilitation of parks:
    Chimanimani TFCA
         l Roads to key tourist attractions opened;
         l Community guards trained and camps established, radios installed;
         l Additional funding from Ford Foundation to manage the TFCA and provide some
             infrastructure;
    Great Limpopo TFCA
         l Increased field presence and some minor infrastructure in LNP, Banhine and Zinhave,
             including, surveys, water supplies, roads radios, training of guards and provision of transport;
             and
    Lubombo TFCA
         l Increased local park management and law enforcement.


Component 3. Community mobilization and pilot programs. Unsatisfactory.

The project struggled to implement this component as planned. The environment in which CBNRM
activities were to be implemented were much more difficult that than anticipated in the design. The areas in
the Limpopo and Lubombo TFCAs are home to very remote communities, and have very little
infrastructure, essential for both the community mobilization work, and as access to a market for income
generating products. In addition, most of the NGOs implementing CBNRM were found not to be effective
as a result of their limited experience and lack of orientation towards grass-roots community development
work. Local authorities were also not sufficiently involved in implementation. The result is that very little
CBNRM was implemented in Lubombo and Limpopo; however, more successful CBNRM was
implemented in Chimanamani TFCA. However, some CBNRM activities were carried out ­ Annex 1
provides details on these activities.

The mid-term review recommended that the component be re-designed to focus more on land demarcation.
The new land law afforded the opportunity to work directly with communities to demarcate community
ownership of land. Land demarcation has the potential to secure community property rights over land, and
thus ensure that the community benefits from any future economic benefits accruing from the land. Over
70,000 ha of community land were demarcated by the project. Although this was not part of the original
design, land demarcation became an important acheivement of the project.

Component 4. Monitoring and Evaluation. Highly unsatisfactory.

Despite repeated requests from the Bank to design and implement an M&E system (this point was stressed
in many aide memoires and the mid-term review), a system was never put in place. A design was done in
early 2002, however the design was believed to be impractical to implement and it was believed to be too
late in the project to implement the system. As the project was supposed to be a pilot project, testing new
methodologies for use in later projects, the lack of a robust M&E system is a serious omission, as lessons
cannot be fully captured with sufficient rigor.




                                                      - 9 -

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

No economic analysis of the project was not done at appraisal, as a formal cost-benefit analysis would have
been problematic, as many of the benefits are difficult to value. Similarly, no ex-post analysis has been
conducted.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

No FRR was calculated during appraisal, or the ICR, as the project activities did not lend themselves to
this type of analysis.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

Substantial. The project has had a substantial impact on improving the institutional capacity of GOM to
formulate policy and coordinate conservation and tourism functions of government. A nodal institution
now exists, the TFCA unit, within MITUR, to liaise with counterparts in neighboring countries on matters
of tourism and conservation; to implement donor projects in the sector (e.g. the follow-on project) and to
coordinate, through park management units, activities in the TFCA unit and effectively manage
conservation activities in their jurisdiction. The unit is flexible and autonomous enough to be able work
across Directorates within the Ministry, and to work with other Ministries, in particular, MADER and
MICOA ­ this is an essential capability in implanting and integrated approach to conservation. The
international treaties and agreements reached in the three TFCAs and the regional management committees
responsible for managing these areas are a further substantive impact of the project. The formulation of
the ECDA in Lubombo TFCA is an important institution to promote public-private partnerships for
tourism and conservation in the area.

The project was designed to be implemented directly by MADER, through DNFFB. Many of the
institutional development activities i.e. capacity building, training, logistical support, technical assistance
etc. were done within DNFFB and SBFFB in the three provinces in which the TFCAs are located. In 2000,
the project was shifted to the newly created Ministry of Tourism (MITUR) where it was implemented by
the National Directorate of Conservation Areas (DNAC). In 2001 a separate TFCA unit was created which
reported directly to the Minister of Tourism. The mid-term review recommended that the TFCA unit report
directly to the Minister of Tourism in order to increase the profile of the project and to give the unit more
autonomy. A clear result of the move was that the project was able to deliver much more effectively and
efficiently once it had its own unit and could report directly the Minister.

While many institutional development and capacity building activities did take place at the provincial,
district and local level, the institutional development impact of these activities is modest; however, this will
be a greater focus during the follow-on project. Sub-national capacity building is clearly also affected by
the broader decentralization agenda of GOM.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

l Canceling of SDC co-financing. Substantial. $2.6 million grant co-financing from SDC was cancelled
    between the time of project approval and grant effectiveness. This had a substantial impact on the
    scope of component 1 (activities in the Lubombo TFCA were curtailed) and Component 3 (a range of
    activities were reduced) though effective reprioritization of expenditures ensured that component 1
    achieved its key activities and impacts;



                                                     - 10 -

l Communities living in Protected Areas. Substantial. A major challenge the project faced was the issue
    of communities living in PAs. There are approximately 27,000 people living in the LNP (about 6,500
    in the core zone in which wildlife will be abundant) and a few thousand people in the Futi Corridor.
    These communities need careful consideration in the development of the TFCAs, and particularly in
    areas designated for wildlife habitation. Despite the efforts of the Bank staff and project team to
    resolve the fate of the communities living in Coutada 16, and the assurances given by GOM that the
    issue would be adequately resolved prior to any action, in 2001, the LNP was gazetted as a national
    park and some animals were allowed to enter the park area. This created a lot of media attention and
    controversy around the project. While the Bank and the project were not to blame for the controversy,
    the policy options for communities living in PAs could have been explored further during design (as
    highlighted in 3.5). The project developed a Management Plan for the Maputo Special Reserve
    (within the Lubombo TFCA, with demarcation for local communities within the Futi Corridor). In
    addition, communities currently relying on subsistence hunting for their livelihood may be reluctant to
    resettle. While the project failed to achieve adequate clarity at the policy level on this issue, the
    solution to the "people in parks" problem is not obvious, particular for communities that have lived for
    generations off the wildlife in the area;
l Floods. Partial. The 2000 floods significantly affected implementation, particularly in Banhine,
    Zinave and Limpopo. Physical work that had been completed in these areas needed to be redone, plus
    the project experienced significant delays due to the floods; and
l Emergence from civil war. Partial. The project experienced multiple difficulties in working in a
    country emerging from decades of civil war in which very little administrative and other capacity
    existed, and conservation was low on the list of priorities.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Lack of capacity in all levels of government to give adequate attention to the project caused delays,
particularly in the early years of operation. In addition, the change in responsible government ministries
from MADER to MITUR, firstly under the DNAC and later in an autonomous TFCA unit reporting
directly to Minister significantly impacted implementation. The project did not begin to deliver
substantially until this final move into its current form. The transition from MADER to DNAC and to an
autonomous TFCA unit had resulted in some initial overlap of responsibility; however, institutional
responsibilities have now been adequately clarified. The project has significantly benefited from a high
level of interest and involvement from the Minister of Tourism and senior officials within MITUR. At
provincial level, the Director SPFFB was the nodal officer responsible for the project along with
responsibility for all other wildlife and forestry issues in the province. This put a serious strain on the time
available for the project. In Chimanimani, the Director SPFFB was allowed to work entirely on the TFCA
project which freed up sufficient time to deliver the CMNRM activities.

While governance problems have been flagged in the CAS as an important endemic issue in the country, no
significant governance issues appeared to emerge during implementation.             However, transparency in
awarding concessions is still an issue, particularly with regard to the renewal of the Coutada 16 hunting
concession in 1996 (for 15 years) and the consequent negotiations with the concessionaire; and the
procedures for awarding contracts in Lubombo, in particular in the Milibangalala concession.                 Full
transparency in concessioning and the awarding of contracts will continue to be an important issue in the
follow on project.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

Over the life of the project, an effective implementing agency has been developed. The agency, the TFCA



                                                      - 11 -

unit within MITUR, is now able to manage the three TFCA units effectively and make a substantial
contribution to the national policy formulation. It is fully staffed and well placed to implement the
follow-on project. However, this unit has only came into being during the last year and a half of the
project, once the project was moved from MADER to MITUR and was given autonomy to report directly
to the Minister of Tourism. Before this time, a number of operational weaknesses were experienced,
including: poor financial management due to a two year delay in auditing, out of date financial management
software and the lack of a procurement officer in the unit ­ each of these three issues were resolved once
the unit was notified.

5.4 Costs and financing:

Costs. The project was financed by a GEF grant, GOM counterpart funding, and was intended to be
co-financed by an SDC grant. Two factors resulted in significant costs changes: (i) At grant signing, the
SDC were expected to co-finance the project through a grant of $2.6 million; however, SDC funds were
never forthcoming, and therefore the budget was significantly reallocated; (ii) the devaluation of the SDR
resulted in a reduction in the project budget of about $300,000. This cost reduction came off each of the
project components.

Fund flow problems caused some delays to activities in the field; however, did not significantly affect the
overall project implementation. While some delays in counterpart funding from GOM were experienced,
all counterpart funding was received in the end. The total grant was almost entirely used.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Likely. The project was the first phase of a longer-term program likely to span 10-15 years. The benefits
achieved under this project, in biodiversity conservation, institutional capacity, regional integration and the
improved environment for investment in eco-tourism will be further strengthened in the follow-on project
and are likely to be sustainable. Long-term environmental management plans have been formulated for the
three TFCAs and can be in other future conservation areas. The TFCAs within the project have been
gazetted as protected areas and, as such, the environmental sustainability will be protected by the state. In
order to ensure long-term financial sustainability of the TFCAs, funding will need to be secured outside of
government as government transfers will not be sufficient to maintain the conservation areas. Donor
funding over the medium term looks very promising, in particular, the Bank follow-on project, IFC
SEATIP project under preparation, KfW, USAID and the possibility of other bilateral funding. However,
in the long-term, private sector investments is needed to ensure tourism revenues are available for
conservation. This success of the symbiotic relationship between conservation and tourism, actively
promoted by the follow-on project, is likely to determine the future sustainability of the TFCAs. The
project enjoys a high profile within the MITUR, and thus it is expected that the capacity built in the project
will be used in the follow-on project and for other activities in conservation and tourism. The government
is committed to the 3 TFCAs created by the project and there is every indication that these institutions will
be supported by GOM in future. However, the few benefits from CBNRM activities undertaken in
component 3 are not likely to be sustainable without additional support. Most of the initiatives have not
clearly established markets for their goods, and do not have the necessary infrastructure to take there goods
to any potential markets.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

As the first phase of a longer program, the primary transition the project will make is into implementing the


                                                     - 12 -

follow-on project. The follow-on project (TFCATDP) has as its draft objective: "to improve the
management of Mozambique's natural resources assets in a manner conducive to private sector tourism
and development to obtain sustainable livelihood and economic development benefits". It extends the
concepts developed in the project being assessed and includes a larger component of tourism development
and infrastructure provision. The project is planned to be implemented in the current three TFCAs and to
develop two new TFCAs: Niassa TFCA (60,000 km2 between Mozambique and Malawi) and Zimoza
TFCA (31,000 km2 between Mozambique, Zambia and Zimbabwe). The performance measure by which
the project, and the overall program are measure, must be captured in an M&E system that is a priority in
the early stages of TFCATDP.

At the national level, the TFCA unit is fully engaged in the preparation of the follow-on Bank project which
is a direct extension of the project. At the provincial and district level, no separate TFCA unit exists,
therefore MITUR will continue to coordinate the TFCAs along with their other departmental work. Each
TFCA has different institutional arrangements for future operations: GLTNP (within the Great Limpopo
TFCA) is managed by a three country committee (currently chaired by Mozambique) which currently
receives support from KfW. The future revenue sharing arrangements in the park are currently under
discussion. Institutional arrangements in the Lubombo TFCA are still in a state of flux, and will not be
resolved until the international committee of representatives from Mozambique, Swaziland and South
Africa have taken the process further. The establishment of the Elephant Coast Development Agency ­
which will focus on integrated planning in Matutuine District (of Maputo Province) ­ is expected to have a
substantial impact on the functioning of the Lubombo TFCA. Chimanimani TFCA is less affected by the
broader political-institutional context as it is a much smaller and relatively simpler TFCA. It is likely that
it will continue to be managed by the provincial director of MITUR and the district officials.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Unsatisfactory. The Bank's performance in identification, preparation assistance and appraisal benefited
from a high level of commitment from Bank staff and consultants working under difficult conditions. The
resulting project was important and innovative; however had significant weaknesses. The project took a
long time to prepare, did not receive sufficient commitment from GOM, and had some design weaknesses.
The project took 5 years to prepare, and did not sustain the interest of GOM over all this time. As assessed
in 3.5, the project design took the Bank's priorities (as stated in the CAS) into account, and worked closely
with the government to ensure the project was aligned to GOM priorities; however, overall, GOM had not
bought-in to the concept to a satisfactory level. However, as this was a pilot project which was explicitly
piloted innovative new approaches, the lack of government buy-in during preparation is not seen as a
hindrance to the project achieving positive outcomes. The tenacity of the design team in pursuing the
project preparation, despite difficult conditions, needs special mention.

Other specific design weaknesses are:
l The design should have better anticipated the resettlement issues, in particular, through an involuntary
     resettlement safeguard or some more robust policy on the options for communities living in protected
     areas. During preparation, involuntary settlement was not recognized by the Bank (or GEF) as the
     significant issue it is today; therefore, this omission by the project designers is more of a weakness of
     the Bank than any individuals;
l Although the project was based in Mozambique, as a transfrontier project more time was needed to
     build consensus with neighboring states to ensure the overall concept was shared; however, it is



                                                       - 13 -

    recognized that this may have extended the preparation time even further - which would not have been
    desirable;
l The design did not adequately take into account the existing situation in the areas ear marked for the
    TFCAs and the capacity of GOM and NGOs to implement these kinds of community-based programs;
    and
l The expected outcomes from the multiple activities needed to be more rigorously assessed through a
    logical framework analysis, or similar strategy/design tool, to ensure the project was more focused and
    the project objective, global objective and indicators were clear and understood by all stakeholders.

7.2 Supervision:

Satisfactory. Supervision of the project was consistent and satisfactory, despite a high turn-over of TTL's
in Washington. This is due to two factors: most TTL's shared a common understanding of the project and
worked hard at ensuring continuity of supervision; and more importantly, the project benefited from high
quality, consistent field presence of the same technical expert throughout supervision. Strong management
from the field meant that the relationships with GOM were well managed and the implementing agency
could draw on accessible Bank expertise. Other criteria of Bank supervision are assessed below:

l Reporting of project implementation progress through Aide Memoires and supervision missions was
    satisfactory; however the PSR, SAP financial updates and IRIS were not updated on time;
l Implementation problems were detected early and addressed proactively, for example, the shift in
    component 3 from CBNRM to land demarcation;
l Realistic performance ratings were given in the PSR for development objective; however, some of the
    earlier ratings for the implementation progress may have been lenient;
l The supervision staff maintained a clear focus on the possible development impact and the wider
    developmental consequence of the project;
l Very high quality advice was consistently given to the GOM and the implementing agency to improve
    performance;
l Bank supervision was flexible to modifications in approach, for example, in constantly improving the
    institutional arrangements;
l Working relationships across the Bank, borrower, implementing agency and other partners were
    extremely good;
l Sufficient and satisfactory supervision missions were fielded; however, as can be seen in Annex 4, not
    all of these were correctly entered into the electronic system, and are therefore not adequately captured.


7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Satisfactory. On balance, Bank performance is rated as satisfactory, in recognition of the strong
contribution during supervision that turned around what could have been a problem project.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

Satisfactory. GOM contributed to all preparation activities adequately. Personnel from DNFFB were
active members of all Bank preparation missions and contributed as appropriate. The interest of the
government improved substantially during project preparation as the project concept shifted from the
original conservation-focused concept, to the broader TFCA concept including conservation, community
development and regional integration through multiple-use zones.



                                                     - 14 -

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Satisfactory. Government interest in the project was mixed over the life of the project. The initial
implementation of the project by MADER (DNFFB) was slow in progressing. The transfer of the project
from MADER to MITUR caused substantial delays in the project due to unresolved institutional disputes.
Under the current arrangement, the project benefits from a high degree of positive involvement by senior
government officials and appears to be a priority for GOM. The project experienced a slow release of
counterpart funding for contract mobilization; however, all counterpart funding was released.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

Satisfactory. The TFCA unit as it exists in its current form has a highly motivated, capable and
professional staff that have demonstrated a high level of commitment to the project. However, the project
did suffer some problems with performance during implementation, in particular, delays due to insufficient
familiarity with the Bank's procurement guidelines, and insufficient implementation capacity, delaying
procurement and disbursement schedules. However, by the end of the project, all capacity issues had been
resolved. A number of financial management deficiencies were experienced during the project: audit
delays, out of date software, and the lack of financial management personnel in the TFCA unit; however,
these were all adequately resolved.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

1.       The project created a platform for tourism development and regional integration by using an
innovative approach to biodiversity conservation. The TFCA concept, as developed by the project, has
broad application in Mozambique, and other developing countries with rich biodiversity endowments.

2.       Issues of major importance, like land, need an integrated approach which involve the CAS and
a range of lending and AAA activities. In some ways, the potential of this project ­ for achieving regional
integration and creating a platform for tourism development ­ was under exploited by the Bank. This was
partially because the project was small and may have been assumed to focus solely on conservation.

3.       Demarcating land for communities can be an effective way of establishing community rights
over local natural resources in order to benefit from eco-tourism. If communities are clear about the
land to which they are entitled, they are in a much stronger bargaining position with private investors to
ensure they get their share of benefits from eco-tourism. The project piloted demarcation activities within
the TFCAs (over 70,000 ha) and these need to be continued and consolidated in the follow-on project.
Land demarcations are the first step in ensuring that communities are not over-whelmed by private sector
operators and marginalized in the development process. In addition, in the areas in which land demarcation
was tried (Chimanimani and Futi Corridor), CBNRM activities appear to have much greater potential.

4.       Conservation and community development projects need to demonstrate clear linkages to
economic objectives such as growth, income generation or poverty reduction in order to retain focus
and ensure sufficient benefits flow to beneficiaries. In this project, the importance of tourism was not
sufficiently recognized until the TFCA unit was (somewhat fortuitously) established in MITUR. Tourism
as a means to ensure the sustainable use of biodiversity needed to be better understood and utilized in the



                                                     - 15 -

project. Better understanding and clarification of the economic potential of tourism in TFCAs would have
encouraged a greater interest in the project from government and other donors earlier on. Innovative
thinking to create tourism flows through TFCAs is now required to ensure future sustainability. However,
experience in many other parts of the world show the negative environmental and social impacts that can
occur if tourism investments are not carefully planned and regulated.

5.       Institutional development is a time consuming process that requires commitment from all
stakeholders, and extensive capacity building. The project created the institutional capacity within
MITUR to continue the work of the project into any follow-on projects; however, it took four years of
implementation (and five years of preparation) for the institutional arrangements to reach its current form.
Only once this capacity was created did the project function effectively. The TFCA unit and the Elephant
Coast Development Agency are both products of protracted institutional development efforts which
required a long-term commitment from both GOM and the Bank.

6.       Sensitive issues such as communities living in future National Parks need to be dealt with
up-front with all stakeholders and resolved before approval. The most controversial aspect of the
project is the "people in parks" issue discussed in the text. During implementation, once the issue fully
emerged, the project went some way in advising GOM on approaches to dealing with communities living in
PAs, and further work in this area is underway; however, the issue should have been anticipated better
during project preparation. Communities, and local and provincial governments, need to be involved in the
project right from the beginning, particularly in projects that may involve resettlement.

7.       A trade-off may exist between the expedience and efficiency of delivering a project and the
inclusion and strengthening of provincial and district governments needed to improve sustainability.
The project has developed the capacity of the three TFCA park management units more or less in parallel
to provincial and local governments. While this is probably the most expedient institutional approach in
the short to medium-term, for long-term sustainability, provincial and district governments need to be more
explicitly involved in managing the TFCAs. However, much greater resources are needed to strengthen the
capacity of provincial and local administrations as these are time consuming and costly activities.

8.       Creating an enabling environment for the private sector and encouraging "high quality
investors" is a difficult and complex challenge. In similar projects, an advisor dealing with private
sector issues should be appointed early on in the project. Future projects need to engage potential
investors during project preparation in order to anticipate a realistic role for the private sector. The
demand side of tourism promotion, for both wildlife and community-based tourism, needs to be fully
researched. The extent to which lack of infrastructure presents major constraints for private sector and
community development and project management was underestimated and the follow up phase will need to
link many of its outputs to infrastructure development.

9.       In order for a pilot project to produce robust results that test new methodologies, an M&E
system must be in place at project effectiveness. Future projects should consider not releasing funds until
the baseline data for an M&E system has been established.

10.      Transparency in concessioning still remains an important and elusive goal. A concerted effort
is required by GOM, with support from the donors, to ensure that communities are not marginalized by
land allocations and that the true real estate values of land are attained through auctions or tenders.




                                                      - 16 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

The TFCA coordinator has submitted a completion report which is presented in Annex 8. The overall
assessment of the project is consistent with the ICR. It states that the project was satisfactory in meeting
its development objective, and cites the following as the significant weaknesses: (i) inadequate government
capacity; (ii) transfer of the project from MADER to MITUR was disruptive; (iii) community mobilization
component was not satisfactory; and (iv) too few real benefits were felt by communities from project. The
report details the project's outputs within the four components.

(b) Cofinanciers:

The project had no co-financiers, however, the project did benefit from efforts made by other donors (as
discussed in previous sections). In particular, KfW, USAID and Ford Foundation all provided
complementary funding of activities originally envisaged as part of this project and expansions of the
original project concept.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

The views of many stakeholders were solicited during the ICR mission. All relevant views are reflected in
the Aide Memoire. Relevant non-government agencies interviewed include: bilateral donors (USAID,
KfW, SDC), NGOs (IUCN, WWF, PPF, Helvetas, African Wildlife Foundation) and the private sector
(CTA, Impacto, DAI). Most partners that were very positive about the impact of the project, in particular,
of the platform the project has created for future investments. Some concerns expressed by some partners
include: (i) poor communication between implementing agency and NGOs on the potential role for NGOs
and the responsibility for funding; (ii) questions were raised about whether the TFCA concept has spread
wider than a handful of people in the capital; and (iii) a concern about the viability of CBNRM in some of
the TFCAs, and the real potential for community-based tourism in the country; an issue which is being
explored further in the follow-on project.

10. Additional Information

A. The Bank's ICR Team consisted of the following members:

Michael Webster (YP, AFTS1, and TTL for ICR)
Cedric Boisrobert (Environmental specialist, AFTS1)
Rod de Vletter (Independent consultant, World Bank and IFC)

B. List of Task Team Leaders of the project:

Jose Olivera
Magda Lara-Resende
Jean-Paul Chausse
Robert A. Clement-Jones
Rod de Vletter
Agnes I. Kiss

C. GEF additional requirements
See annex 9



                                                     - 17 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


Outcome/Impact Indicators

(Outcome indicators are as developed in the MTR and listed in the subsequent PSRs)

                Indicator               Projected in Project Document                   Actual Estimate
(i) Improved institutional and
policy environment
  l Strengthened capacity within     The government is able to fulfill its  The concerned Ministries (MADER
      National Government to         mandate to formulate policies          and MITUR) are able to adequately
      fulfill its mandate of policy  related to biodiversity conservation   formulate biodiversity conservation
      formulation, planning and                                             policies
      technical guidance.
  l Enhanced technical and           Capacity of the government to          Capacity building at national and
      planning capacity at provincialimplement an ecosystem management provincial levels has been carried out
      and local level.               approach in TFCAs is developed         but efforts to strengthen and involve
                                                                            provincial and district institutions will
                                                                            need to be further in order to
                                                                            adequately fulfill conservation function
  l Enhanced private sector          Private sector investments will take   Few activities have taken place at this
      involvement in sustainable     place in TFCAs in collaboration with point but the necessary conditions to
      forestry and wildlife          local communities in natural resource attract the private sector have
      management                     based activities                       significantly improved. Recognizing
                                                                            that investment environment has
                                                                            improved, numerous tourism (and
                                                                            other sectors) related investments are
                                                                            expected in any follow-on project
  l Strengthened regional politicalRegional collaboration in                International agreements have been
      support for transfrontier      transfrontier conservation is          signed by government officials of
      biodiversity conservation      established and is functioning         neighboring countries and transfrontier
                                                                            conservation is well supported in the
                                                                            region.
(ii) Improved habitat and wildlife
management
  l Improved protection and          In the selected TFCAs,                  l The protected areas have been
      management for the utilizationMozambique's natural assets are              classified and demarcated and
      of core conservation areas     protected and managed in a                  limited infrastructures and
                                     sustainable manner and experience a         equipment have been provided to
                                     reversal of unsustainable trends in         improve the management of the
                                     poaching, uncontrolled burning and          TFCAs.
                                     other unsustainable use of biodiversity l Wildlife has increased throughout
                                     resources in core conservation areas        the project life in TFCAs
                                                                                 (anecdotal evidence from field
                                                                                 staff)
(iii) Community involved in
CBNRM
  l Increased participation of         Local communities within TFCAs          l Relatively few revenue
      rural communities in the         are involved in small-scale                generating activities have taken
      management of forests and        revenue generating activities and          place yet within the TFCAs.
      wildlife to enhance benefits     customary rights such as land           l Land demarcation has been




                                                         - 18 -

    through recognition of           demarcation.                             carried out for communities in
    customary rights                                                          the buffer zones of the National
                                                                              Parks




Output Indicators

(Output indicators have been derived from the Project Document and the MTR)

       Outputs            Projected in Project Document                         Actual Estimate
COMPONENT 1: INSTITUTIONAL AND
POLICY DEVELOPMENT
1.1 DNFFB strengthening (National level capacity
building)
       Staffing            l Project coordinator will be      l Project coordinator and project administrator
                              appointed                          appointed
                           l Secretary/administrator will     l 1 project accountant was appointed
                              be appointed                    l 1 procurement officer was appointed in 2003
                           l Technical advisor appointed      l A technical advisor was appointed to provide TA
                              for project coordinator            and training to JMCs and undertake CBNRM
                           l Short term park management          and Community-Based biodiversity conservation
                              advisor                         l Technical adviser for Lubombo TFCA appointed
                           l Short term community             l A financial controller was appointed
                              program adviser                 l Short term consultancies have been carried out
                           l Short term                       l A national steering committee was created but
                              commercial/business adviser        was not functional because of lack of time,
                                                                 financing and because people were already
                                                                 attending the tourism facilitation committee,
                                                                 which was then used for this purpose instead
                                                              l Technical committee established
                                                              l International working groups at the Ministerial
                                                                 level for international agreements (Limpopo and
                                                                 Lubombo)

       Training            l Short courses (17) (FM,          l Courses have been given
                              procurement and                 l 1 BSc., 1 MSc. and 4 certificate have been
                              disbursement, project              financed and completed.
                              planning, park management,      l Workshops and seminars were carried out
                              PSD, strategic planning,
                              policy formulation, M&E)
                           l BSc courses (1), MSc courses
                              (1)
                           l Medium-level courses (6)
                           l Workshops
                           l Seminars


       Logistical          l Rehabilitation of offices for    l Logistical support for international collaboration
       support                the project unit                   (travel, subsistence, etc.) was given
                           l Logistics and travel             l Logistical and operating costs provided to the
                              allowance for staff                TFCA unit
                           l Vehicles and office supplies     l Vehicles and office equipment were procured.
1.2 Provincial and local capacity building



                                                      - 19 -

       Lubombo
       TFCA            l Regional coordinator will be    l Project staff were appointed
       Staffing          appointed                       l A regional and area coordinators appointed
                       l Secretary will be appointed     l Two technical advisors were appointed
                       l Administrator will be           l A JMC was established but not implemented for
                         appointed                         lack of funding
                       l Advisor to regional             l TFCA commission appointed, task groups and
                         coordinator will be appointed     secretariat established but not functional (instead
                                                           the Elephant Coast Development Agency
                                                           ­ECDA was established to stimulate responsible
                                                           tourism in the area and community
                                                           participation)
                       l BSc courses
       Training        l Training for guards and         l Training for guards was carried out
                         supervisors                     l Courses were given
                       l Short course in financial
                         administration

                       l Driver
       Logistical      l Subsistence and travel          l Logistical support was provided
       support           allowance for staff
       Great Limpopo
       TFCA
       Staffing        l Regional coordinator            l Project staff was appointed
                       l Advisor to regional             l Two technical advisors were appointed
                         coordinator                       subsequently but both resigned due to hardship
                                                           of the job
       Training        l Short courses, medium-level     l 1 BSc. obtained
                         courses                         l The various trainings and courses were given
                       l BSc courses                     l Community support training for personnel and
                       l Short course in financial         for communities was carried out
                         administration

       Logistical      l Subsistence and travel          l Logistical support was provided
       support           allowance for staff
       Chimanimani
       TFCA
        l Staffing     l Regional coordinator            l Project staff appointed
                       l Technical advisor               l JMC established


        l Training     l Short courses, Seminars         l Community support training for personnel and
                       l BSc courses                       for communities was carried out
                       l Medium-level courses            l The various trainings and courses were carried
                       l Short course in financial         out
                         administration

        l Logistical   l Subsistence and travel          l Logistical support was provided
           support       allowance for staff
1.3 GIS/EIS
        l GIS/EIS at   l Establishment of a GIS unit     l GIS equipment were already existing but lack of
           the           for each of these 3 levels        capacity constrained the activity
           national,   l Training                        l GIS unit created within DNFFB
           provincial, l EIS/GIS database                l Training was provided




                                                  - 20 -

          and TFCA           administrator                  l Staffing was not done
          levels          l EIS/GIS system analyst          l Since the project management moved from
                          l EIS/GIS programmer                DNFFB to an independent and cross-sectoral
                          l Topographer/cartographer/su       MITUR institution, it was not necessary to create
                             rveyor                           another GIS unit.
                          l Computer operator
                          l Other studies and support
1.4 Development and field testing of natural
resource policies
      Policy and          l Review of laws                  l Wildlife, forestry, land and NR laws were
      legislative         l Tax regime, fees, licenses        revised
      reform and             and revenue retention          l Hunting fees in hunting concessions were
      development            reviews                          revised
                          l Tendering and project           l The tax regime, fees, licenses and revenue
                             approval mechanisms              retention review is being studied during the
                                                              preparation of the second phase of the project
                                                            l Tendering was addressed and project approval
                                                              mechanisms were reviewed
1.5 Private sector
        l Granting of     l Concessioning in TFCAs is       l The transparent granting of concessions process
          concessions        done in a fair and transparent   is yet to be improved within the government.
        l Action plan        manner                           DINAGECA, which is responsible for the
          to enhance      l Action plans, guidelines, and     process, responds to MADER, and should be
          PS role            mechanisms are developed to      independent, instead of being linked to a sectoral
        l Guidelines         encourage private sector         institution.
          for PS             involvement in TFCAs           l A survey of the private sector currently involved
          developmen      l Various meetings and              in wildlife management was done
          t                  annuals reviews are held with  l Revised safari hunting fees in coutadas was
        l National           the private sector               carried out
          policy                                            l Tender guidelines to foster transparency in
          framework                                           awarding concessions in TFCAs was developed
          for public,                                       l Guidelines for PS engagement have been drafted
          PS, NGOs,                                         l The tender and concessions procedures for the
          and                                                 MSR have been finalized
          communitie                                        l Eco-tourism development proposal for Lubombo
          s                                                   TFCA was prepared
1.6 International collaboration
        l Meetings        l Meetings and consultations      l Shared cross-border activities have been
          and                are done between government      implemented
          workshops          officials from concerned       l Quarterly report from TFCA unit released.
          between            countries.                     l One international treaty and two agreements
          GOM and         l Workshops and newsletters         were signed by the Heads of State of
          officials          are completed to disseminate     Mozambique, South Africa, Swaziland and
          from               information and create           Zimbabwe as a result of the project, committing
          neighboring        interests in transborder         each country to the TFCA concept.
          states             conservation within the        l A bilateral agreement by Mozambique and
        l Bi-annual          international community          Zimbabwe was signed for the Chimanimani
          newsletter      l International management          TFCA.
          to                 committees are created         l Investments from donor community (USAID,
          disseminate                                         KfW) contributed to transborder conservation
          info on                                             efforts in Moz.
          transfrontie                                      l Important PS investments are likely to be
          r issues                                            established in the near future (number of



                                                     - 21 -

         l JMCs                                                requests of information for tourism investments
         l Joint                                               increased).
            Manageme                                         l Other TFCA projects in the country/region have
            nt plan for                                        emerged.
            GLTFP                                            l Mozambique's profile has been raised amid the
                                                               international community and is starting to be
                                                               recognized as the initiator for the innovative
                                                               concept of transfrontier conservation.
                                                             l TFCA concept recognized by SADC and
                                                               NEPAD as important development activities for
                                                               the sub-region and continent.
                                                             l The Lubombo SDI agreement was signed in
                                                               1999 by the 3 presidents.
                                                             l The Lubombo TFCA protocol was signed by
                                                               Minister responsible for conservation of the 3
                                                               countries.
COMPONENT 2. HABITAT AND WILDLIFE
MANAGEMENT
2.1 Identification, zoning, and demarcation of
land for TFCAs
       Lubombo TFCA         l Demarcation of core            l MER was demarcated
                              protected areas in Maputo      l Creation of ECDA
                              Elephant Reserve (MER)         l Demarcation of Futi corridor done
                            l Provisional demarcation by     l Proposal for extension of MER through the Futi
                              DINAGECA of Futi Corridor        corridor completed
       Great Limpopo        l Gazetting of Limpopo NP        l Limpopo NP was gazetted as a NP in 2001 and
       TFCA                 l Delimitation of the buffer       the GLTFCA was created.
                              (support) zone                 l Boundary demarcation being carried out in
                                                               Banhine and Zinave.
       Chimanimani         l Demarcation of core protected  l Core protected area gazetted
       TFCA                  areas
2.2 Management plan for PAs and ecological and
social studies
      Lubombo TFCA          l Study on tourism potential     l Study on tourism potential is to be prepared
                            l Management plan                  under TFCA2 preparation
                            l Other studies and surveys      l MSR management plan released
                                                             l Socioeconomic survey carried out
                                                             l Futi corridor plan (linking MSR to Tembe and
                                                               Nduma NPs)
                                                             l Aerial surveys were carried out
                                                             l Elephant survey completed
      Great Limpopo         l Aerial and demographic         l The aerial and demographic studies were carried
      TFCA                    survey for C16 and Banhine       out
                              NP                             l Socioeconomic survey completed
                            l Conceptual plan for the        l Conceptual plans for C16, Banhine and Zinave
                              management of C16                were prepared
                            l Demographic study for          l Management plans done for the 3 areas done
                              Banhine NP                     l Reconnaissance surveys done
                            l Management plan for            l The interstitial land use plan has been developed
                              Banhine NP                     l JMP for GLTBP was finalized
                            l Joint management plan for
                              GLTBP
      Chimanimani          l Aerial survey                  l Aerial survey carried out




                                                      - 22 -

     TFCA                l Demographic and ecological      l Demographic and ecological studies study done
                           studies study                   l Inventory report on fish species done
                         l Resource management plan and    l Resource management and integrated action
                           action plan                       plan was developed
2.3 Rehabilitation of parks
      Lubombo TFCA       Futi Corridor :
                          l Construction of staff houses    l Some staff houses were built
                          l Road and track rehabilitation   l Roads and tracks have been restored
                             and construction (10km)        l Most vehicles and equipment procured
                          l Vehicles and equipment for
                             park staff

                         MER:
                          l Rehabilitation of main camp
                          l Construction of posts           l Staff houses, posts and main camp were built
                          l Construction of field housing   l Roads were rehabilitated
                          l Road rehabilitation and         l Most vehicles and equipment procured
                             construction (25km)
                          l Vehicle and equipment for
                             staff
     Great Limpopo      Limpopo NP :
     TFCA                l Rehabilitation and construction l Construction of posts done
                           of guard posts                  l Most of the equipment was procured
                         l Vehicles and equipment


                        Banhine NP :
                         l Construction of posts and       l Construction and rehabilitation of staff houses
                           rehabilitation of staff houses    and posts done
                         l Vehicles and equipment          l Most of the equipment was procured
                         l Road rehabilitation and         l Some roads and tracks have been restored
                           construction (10km)

                        Zinave NP :
                         l Construction of posts           l Construction of staff houses and posts done
                         l Rehabilitation of main camp     l Most of the equipment was procured
                         l Vehicle and equipment           l Some roads and tracks have been restored
                         l Road rehabilitation and
                           construction (10km)
       Chimanimani       l Rehabilitation and construction l Construction and rehabilitation of staff houses
           TFCA            of guard posts                    and posts done.
                         l Vehicles and equipment          l Most of the vehicles and equipment were
                         l Road rehabilitation and           procured.
                           construction                    l Roads to key tourist attractions were
                                                             opened/rehabilitated.
COMPONENT 3. COMMUNITY
MOBILIZATION AND PILOT PROGRAMS
      Lubombo TFCA        l Funds for urgent                l Rice production project was funded for
                             wildlife/community conflicts     Madjedjane community in Maputo river basin
                          l Community conservation          l Policy and guidelines for communities in PAs in
                             investment fund                  progress
                          l Capacity building for local     l Community activity prepared (bee-keeping) but
                             NGOs                             not implemented because of lack of funding
                          l Community support training      l Proposal for community development are done




                                                     - 23 -

                     for personnel and for            and ready to be implemented
                     communities                    l Community awareness and training was carried
                  l Community awareness               out
                     exchange program               l Community land titles given (over 45,000 ha
                     (CAMPFIRE)                       demarcated for communities).
                  l Facilitation of land
                     acquisition for communities
                     along the west side of the FC
    Great Limpopo l Community awareness             l Community awareness exchange carried out
    TFCA          l Community development           l Community activity (Catine) prepared but not
                     activities                       implemented because of lack of funding
                                                    l Demarcation of land for communities (over
                                                      26,000 ha)
                                                    l Some community land titles have been given
                                                      outside the NPs
    Chimanimani   l Community support training for l Land for communities demarcated (6 villages)
    TFCA            personnel and for communities  l Declaration of historical cultural use zones done
                  l Community awareness              (18 sites)
                    exchange program               l CBNRM activities occurred (bee-keeping,
                    (CAMPFIRE)                       saw-milling, community shop and grind mill
                  l Regional visits for community    operation, mushroom harvesting and marketing,
                    leaders                          and small-scale agriculture) in 6 communities
                  l Workshops                      l Community representatives went on a study tour
                                                     to Uganda and to Tete province
COMPONENT 4. MONITORING AND
EVALUATION
    Design and    M&E system must include:          l Guidelines for M&E were drafted but were not
    implement     l institutional strengthening /     implemented due to their complexity and to the
    M&E system       policy changes                   lack of capacity at the local level.
                  l ecological monitoring
                  l socio-economic and
                     community assessments
                  l project implementation and
                     accountability




                                             - 24 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                            Appraisal     Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                            Estimate       Estimate      Appraisal
                        Component                           US$ million   US$ million
A. Institutional Strengthening                                 3.38             2.32            68
B. Habitat and Wildlife Management                             1.71             1.59            93
C. Community Mobilization and Pilot Activities                 1.59             0.81            50
D. Monitoring and Evaluation                                   0.30             0.02             7
E. Unallocated                                                 0.46

Total Baseline Cost                                            7.44             4.74
 Physical Contingencies                                        0.53
 Price Contingencies                                           0.15
                          Total Project Costs                  8.12             4.74
                            Interest during construction
                    Total Financing Required                   8.12             4.74


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                      1
                                                  Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB              NCB               2        N.B.F.   Total Cost
                                                                 Other
1. Works                             0.00             0.15         0.00          0.50        0.65
                                    (0.00)           (0.15)      (0.00)          (0.00)     (0.15)
2. Goods                             0.30             0.25         0.10          0.50        1.15
                                    (0.30)           (0.25)      (0.10)          (0.00)     (0.65)
3. Services                          0.00             0.00         2.70          0.80        3.50
TA, training and studies            (0.00)           (0.00)      (2.70)          (0.00)     (2.70)
4. Community Pilot                   0.00             0.00         0.30          0.20        0.50
Activities
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.30)          (0.00)     (0.30)
5. Incremental Operating             0.00             0.00         1.70          0.70        2.40
Costs                               (0.00)           (0.00)      (1.20)          (0.00)     (1.20)
6. Miscellaneous                     0.00             0.00         0.00          0.00        0.00
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)     (0.00)
   Total                             0.30             0.40         4.80          2.70        8.20
                                    (0.30)           (0.40)      (4.30)          (0.00)     (5.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                      1
                                                 Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB              NCB               2      N.B.F.    Total Cost
                                                                 Other
1. Works                             0.00             0.04        0.00           0.00       0.04
                                    (0.00)           (0.04)      (0.00)         (0.00)     (0.04)
2. Goods                             0.08             0.58        0.14           0.00       0.80



                                                  - 25 -

                                           (0.08)             (0.58)            (0.14)            (0.00)           (0.80)
   3. Services                              0.96               0.68              0.45             0.00              2.09
   TA, training and studies                (0.96)             (0.68)            (0.45)            (0.00)           (2.09)
   4. Community Pilot                       0.00               0.33              0.00             0.00              0.33
   Activities
                                           (0.00)             (0.33)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.33)
   5. Incremental Operating                 0.00               0.00              1.43             0.00              1.43
   Costs                                   (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.43)            (0.00)           (1.43)
   6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                                1.04               1.63              2.02             0.00              4.69
                                           (1.04)             (1.63)            (2.02)            (0.00)           (4.69)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Institutional strengthening     3.38                                  2.32                               68.6
Habitat and wildlife            1.71                                  1.59                               93.0
management
Community mobilization          1.59                                  0.81                               50.9
and pilot activities
Monitoring and evaluation       0.30                                  0.02                                6.7




                                                           - 26 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

No economic analysis has been carried out. See 4.3 for discussion on economic issues.




                                                 - 27 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                   Month/Year   Count           Specialty                         Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              March 1991                 1    Task Team Leader, Ag.
                                              Economist
              Sept. 1991                 1    Task Team Leader, Ag.
                                         2    Economist
                                         1    Conservation Planners
                                         1    Institutional/Training Specialist
                                              Nat Resources Economist
              July 1992                  1    Task Team Leader, Ag.
                                         1    Economist
                                              Env. Specialist
              Nov. 1992                  2    Economists
                                         2    Conservation Planners
                                         1    Institutional/Training Specialist
              May 1994                   1    Task Team Leader, Economist
                                         1    Sociologist
                                         1    Env. Officer

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              July 1996                  1    Task Team Leader,
                                              Economist
                                         1    NRM
                                         1    Lawyer
                                         1    Procurement/Disbursement
                                         1    Program Officer
                                         1    Operations Analyst

 Supervision
              Supervision data                                                       S               S
              from July 1996 to
              December 2000 is
              missing;
              however,
              supervision was
              mainly carried
              out from the
              field.
              December 2000              1    Task Team Leader, NRM                  S               S
                                         1    Sociologist
                                         1    Community Dev.
                                         1    Disbursement
              February 2001              1    Task Team Leader, NRM                  S               S
              February 2002              1    Task Team Leader, Economist            S               S
                                         1    NRM
                                         1    GEF Coordinator
                                         1
              October 2002               1    Task Team Leader, Economist            S               S



                                               - 28 -

                                       1   NRM
                                       1   Financial Management
                                       1   Disbursement/Procurement
               March 2003              1   Task Team Leader, Economist        S    S
                                       1   NRM
                                       1   Environment
                                       1   Financial Management
                                       1   Disbursement/Procurement
                                       1   Env. Economist

 ICR
               January 2004           1     Task Team Leader                       S
                                      1     Environment



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            32,4                         104.3
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 34.0                           75.8
  Supervision                          69.17                         752.0
  ICR                                  18.48                           28.4
  Total                              154.05                          960.5




                                            - 29 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 31 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Project Document
2. Mid-term Review
3. Aide-Memoirs
4. PSR 1 ­ 15
5. Mozambique CAS (2000), CAS (1997), CAS (1995)
6. World Bank (1998) Rebuilding the Mozambique Economy. Country Assistance Review. OED
7. A full list of the 172 documents relating to the project is available in the project file.




                                                    - 32 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Project Completion Report

Introduction

The Transfrontier Conservation Areas Project (TFCA) was funded by a grant from the Global Environmental
Facility and was administered by the World Bank. This project became effective in June 1997 and was designed
for a period of 5 years. However in 2002 the project was extended to September 2003. It was implemented on
behalf of the Mozambican Government initially (from 1997-2000) by the National Directorate of Forestry and
Wildlife in the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries. The project was transferred in 2000 to the Ministry of
Tourism where it was implemented until September 2003. This project was designed to assist the Government of
Mozambique in creating enabling policy and institutional frameworks for rehabilitating, developing, conserving
and sustainably utilizing its forest and wildlife resources. The aim was to integrate biodiversity conservation with
economic development based on sustainable use of forest and wildlife resources.

Principal performance ratings

Irrespective of inadequate government capacity, the process of transfer of the project from the Ministry of
Agriculture and Fisheries to the Ministry of Tourism and the disruption that this caused, implementation of the
TFCA project's objectives can be rated as satisfactory. This project has helped to stimulate a great interest in
Transfrontier conservation and transboundary natural resource management (TBNRM) in southern Africa.
However, it should be noted that this project was the first of its kind in southern Africa, hence a lot, especially
gaining national and international consensus. The development of institutional framework for coordinating the
establishment and development of TFCAs had to be learnt during implementation of the project and this took a
long time. The implementation of the Community Mobilization component was not satisfactory because local
NGOs entrusted with the responsibility of implementing this component had inadequate capacity to create
sufficient incentives for communities to adopt nature conservation as an adjunct to their subsistence livelihoods.
Although some land was demarcated for communities, little value was added, and there was no joint venture deal
accomplished between the private sector and communities, hence poverty remains rife among the communities in
TFCAs.

A.        Assessment of Development objectives, Design and Quality at Entry

The first phase of the Pilot TFCA project was designed as a long-term effort that would extend at least for 10-15
years. Its thrust has been to assist the Government of Mozambique to create an enabling policy and institutional
environment for rehabilitating, conserving its unique natural and biodiversity endowments, using the TFCA as the
central organizing principle, and help implement community-based resource management in three pilot TFCAs,
namely Chimanimani, Gaza (currently known as Great Limpopo TFCA) and Maputo (known a Lubombo TFCA).

The project had four inter-related objectives, namely:

i)       Institutional and policy development, which included capacity building of staff of the Directorate of
Forestry and Wildlife, its provincial services, District Agricultural Services and local communities;
ii)      Habitat and Wildlife Management
iii)     Community mobilization; and
iv)      Monitoring an Evaluation

From a design point of view the project fully recognized inadequate capacities within the government to adequately
foster sustainable biodiversity conservation at a trans-border, and ecosystem-wide scale, and promote sustained
rural development, hence acknowledgment of the need for donor support for 10-15 years. However while the
project also emphasized the role of NGOs to promote Community Based Natural Resources Management
(CBNRM) and the need to apply CBNRM lessons learned from neighboring countries, the reality proved difficult
in achieving these because:

·        During the course of implementing the project it became apparent that local NGOs in Mozambique lack



                                                         - 33 -

capacity to facilitate effective CBNRM programs, and had been unable to form alliances that could have boosted
their capacities. In addition CBNRM in the neighboring countries is still on experimental basis; hence no real
useful lessons could be discerned from them. Even the popular CAMPFIRE program in Zimbabwe for example has
had some flaws with its revenue-sharing approach, whereby government authorities act as contracting agents,
collect and distribute revenues generated to communities. Rural District Councils have been capturing most of
these revenues. Furthermore while CBNRM in neighboring countries is based on sport hunting of abundant
wildlife, in Mozambique wildlife populations were decimated during the protracted civil war, hence new models of
CBNRM, that are based on local situation could be most suitable, but unfortunately the NGOs that were entrusted
with this task had no idea of how to do it.
·         The identified pilot TFCAs are in remote areas, where basic infrastructure (even in Maputo where there
are some structures, they are in terrible state) does not exist. The budget for rehabilitation of protected areas was
excessively inadequate, more particularly so as there were no structures to rehabilitate. What was really required
was re-construction of infrastructure in protected wildlife areas. The situation of infrastructure was aggravated by
floods in 2000, which washed away the little that existed in protected areas of Maputo and Gaza provinces. Viable
markets do not exist, partly because of lack of access. Similarly, Pilot TFCAs are inaccessible, hence limiting the
private sector and communities' ability to engage in sustainable business ventures. In the proposed follow-up phase
of the TFCA, these shortfalls have been recognized.

B.        Achievement of Development Objectives and outputs

Some good progress has been made in most of the project's components. Notable in this regard include:

1.        Institutional strengthening and policy development

The TFCA Project document (GEF/World Bank, 1996) identifies the following key areas, as being the target under
institutional strengthening and policy development at four levels, (i.e., Directorate for Forestry and Wildlife
(DNFFB), Provincial Services for Forestry and Wildlife (SPFFB), District Agricultural Services (DDA) and Local
Communities

1.1. Technical Assistance and Project Co-ordination

To boost DNFFB's capacity to implement the TFCA project, the following personnel had been recruited on
contract basis:

·         Project Manager - Mozambican, seconded by DNFFB
·         Chief Technical Advisor ­ expatriate. Was involved in the project from January 1998 to February 2003.
·         Technical Advisor for Gaza ­ expatriate. Gaza had two technical advisors (the first from 1997-1998, the
second from 1999-2000) both resigned due to hardships faced while working in Gaza, and alleged lack of support
from the provincial Agricultural Services in Xai-Xai, where they were based
·         Technical Advisor for Lubombo TFCA- expatriate. Lubombo too has had two technical advisors. The first
had a years' input in 1999, but his contract was not renewed. The second, resigned in December 2002.
·         Financial Controller- Mozambican
·         Project Administrator, TFCA Headquarters - Mozambican
·         Three Project Accountants (one each Gaza, Inhambane, Manica) - Mozambicans
·         Three Provincial Coordinators (These were seconded by the DNFFB, and did not draw salary from the
project) - Mozambicans

1.1.1     Defining job descriptions for the DNFFB personnel

One of the weaknesses identified during the time of implementing the TFCA project was the inability by most
technical personnel to perform to the expected standards, due to lack of clear terms of reference concomitant with
their positions in DNFFB. To resolve this problem, the TFCA project's team developed job descriptions for the key
personnel, such as the Heads of Departments, and Game Wardens and issued them as guidelines for these officers



                                                          - 34 -

to use in accomplishing their functions.

1.2.     Logistical support

1.2.1    Equipment

A variety of equipment were purchased to enhance the performance of both staff at DNFFB headquarters and its
provincial services, including the Wardens of the protected wildlife areas.

1.3      Training

The TFCA project log frame and Project Implementation Plan (PIP) identified the following target-personnel for
training:

1.3.1    DNFFB Headquarters Staff

                                                              1st verifier      2nd verifier
Course                                 Institution            Number trained    No. of training
                                                                                man-days
Msc. Natural Resource Management University of Natal         1                 270
Bsc. GIS Applications (This is a four University of Pretoria 1                 270
years course, but so far the TFCA
project has paid fees for a year, and
will continue supporting the
candidate in the subsequent years)
Financial Management                   SAWC       Southern    2                  10
                                       African     Wildlife
                                       College,       South
                                       Africa
Project cycle management              SAWC                    1                    5
Human Resource Management             SAWC                    1                    5
Rangers Guide                         SAWC                    1                   21
CITES Management                      Portugal                1                   15
GIS Operation (the support was        Portugal                3                 270
mainly in terms of per diems)
Total                                                         11                866

At DNFFB's level - officers from diverse backgrounds participated in short-term training. These included financial
administrators, wildlife managers, CITES desk officer, departmental lawyer, departmental planner and GIS
technicians. Besides these, two officers were sponsored by the TFCA project to study for BSc and MSc The MSc
student evaluated the effectiveness of the extant Forest and Wildlife Policy in fostering private sector and local
community participation in the business investment and management of forest and wildlife resources in
Mozambique. The BSc. student was trained in basic GIS applications. The GEF/World Bank Project Document
recommends among other things that the GIS applications should be integrated into planning and development
activities, including community area management, law enforcement and monitoring and evaluation. However,
lack of capacity within DNFFB, with regards to technical know-how, and therefore effectiveness to apply GIS
technology into various activities as suggested was over-looked during the project preparatory phase. The logical
sequence adopted by the TFCA project was first to train the officers that would be managing the GIS unit. No GIS
equipment was procured because the unit already had them but expertise was what was lacking.

The following skills were gained from the various short-term training courses:

a)       Financial Management



                                                       - 35 -

·        Application of principles of financial management;
·        Compiling balance sheets by using appropriate ratio analysis;
·        Interpretation of financial statements; and
·        Prudent financial management by DNFFB.

(b)      Human Resource Management

·        Skills necessary for effective management;
·        Labor relations and their role in effective human resource management;
·        Requisite for effective human resource management, such as training needs assessment, job evaluation,
grievance handling, selection interviews, etc; and
·        Motivation factors required in promoting productivity at the work places.

(c)      Rangers field Guide

This course provided practical and theoretical field skills, such as:

·        practical survival skills in the wild;
·        effective weapon handling skills;
·        effective first aid skills;
·        application of some key concepts of wildlife management, preventive maintenance and others;
·        techniques of trails guiding; and
·        Professional out-look in the fieldwork

(d)        CITES management

·        Knowledge of CITES Appendix listing, and submission of CITES reports.

(e)        GIS Applications

·        Basic knowledge of using software for map production and map interpretations.

1.3.2    SPFFB Staff

                                                  1st verifier     2nd verifier
Course                          Institution       Number           No. of Training
                                                  trained          man-days
BSc Business studies              UNISA           1                540
Human resource                  SAWC              2                 10
management
Project cycle management        SAWC              4                 20
Economics of natural            SAWC              1                  5
resources
Facilitation &                  SAWC              2                 10
communication
Community based natural         SAWC              2                 10
resource management
Public relations                  SAWC            1                   5
Financial management              SAWC            2                  10
Communication &                 SAWC              2                  10
Facilitation Skills



                                                        - 36 -

English proficiency              UEM              12              1080
Total                                             29              1700

At SPFFB level, a number of officers also participated in short-term training. One officer from Gaza obtained a
BA degree in Business studies, a qualification that was relevant for DNFFB which was in the process of integrating
the private sector in the development and management of forest and wildlife resources.

The major constraint in finding candidates for training was language - all short - term courses were offered in
English, and as most Mozambican civil servants speak Portuguese, it was hard for them to participate in the
offered training. Irrespective of this, the following skills were gained at Provincial level through short-term
courses:

(a)      Financial Management

·        application of principles of financial management;
·        compiling balance sheets by using appropriate ratio analysis;
·        interpretation of financial statements; and
·        prudent financial management.

(b)      Human Resource Management

·        general principles of human resources management;
·        skills necessary for effective management;
·        operations of an organization within the framework of the external and internal environment;
·        labor relations and their role in effective human resource management;
·        training needs assessment, job evaluation, grievance handling, selection interviews, etc; and
·        motivation factors required in promoting productivity at the work places.

(c)      Communication and Facilitation Skills

This course was particularly important for DNFFB, which is embarking on an extensive campaign to win the
co-operation of local communities in the conservation of the Mozambique's rich biodiversity. The participants
gained an understanding of:

·        the nature of facilitation;
·        situations where facilitation is necessary;
·        facilitation skills through popular participatory methods;
·        group dynamics, and ability to develop strategies and plans for learning and capacity building at the work
places.

(d)Community based eco-tourism

·        An understanding of community based eco-tourism;
·        Examined case studies, concepts of community based eco-tourism and identified their key components.

(e)      Project cycle management

·        Project identification, designing and implementation; and
·        Project analysis, monitoring and evaluation

(f)      English proficiency

A number of high and medium level personnel took short-term English proficiency courses, through the Institute of



                                                         - 37 -

Languages, University of Edward Mondlane and private schools.           This greatly enhanced their ability to
communicate with the nature conservation officials in the neighboring countries, with whom they collaborated in
implementation the TFCA project. This course mainly focused at teaching the trainees English grammar and how
to speak and write English.

(g)      Economics of natural resources

·        valuation tools for assessing the values of wildlife;
·        protected areas planning and management; and
·        tools of analyzing economics of wildlife resources.

(h)      Public relations

·        Communication skills;
·        Report writing and presentation;
·        Publicity and advertising; and
·        Methods of effective public relations and marketing.

(i)      Community based natural resource management

·        Conceptualization of the framework for CBNRM;
·        Policy and legislation issues;
·        Indigenous knowledge;
·        Lessons learned in CBNRM in SADC;
·        Co-management models;
·        Stakeholder analysis; and
·        Institutional structures.

1.3.3    Local Authorities and DDA Staff

                                                                  1st verifier       2nd verifier
Course                                        Institution         Number trained     No. Training man-days
    Community Based Eco-tourism              SAWC                  1                  5
    Game Guard/law enforcement               MER                  27                 810
    Game Guard/law enforcement               Gorongosa N. Park    22                 1320
    Diploma in Wildlife Management           Mweka College        1                  270
    (this scholarship has been funded by
    SADC Wildlife Sector)
Total                                                             61                 2405

1.3.4    Local Communities

                                                                      Ist verifier       2nd verifier
Course                            Institution                       Number trained      No. of training
                                                                                           man-days
Mushroom processing,              Study tour to Uganda by          1                   7
preservation & marketing          community representatives from
                                  Chimanimani
Community based natural           Study tour to Chuma Tchato, Tete  6                  30
resource management               Province by community
(CBNRM)                           representatives from
                                  Chimanimani



                                                        - 38 -

Community representatives from Chimanimani TFCA undertook most of the study tours during the project
implementation. Most of these were funded by the Ford Foundation, assisted by two indigenous NGOs ­ AMRU
and ORAM. Skills gained by Chimanimani communities include bee-keeping, and processing and marketing of
mushrooms.

1.3.5    Indigenous NGOs

                                                                       1st verifier         2nd verifier
                                   Institution                           Number           No. of training
                                                                         trained             man-days
Certificate in wildlife          SAWC                                1                 270
management - an officer from
ORAM
Mushroom processing,               Study tour by AMRU-               1                 7
preservation & marketing           Chimanimani to Uganda
                                   sponsored by Ford Foundation

1.3.5.1 Constraints encountered in implementing the training program

Although the TFCA Project Implementation Plan (PIP) and the log frame identified the categories (DNFFB,
SPFFB, etc) to be trained, the numbers that could be trained were not specified in the log-frame. Furthermore,
training-needs assessment to identify:
·        the officers that require further training;
·        the type and level of training; and
·        the institutions where these officers could be trained was not done. Consequently, nomination of officers
for training was on an ad hoc basis.

1.4      Establishment of the GIS Unit

The TFCA project assisted in:

·        Evaluating the capacity of the existing Monitoring and Evaluation Unit of the DNFFB;
·        Identifying GIS functions/uses that were required;
·        Defining GIS system requirements;
·        Defining the flow of information;
·        Identifying other GIS systems in place to ensure compatibility;
·        Identifying the future GIS applications by the DNFFB;
·        Defining requirements for personnel, in terms of number and qualifications;
·        Defining type of training required, and associated costs; and
·        Defining type of equipment ­ hardware and software required and costs.

The necessary equipment existed, but there was lack of trained personnel. Consequently the project invested in
training. One officer was trained at MSc level, sponsored by other donors, while the other was funded by the TFCA
project, studying for a 4 years BSc, in information technology, including GIS. Since these courses were of long
term in nature, their impacts could not be measured during the project life.

1.5      Enhancing the role of the private sector

(i)      This sub-component successfully accomplished:
·        A survey of the private sector currently involved in wildlife based business in Mozambique was done
·        revised safari hunting fees in Coutadas
·        developed Tender Guidelines that should foster transparency in awarding concessions in TFCA;



                                                         - 39 -

(ii)      Support for international collaboration in the establishment of TFCA ­ Mozambique played a key role
in facilitating the process of establishing TFCAs. Agreements for all TFCAs were signed during the project life.
At a national level, the proposed national co-ordination framework for the TFCA first phase included:
·         National - Level Steering Committee, chaired by the Minister of Agriculture, or his designee. Proposed
members of this committee included key public sector agencies, (such as MICOA, DINATUR, DINAP, INDER,
Foreign Affairs, and Ministry of Interior), University of Edward Mondlane and representatives of developmental
NGOs;
·         Technical Committee;
·         Provincial Co-ordination Committee; and
·         Joint Management Committees in which local communities were to be represented.

During implementation of Phase one, some modifications were made. For instance, at TFCA-specific level,
international committees were formed comprising the:
·         Ministerial Committees;
·         Technical Committees; and
·         A wide spectrum of Working Groups, each representing different national and international stakeholders.

At a national level, a functional Tourism Facilitation Committee was formed, comprising ministers from key
public sector agencies, which inter alia deals with TFCA development issues. This committee was supported by a
Tourism Facilitation Subcommittee, composed of National Directors of the key public sector agencies supports
this committee.      In addition to these, some TFCAs, such as Chimanimani, had established Provincial
Co-ordination and Joint Management Committees. The latter has community representation at grass-root level.
Besides these, three more co-ordination frameworks for TFCA development were formed, namely:

·         The Elephant Coast Development Authority formed for the Matutuine District, part of the Lubombo
TFCA, which aims at achieving the project's objective of stimulating responsible tourism and community
empowerment and participation and form sustainable partnerships among the local communities, private sector,
NGOs, and government.
·         The Lubombo Spatial Development Initiative - Transfrontier Conservation Areas Technical Commission
and Task Groups (also for Lubombo TFCA, comprising Ponta de Ouro/Kosy Bay, Tembe/Ndumo/Futi and Goba
Mulaula)and
·         The TFCA Unit, which has been established in the Ministry of Tourism under the Minister, to provide:
     -    a streamlined TFCA administration;
     -    effective technical responses and inputs at all levels of TFCA development and management; and
     -    a rapid response framework on all decisions pertaining to national, and international TFCA development .


The specific tasks of the TFCA Unit include:
i)        liaising with national stakeholders, including the Spatial Development Initiatives (SDIs) in planning and
developing a National Programme of Action for TFCA development;
ii)       coordinating and facilitating national TFCA development activities;
iii)      coordinating and collaborating with neighboring countries in implementing cross-border TFCA activities;
iv)       preparing TFCA development proposals and contacting donor agencies for funding;
v)        preparing progress reports for MITUR, donors supporting the TFCA initiative, and other relevant
stakeholders;
vi)       liaising with TFCA Secretariats in neighboring states in the preparation for the TFCA Ministerial
meetings;
vii)      maintaining a database on TFCA development in Mozambique and the SADC region; and
viii)     exploring the possibility of expanding the activities of the TFCA Unit, in order to improve its
effectiveness and efficiency.

The TFCA Unit is actually (from November 2002) taking the role of coordinating the activities within the Great
Limpopo Transfrontier Park. This task is taken as implementation of the Treaty signed between the three countries,



                                                          - 40 -

which allows that there will be a coordinating country which will play the role for a period of two years in a
rotational base. The Unit has mobilized support from the Peace Parks Foundation and the KfW to undertake the
task.

Institutional bottleneck encountered during the project implementation

The splitting of authority and mandate for wildlife conservation between the two ministries, of Agriculture, and
Tourism. The former is responsible for wildlife occurring on customary land and Forest Reserves, while the latter
is responsible for wildlife in National Reserves, Parks and Controlled Hunting Areas. TFCAs encompass both
protected areas and communal lands and therefore, wildlife occurring in TFCAs fall under the two ministerial
jurisdictions. The possibility of streamlining jurisdiction of wildlife management occurring in TFCAs was not
accomplished during phase one of the project, but it is necessary.

 (iii)    Policy and legislation review ­ the TFCA project has contributed to the review of the Forestry and
Wildlife Legislation, and identification of gaps that need to be amended to allow for local community and private
sector full participation in the development of TFCAs. Progress has also been made on a number of other key
policy fronts where the project itself has been the catalyst for policy change and dialogue on (i) people in protected
areas and (ii) private sector participation. Guidelines for transparent selection of investors in TFCAs have been
developed.

2.        Habitat and Wildlife Management - The project mainly targeted the development of resource
management plans, allocation of management personal, rehabilitation of infrastructure, mainly buildings for staff
and office accommodation, improvement of law enforcement and wildlife surveys.

Area-specific achievements include:

(a)       Lubombo TFCA. Despite the fact that the SDC withdrew their pledged funding, the following were
accomplished:
·         Revised the Maputo Special Reserve (MSR) management plan
·         Developed the Futi Corridor plan, that gives a framework for linking MSR with Tembe and Nduma of
South Africa
·         Recommended establishment of a Management Board for MSR to improve its management
·         Developed a proposal for eco-tourism development
·         Strengthened law enforcement; and
·         Coordinated elephant surveys by University of Pretoria and Edward Mondlane

          Constraints
·         The project could not proceed speedily with a number of actions due to DNFFB delays in giving
approvals. Even when the project was transferred to the Ministry of Tourism there was a time lag before a TFCA
Unit was established to deal with all TFCA issues;
·         The Lubombo SDI protocol under which framework the TFCA agreement was signed was not functional
because the commission, secretariat and task groups were not formed by the governments. By the end of the
project, there were no cross-border actions being implemented in the Lubombo TFCA, due to inertia in South
Africa and Swaziland.
·         Numerous complaints were lodged regarding the poor performance of the Management team in the
Maputo Special Reserve. This being a high profile reserve, it should have been in the interest of the Directorate f
Conservation Areas (DNAC) to assign a more committed and trust-worth manager to this reserve. A new manager
was deployed to the reserve during the last quarter of the project life.
·         Poor provincial co-ordination. There was no full time project coordinator at provincial level. The
coordinator was also accumulating the responsibility of heading of SPFFB. When the project was transferred in
2000 from Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development to the Ministry of Tourism, the role of coordinating
activities of Maputo were transferred to the project manager because there was no Provincial Directorate of
Tourism to house the project.



                                                         - 41 -

(b)      Banhine and Zinave National Parks ­ achievements include:
·        Established administration and law enforcement
·        Development of conceptual plans, which advocated formation of consortiums ­ comprising government,
private sector and communities which could have been responsible for the development and management of the
protected areas
·        Reconnaissance surveys, which provided an overview of the landscapes and relic wildlife
·        Construction of some traditional staff houses
·        Development of plans for rehabilitation of staff houses and offices
·        Procurement and installation of water pumps
·        Opening of roads, and clearing some parts of protected areas' boundaries
·        Installation of communication radios
·        Provision of transport for management work
·        Introduction of early burning policy
·        Training of Game Guards; and monitoring of wildlife recovery

         Constraints

·        Weak provincial co-ordination of the project in Gaza;
·        Floods slowed down progress
·        Excessive vehicle break downs
·        Poor and lack of infrastructure
·        Logistics for Banhine are costly due to poor road and remoteness of the area
·        Lack of DNFFB's support and approval of the conceptual plans which are now obsolete
·        Inadequate funds allocated by the World Bank for rehabilitation of staff houses and office accommodation

(c)      Coutada 16 ­ changed status from a hunting area to a national park (Limpopo National Park in 2001).
The TFCA project was instrumental in coordinating all the new development initiatives, including winning
SADC's endorsement of the KfW project. The project also trained the first team of ten law enforcement guards for
Coutada 16. The project also initiated some ecological monitoring work. The main constraint in Coutada 16 was
poor development by the private sector operating in the area, consequently little if any benefits accrued to the local
communities resident in the area. The company also did not invest in law enforcement. SPFFB had no capacity to
monitor compliance with hunting quotas, and quotas were being issued on an ad hoc basis ­ with no information
on the status of the resource base.

         The project is involved at Steering Committee level in the development of Limpopo National Park with
         funding from the KfW.

(d)      Chimanimani ­ the World Bank/TFCA document recommended for the development of a resource
management plan and establishment of a core protected area. The resource management plan was developed in
1999. This recommended a creation of a Biosfere Reserve taking into account a mosaic of land use. The project
took lead in the process of proclamation of Chimanimani National Reserve (2003), demarcation of community
land, implementation of income generating activities such as bee-keeping and mushrooms collection and
declaration of 19 Historic Cultural Use Zones (2003). In addition, the TFCA project:
·        Opened roads to key attractions
·        Established a functional regional coordination committee, composed by government, private sector and
NGO's that was meeting in Chimoio
·        Established functional joint management committees that were meeting at local level
·        Trained community guards
·        Established Game Guards' camps
·        Installed communication radios




                                                       - 42 -

·        Provided transport for resource management operations

         Constraints
·        DNFFB never processed the approval of the developed resource management plan. It is hoped that DNAC
will as a matter of urgency process its approval. The plan contains excellent programmes for Community
controlled natural resource management options
·        The management plan is not being implemented, opening room for an ad hoc approach to resource
management in Chimanimani. This is partly due to the fact that it has not been approved

(e)      Interstitial areas ­ a detailed land use plan was developed outlining potential sustainable land use
options for the land outside protected areas in the Great Limpopo TFCA. This plan also unveils opportunities for
community based natural resource management.

         The plan is currently being discussed and studied at local level to facilitate its implementation

3.       Community Mobilization ­ this component has been the weakest of all. The World Bank/TFCA
document proposed subcontracting this component to NGOs, but what was achieved is not satisfactory.

(i)      In Lubombo TFCA ­ Helvetas, a Swiss NGO was supposed to carry out CBNRM work but little was
accomplished besides some public awareness about the new land law. Apart of that the Helvetas facilitated the
acquisition of land certificates for two communities living in the northern part of the Maputo Special Reserve.
Helvetas did not implement any income generating activity. Note, no TFCA money was given to Helvetas to carry
out CBNRM work, hence, any work they did was done at their own discretion. The TFCA after finding the
proposal from Helvetas to facilitate the process of consultation on the process of declaring the FUTI corridor very
expensive, it decided to use the staff of government to do so. As the process was successful the project also carried
on facilitating the process of land acquisition for local communities (about 20.000 ha) along the west side of the
proposed Futi corridor. The project financed the Madjedjane community on a project of plantation of rice in the
basin of Maputo River. The Madjedjane community is working with an local NGO the Foundation for
Development of Community (FDC) who helped the Madjedjane community developing the project which would
contribute to help people shift from hunting and collection of firewood as livelihood to plantation of rice.

(ii)     Gaza TFCA ­ IUCN-Mozambique was contracted to implement CBNRM work in some pilot areas in
Coutada 16 and Banhine. Its accomplishments included:
·        social-economic surveys
·        facilitation of land acquisition for local communities around Banhine National Park ( 20.000 ha)

         Trough the Provincial Directorate of Tourism the project supported the acquiring of 2.000 ha of land for
         community adjacent to Banhine National Park.

(iii)    Zinave ­ Endangered Wildlife Trust - Mozambique (EWT) was implementing a small-scale CBNRM
programme in Zinave National Park. It identified community needs, and focused its programme on bee-keeping,
but very little was achieved with respect to income generation from beekeeping.

         The EWT has also completed a process of acquisition of 10.000 ha of land for the local community of
         Zinave along the buffer zone

(iv)     Chimanimani ­ had the most organized CBNRM programme. With financial support from Ford
Foundation, communities were engaged in income generating activities, such as bee-keeping, saw-milling,
community shop and grind mill operation, and mushroom harvesting and marketing. Small-scale irrigation
agriculture was also being promoted. Various indigenous NGOs are facilitating CBNRM work in Chimanimani.
Community representatives from Chimanimani also went on study tours, thus expanding their experiences in
CBNRM. Furthermore, community land has been demarcated for the purpose of according them opportunities to
engage in joint venture business, such as eco-tourism with the private investors. Unfortunately by the end of the
project there was no private sector attracted to the area, despite some interest shown. The interest shown were not
able to be accommodated because according to the project private sector had to be integrated using transparent



                                                          - 43 -

processes. The Framework for private sector investment was not ready and no tender process was established.

Constraints

·         Lack of capacity by local NGOs to carry out meaningful CBNRM work
·         Lack of capacity by DNFFB community unit to guide CBNRM activities. The Ministry of Tourism did not
have any community unit and this caused further weakness as the community responsibility fell under the reduced
staff of the project.
·         DNFFB never approved the Guidelines for CBNRM that were developed by the TFCA project.

4.        Monitoring and evaluation - A consultant was hired to develop M&E for the project in December, 2001,
          and a workshop was held in early February 2002 to review the draft report.          This report provides
          guidelines for monitoring and evaluating various components of the project. It is a useful tool that could
          be used even in the TFCA follow up phase.




                                                       - 44 -

Additional Annex 9. Additional requirements for GEF reporting

The Global Environment Facility (GEF) has specific requirements for the terminal evaluations of projects
they co-finance. The section below responds specifically to the questions raised in the guidelines:
"Additional ICR guidelines for GEF projects" (as communicated by GEF staff).

(a)     Implementation Approach

GEF criteria for project selection have a slightly different focus to IDA or IBRD funded projects. Two
differences relevant to this project are: (i) the greater encouragement of innovation; and (ii) the focus on
the environment and biodiversity conservation. These two differences were even more pronounced when
the project was designed than today. As stated in the ICR text, this project was very innovative. It
developed a new approach to biodiversity conservation, and explored new linkages between conservation
and community-based tourism. However, the innovative nature of the project meant that the project was
exposed to more risks than regular projects. Clearly the high risk, high reward strategy (approved by the
GEF) influenced the outcome of the project: the innovations that were successful, in particular, the regional
collaboration were successful beyond expectations, and the weak components, for example, CBNRM, were
weak. The same applies to the adaptive management approach encouraged under GEF projects: by
encouraging the project to be responsive to the changing environment the project was able to capitalize on
opportunities such as the International Treaties, and re-focus the CBNRM component on land demarcation.
However, it also resulted in a lack of clarity in the minds of some govt. officials, and added to some of the
slowness in implementation.

Was the logical framework used during implementation as a management and M&E tool?

No logical framework was developed at the time of project design (this was not required by GEF). As
discussed, no M&E system was implemented during the project.

Assessment of the project's adaptation to changing conditions (adaptive management).

The project adapted well to changing conditions. Its management changed during implementation from the
MADER Ministry of Agriculture to MITUR the Ministry of Tourism. The way the project overcame
several major constraints to project implementation - such as the withdrawal of funding by the SDC, the
devaluation of the SDR, and the important floods that occurred in Mozambique in 2000 - demonstrates the
adaptability skills of the project management team.

Were effective partnership arrangements established for implementation of the project with relevant
stakeholders involved in the country/region? If not, which stakeholders were not effectively involved, why
not and what impact did this have?

Partnerships established by the project were successful, in particular, the regional collaboration between
neighboring countries. The International Treaties and Agreements are testament to the success of these
partnerships. However, some stakeholders were insufficiently involved in the process, in particular, the
provincial and district authorities, and the local communities.

Were lessons from other relevant projects (e.g., same focal area) incorporated into project
implementation? If so, which?




                                                       - 45 -

Experiences from other biodiversity and community-based natural resource management projects in Africa
and elsewhere were used for the design of the TFCA project. These experiences revealed that success
depends on engaging local communities in design and execution, that local capacity building is needed
before substantial village-level investments can be made, that flexibility in design is also essential so that
project activities can be readily modified on the basis of implementation experience, and that the private
sector and NGOs must assume an important role in conservation and CBNRM due to budgetary
restrictions of governments and donors. All of these lessons were considered in the design and
implementation of the project; however, endemic conditions hindered the speed at which the experiences
could be applied. The follow-on phase project, which is more technically and institutionally equipped and
better financed, incorporates these lessons leaned into the project design.

(b)      Country Ownership

Was the Project Concept consistent with national, sectoral or development plans?

The project concept was consistent with GOM development plans, in particular, the National Environment
Action Plan.

Were relevant country representatives (e.g., government official, civil society, etc.) actively involved in
project identification, planning and/or implementation?

Relevant officials from MADER, and later MITUR and other Ministries were actively involved in all
stages of the project. However, GOM interest in the project in the early stages was minimal and only
picked up once the project started to reach implementation. Government interest in the project was mixed
over the life of the project. The initial implementation of the project by MADER (DNFFB) was slow in
progressing. The transfer of the project from MADER to MITUR caused substantial delays in the project
due to unresolved institutional disputes. The failure to resolve these institutional conflicts caused the Bank
to question the commitment of GOM to the project and the TFCA concept overall. However, once the issue
was resolved, the clear commitment shown by MITUR towards the end of the project reversed this
perception. Under the current arrangement, the project benefits from a high degree of positive involvement
by senior government officials and appears to be a priority for GOM. The project experienced a slow
release of counterpart funding for contract mobilization, however, all counterpart funding was released.

Did the recipient government maintain financial commitment to the project?

The full GOM counterpart funding was received by the project.

(c)      Public Involvement

Within the scope of the second and third components of the project ­ habitat and wildlife management and
community mobilization, some community awareness and sensitization activities were implemented. Prior
to implementation of community activities and land demarcation, social surveys and workshops were
carried out. Additionally, study tours and trainings with community representatives were given within the
scope of the project. However, the approach was different and carried out by different agencies for each
TFCA, and deemed not to be equally participatory oriented in each of the areas. Local and regional NGOs
were contracted to prepare and implement some of the activities of the project. However, local governments
were not sufficiently involved in the process. The institutional setup in which the project is located still has
a top-down approach; however, the follow-on phase plans to decentralize authority to the provinces and
districts.


                                                      - 46 -

(d)      Replication approach

The project was designed as the first phase of a 10-15 year program, and was intended to create the
enabling conditions for Mozambique to prepare and implement a conservation tourism strategy in
partnership with donors and the private sector. In this context, the project has compiled a set of lessons
learned from preparation and implementation of the pilot TFCA project, which serves directly the
preparation of the follow up project i.e. Transfrontier Conservation Areas and Tourism Development
Project. Important lessons learnt from the pilot project are listed in section 8.

(e)      Financial Planning

Two factors resulted in significant costs changes: (i) at grant signing, SDC were expected to co-finance the
project through a grant of $2.6 million. However, SDC funds were never forthcoming, and therefore the
budget was significantly reduced; (ii) the devaluation of the SDR resulted in a reduction in the project
budget of $300,000.

A specific weakness during supervision was the lack of adequate updates in many of the administrative
project tracking devices required to manage Bank projects, including the PSRs (for example, no final PSR
was completed). This has made it difficult for the ICR to fully capture all administrative and financial
progress on the project. The data are included in the table on financial planning. Some delays from the
World Bank in processing "no objections" were experienced in the project.

Financial management audits, procurement and disbursements have been verified on a regular basis by
World Bank specialists in the country office. While some flaws were identified, related to invoices and
other documents supporting disbursement transactions, accounting system, and segregation of duties,
problems are being fixed within the preparation of the TFCATDP.

Leveraged resources

The project has been very successful in leveraging additional resources for the 3 TFCAs, for other TFCAs
in the country and generally for the concept promoted by the project. The following investments have been
made as result of the project:

l Private sector investment. As yet, very little private sector investment has been made in the sector;
    however, the project has assisted in establishing the enabling environment (both investment climate and
    nascent regulatory systems) for future investment;
l Donor funding. As a direct result of the project, KfW have provided a grant of EU6.1 (and have
    committed another EU5.8) to support the development of LNP (implemented by Peace Parks
    Foundation. (It is also regarded by KfW as a one of the most exciting current initiatives in
    conservation). USAID funds a project supporting the development of the Gaza TFCA
    (Gaza-Kruger-Gonarezhou Transboundary Natural Resources Management Initiative, $3.5m grant
    implemented by DAI), and the Ford Foundation provided support to the Chimanimani TFCA for
    CBNRM. Other bilateral donors have also shown an interest in developing future projects; and
l Bank funding. The Bank are currently preparing the follow-on TFCA and Tourism Development
    Project ($40m) which will explicitly follow-on from this project. IFC is also preparing a Tourism
    project (SEATIP) which is based largely on the work developed under this project.

The concept of transfrontier conservation developed and strengthened by this project has been adopted by


                                                     - 47 -

many governments, donors and NGOs in the region and the continent. Investments in this area have
mushroomed and TFCAs are now regarded by both SADC and NEPAD as important mechanisms for
tourism development, conservation and regional collaboration.

(f)     Cost-effectiveness

The TFCA project represented at the time the unique window of opportunity to protect areas of global
biodiversity significance. It is possible that if the project had not been implemented, many of the TFCAs
currently designated as PAs would not have been allocated for conservation. The project document asserts
that due to severe financing limitations, if the GEF had not funded the project, activities envisaged under
the project would not have taken place at all. Furthermore, after SDC funds were withdrawn, GEF became
the essential financier of this operation, without which, none of the existing achievements would have
happened.

The achievement of development objectives is satisfactory despite the fact that one part (CBNRM) was
unsatisfactory, and another was modest (habitat and wildlife management) because the primary objective of
creating an enabling policy and institutional environment has been achieved beyond expectations. The
project was the first to establish and develop the concept of transfrontier conservation, which was
subsequently adopted by other donors, SADC and NEPAD. The leverage that this relatively small project
has been able to accomplish in attracting subsequent donor interest, and establishing a platform for future
conservation programs is beyond even what was anticipated during the design phase. The project has added
to a growing national, regional and global interest in the concept of transfrontier conservation areas as a
way of combining objectives of conservation, community development, tourism and international
cooperation.

(g)     Monitoring & evaluation

A consultant was hired to develop M&E for the project in December, 2001, and a workshop was held in
early February 2002 to review the draft report. This report provides guidelines for monitoring and
evaluating various components of the project. It is a useful tool that could be used in the follow-on phase.
Despite repeated requests from the Bank to design and implement an M&E system (this point was stressed
in many aide memoir's and the mid-term review), no system was ever put in place. The design was believed
to be impractical to implement and it was believed to be too late in the project to implement the system.

(h)     Financial Planning/Co-financing




        Co financing              GEF grant             Government             Other*              Total

       (Type/Source)              (mill US$)             (mill US$)          (mill US$)          (mill US$)
                              Planned    Actual     Planned     Actual   Planned    Actual   Planned    Actual
   Grants                        5.00       4.69        0.55       0.55      2.60        0      8.15       5.25
   Loans / Concessional
   Credits
   Equity investments
   In-kind support
   Other (*)
   Total




                                                        - 48 -

- 49 -

